January 28, 2021||Goa||Baptism by fire for Goa in AFC Champions League||FC Goa players were all watching the draw for the group stages of the AFC Champions League and knew they would be up against the might of the best teams in Asia. “Most of them wanted to play Al Sadd,” said director of football Ravi Puskur, explaining how the ‘Barcelona style of football’ and the influence of coach Xavi played on their minds. Goa did not get their wish to play Xavi’s Al Sadd, but they were still left with an extremely tough draw. First up is Iranian champions Persepolis, who made it to the final in December, while Al Rayyan – managed by former PSG coach Laurent Blanc – are also in the group. Whoever wins the playoff between Al-Wahda (UAE) and Al-Zawraa (Iraq) will complete group E. The 2021 AFC Champions League kicks off with the preliminary stage on April 7, while the group stage – starting on April 14 – will be played at centralised venues. “We are excited with the prospect of finally getting to play the Champions League. It’s been a long time since we qualified, almost a year-long wait,” said Puskur. Goa emerged league winners in the Indian Super League (ISL) last season under coach Sergio Lobera who is now with Mumbai City FC. After several player departures, new coach Juan Ferrando has done well to shape the team and stick to the philosophy. “All the group stages are difficult but, in our case, it is a great opportunity to improve the players and the club. Lot of responsibility for us as it is the first time an Indian team will participate in the Champions League,” said Ferrando. This edition of the Champions League has been expanded from 32 to 40 clubs with eight teams qualifying from the qualification stage. The knockout matches in the round of 16 are scheduled for September 13-15 and the quarterfinals on September 27-29. Both rounds will be played as single knockout games. The semifinals will be over two legs on October 19-20 and 26-27. The final will be two-legged on November 21 and 27. “I think it is a great opportunity for our players, both Indian and foreigners, to get exposed at a different level of football at the Asian stage. I think it will a great opportunity for our club as well to be exposed to the quality of football on display and teams that are out there the best from the continent,” said Puskur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/baptism-by-fire-for-goa-in-afc-champions-league/articleshow/80486900.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Washington Sundar was honoured at Amir Mahal Palace||Washington Sundar, one of the heroes of the recent Border-Gavaskar tournament, was felicitated by Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, Prince of Arcot, and Nawabzada Mohammed Asif Ali, Dewan to the Prince of Arcot, at an event held here, recently. Director-entrepreneur Sameer Bharat Ram, singer P Unnikrishnan and a few other socialites were spotted at the event. The affair turned out to be a special one for the young cricketer as his mother and sister Shailaja were also present at the do. He recollected his memories of playing cricket at Amir Mahal, and thanked his parents for their support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-the-city-celebrated-namma-veettu-pillai/articleshow/80486348.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||AIFF may bid to host AFC Champions League in Goa||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) is expected to throw its hat in the ring to host the group stage of the AFC Champions League 2021. “The letters will be sent to the clubs on Friday. We will bid,” a senior AIFF official told TOI on Wednesday. FC Goa will make their debut in Asia’s premier competition this season, a first for India. Goa are now encouraged with the idea of playing the group stage matches at home from April 14 to April 30. “If you ask me from a club’s perspective, we would love to host it. I think even in our federation’s perspective, it is a great opportunity for Indian football to bring a tournament which is the pinnacle in Asian club football to India. I think it will open a new market as well,” said FC Goa’s director of football Ravi Puskur. Goa have been placed in group E alongside last year’s runnersup Persepolis, Qatar Stars League side Al-Rayyan and the winner of the playoff between Al-Wahda (UAE) and Al-Zawraa (Iraq). Unlike in the past when home and away games were the norm, each of the 10 groups will be held at a centralised venue this season. Goa is currently hosting the seventh edition of the Indian Super League, played behind closed doors at three venues. Fans are not allowed due to the coronavirus pandemic. “I don’t know whether fans will be allowed in the stadium, but if they do, it will be an added bonus and incentive as well. “The Champions League has not received much coverage in India because it was seen too far a tournament for us to get into, but now it is a great opportunity for us. Goa has proved its hosting potential already,” said Puskur. The ISL league matches will conclude on February 28, following which the semifinals and final will be held. That gives enough time for Goa to prepare for the AFC Champions League. “The ISL is pulled off in magnificent fashion by the league and authorities involved. So, I don’t see why Goa can’t be an opportunity. I think even in the past, local government gave its support. If Goa is given the opportunity to host the Champions League, Goa and the federation will welcome the chance with open arms,” said Puskur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aiff-may-bid-to-host-afc-champions-league-in-goa/articleshow/80486955.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 28, 2021||Goa||Hyderabad FC coach Marquez expects tough battle in race for top four||Hyderabad FC are every neutral’s favourite to make it to the playoffs, but Manolo Marquez knows the race to finish among the top four will be laced with hurdles. Hyderabad are fourth at the moment with 18 points from 13 matches. They’ve impressed with eye-catching football, made possible by the promise shown by a clutch of youngsters. But three consecutive draws – and just one goal for all the chances they created – means the team will be under pressure as they face Bengaluru FC at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Thursday. The gap between fourth-placed Hyderabad and 10th placed SC East Bengal is six points at the moment with seven rounds still to be played. Like it happened with NorthEast United FC, and Hyderabad earlier, two consecutive wins can change equations. Not surprisingly, Marquez is taking nothing for granted. “At this moment, the competition is very equal. There are a lot of draws. It’s because practically all teams are fighting for the top four. All games are very difficult. “Except for Mumbai, nobody is assured (of playoffs). With ATK Mohun Bagan loss (against NorthEast), they are not sure for top four. There are seven teams fighting,” said Marquez. Among the seven teams battling for a playoff spot is Bengaluru FC, never mind that they have not won a game in seven attempts and even lost four in a row. The teams finished goalless when they last met at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, and even though Hyderabad have maintained their impressive standard while Bengaluru deteriorated, Marquez knows the quality of their opponents is undeniable. “I can only speak in a good way about Bengaluru. They are a good team. (Naushad) Moosa is sincerely doing a good job. They are playing better, sometimes they have had bad luck,” said Marquez. Since taking over from Carles Cuadrat, sacked after losing three games in a row, Moosa has picked up two points from the last four. Despite all their troubles, Bengaluru are just four points away from a playoff spot. It could have been a lot better, but the former champions have lacked the spark, particularly upfront, where the forwards have been found wanting. “Finishing the chances we create has been our main concern throughout the season. We have been focusing a lot more on that. We are doing a lot more finishing drills every day. It will take time for us to get back into the scoring form. We are missing a good No 9, someone like a Miku,” said Moosa. Miku, who guided the club to the ISL title in 2019, is not around to help, so someone else would have to shoulder the scoring burden. Can Sunil Chhetri rise to the occasion, again?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hyderabad-fc-coach-marquez-expects-tough-battle-in-race-for-top-four/articleshow/80487138.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Aero India 2021: Foreign firms chant Make-in-India mantra, but participation dips 53%||BENGALURU: In line with their ambitions of gaining a share in arguably the world’s largest market for defence products, big foreign firms are backing the government’s Make-in-India and Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives ahead of the 13th edition of Aero India. From US’ Boeing and Lockheed Martin to French Dassault, Airbus and UK’s BAE Systems and Rolls-Royce, apart from a host of Russian and Israeli firms, the air show will see participation of some of the world’s largest defence and aerospace companies. Firms from 13 countries, including Ukraine, Taiwan, Japan, Austria, Belarus and Bulgaria, will take part. However, compared to Aero India 2019, foreign participation in this year’s edition has seen a drop of at least 53% as of January 28. Compared to 165 foreign firms in 2019, Aero India 2021 has 78 as on date. Last week, Air Commodore Shailender Sood, air officer commanding (AOC), Air Force Station Yelahanka, had said foreign firms will be allowed to register till the month-end, but this is unlikely to change much in terms of numbers. US firm Lockheed Martin’s exhibition will include the F-21 aircraft, MH-60R “Romeo” multi-mission helicopter, S-76D helicopter and C-130J Super Hercules aircraft. It had released a model of the F-21 at Aero India 2019, but nothing has moved forward in this regard. William Blair, vice-president and chief executive, Lockheed Martin India, said: “Aligned with the Indian government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and Make-in-India initiative, we look forward to reinforcing our commitment to supporting the growth of an indigenous defence manufacturing ecosystem while continuing to deliver our best capabilities to support the Indian MoD and services.” Blair added the firm sees tremendous strength and opportunity in India’s defence industry — both public and private —including startups and MSMEs. Rolls-Royce, “reaffirming its India commitment,” said it would, among other things, also showcase the MT30 marine gas turbine to propel future-ready naval defence forces. Kishore Jayaraman, president, Rolls-Royce India & South Asia, said: “The firm has been a strong partner in the mission readiness of India’s defence forces for over eight decades. Aero India will be a key platform to explore opportunities to further collaborate, co-create and co-manufacture in India with a view to support and enable the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat vision.” MBDA, the maker of Rafale’s weapons, is showcasing its Make-in-India commitments by exhibiting a full range of missiles and missile systems designed to provide next-generation air combat capabilities, including air dominance, strike and maritime engagement, for the Indian Air Force. It will have a display wall of missile system components made in India by the company’s large Indian industrial ecosystem, while Airbus will showcase cutting-edge innovative products along with its customer services and training capabilities. A section will be dedicated to highlight the company’s strategic local industrial partnerships focused on developing a sustainable aerospace ecosystem in India, Airbus said. Rémi Maillard, president and managing director, Airbus India & South Asia, added: “Airbus’ participation reaffirms commitment to the rapid modernisation and indigenisation of the Indian aerospace and defence sector.” Emmanuel de Roquefeuil, vice-president and country director, Thales in India, said: “Driven by the purpose to build a future everyone can trust, we remain resolute in our commitment to the Make-in-India vision. We’ve been proudly supporting modernisation efforts of the Indian armed forces and helping them prepare, achieve and maintain tactical superiority over any form of threat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/foreign-firms-chant-make-in-india-mantra-but-participation-dips-53/articleshow/80487671.cms||Chethan Kumar
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka man who promised jobs and cheated woman of Rs 18 lakh held||BENGALURU: Chandra Layout police have arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly cheating a woman of Rs 18 lakh after promising to get government jobs for her son and relatives. The accused is Raghavendra AB of Agale village in KR Pete Taluk, Mandya. His wife Manu and associates Harish and Naveen are at large. Prameela of Chandra Layout filed a cheating case against Raghavendra and other accused persons on January 19 and police arrested him on Tuesday. According to police, Raghavendra and his wife were staying at Chandra Layout for a few years and were Prameela’s neighbours. In 2017, the couple told Prameela that they could get government jobs for her two sons and Raghavendra claimed that he knew influential persons at Vidhana Soudha, including the assembly speaker. Prameela believed the couple and asked them to arrange a job for one of her sons and three other relatives. She paid them Rs 10 lakh in 2017 and gave 35 grams of gold and silver articles worth Rs 8 lakh to Manu. Two miscreants identifying themselves as policemen Harush and Naveen visited Prameela’s residence and conducted bogus verification of educational certificates of the job seekers. As the jobs did not materialise, Prameela started asking the couple about it. The couple vacated their rental house and switched off their cellphones. Prameela later approached police and filed a cheating complaint. The couple appeared before police and agreed to return the money they had taken from the woman. Police let them off as Prameela agreed to the arrangement. But the couple did not return the money, following which Prameela again filed another cheating complaint. Police registered a case of cheating and arrested Raghavendra from his village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-who-promised-jobs-and-cheated-woman-of-18l-held/articleshow/80487680.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Traders at KGF’s century-old market likely to be displaced||KOLAR GOLD FIELDS: Hundreds of traders in MG Market in the heart of Kolar Gold Fields (KGF) are fighting forsurvival as the authorities have decided e-auction their shops rented out to their forefathers a century ago. Staging a dharna from January 18 seeking cancellation of proposed e-auctioning of their shops, they decided on January 21 to resume business, hoping the state government would address their concerns immediately. The traders’ decision to end the stir came after a change of ministerial portfolios and they hope the new municipal administration minister will take a sympathetic view of their problems. They met minister MTB Nagaraj last week and the latter promised to take suitable action to resolve the issue. MG Market, as Mahatma Gandhi Market is better known, was established in 1919 and traders in the area were given pieces of land on ground-rent basis. The traders put up some ‘kutcha’ construction and began their business. After independence, the market came under the purview of KGF Sanitary Board, which in turn, handed it over to the Robertsonpet City Municipality in 1964, said CMC commissioner Sarver Merchant. She said though the lands were given to tenant on ground-rent basis, all traders later got proper shops constructed and are paying a paltry rent of about Rs 45 per month. The civic body is able to generate Rs 2.5 lakh per month by way of rent, but spending Rs 15 lakh for providing facilities such as cleaning, lighting, water and other amenities to the market. Vallal Muniswamy, president of Robertsonpet City Municipality, said the civic body tried all means to get the rent enhanced, but the traders did not budge. In 2016, an open tender was flouted during which time there was some trouble in KGF and the same was kept in abeyance. He said prior to forming of the present civic body, the deputy commissioner of Kolar as the administrator had initiated steps to put up the shops for e-auctioning. After the elected body came into existence, a special meeting was convened on January 2 where it was decided to support the move by the district administration, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/traders-at-kgfs-century-old-market-likely-to-be-displaced/articleshow/80487698.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: Girl on way to college spots tiger, faints||MADIKERI: Tasma Dechamma is unlikely to forget January 27 in a hurry. Around 8am on Wednesday, the PU student was walking to the bus stop in T Shettigeri village when she spotted a tiger strolling out of a coffee estate towards her. The teenager fainted, though fortunately for her, the tiger walked away in the opposite direction. Villagers rushed the girl to a hospital in Srimangala, where she calmed down and was treated for shock. The village is located on the border of Brahmagiri wildlife sanctuary. According to her parents Muthppa and Bharathi, their daughter, a student of Gonikoppal Vidyaniketan College, left home early in the morning as she was havng unit tests. She usually takes a bus from T Shettigeri to reach Gonikoppal. It was on the way to the bus stop that she spotted the big cat. A passerby who too saw the tiger rushed to the girl’s help when she fainted.  When Tasma gained consciousness, she started saying, “Tiger, tiger, huli, huli,” said the doctor who attended on her. “It will take some time for the shock to wear off,” he told her parents. Srimangala RFO Veerendra Mari Basavannanavar visited the hosiptal and told forest staff to begin combing the area to trace the tiger. The RFO said a cage will be kept to trap the animal and requested villagers to cooperate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/girl-on-way-to-college-spots-tiger-faints/articleshow/80487699.cms||---
January 28, 2021||World||US must lead world on climate crisis, says Biden||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden said Wednesday the United States must lead the global response to the climate crisis, as he prepared to sign a raft of orders aimed at curbing rising temperatures and to announce a climate summit in April. "Just like we need a unified national response to Covid-19, we desperately need a unified national response to the climate crisis because there is a climate crisis," Biden said in remarks delivered at the White House. "We must lead the global response, because neither challenge can be met, as Secretary (John) Kerry has pointed out many times, by the United States alone."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-must-lead-world-on-climate-crisis-says-biden/articleshow/80487817.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: JD(S) set to vote against anti-cow slaughter bill; CM looks for support||BENGALURU: The JD (S) will vote against the anti-cow slaughter bill in the legislative council at a crucial time when the BJP government has to get approval for it in the legislature session starting Thursday. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Prevention of Cattle Bill, 2020, was passed in the legislative assembly, where the ruling party has an absolute majority, during the winter session amid a walkout by Congress and JD(S). However, the government couldn’t introduce the bill in the council due to the fracas over BJP’s plan to move a no-confidence motion against chairman K Pratap Chandra Shetty. It enacted an ordinance to enforce provisions of the bill. The government must get the council’s approval in the session scheduled till February 5, without which the ordinance will lapse. The hitch, however, is that BJP lacks a majority in the upper house and has to bank on the JD(S). “We’ll vote against the bill since it is anti-farmer. We won’t stage a walkout as it’ll help the government pass the bill. We’ll stay in the house and defeat the bill,” said JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy. The JD(S) has been friendly to the BJP in recent times. It backed the government over the land reforms bill and extended support over the no-confidence motion against the council chairman. “We know the rules, so we’ll definitely table the bill this session,” said animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan. He said senior BJP leaders would reach out to the JD(S) and seek its support. JD(S) functionaries said it would be tough, especially because of Deve Gowda’s hard stance against the bill. This scenario will also test the floor coordination skills of home minister Basavaraj Bommai, who has just taken over the parliamentary affairs portfolio from JC Madhuswamy. “The high command is keenly watching how Bommai manages the challenges which include the anti-cow slaughter bill, election of deputy chairman and no-confidence motion against the chairman,” said a BJP MLC. There’s a slim possibility of BJP deferring the bill and tabling it in the budget session in March. “There’s a way out in the rules. Since the ordinance will expire only after 45 days from the start of the present session, the government may wait for the budget session to move the bill. Otherwise, the ordinance has to be freshly promulgated,” said an official of the law & parliamentary affairs department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/jds-set-to-vote-against-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-cm-looks-for-support/articleshow/80487835.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ex-IAF pilot creates fighter jet-themed jewellery||BENGALURU: He may have left the Air Force but the Air Force hasn’t left him. Banashankari resident Aditya Raj Gupta’s novel fighter aircraft-themed creations are finding many takers in Bengaluru. Gupta was a fighter pilot with the Indian Air Force (IAF) for three years till a sortie in December 2010, as part of a training exercise, left him with a spinal injury. Following a long recovery from a surgery, the flight lieutenant was confined to the desk, but sought retirement in 2014. He then joined his wife Somyata Gupta’s winter clothing outlet in Banashankari and began a new chapter in life. Despite his flying career ending abruptly, Gupta’s heart remained with fighter planes. “In November of 2019, my schoolmate and best buddy Major Akshay Girish was martyred in a terrorist attack in Jammu. His departure affected me a lot and I started understanding in detail the lives of martyred persons’ families, when I began working with the trust run by Akshay’s father for veterans. I then decided I should do something to make a small contribution to these grieving families through my work,” the 35-year-old, who came up with the idea of creating products based on every aircraft in the IAF, said. The Guptas started experimenting with their label Military Marvels in early 2020 by creating jackets with Air Force theme.  “It was a success as many opted for our fighter pilot-themed jackets, which we sold from our store. All proceedings from the sale were donated to Bengaluru families of martyred soldiers, mainly those who served in lower ranks in the services,” explained Gupta, who soon added jewellery, T-shirts, patches and even face masks to his creations themed on planes and helicopters. But the initial success was hampered by the Covid lockdown and the couple began exploring online options. With the lockdown lifted and life returning to near normal in Bengaluru, Gupta showcased his works last weekend on Church Street during the Clean Air Street initiative much to the liking of many. “Our fighter plane-themed jewellery, mainly earrings, chains and cufflinks, were a hit on the street, with many coming forward to purchase them,” the ex-pilot added. Earnings go to NGOsGupta said his earnings from the products are being donated to city-based NGOs Vasanth Ratna Foundation and Major Akshay Girish Memorial Trust, working for the benefit of Bengaluru families of soldiers, who laid down their lives for the nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ex-iaf-pilot-creates-fighter-jet-themed-jewellery/articleshow/80487853.cms||Petlee Peter
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Four reshuffles in 5 days dented party’s image, says Yatnal||BENGALURU: Continuing his tirade against chief minister BS Yediyurappa, senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Wednesday said changes effected by the CM in portfolios of some ministers — four times in five days — have tarred the BJP’s image to a great extent. Speaking to reporters in Vijayapura, Yatnal took objection to changes in the portfolios of minister JC Madhuswamy. “He’s a good minister and had ably defended BJP’s move in the assembly when our government was installed. He had also silenced KPCC president DK Shivakumar in the last session. But unfortunately, the CM will finish those who take on Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah and Zameer Ahmed Khan, who are his (CM’s) partners. He also indirectly hinted at a change of guard around Ugadi. “Time will change after cabinet expansion and shuffling of portfolios. These developments have happened during Uttarayana, which will end in Ugadi,” he said. Earlier, Yatnal had said the CM will be changed after Sankranthi. ‘Got no notice from party’Yatnal alleged he’s under surveillance. “Let them do whatever they want. I should be fearful only if I have done anything wrong or indulged in corruption and amassed wealth,” he said. He said he has not received any notice from the party on charges of violation of discipline. “If I get a notice, I will be the first person to inform media,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-reshuffles-in-5-days-dented-partys-image-says-yatnal/articleshow/80487877.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||KPSC staffer, constable held in FDA question paper leak||BENGALURU/HAVERI: The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru police on Wednesday arrested two more people, including a police constable, in connection with the Karnataka Public Service Commission’s First Division Assistant (FDA) recruitment question paper leak case. The accused are Mushtaq Kwatinaik, a constable attached with City Armed Reserve (CAR) headquarters and deployed for security detail at the KPSC office for a few months, and Basavaraj Kumbar, an assistant in the accounts section of the commission. With this, the total number of arrests in the case has touched 18, including three KPSC employees. Ramesh Herakal alias Ramappa, a second-division assistant in KPSC, was nabbed on Sunday and based on information provided by him, Sana Bedi, a stenographer in KPSC’s examination controller division, was arrested on Monday. The question paper racket was busted on Saturday, a day before the FDA examination was scheduled. Probe revealed Sana had allegedly leaked the paper. “She initially confessed to police that she had given a question paper to Ramesh. His interrogation revealed Kumbar was his roommate and he shared the paper with him,” an investigator said. According to police, Kumbar continued to attend office even though his roommate and colleague Ramesh was arrested in the case. “We rushed to the KPSC office and arrested him from there on Wednesday,” an officer said. CCB sources said Mushtaq and Sana became friends at the KPSC office. She knew he was trying to clear the FDA exam as he was not interested in continuing as a constable in an armed force. So, she gave him a copy of the paper to help him clear the exam. Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police, said Sana leaked the paper to the accused persons she knew in her office. Mushtaq was holed up at his home in Agadi village. CCB police, with the help of CEN police, tracked his mobile and traced him to his hideout. Cops knocked on the door of Mushtaq at 5.45am and picked him up before taking him to Bengaluru. Police confirmed Ramesh, Kumbar and Mushtaq were candidates for the FDA examination. They obtained question papers from Sana and later distributed them among several others through their associates to make money illegally. The suspects charged Rs 10 to Rs 20 lakh per candidate based on demand, and the price varied from place to place. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said he had asked police to conduct an in-depth probe into the racket. “Police have arrested the main people who leaked the paper. They will trace and take legal action against candidates who received it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kpsc-staffer-constable-held-in-fda-question-paper-leak/articleshow/80487912.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||State response to disaster fund shows its unwillingness: HC||BENGALURU: Not impressed by the chief secretary’s response over setting up of the State Disaster Response Fund, the high court on Wednesday observed that it is nothing but the government’s unwillingness to implement section 48 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. In his affidavit, chief secretary P Ravi Kumar said the fund will be set up in the next financial year. Disapproving of the same, a division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka noted section 48 of the Disaster Management Act came into force on August 1, 2007. Nearly 13 and a half years have passed, yet the state government is still not willing to establish the fund, it observed. “The state cannot say it will be set up next year. Contrary to provisions of section 48, a bold statement has been made in the affidavit that the state disaster response fund has been transferred to the calamity fund,” the bench said, indicating that it will pass orders during next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-state-response-to-disaster-fund-shows-its-unwillingness/articleshow/80487917.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: After HC rap, BBMP to resurvey unauthorised religious structures||BENGALURU: Slammed by the high court for claiming there are only 106 illegal religious structures in the city, BBMP has ordered a resurvey of such structures that have come up in the last 11 years. At a review meeting held by commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad recently, special commissioners of BBMP’s eight zones along with therespective joint commissioners and chief engineers were told to prepare a list of temples, mosques, churches and gurudwaras that have come up illegally after September 29, 2009. The high court had on December 14 pulled up the government and the civic agency for failing to take steps to identify illegal religious structures across the city. During the review meeting, it was pointed out that the previous survey was not comprehensive enough as it was done by the engineering department without involving the revenue department, which is the keeper of land records. ‘Submit report by end of week’“I am unhappy with the way the survey was conducted. East zone alone has over 106 illegal religious structures,” Prasad said. He ordered ward engineers and revenue inspectors to jointly conduct a survey of these structures and provide a detailed report by end of this week. “The sub-divisional assistant executive engineer must verify all the details before sending them,” he added. The deadline set earlier was not followed because the officials concerned were busy handling the Covid situation and did not pay much heed to the resurvey, Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-hc-rap-bbmp-to-resurvey-unauthorised-religious-structures/articleshow/80487918.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Basavaraj Horatti to become council chairman with BJP backing||BENGALURU: The decks have been cleared for JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti to become chairman of the legislative council with BJP supporting his candidacy. The ruling party on Wednesday decided to field its MLC MK Pranesh for deputy chairman in the election slated for Friday. The post fell vacant following the death of SL Dharme Gowda of JD(S). The deal is that JD(S) would support BJP in the elections for deputy chairman and the ruling party would back the HD Deve Gowda-led party for the chairman’s post with Horatti being the front runner. The mutual support is required since no party enjoys a majority in the 75-member council The chairman’s post is expected to fall vacant as BJP has issued a fresh notice no-confidence motion against chairman K Pratapchandra Shetty (Congress). “Pranesh was finalised as the candidate,” said BJP MLC Lahar Singh Siroya after a meeting convened by chief minister BS Yediyurappa with BJP MLCs. “I’m happy the BJP has decided to support me for council chairman,” said Horatti after meeting Yediyurappa on Wednesday. The notice for the no-confidence motion will come up for consideration in February, following which Shetty is expected to either tender his resignation or fix a date for voting on the motion. The session will start with the governor’s address to the joint sitting on Thursday. The session scheduled till February 5 is expected to be stormy with opposition parties getting ready to corner the government on contentious issues including illegal quarrying, farm laws and the government’s failure to grant adequate relief to flood victims. The government is expected to table the anti-cow slaughter bill in the council, which both Congress and JD(S) oppose. The council could also see high drama over the interim report submitted by the special house committee on the ruckus in the house on December 15. It reportedly indicts ministers JC Madhuswamy and deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said 11 bills have been submitted for discussion. “All arrangements have been made keeping Covid-19 safety norms in mind,” said Kageri, adding that the budget session is expected to be held in March first week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/horatti-to-become-councilchairman-with-bjp-backing/articleshow/80487923.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Waste micro-plan mooted for Shivajinagar||BENGALURU: BBMP is all set to come up with a micro-plan on garbage clearance and disposal for Shivajinagar, one of the oldest commercial-cum-residential areas in the city. The plan, which will be tailor-made to meet the demands of different businesses in the hub, will specify the types of waste generated, how many times it will be lifted, timings for waste collection, disposal mechanism and measures to be taken to thwart foul smell in market areas. An assurance to this effect was given by BBMP special commissioner (solid waste management) D Randeep and joint commissioner Sarfaraz Khan on Wednesday during an interaction with Russell Market traders as part of Project Shivajinagar, an initiative by MLA Rizwan Arshad. Currently, garbage is being collected from commercial areas in the locality at 8am every day. “But the problem in and around Russell Market is that waste starts accumulating later in the day and is dumped on the road. Over 20 types of major businesses — including eateries, meat stalls, vegetable vendors, cloth shops, fish stores and large caterers — generate waste,” Arshad said. Meat stall owners said auto tippers come to collect waste very early, and the trash generated through the day has to be kept outside to prevent rodents from entering shops.  Khan said, “There are several ways to help BBMP in maintaining cleanliness such avoiding use of plastic bags and wrapping up meat in plantain leaves or any other eco-friendly material.” He felt things could improve if there is coordination between citizens and the agency. Randeep said BBMP will improve frequency of waste collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/waste-micro-plan-mooted-for-shivajinagar/articleshow/80487934.cms||---
January 28, 2021||India||Creating 'global consensus' on challenge of terrorism must be priority: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday said that for far too long, the challenge of terrorism has been treated as a problem of only those directly impacted, and asserted that creating a global consensus on the issue must be a priority. Addressing the 14th annual Conference of the Institute for National Security Studies, Israel, Jaishankar said that as a new administration takes office in Washington DC, it is natural that the world would reflect on the changes that it portends. "Like the rest of the world, the US too has been coming to terms with the rebalancing of the global power distribution. This has been accelerating over the last decade and would probably continue. No amount of wishful thinking can turn the clock back," he said. Obviously, the US administration would survey the landscape that it has inherited and respond to the contemporary requirements, he noted. "Nowhere have the changes been sharper than in Asia. So presumably, it would also be reflected now in policy formulation," Jaishankar said. The priorities of the Joe Biden administration would obviously help shape a new global agenda, the minister said, adding that at the heart of that should be a recognition of the indivisibility of our existence, and therefore, of our challenges. Climate change, pandemics and terrorism would surely rank foremost among them, Jaishankar asserted. Underlining that strengthening multilateralism is also imperative if such issues are to be addressed effectively, he said reforming the architecture and even the working of international organisations is in our common interest. "Where climate change is concerned, an American return to upholding global commitments will be widely welcomed," he said. India reflects both its own beliefs and world opinion today as it ramps up its renewable energy targets, expands its forest cover, enhances its bio-diversity and focusses on effective water utilisation, Jaishankar said. It has also led two major international initiatives, the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, he pointed out. A stronger consensus on seriously addressing the climate change challenges has obviously its own implications, Jaishankar said. Noting that combating pandemics will naturally dominate the global agenda in the coming days, he said the inter-dependent nature of life means that no one is safe till everyone is safe. "If there was one occasion where the limitation of purely national actions was visible, it was in the response to Covid-19. As a country that provided during this pandemic medical supplies and equipment to more than 150 nations, many of them as grants, India supports greater coordination among responders," he said. "Even as we have begun mass vaccination at home, Indian vaccine supplies to our immediate neighbours have started. This is expected to cover other partner countries in the coming days," he said. Underlining that the world can only benefit from a more collective effort to deal with the serious issues confronting it, the minister said that logic applies equally to the longstanding challenge of terrorism. Jaishankar added that for too long, the challenge of terrorism has been treated as a problem of only those directly impacted. "But we know full well how seamless the world of terrorism really is. Allowing safe harbours for terrorism and overlooking state sponsorship is becoming increasingly dangerous with each passing day," he said. In a more capable and technology-driven world, these threats have only multiplied further, he said. Creating a global consensus on this issue must be a priority, Jaishankar added. "The world is about moving on. But it is equally about moving with the times. Whether it is the new administration in the US or those in different corners of the world, we have a shared interest and collective obligation to make our planet a better place. There is so much riding on both our willingness, and our ability, to do so," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/creating-global-consensus-on-challenge-of-terrorism-must-be-priority-jaishankar/articleshow/80488056.cms||---
January 28, 2021||India||Actor Deep Sidhu, Lakha Sidhana named in Delhi Police FIR related to Red Fort incidents||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Police has named actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana in an FIR in connection with Red Fort incidents, officials said on Wednesday. The Delhi Police has registered the case at Kotwali police station of North district under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and other legislations, they said. Provisions of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and the Arms Act have been added in the FIR. The police has invoked IPC sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 152 (assaulting or obstructing public servant when suppressing riot, etc), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), and 307 (attempt to murder), they said. The Red Fort will remain closed for visitors from January 27 to January 31, according to an order issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). While the order does not mention the reason behind the closure, it refers to earlier orders of January 6 and January 18 whereby the iconic monument was closed from January 19 to January 22 due to a bird flu alert. Thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. They also hoisted flags on the domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts of the national monument at which national tricolour is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/actor-deep-sidhu-lakha-sidhana-named-in-delhi-police-fir-related-to-red-fort-incidents/articleshow/80488434.cms||---
January 28, 2021||India||Day after farmers' protests, Twitter suspends 300 accounts||NEW DELHI: A day after farmers’ protests turned the Capital into an arena of violence, Twitter said it has suspended at least 300 accounts for violating its "platform manipulation and spam" policy in relation to the incidents. In a statement released on Wednesday, the microblogging platform said the accounts were suspended to prevent physical harm. "We have taken strong enforcement action to protect the conversation on the service from attempts to incite violence, abuse and threats that could trigger the risk of offline harm," read the statement, adding that the platform took action on "hundreds of accounts and Tweets that have been in violation of Twitter rules". "(We have) suspended more than 300 accounts engaged in spam and platform manipulation. We have also applied labels to Tweets that were found to be in violation of synthetic and manipulated media policy. We are monitoring the situation closely and remain vigilant," Twitter said. It did not, however, clarify what propaganda the handles were spreading. Twitter's manipulation policy prevents users from "artificially" amplifying or suppressing information. It deals with fake accounts and commercial spam, among other things. On Tuesday, the violence in Delhi was shared live on the platform through pictures and short video clips; some of them leading to widespread rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/day-after-farmers-protests-twitter-suspends-300-accounts/articleshow/80488709.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 28, 2021||World||Two British MPs draw flak for failing to condemn R-Day violence||LONDON: : Two British Labour Sikh MPs are facing criticism for failing to condemn the violence after having openly supported the farmers’ protests in Delhi which on Republic Day ended in anarchy with the Sikh religious flag, the Nishan Sahib, being raised at Red Fort, one farmer protester dead and hundreds of police officers injured. On Tuesday, in the midst of the rioting, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi an MP who has roots in Raipur, Jalandhar, tweeted: “Sad to see scenes of clashes between some protesters and police in Delhi #FarmersProtest. Notable though the huge #TractorParade today and ongoing months long struggle (largest protest currently in the world) have been peaceful and inspired so many struggling for an existence.” Shadow international development secretary Preet Gill, whose family hails from Jamsher in Jalandhar, tweeted: “It’s heart-breaking to see the scenes from Delhi. All citizens have the right to peacefully protest. The Internet has been shut down after police fired at protestors. #IStandWithFarmers.” UK-based Manoj Ladwa, Narendra Modi’s former communications director and founder and chair, India Inc. Group, tweeted an image of a Sikh protester threatening a police officer with a sword, saying: “This is hardly an image of Gandhian peaceful protest @PreetKGillMP @TanDhesi! Will you condemn those who resorted to premeditated violence, attacked police officers, misused sacred religious symbols - all on the day when India was celebrating its democracy? #IStandWithFarmersToo.” An investment professional and dealmaker covering India, Alpesh B. Patel, tweeted the same image, comparing it to the January 6 storming of the US Capitol, saying: “Just as the armed militants who raided the US Congress, promoted by Trump to do so, should not disgrace all Republicans, so this armed militant should not disgrace all farmers, promoted by some UK politicians… No thanks militants. Liberalism + Democracy.” Patel also quote-tweeted Gill’s tweet, saying: “You don't get away with playing victim. Not Trump supporters raiding Congress and not your supporters wanting their own theocratic separate ISIS-like State.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/two-british-mps-draw-flak-for-supporting-farmers-protests/articleshow/80489092.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 28, 2021||India||Soldier killed, 3 injured in J&K grenade attack||SRINAGAR: A soldier was killed and three of his colleagues were injured in a blast triggered by suspected terrorists in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Wednesday morning. The victim, havildar Deepak Kumar, was part of a road-opening party deployed by the Army’s 24 Rashtriya Rifles along the Shamsipora stretch of the Srinagar-Jammu highway. A defence spokesperson said the team was engaged in a sanitisation exercise in the area when the explosion occurred, unleashing a spray of splinters that struck four soldiers standing in the vicinity. All four were rushed to the Army’s 92 Base Hospital in Srinagar’s Badamibagh, where havildar Deepak succumbed to his injuries. IGP (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar said in Srinagar that terrorists detonated an improvised explosive device (IED) planted in an abandoned building within the campus of a government middle school in Subhanpora that the Rashtriya Rifles unit is known to frequent. The Army had initially called it a grenade attack. Reinforcements reached the area soon after for a cordon-and-search operation that was underway till late in the night. IGP Vijay Kumar said Qaimoh police station was the first to receive information about a blast at the school. A preliminary investigation suggested that the blast was caused by “a rudimentary IED” with ball bearings stashed into a mix of low-intensity explosives. “The attack seems to have been planned after observing troop movement for a long time. The IED may have been planted the night before,” the IGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soldier-killed-3-injured-in-jk-grenade-attack/articleshow/80489299.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 28, 2021||India||Army eyes Tibetology to checkmate China||NEW DELHI: As India undertakes a rebalance of military forces and fire power to the northern borders with China amid the continuing troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh, the Army has a new target on its radar screen: Tibetology. The Army is now fine-tuning a proposal for its officers to study Tibetan history, culture and language on “both sides” of the Line of Actual Control and the international boundary as part of the measures being discussed to “counter the propaganda and spread of influence by China”, say sources. Read AlsoIf China can get aggressive at LAC, so can we: IAF chiefThe Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said that eight Rafale aircrafts have already arrived in India and another three are expected by the end of January. The Air Chief Marshal made the statement while addressing the press during the exercise Desert Knight-2021. ​​On theThe Tibetology proposal was first initiated in the Army commanders’ conference in October, and is now being “further analysed” by the Shimla-based Army Training Command (ARTRAC) on the directions of General M M Naravane. Read AlsoChina moves back around 10,000 troops from depth areas near LAC in Eastern LadakhIn a significant development, the Chinese Army has moved back around 10,000 troops from the depth areas near the LAC in Eastern Ladakh. However, the deployment in the frontline areas has remained the same and the troops from both sides remain in an eyeball to eyeball situation. The ChineseARTRAC has identified seven institutes that offer postgraduate courses in Tibetology where Army officers can go on “study leave”. It has also been recommended that officers can also be sent to these institutes for “small capsules” on Tibetology. They are Department of Buddhist Studies (Delhi University), Central Institute for Higher Tibetan Studies (Varanasi), Nava Nalanda Mahavihara (Bihar), Visva Bharati (West Bengal), Dalai Lama Institute for Higher Education (Bengaluru), Namgyal Institute of Tibetology (Gangtok) and Central Institute of Himalayan Culture Studies (Dahung, Arunachal Pradesh). Army officers are generally well-versed with Pakistan. But a similar expertise on China and the Chinese psyche is lacking. Officers who really understand China are very few in number. Tibetology fares even worse. These deficiencies need to be pluggedAn Army officerThe Army needs to assiduously build expertise on both China and Tibet in terms of “linguistic, cultural and behaviour patterns”. This will require “language and sector specialisations”, with selected officers being posted for longer tenures along the LAC instead of the western front with Pakistan. “Just a two-year course in Mandarin will not make an officer a China expert,” he added. India, of course, has largely refrained from playing the so-called “Tibet card”, which constitutes a major red-line for China, over the years. Some experts even contend New Delhi “lost” the leverage in 1954 itself when it inked the trade agreement with Beijing, which recognised the “Tibet region” as part of China. A signal, however, was recently sent by the public acknowledgement of the role played by the Special Frontier Force, a covert special unit that recruits from the Tibetan community exiled in India, during the military manoeuvre to occupy heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso-Kailash range area in end-August. “Either way, if you want to use Tibet as an issue in India-China relations, then expertise in Tibetology will be critical,” said an expert. Watch Tibetology: The Indian Army’s new plan of action against China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-eyes-tibetology-to-checkmate-china/articleshow/80489811.cms||Rajat Pandit
January 28, 2021||World||US comedy legend Cloris Leachman dies at 94||American actress Cloris Leachman, who won eight Emmys for her work on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and other television programs as well as an Academy Award for "The Last Picture Show," died on Wednesday at the age of 94, her representatives said. Leachman's publicist said in a statement that the actress died of natural causes at her home in Encinitas, California. "It’s been my privilege to work with Cloris Leachman, one of the most fearless actresses of our time," Leachman's manager, Juliet Green, said in a statement. "There was no one like Cloris. With a single look she had the ability to break your heart or make you laugh till the tears ran down your face. You never knew what Cloris was going to say or do and that unpredictable quality was part of her unparalleled magic," Green added. Leachman, who appeared in three of Mel Brooks' comic movies, kept acting regularly well into her 90s. She was a contestant on "Dancing With the Stars" at age 82 and appeared in the 2019 reboot of the comedy series "Mad About You." Two films that she made in 2019 and 2020 have yet to be released. Leachman grew up in Des Moines, Iowa, and studied under Elia Kazan at the Actors Studio in New York, where Marlon Brando was a classmate. Starting in the late 1940s, her early jobs included working on stage with Katharine Hepburn in "As You Like It," as well as small roles in movies and live television dramas. One of her first regular jobs was playing the mother on the popular "Lassie" show in the late 1950s and television would provide many of Leachman's greatest successes. She won best-supporting actress Emmys in 1974 and 1975 for playing the nosy landlady on the popular "Mary Tyler Moore Show," which led to a two-year run for Leachman in her own spin-off series, "Phyllis." She also won Emmys for playing cranky Grandma Ida on "Malcolm in the Middle" in 2002 and 2006, as well as roles in the drama "Promised Land" in 1998, a Screen Actors Guild variety show in 1984, a 1975 appearance on Cher's variety show and "A Brand New Life," a 1973 television movie. She was nominated 12 other times and also won a Daytime Emmy in 1972. Leachman's movie work also was distinguished, highlighted by "The Last Picture Show" in which she played Ruth Popper, the emotionally crippled wife of a small-town football coach who has an affair with one of his players. As director Peter Bogdanovich predicted, she won an Oscar for the role. Leachman made an impression in three of Brooks' movies, playing comically villainous characters in "Young Frankenstein" and "High Anxiety" and Madame Defarge from "A Tale of Two Cities" in "History of the World: Part 1." Age did little to slow Leachman. In 2008, she became the oldest contestant ever - and a fan favorite - on "Dancing With the Stars" and followed that up with an appearance on the reality show "Celebrity Wife Swap." Leachman took a light-hearted and unpredictable approach to life. A lifelong vegetarian, she was in her 70s when she appeared nude - but with her body painted with fruits and vegetables - on the cover of Alternative Health magazine in 1997. Asked in 2010 how she managed to keep professionally busy at her age, Leachman told the New York Times, "I don't like that word 'busy' because that's not how I live at all ... When I do work, it's not work; it's great fun and exciting and fresh." Leachman and director-producer George Englund married in 1953 and divorced in 1979. They had five children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-comedy-legend-cloris-leachman-dies-at-94/articleshow/80489935.cms||---
January 28, 2021||India||50% cap for movie halls lifted, pools open to all||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases in the country steadily declining over the past four months, the home ministry on Wednesday further eased guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, allowing states and Union territories to decide on the extent of attendance at social, cultural and religious gatherings, rescinding the 50% occupancy limit for cinema halls and throwing open swimming pools to all. The relaxations will apply to areas outside of containment zones. Importantly, the MHA opened the door for consideration of more international air travel of passengers, saying the civil aviation ministry may take a decision in consultation with the home ministry depending on the assessment of the situation. While extending the guidelines till February 28, the ministry, for the first time since March 2020, refrained from advising those above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. The new guidelines merely advise these vulnerable categories to take necessary precautions, without specifying that they should try and stay at home. All activities are now permitted outside containment zones, except for a few that will be subject to strict adherence of standard operating procedures (SOPs). Social and other types of gatherings will not need to be limited to the previous restriction of 50% of hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces. States and UTs can, starting February 1, allow such gatherings subject to their own SOPs with the Centre no longer playing a role in setting the rules. Cinema halls and theatres, which were permitted up to 50% of seating capacity till January 31, will be allowed to operate at higher capacity subject to a revised SOP to be issued by the I&B ministry in consultation with the MHA. This will come as a relief to the film and entertainment industry currently reeling under the impact of Covid-19. In fact, some states like Tamil Nadu and West Bengal had issued orders allowing full seating capacity in cinema halls, but were reminded by the home ministry of the 50% ceiling. The Centre's guidelines under the National Disaster Management Act need to be followed by all states and UTs. Swimming pools, currently permitted only for use of sportspersons, will be open for all starting February 1, for which updated SOPs shall be issued by the ministry of youth affairs & sports. All types of exhibition halls and not just business-to-business (B2B) halls have been allowed to function as per revised SOPs to be issued by the department of commerce in consultation with the MHA. State and UT governments have, meanwhile, been asked to take all necessary measures to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensure wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. National directives for Covid-19 management shall continue to be followed throughout the country. There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods, including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries, the MHA said. Watch 50% seating capacity cap for cinema halls and theatres lifted, pools open to all||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/50-cap-for-movie-halls-lifted-pools-open-to-all/articleshow/80489980.cms||Bharti Jain
January 28, 2021||India||No rioter will be spared: Delhi top cop||NEW DELHI: Delhi police commissioner S N Shrivastava on Wednesday held the farmer union leaders responsible for the violence in the capital on Republic Day. Hinting towards a pre-meditated conspiracy, the police chief accused the leaders of bringing “militant elements” – who were not at the forefront till then – into the picture from the night of January 25 and throwing the stage open to them that ultimately led to the large-scale violence. Addressing a press conference, the top cop asserted that Delhi Police will not spare anyone involved in the rioting. He said the number of police personnel injured in Tuesday’s mayhem stood at 394. “Nineteen people have been arrested till now and around 50 have been detained. Over 25 FIRs have been filed,” he announced. Facial recognition software is being used to identify the rioters. The commissioner accused the farmer leaders of going back on their agreement with the police and violating every condition that was agreed upon. He recalled how leaders like Darshan Pal Singh, Satnam Singh Pannu and others had given provocative speeches which led to the violence. Meanwhile, Darshan Pal Singh has been summoned by the police for questioning in connection with the violence. “The force showed extreme restraint so that there was no loss of life. It was done in everyone's interest,” the police commissioner added. The top cop recalled how they had come to know about the proposed rally on January 2 and immediately approached the farmers who were protesting under the aegis of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. “Five rounds of extensive meetings were conducted. Initially, the kisan organisations were requested to change their date due to the police's commitments for the Republic Day parade security arrangements. Despite our repeated requests, they refused to budge,” said the police chief. The police, he said, offered them the entire peripheral expressway of 270 km along with security and traffic management. “After much persuasion, these leaders agreed on three routes for the tractor parade from three border points. As is the practice, Delhi Police requested the farmer organisations for an undertaking on the terms and conditions of the said tractor rally. This was agreed to by all the farmer organisations,” he added. Despite agreeing on the mutually decided terms and conditions for the rally, the farmer leaders acted in a very irresponsible manner on Tuesday, said Shrivastava. “Their wrong intent was apparent on the night of January 25 when the militant sections of the protesting farmers who were at the rear of the dharna were brought forward at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. These militant elements occupied the stage and started provocative speeches right from the early hours of January 26," said the top cop. “On January 26, against the agreed time of 12 noon, the rally started at Singhu border at 7.30 am, at Tikri at 8.45am and at Ghazipur at 8.30 am,” he recalled. The protesters from Singhu came in larger numbers near Mukarba Chowk, and instead of turning right on the designated route, they tried to remove the barricades on the roads leading to Delhi, said Shrivastava. A large number of protesters began squatting at this place and dissuaded the others from going on the designated route. Some of the leaders of the Morcha were also part of the protesting farmers. Similarly, protesters from the Tikri border came up to Nangloi T-point, and instead of turning right, they tried to remove barricades placed on the roads leading to Delhi. "A good number of them sat down here too, prominent amongst them being Buta Singh Burjgil. After some time, all these protesting farmer organisations, despite their assurances to remain peaceful and take the rally along the designated route, removed the barricades and went towards Delhi," said the police chief. He said the most serious and reprehensible act was performed by these protesters at Red Fort. They climbed atop the ASI-protected monument, vandalised the whole area and unfurled a religious flag. "Flags of all the farmers organisations were later recovered from the Red Fort premises. The vandalisation of Red Fort on Republic Day was a most deplorable and anti-national act. Delhi Police has taken all these incidents of violence quite seriously," he said. "We want to make it clear to everyone that no one involved in these violent incidents will be spared. All the leaders of the farmer organisations who were participating in these violent activities would be prosecuted,” he said. Watch Strict action will be taken against all those involved in Republic Day violence: Delhi police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-rioter-will-be-spared-delhi-top-cop/articleshow/80490029.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 28, 2021||India||BJP accuses Congress netas of inciting violence on R-Day||NEW DELHI: BJP on Wednesday accused Congress leaders of inciting the farmers who indulged in violence and lawlessness on Republic Day, escalating the offensive against the opposition party. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has not just been continuously supporting the protesters but has incited them as well. He did the same during protests against CAA… he incites the people and agitations happen the next day,” senior leader Prakash Javadekar said at a press conference at the party headquarters here. Javadekar said even the Congress government in Punjab incited the farmers, which could be testified by the tweets of the Youth Congress and other organisations of the party. “A Congress leader wrote in a tweet yesterday — 'A peaceful protest is being shown as a violent one’. What happened at Nangloi and other parts of Delhi was non-violent?” he asked. Javadekar said over 300 police personnel were injured, several of them were in ICU. “Was this non-violent?” he asked. The BJP leader said Congress wanted to create a situation of unrest in the country. “This is what Congress politics has been reduced to. They are worried as to what will happen to family-based politics and it is that worry that is leading them to whip up emotions over different issues and stoke violence,” he added. He said no condemnation of the riots that unfolded in Delhi on R-Day will be enough. “Everyone who triggered it should be punished. India will not forget the insult of the tricolour. Congress has continuously fuelled these farmers' protests,” he said. The minister, who was speaking after Congress attacked the government for its failure to stop the lawlessness, praised Delhi Police for exercising restraint in the face of serious threat to themselves. “They were attacked by swords and even stones were thrown, but they did not retaliate. They brought the situation under control with restraint,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-accuses-congress-netas-of-inciting-violence-on-r-day/articleshow/80490042.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Dead farmer was just back from Australia; wife, 21, still there||RAMPUR: Like many young farmers across the agri belts in Punjab, Haryana and UP, Navreet Singh would make the trip to Delhi’s Ghazipur border to join the protest every few days. The 24-year-old had just come home from Australia, newly married and was a vocal opponent of the new farm laws. On Tuesday, he was among the protesters on tractors that veered towards the heart of Delhi. Moments after his tractor turned turtle, people found him dead. On Wednesday, the lingering question of how he really died hanging heavy, his family cremated him. His village with 8,000-odd people, Dibdiba in UP’s Rampur, had gone quiet, police presence marking every inch. While Navreet’s wife Mansweet (21) who is in Melbourne has not recovered from the shock, his grandfather Hardeep Singh Dibdiba who attended the cremation along with Navreet’s father, says, “He died a martyr.” Navreet’s has been an influential family. For generations, his family has held 12 acres of farmland in Dibdiba. His grandfather has written five books in Punjabi on Sikhism and against terrorism. “I am going to write about this protest, tell the truth,” he said on Wednesday. “We are taking care of the law and order situation in the village,” Rampur additional SP Sansaar Singh told TOI. Five years ago, Navreet had moved to Australia to study. His sister had chosen Canada. While pursuing a graduate course in commerce, he met Mansweet, also a student, in Melbourne. They fell in love and, last year, they got married. His father, Sahab Singh, and grandfather were getting old. After his graduation was over, he came home. "He had come to India to celebrate his wedding three to four months ago," said Hardeep, who is also ad hoc president of the Rajasthan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. Mansweet, now 21, stayed back to complete her graduation. “He could have lived an easy life abroad. But he wanted to help out at the farm,” his uncle Inderjeet Singh told TOI. At the time, resentment against the new farm laws had started building up. When the protests began in Delhi, there was no holding Navreet back. With troops of young farmers from nearby villages, he would go and mark his presence at the peaceful protests at the Ghazipur border and come back. His grandfather would head for the Rajasthan border. “He would be at the protest since it started,” Hardeep said. "He died a martyr." On January 23, Navreet left Dibdiba for Ghazipur again. He meant to stay on for the Republic Day protest. When he died, his wife, more than 10,000 km away, got to know before others did. “She came to know Navreet had died when the news exploded on social media within minutes. It was their wedding photo, next to that of his body that was being shared. She has not recovered from the shock,” Daljeet Singh, a neighbour, said. She could not make it to her husband’s funeral. (With inputs from Yudhvir Rana in Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dead-farmer-was-just-back-from-australia-wife-21-still-there/articleshow/80490069.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 28, 2021||India||Pledge to boost defence ties as Biden admin dials Delhi||NEW DELHI: The new Biden administration has started making its first contact with Indian counterparts. On Wednesday. National security adviser Ajit Doval spoke to his counterpart Jake Sullivan and defence minister Rajnath Singh with the US defence secretary Gen Lloyd Austin. Both conversations reaffirmed the commitment to expand an already growing defence and security cooperation. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said he and his US counterpart Lloyd J Austin, in a telephonic conversation on Wednesday evening, “exchanged views on bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest to strengthen our strategic partnership”. In the conversation between Doval and Sullivan, the two NSAs agreed to work closely to further advance India-US relations, which are built on shared values and common strategic and security interests. They highlighted the need to work collectively to address challenges in the post-Covid era and further expand the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, said an official MEA statement. Austin, the first African-American US defence secretary, has made similar introductory telephone calls to his counterparts in the UK, Japan, South Korea, Canada and Australia, among others, over the last few days. “Singh and Austin, in the 20-minute conversation, reaffirmed their commitment to work together to strengthen the multi-faceted India-US defence cooperation and strategic partnership,” said an official. The US readout said, the two reiterated the “commitment to the US-India Major Defence Partnership, observing that it is built upon shared values and a common interest in ensuring the Indo-Pacific region remains free and open”. The India-US relationship has deepened in the past few years, and the Chinese challenge, as well as the pandemic, have created a greater imperative for the two sides to work together. The Biden administration has taken over at a time when India is going full steam ahead with its induction plan for the advanced S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile systems from Russia despite the threat of US sanctions. The S-400 deliveries to India will begin in September-October this year, under the $5.43 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) contract inked with Russia. All five mobile squadrons of the S-400 air defence systems will be progressively delivered by 2023.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pledge-to-boost-defence-ties-as-biden-admin-dials-delhi/articleshow/80490076.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||Bolstered by case dip, vax drive, office space demand sees revival||KOLKATA: As market sentiment makes a steady recovery from the Covid shock, demand for office space that had dried up following the lockdown in March 2020 is witnessing a revival with inquiries from not only Indian companies, but also MNCs. A real estate sentiment index released by international property con-sultant Knight Frank revealed that the current sentiment in October-December 2020 quarter had rebounded to optimistic and was the highest since Q1 2019. The sentiment had nosedived in April-June 2020 and bottomed out due to the lockdown. Many had even suggested the pandemic norms would mean an end to conventional offices and work from home would be the new normal. But following unlock, sections of the population have not only returned to work from offices, the decline in Covid cases in Bengal and the rest of India had prompted Indian companies and MNCs to start inquiries about office space. The commencement of the vaccination drive has further impro-ved sentiment. “Companies that had delayed the decision on office space in the first half of 2020 have gained the confidence to close deals. Inquiries have revived in the IT and ITES sectors and online education space,” said Knight Frank India chairman and managing director Shishir Baijal. While January-March 2020 had seen transaction of 4.7 lakh sqft office space in Kolkata, July-September saw transaction dip to 2.1 lakh sqft. In October-December, the office space transaction increased to 2.3 lakh sqft. Against 32 deals aggregating an average deal size of 22,417 sqft in July-December 2019, the corresponding period last year saw 31 deals of average size of 14,400 sqft. “There is a realization that an office is more than just desks and chairs. It is about collaboration at work, getting together of minds and ideas. Limited office space leasing, coupled with no new supply, led to a marginal decrease in office space vacancy in 2020,” said Knight Frank research analyst Divya Ghrover. Traction in residential segment has also continued in the fourth quarter of 2020 on the back of festive discounts, pent-up demand, low home-loan interest rates, attractive residential prices and state government incentives. Residential sales reached pre-Covid levels (2019 quarterly average) by the fourth quarter of 2020. In the fourth quarter, a substantial 76% of the survey respondents were of the opinion that residential launches will increase in the next six months while another 13% felt that new project launches would remain the same in the coming six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bolstered-by-case-dip-vax-drive-office-space-demand-sees-revival/articleshow/80487478.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 28, 2021||Business||Bank of Baroda first PSB to eye permanent WFH option||MUMBAI: Bank of Baroda (BoB) is the first public sector bank to consider work-from-home (WFH) as a permanent policy for a section of its employees. BoB, which recently concluded the integration of Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank with itself, has appointed management consultancy firm McKinsey & Co to help implement a strategy for a post-Covid world. Explaining the terms of reference for appointment of the consultancy firm, MD & CEO Sanjiv Chadha said that it was to determine how the bank remained ahead of the curve in a world that has changed following the pandemic. “It included things like, if we had our staff working from home, or if they were working from a hybrid environment where they would come to the office for one or two days, how do we implement that? How can we leverage staff resources better, give them flexibility and also open ourselves for hiring talent, which might be there but not available for full-time employment?” said Chadha. He was speaking about the bank’s strategy while announcing the financial results for the third quarter. BoB on Wednesday reported a net profit of Rs 1,061 crore for the quarter ended December 2020 as against a loss of Rs 1,407 crore in the corresponding period of previous year. Chadha said that in the fourth quarter, the bank was looking at raising Rs 2,000-4,000 crore by way of equity to support growth. He said that prospects for the bank had improved as it had managed to achieve significant cost savings following the integration. There was also a recovery pipeline expected because of resolution of cases in the National Company Law Tribunal, or NCLT. A major objective of the restructuring exercise was to relook at the operating model. “During Covid, the number of people visiting branches had gone down. The prognosis is that habits once acquired will not go away easily and we must be prepared for a world where branches are less central to the BoB network,” he said. Instead of branches, the bank would focus on customer touchpoints or outlets, which numbered 25,000. “We want a much lighter footprint where we redesign branches, as the reason why people come to a branch in future will be entirely different from what they came for in the past,” said Chadha. On the corporate side, the bank would leverage existing corporate borrowers to get more fee-based business. It would also try to bring it international business onshore to the IFC Banking Unit at GIFT City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-of-baroda-first-psb-to-eye-permanent-wfh-option/articleshow/80488758.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||MSRTC in soup for bid to allot ad tender for a song, HC grants stay||Nagpur: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is in a soup for irregularities in the tender opening process for the advertisement contract on over 16,000 buses in the state. After a party knocked on court doors, the Bombay High Court has granted a stay on the tender. Transport minister Anil Parab and MSRTC vice-chairman and managing director Shekhar Channe did not respond to TOI’s calls. The officer on special duty to the transport minister Prashant Rumale said, “We have not yet awarded the tender. I don’t know details about the issue.” Prithvi Outdoor Publicity LLP, which went to court, said the matter is sub judice and hence “we won’t be able to comment”. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, who had first brought the issue to the government’s notice, said, “I’ll demand an inquiry from the state government. How were the bids allowed at such a low price?” According to Prithvi’s petition, the tenders were opened on January 18. In the present e-tender, Proactive In & Out Advertising Private Limited has offered net amount of Rs23.40 crore for the period of 5 years, which is much lower than its previous offer of Rs38.10 crore for three years. If Pro Active’s previous 3 years’ offer is calculated proportionately, the MSRTC should get approximately Rs55 crore for the next five years. In 2019, it had offered Rs28.10 crore plus additional Rs10 crore as 20% of the government business. The documents of the other two bidders — out of a total 5 — were rejected on various grounds. Prithvi’s bid was not opened on the ground that it was originally Prithvi Associates and now the name has been changed to Prithvi Outdoor Publicity LLP. The bid of the fifth party Rakesh Advertising was not opened as it owes Rs8 crore to the MSRTC. Earlier in 2019, MSRTC had called for bids for the display of advertisement on MSRTC buses where successful bidder had to pay an additional 20% of total revenue received from the state government over and above the offered value for the period of 3 years. There were 3 bidders in the previous tender — Prachar Communication Private Limited which offered Rs28 crore, Proactive offered Rs38.10 crore and Rakesh Advertising offered Rs44 crore. In spite of receiving the highest bid from Rakesh Advertising, MSRTC cancelled the tenders causing huge loss to the MSRTC, which is already in the red. The petitioner has said that from 2014, all the TDS certificates were issued to MSRTC in the name of Prithvi Outdoor Publicity LLP. “In 2016, we had also bid for the display of advertisement on MSRTC buses in the name Prithvi Outdoor Publicity and our documents were verified and technically accepted by the MSRTC,” reads the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msrtc-in-soup-for-bid-to-allot-ad-tender-for-a-song-hc-grants-stay/articleshow/80487314.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 28, 2021||Kanpur||Missing minor girl found murdered in Unnao||Kanpur: A nine-year-old girl, who went missing from her fields on Wednesday morning, was found murdered in a nearby field in a village under the limits of Makhi police station in Unnao district on Wednesday evening. Police said that the victim is suspected to have been strangled to death by unidentified assailants. “The assailants had used a rope and her sweater to strangle her. Forensic team have seized the rope and sweater recovered from the spot. A case of murder and POCSO Act has been registered against unidentified persons at Makhi police station in this connection,” said additional superintendent of police Vinod Kumar Pandey. Pandey further said that the girl’s family members have suspected the involvement of four local persons behind the murder. “One among the suspects has been detained and is being questioned, while four teams have been formed to detain the other three,” he said. The girl, a student of class III went missing from the fields where she had gone to guard crops from the stray cattle on Wednesday morning. Some locals spotted her body lying in a nearby field on Wednesday evening and informed her family members who then informed the police. “The body bore injury marks. We are awaiting a medical report to ascertain if the girl was sexually assaulted before being murdered,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/missing-minor-girl-found-murdered-in-unnao/articleshow/80488049.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||‘No outsourcing, dept repairing streetlights’||Panaji: The government is no longer outsourcing the maintenance of streetlights, but is using its own staff to fix non-functional lights, said power minister Nilesh Cabral said on Wednesday. “Due to the lockdown in the country, the pace of streetlight repairs had slowed down as spares were not available on time,” Cabral said in response to Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias’ question on non-functional streetlights. The electricity department is no longer outsourcing maintenance work of streetlights in the state. Cabral submitted to the legislative assembly that the implementation of the streetlight national programme by Energy Efficiency Services Limited has been terminated and a deed of cancellation has been signed between the electricity department and EESL with effect from December 31, 2019. “Maintenance is being carried out by the department staff,” Cabral said. “The department has set up a team for repairs of non-working LED streetlight fixtures at Central Stores, Margao, wherein all non-working LED streetlight fixtures received from the divisions or sub-divisions concerned are repaired and reissued for replacement,” Cabral added. “The government will ensure that all LED streetlights are in working condition,” the power minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-outsourcing-dept-repairing-streetlights/articleshow/80489567.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Now, QR code-enabled waste collection in three PMC wards||PATNA: As part of its Intelligent Waste Management System (IWMS) project, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started QR code-enabled door-to-door garbage collection practice in wards 23 (Patliputra circle), 29 (Kankerbagh) and 54 (Azimabad) on a pilot basis. Covering over 4,508 households and buildings, the new technology-driven system will improve solid waste management in the city. According to the officials of the PMC, sanitation workers have collected garbage from altogether 1,180 houses with QR codes so far. “The QR-based technology will ensure 100% waste collection. Soon we will cover the apartments and commercial buildings in all the 75 wards,” PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma told this newspaper on Wednesday. Under the IWMS project, all PMC vehicles, including auto-tippers, are equipped with GPS that helps the civic body track their movement and evaluate the coverage of door-to-door garbage collection. “If a worker fails to scan the QR code or collect garbage from any household, we will know it immediately,” Himanshu said, adding that the goal was to improve the waste collection system by keeping an eye on the entire process from the source to the disposal point and address the shortcomings. The PMC has set the target of covering 2.5 lakh households by April in all the six circles — Azimabad, Bankipore, Kankerbagh, New Capital, Patliputra and Patna City. While houses have been given individual QR codes, apartments or flats are clubbed into single entities with a common code. A firm hired by the PMC had started pasting QR codes outside different houses in December. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 13 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-qr-code-enabled-waste-collection-in-three-pmc-wards/articleshow/80485959.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 28, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Many senior RJD, RLSP and Congress netas join BJP||PATNA: Many senior leaders of RJD, RLSP, Congress and NCP on Wednesday joined BJP at a ‘Milan Samaroh’ held in the presence of the party’s national general secretary and Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav. A total of 21 senior leaders of different political parties, along with their supporters, joined BJP. Majority of them were from RJD. Prominent RJD leaders who joined the saffron party included former minister Sitaram Yadav, former MLC Dilip Kumar Yadav, former MP Ramji Manjhi, former state general secretary Santosh Mehta, former state secretary Dharmendra Kumar Munna and Bharat Ratna Yadav, the nephew of former minister Hind Keshari Yadav. Sitaram Yadav, who represented the erstwhile Nanpur constituency in Sitamarhi in the state assembly for three terms, was also a minister in the Lalu Prasad-led government. Once considered a close associate of RJD boss Lalu Prasad, Sitaram had twice represented Sitamarhi seat in the Lok Sabha. Santosh Mehta, a former deputy mayor of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), had contested the 2015 assembly polls as the RJD candidate from Patna Sahib seat. He had lost the election to BJP’s Nand Kishore Yadav. Other prominent leaders who joined the BJP were deputy mayor of Patna Meera Devi, former LJP MLA from Bathnaha (Sitamarhi) Nagina Devi, former NCP MLA Subodh Kumar Paswan, Congress’ former state spokesperson Anita Yadav, PMC ward councillor Sunita Devi, RLSP’s state general secretary Prabhu Kushwaha and Muzaffarpur district board member Mamta Devi. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal handed over the party’s membership slip to all of them. Addressing the function, Bhupender welcomed them in the BJP and said it showed that people were getting disenchanted from parties like RJD, Congress and RLSP. BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi also addressed the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-senior-rjd-rlsp-and-congress-netas-join-bjp/articleshow/80486068.cms||Madan Kumar
January 28, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Super 30 founder to get Mahaveer Award||PATNA: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will give away the Mahaveer Award to Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar at a function in Chennai on Friday. A cash prize of Rs 10 lakh, a citation and a memento will also be given to him for his contributions in the field of education. Presented annually, the Mahaveer Award was instituted by the Bhagwan Mahaveer Foundation that identifies, encourages and honours individuals and institutions who work selflessly for the welfare of the underprivileged and weaker sections of the society. The mathematician mentors 30 poor students free of cost and ensures their entry into IITs every year. Besides, he gives them free food and lodging facilities. An overwhelmed Kumar told this newspaper on Wednesday, “Such awards motivate me to do better. They also prove that the society is sensitive to the needs of the poor and encourages anybody who makes even a small effort for uplifting them. I will continue doing my work with great passion.” Earlier, Kumar received the Rashtriya Bal Kalyan Award from President Ram Nath Kovind in 2017 and the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Shiksha Puraskar in 2010. He was also honoured in Canada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/super-30-founder-to-get-mahaveer-award/articleshow/80486122.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Two panels formed for compulsory retirement of inefficient cops, staff||PATNA: The home department (police) has issued an office order forming two committees to identify for compulsory retirement those department employees and police personnel who are above the age of 50 years and not working efficiently or their conduct is not up to the mark for keeping them in service in public interest. The committees will periodically review the performance and take decision on the compulsory retirement of such employees. As per the order dated January 25, the first committee formed for the purpose would be headed by home department’s additional chief secretary and comprises secretary, special secretary and chief vigilance officer as its members. This committee would review the work efficiency of group-A public servants. Another committee to be headed by secretary (home) would have joint secretary and under-secretary as its members. This committee would review the work efficiency of group-B and group-D employees and other police personnel. The committees would hold meetings in every June and December to decide on the received proposals. The committees would then send recommendations to the appointing authority of the police personnel concerned for taking necessary action. As per the letter, home department’s all attached offices and directorates would also form committees on its own. On January 21, the home (prisons) department had also issued a similar order forming a committee headed by additional chief secretary (home) with three members, including IG (prisons and correctional services), for periodic review of its group-A personnel. Both orders have been issued in the backdrop of the general administration department (GAD) resolution issued on July 23 last year meant for strengthening the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-panels-formed-for-compulsory-retirement-of-inefficient-cops-staff/articleshow/80487447.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Man with pistol, bullets booked in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A man was booked under the Arms Act after he was caught with a pistol and seven rounds during heightened checks by police patrolling Malad (E) on the eve of Republic Day. Rajibur Rehman Baig (33), who was found roaming around suspiciously, was detained by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-with-pistol-bullets-booked/articleshow/80489560.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Vadodara||Transgenders from Vadodara join BJP in large numbers||VADODARA: Transgenders and transwomen from the city formally joined the BJP in large numbers for the first time. The groups are looking for support from the party for their inclusion into the mainstream society. The BJP has been inducting many in the party ahead of the civic polls to increase its support base and gain representation in various sections of the society. While the party has taken a series of steps for the welfare of the LGBT community including transgenders, it was for the first time that members of the community remained present at the party office in a large number and gave speeches too. Gay prince Manvendrasinh Gohil of the erstwhile Rajpipla state had also remained present on the occasion. Gohil said that he saw the gesture from the BJP as a good occasion to discuss issues of transgenders. “The BJP is also looking to include such persons in the party. The idea was to voice our issues and look into ways in which the party can help them. I was present at the event as a facilitator,” he said. BJP city unit president Dr Vijay Shah has been in touch with members of the community in connection with medicolegal aspects of sex change procedures. He said that he had reached out to the community as the party believes in taking along even the smallest section of the society. “We have made them members of our ‘page samiti’ and will work with them,” he said. Shah pointed out that those who had come at the party office on Tuesday to join it raised several issues that could be addressed. “These include things from housing, Maa cards for treatment, skill development, higher education and others,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-a-first-transgenders-join-bjp-in-large-number/articleshow/80485148.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Governor lauds govt’s efforts to contain Covid in Bihar||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan on Tuesday lauded the state government’s “tireless efforts” to contain the spread of Covid-19 and claimed that a sum of more than Rs 1,000 crore had been spent so far in providing relief to the people affected by the pandemic and the lockdown. Addressing the Republic Day function at the Gandhi Maidan where he inspected the parade in presence of dignitaries like chief minister Nitish Kumar and members of the cabinet, the governor also said, “The state received necessary assistance from the Centre for providing relief to the people.” Chauhan pointed out that it was because of the government’s efforts that Covid-19 was under control up to a certain level in the state. “Now, the number of active cases has dipped to 2,900. The Covid mortality rate in Bihar is also lower than the national average and its recovery rate much higher,” he added and appreciated the government’s resolve to get the entire population vaccinated free of cost. The governor also urged people not to let their guard down and “remain alert till the pandemic is fully under control”. Laying stress on ‘development with justice’, he said, “Maintaining rule of law across the state is the top priority of the state government that has effectively controlled organized crime with its zero tolerance policy on corruption and communalism.” The governor also lauded the government’s move to impose a ban on sale and consumption of alcohol as it “laid the foundation for social reforms” in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/governor-lauds-govts-efforts-to-contain-covid-in-bihar/articleshow/80486149.cms||Madan Kumar
January 28, 2021||Patna||Virtual celebrations in schools & colleges||PATNA: Adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocols, schools and colleges in the city switched to virtual Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. They organized an array of pre-recorded cultural events on the occasion. While International School felicitated 80 meritorious students for their academic performance during the 2019-2020 academic session, Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School students and teachers performed dance and recited self-composed poems. Students of St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology, on the other hand, celebrated R-Day with underprivileged children. They visited the slums in Digha, Rajiv Nagar, Ashiana Nagar, Nehru Nagar and Shastri Nagar, sang the national anthem and distributed snacks among the locals. After a flag hoisting ceremony on the college campus, members of the institute’s music, dance and theatre clubs organized a cultural event. At Shoshit Samadhan Kendra, an English medium residential school, principal J K Sinha addressed the students of classes X and XII and said, “I hope the government will allow reopening of schools for all students soon.” Several school principals and directors and a few students also attended the flag hoisting ceremony at the office of Private Schools and Children Welfare Association. Meanwhile, Bihar State Pollution Control Board chairman Ashok Ghosh hoisted the tricolour and transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal felicitated the officers, drivers, conductors, security guards and sweepers of the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation Limited on R-Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/virtual-celebrations-in-schools-colleges/articleshow/80486168.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 28, 2021||Patna||Agriculture department grabs ‘best tableau’ tag||PATNA: The state agriculture department won the first prize for the ‘best tableau’ during the Republic Day parade at Gandhi Maidan on Tuesday. While the health department stood second, the tableaux of the Women Development Corporation, Jeevika and water resources department won the third prize. Besides, SWAT commandos of the anti-terrorism squad and the NCC’s Army wing (girls) won the ‘best turnout’ prizes in the professional and non-professional categories respectively. The Bihar Regimental Centre grabbed the ‘best parade’ prize in professional category and the NCC’s air wing in the non-professional category. The CRPF and the NCC’s Army wing (boys) won the ‘best platoon commander’ tags in the professional and non-professional categories respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/agriculture-department-grabs-best-tableau-tag/articleshow/80486098.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Saran folk dancer Manjhi felicitated||CHHAPRA: Popular cultural activist Ramchandra Manjhi (94), who has been named for Padma Shri Award, was felicitated by Saran DM Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore at his village Tujarpur under Nagra block of the district on Republic Day on Tuesday. The DM felicitated him with a shawl and a bouquet, reportedly sent by CM Nitish Kumar. Manjhi expressed his pleasure over this gesture. “Manjhi, a close associate of renowned folk singer late Bhikhari Thakur, who is also called ‘the Shakespeare of Bhojpuri’, is to be conferred Padma Shri award by the President of India in March” his granddaughter Rinki told this newspaper on Wednesday. Rinki said during his meeting with the DM, her ‘Baba’ (grandfather) talked about the present status of art and artists. Even at this age, Manjhi prefers acting in the play organized by Jainendra Dost, the convener of ‘Bhikhari Thakur Rangmandal’. Manjhi has been a disciple and the senior-most member of Bhikhari Thakur’s Theatre artists. The ‘Kendriya Sangeet Natak Akadami’ had recommended his name for the ‘Lok Rangmanch Puraskar’. Famous for his ‘dance as a girl’, Manjhi had joined the Bhikhari Thakur group at the age of 10 and worked with him till 1971.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saran-folk-dancer-manjhi-felicitated/articleshow/80486198.cms||H K Verma
January 28, 2021||Business||HUL’s Q3 profit up 19%, sales 20%||MUMBAI: In a set of financials that reveal that the worst might be over, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) reported 19% growth in net profit to Rs 1,921 crore in the quarter ended December 2020, while turnover rose 20% to Rs 11,969 crore. Domestic consumer growth (excluding the GSK Consumer merger) of 7% was driven by increased mobility since lifting of the lockdown and better economic activity. The same was at -7% in the June quarter. Discretionary categories, which suffered a setback due to the lockdown, have shown significant improvement in growth in the December quarter. However, the volume growth of 4% is lower as compared to 5% in the year-ago period. HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta said the rapid rollout of vaccines will give further impetus to economic growth. “As mobility improves, demand would come back. The near-term demand outlook is improving, and we expect to see revival in urban, while rural markets should continue to do well,” said Mehta. In many ways, FMCG reflects the sentiment of the country. Mehta said any stimulus on demand in the Budget is bound to give dividends. “We look forward to this in the coming Budget,” said Mehta. HUL CFO Srinivas Phatak, who is slated to take over as executive VP — financial controller and risk management at parent Unilever, said HUL’s fundamentals remain strong with 86% of the business gaining penetration. “Health, hygiene and nutrition, which contribute almost 80% of the portfolio, continue to grow in double digits and we have seen significant improvement in discretionary categories.” Home care, which contributes 29% of turnover, continues to be in the negative territory (-2%), while beauty & personal care and food & refreshments grew at 9% and 19%, respectively. Given the rise in commodity inflation, price increases contributed 3% to domestic consumer growth. Although inflationary pressures are high, Srinivas said the company “will accelerate investments in innovation and advertising & promotion and maintain our competitiveness”. HUL, which had raised soap prices by 2.5% in the December quarter, is taking yet another round of 2.5% hikes. At the same time, HUL’s expenditure on advertising & promotion rose 19% to Rs 1,392 crore during the quarter. “If one has to take the cost impact, one will need a total price increase of 7-9%. One needs to be judicious in price increases. If these levels of inflation sustain, we will have to look at price increases in select large categories,” said Srinivas, who will be succeeded by Ritesh Tiwari as the company’s executive director finance & CFO with effect from May 1. Overall, the FMCG industry growth has revived from -17% in June quarter of 2020 to 5% in the December quarter. “From an e-commerce perspective, we are happy with the kind of growth we are seeing. The business, which used to be 3% of our turnover, is now 5%,” said Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/huls-q3-profit-up-19-sales-20/articleshow/80488792.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Varanasi||Second luxurious cruise boat to reach Kashi on Jan 30||Varanasi: The second luxurious cruise boat will start running on the Ganga in Kashi from January 30. However, the locals as well as tourists will have to wait for a few weeks to avail rides on it. As a part of the tourism department’s Rs 10.71 crore project, a new cruise boat is reaching here. This two-tier cruise boat will have boarding a facility for 90 people, said divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal. After leaving the Goa shipyard in November to reach Varanasi via Kanyakumari, Kolkata and Haldia, Agrawal said the cruise boat had stayed too long in salted waters due to which many maintenance works like repainting and interior are required to be done. For these works, it will stay at Inland Waterway Authority of India (IWAI) port in Ramnagar, he added. Regional tourism officer Kirtiman Srivastava said that the tourism department had finalised a proposal of Rs 10.71 crore in which construction of two jetties, ticket booking office at Assi Ghat and some other civil works were proposed apart from purchase of a luxurious cruise boat. The works of jetty, ticket booking office and other construction works were assigned to Rajkiya Nirman Nigam. Srivastava said that the cruise boat, which will be owned and operated by the tourism department, had entered the UP border on Thursday after staying in Buxar (Bihar) on Wednesday. “It will reach here on January 30 and will start operating after undergoing necessary necessary maintenance works,” he added. “Unlike the high fares of luxury cruise Alaknand, which is being operated by a private company, the fare per seat of the new luxurious cruise boat will be kept low so that it is affordable for all,” said Srivastava, adding, “Prices for party bookings as well as individual tourists will be finalised before the launch of its services.” Regarding delay in operation of the Rs 11 crore RoPax (ferry designed to provide maximum efficiency and seamless transfer of vehicles, cargo and passengers) gifted by IWAI on Ganga waters, Srivastava said that some basic formalities to start its services are yet to be completed. Mainly, this 200-seater RoPax will ferry tourists, said the officials. The added that as this RoPax cannot be used for carrying vehicles on its lower deck, it has been planned to utilise as banquet for small parties, while religious rituals can be performed on its upper platform. The RoPax had already reached Varanasi in August. Before taking over the RoPax, the tourism department had started the process of finalising the draft to operate it on public private partnership (PPP) model in the Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/second-luxurious-cruise-boat-to-reach-kashi-on-jan-30/articleshow/80515953.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Staff of all private hospitals to be covered in third round||Lucknow: Health care workers of hospitals which have not been made vaccination centres so far will also get jabs in the third round. District immunisation officer Dr MK Singh said that in the immunisation round starting from Thursday, hospitals that have been made vaccination centres will first inoculate their employees and once their entire staff is covered, they will give shots to health workers of other private hospitals. About 51,000 health care workers are listed in the city for vaccination. The first two rounds witnessed 70% and 58% turnout respectively. So far, 6,275 workers have been vaccinated—832 on January 16 and 5,433 on January 22. The remaining four rounds to be held on Thursday and Friday and then Wednesday and Thursday next week will be bigger. These rounds will not only have more centres, but also more people will be vaccinated per booth. On Thursday, the target is to inoculate 14,250 intended beneficiaries. The drive will be carried out in 114 booths across 43 hospitals: government and private. Every booth will give shots to 125 persons in comparison to 100 earlier. Covaxin will be administered to 700 intended beneficiaries at three government hospitals: Rani Laxmibai Hospital, SPM Civil Hospital and Lokbandhu Hospital. Covishield will be given to selected beneficiaries in the remaining 40 centres. KGMU is the biggest centre with seven booths followed by six at SGPGIMS and five at RMLIMS. As many as 21 community health centres have been converted into cold chain points where vaccines were transferred on Wednesday night. These vaccines will be shifted on Thursday morning to vaccine centres. The drive will take place from 9am to 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/staff-of-all-private-hospitals-to-be-covered-in-third-round/articleshow/80489124.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Allahabad||SOPs for ‘kalpwasis’ after 48 Covid positive cases||Prayagraj: After a spate of Covid-19 cases on Magh Mela campus, prominent seers, saints and Dandi sanyasis have issued a set of special operating procedures (SOPs) for devotees staying in camps and ashrams to contain the spread of the infection. This comes after 48 pilgrims tested positive for Covid-19 in the past four days. As many as 32 devotees were found infected on Monday alone. On Paush Purnima, ‘kalpwasis’ were allowed to enter the camps of prominent seers and Dandi swamis only after they showed their Covid negative test reports. Swami Brahmashram Maharaj, national president of Akhil Bharatiya Dandi Sanyasi Parishad told TOI, “Apart from restricting the entry of ‘kalpwasis’ without Covid negative test reports on Charkhi Dadri Ashram campus, devotees and visitors have been asked to follow safety protocols.” He said, all Covid-19 protocols like social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitisers are being strictly followed. A sanitiser tunnel has also been installed at the main gate of major camps and staff are screening the temperature of visitors. Every devotee must have a negative test report to stay in ‘kalpwasi’ camps and they are not allowed to roam on mela campus. Head of the Om Namay Shivya, Swami Gurudeo said, “We have strictly implemented Covid-19 protocols at all the camps and are also coordinating with Magh Mela health authorities to check the spread of the infection.” Meanwhile, nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The health department has intensified Covid testing in all the five sectors, including the ‘kalpwasi’ sector, and deployed 23 teams for the collection of samples.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sops-for-kalpwasis-after-48-covid-positive-cases/articleshow/80515290.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Business||Sensex dives 938 pts over profit-booking, FPI selloff||Mumbai: Across-the-board profit-taking ahead of the Budget pulled the sensex down by 938 points, or 1.9%, to 47,410 on Wednesday. Strong selling by foreign funds also spooked investors on Dalal Street. Data at the end of Wednesday’s session data showed that foreign funds had net sold stocks worth nearly Rs 1,700 crore. On the NSE, the Nifty closed 271 points, or 1.9%, lower at 13,968. Wednesday’s losses left both the sensex and Nifty negative for 2021 — The BSE index had ended 2020 at 47,751 points, and Nifty at 13,982. The strong selling failed to enthuse investors even after the IMF projected a double-digit GDP growth for India for 2021. In the evening, the US markets opened deep in the red with all the three leading indices — Dow Jones, S&P500 and Nasdaq — down over 1% ahead of the US Federal Reserve’s policy announcement later in the night. If the US indices close with major losses, that could again weigh on investor sentiment on Dalal Street on Thursday, market players here said. According to Kotak Securities EVP (head of fundamental research) Rusmik Oza, the day’s strong slide was likely due to profit-booking by foreign funds and other participants in the F&O segment as Thursday is the monthly expiry. “Some unwinding of positions is visible before the Budget event. Volatility is normally higher on the last two days of monthly expiry. But this time, the fall with higher volatility shows cautiousness among market participants before the Budget.” Additionally, corporate earnings are coming out better than expected. But profit-booking is seen in most companies that have declared results so far, barring a few cases, Oza said. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 25 closed lower while five ended with gains. Data on the BSE showed that just three stocks — HDFC Bank, HDFC and Reliance Industries — accounted for half of the sensex’s slide. Among the gainers were ITC, Tech Mahindra and HCL Tech, which cushioned the fall to a minor extent.In the broader market, the advance-decline ratio was nearly 1:2 with 1,016 advances to 1,899 declines, BSE data showed. The day’s slide also left investors poorer by Rs 2.7 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 189.4 lakh crore. From its all-time high of about Rs 198 lakh crore, the market cap is down by about Rs 8.6 lakh crore now. In the near term, the trend for the Nifty continues to be negative and the recent all-time high of 14,753 could be considered as an important top reversal pattern, HDFC Securities technical research analyst Nagaraj Shetti said in a note. “The formation of reversal and the bearish candlestick pattern (three black crows) could signal more weakness down to 13,765 and lower in the next few sessions,” Shetti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dives-938-pts-over-profit-booking-fpi-selloff/articleshow/80488711.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||UP Board announces Covid-19 guidelines ahead of practicals||Prayagraj: As the practical exams of UP Board students is slated to begin on February 3, the board authorities have made it mandatory for every student and teacher to undergo thermal screening before stepping into their respective examination centres. Amid other precautions against Covid-19, the laboratories will be properly sanitised after both sessions of the practical exams everyday. The apparatuses to be used in the practical exams will also sanitised to ensure the safety of both students and teachers. As per the guidelines issued by UP Board secretary Divya Kant Shukla to all divisional joint directors (secondary education) and district inspectors of schools (DIOSs) on January 21, all labs and toilets would have hand sanitisers and handwash for students and teachers, and they will be granted access to the labs only after properly sanitizing their hands. “The officials have also been asked to keep a close watch on all students, teachers and staff. If anyone is found to have Covid-like symptoms, such as fever, cough and sneezing, they will be asked to get in touch with the chief medical officer whop will ensure their proper check-up, treatment and care,” said UP Board secretary Divya Kant Shukla. “Masks are a must for all, and every school conducting practical exams has been asked to keep spare masks at hand so that any student, teacher or staff entering the centre without a mask can be given one,” said Shukla. Other precautions recommended include getting students seated at a minimum distance of 6 feet from each other, and allowing them to leave the centre in batches. The officials have been asked to explore and encourage use of separate entry and exit points, if possible. The guidelines also include proper sanitisation of schools buses and other modes of shared transport used by students. As an added measure, the schools have been asked to ensure that the practical exams are conducted under close scrutiny of CCTV cameras. The principals have been asked to keep the CCTV recordings safe for future reference. They have also been told to provide the recordings of the practical exams to the UP Board when asked in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-announces-covid-19-guidelines-ahead-of-practicals/articleshow/80515333.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Decision on reopening of classes I to VIII on January 29||PATNA: The state government would take a decision on the reopening of classes I to VIII in schools at the crisis management committee meeting on January 29. Principal secretary of education department, Sanjay Kumar, told this newspaper that the committee will decide on reopening of classes I to V and IV to VIII in government and private schools across the state and in which manner. “The meeting was supposed to take place today. However, it got postponed to January 29. The schools will have to follow the same standard operating procedure (SOP) for junior classes which the department had issued for secondary and senior secondary classes,” Sanjay said. Earlier, the crisis management committee had to take a decision on reopening of classes I to VIII after January 18. However, it was postponed due to cold weather. The meeting is to be chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar and attended by principal secretaries of various departments. Educational institutes in Bihar have reopened from January 4 for classes IX upwards, with 50% of students and alternate day classes. Under the SOP, school kids are allowed to attend the physical classes only after the written consent of their parents/ guardians. The principal secretary said the average attendance in schools was around 20-25% of the 50% allowed to attend on alternate days. “The attendance was low because students of classes X and XII have their pre-board exams and also due to Covid-19 fear,” Sanjay said. The SOP also includes arrangement for hand sanitisers, liquid soaps and digital thermometer, sanitisation of school premises, vehicles, equipment, mandatory face masks, physical distancing of at least 6 feet etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decision-on-reopening-of-classes-i-to-viii-on-jan-29/articleshow/80486017.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 28, 2021||Business||Reckitt invests in Bombay Shaving Co||Digbijay Mishra & Namrata Singh | TNN Bengaluru/Mumbai: Global consumer goods company Reckitt Benckiser is leading a Rs 45-crore strategic investment in homegrown grooming products venture Bombay Shaving Company. British firm Reckitt’s American rival Colgate-Palmolive had invested in the four-year-old firm in 2018. This backing from two of the world’s largest consumer products firms shows their desire to grow the category and tap into the youth-oriented brand space in India. Bombay Shaving, which started as an online venture, plans to utilise Reckitt’s strategic expertise to expand in offline channels as well as for brand-building. Reckitt’s brands include Dettol, Harpic, Mortein and Strepsils. Its SVP (e-commerce, digital, and ventures), Arjun Purkayastha, will join the board of Visage Lines, which runs Bombay Shaving. Colgate-Palmolive already has a board seat in the firm. “Through Reckitt, we get an understanding of optics, cities and consumer profile. This is hugely valuable for us. We are now focusing significantly on offline distribution. We will work with their sales team and figure out off-take in different cities directly. Apart from that, we also get R&D insights,” said Visage Lines founder and CEO Shantanu Deshpande. Reckitt’s investment indicates the interest large global brands have in new brands that have built their presence through online platforms. French consumer major L’Oreal is an investor in venture capital firm Fireside’s new fund, which invests in such online brands. Previously, Marico acquired men’s grooming startup Beardo. Procter & Gamble (P&G) had also announced a Rs 400-crore ‘India Growth Fund’ to work with existing and new suppliers to boost local manufacturing of finished products. Increate Value Advisors founder & CEO Milind Sarwate said large companies operating in the consumer space would certainly be more and more open to such investments. Sarwate said it is not possible to nurture a nimble, Gen Z kind of business unit within a large organisation. Therefore, companies would look at achieving the same effect through a separate unit or an alliance. “Brands that FMCG companies are investing in today are those they would not find easy to develop at a fast pace organically. There is also some glitz associated with the involvement with a new-age brand or startup. For a global player, the monetary cost of such an investment in India is not very significant. The valuation is attractive in the context of the perceived potential. In the long run, such investments could yield handsome returns,” said Sarwate. Bombay Shaving currently has 75% of sales coming from the online channel, with equal contribution from its own platform and marketplaces like Amazon India and Flipkart. “We are in a category which needs to be where the consumer is (online or offline). We are at 12,000 stores and plan to get to 50,000 stores in 30 cities by the end of this year,” Deshpande added. A host of other brands that started as online ventures, like earphone maker boAt, are also expanding offline distribution. Deshpande said his startup plans to launch three new brands in the personal care space to broaden its positioning beyond a male-oriented brand. Women’s beauty and men’s make-up are some of these potential segments. “It will be a sharper brand positioning, rather than one-for-all,” he added. Bombay Shaving has clocked sales of just under Rs 100 crore till date and is aiming for Rs 150 crore by December 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reckitt-invests-in-bombay-shaving-co/articleshow/80488785.cms||Digbijay Mishra
January 28, 2021||Business||India Cements improves profits on cost optimisation measures||Chennai: Even as Covid-19 impacted its top-line, cement maker The India Cements Ltd, grew its net profits for the quarter ended December on the back of cost optimisation measures and increasing prices. Consolidated revenues for October-December stood at Rs 1,185 crore, marginally down from Rs 1,244 crore reported in the same quarter last fiscal. However, net profits for the quarter stood at Rs 69 crore, up from a loss of Rs 9 crore in the year-on-year period.“Among the various measures we took to combat Covid-19, we focused on a cash-and-carry model for our cement and also reduced fixed costs,” India Cements vice chairman and MD N Srinivasan told reporters. “Our capacity utilization continued to improve this quarter and we foresee a similar trend in the coming quarters,” he added. The overall volume of clinker and cement during the quarter dropped by 11% and stood at over 23 lakh tons when compared to around 26 lakh tons in the previous year. The net plant realisation was up by 11% when compared with the previous year, but was lower by 5% on a sequential basis.The company’s board also appointed Krishnan Skandan as a non-executive independent director for a period of three years in a board meeting held on Wednesday, as per an exchange filing.“Apart from a series of stimulus and monetary policy measures announced by the Centre aimed at reviving the Covid-19 pandemic hit economy, forthcoming Budget for 2021-22 is expected to retain the thrust on increased public spending and giving push to the implementation of big-ticket investments in the infrastructure projects,” the company said. The company’s shares closed the trading day at Rs 166.25 per share, marginally down on the BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-cements-improves-profits-on-cost-optimisation-measures/articleshow/80487536.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||2 in hosp after vaccination, 16 complain of minor pain||Kolkata: On the eighth day of the vaccination drive in Bengal, two healthcare professionals were hospitalized with adverse event following immunization (AEFI) complications. Sixteen others complained of minor pain at the injection site, dizziness, vertigo and nausea after getting Covishield, but did not require hospitalization. On Wednesday — a day of break in the vaccination programme in majority of government hospitals across the state — 35,366 people were vaccinated at 449 sites. “Out of 18 AEFI cases, only two needed hospitalization. One of them was admitted to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital and the other was admitted to Bagda Mohanpur Rural Hospital in West Mindapore. Both have been kept under observation,” said a senior state health department official. The vaccination drive continued at multiple private hospitals on Wednesday. While AMRI Hospitals vaccinated 435 healthcare professionals across three centres, Peerless Hospital vaccinated 166 of its employees and a few from the nearby hospitals. “We are gradually increasing our targets and 166 is the best we have achieved so far,” said Sudipta Mitra, Peerless Hospital CEO. An official said 1,58,217 people have been vaccinated so far, which is 75% of the 2,10,772 target set for the eight-day period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-in-hosp-after-vaccination-16-complain-of-minor-pain/articleshow/80487495.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||IPS surrenders after duping MP bizman with fake tenders||Lucknow: Suspended IPS officer Arvind Sen, who was declared an absconder, surrendered before a local Lucknow court on Wednesday in a criminal case of conning a Madhya Pradesh businessman Rs 9.72 crore. The court remanded him in judicial custody till February 9. A 2013 batch IPS officer, Sen, is scheduled to retire on January 31. Assistant commissioner of police, Gomtinagar, Shweta Srivastava, said, “He will be interrogated after we get his remand.” On January 6, police announced a Rs 50,000 reward for clues leading to arrest of Sen, who went underground after his name figured in a multi-crore tender scam in state animal husbandry department. Sen, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Lucknow court in December last year. Sen, resident of Faizabad, was suspended by the state government after his name cropped up during investigations into the duping of a Madhya Pradesh businessman, Manjeet Singh Bhatia. In June last year, an FIR was lodged at Hazratganj police station against 15 people, including Arvind Sen, for floating a fake tender in the name of UP animal husbandry department between March 2017 and 2018 and duping him of Rs 9.72crore. They were booked for dishonesty, fraud, abduction and under Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ips-surrenders-after-duping-mp-bizman-with-fake-tenders/articleshow/80489397.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Madurai||AIIMS project lags as TN govt not keen, says Su Venkatesan||Madurai:With two years having elapsed since foundation stone was laid for the AIIMS hospital in Madurai by the Prime Minister and there being no sign of construction at the site, it was time people demanded it through movements, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has said. In a statement, he said the Union health secretary had been unable to give him an answer on when the project work would commence when he met him. The hospital estimate has risen from Rs 1,200 crore to Rs 2,000 crore, but the central government has yet to give its approval for it. The Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will not sign the agreement sanctioning fund for the hospital in March without this nod for increased estimate. The state government does not seem to be committed to the project as it has taken two years to hand over land to the central government. Student enrollment has started in the AIIMS projects announced along with Madurai, including Jammu and Mangalagiri. It should have taken steps to establish a 300-bedded temporary hospital to enable student enrollment by now, but nothing was done in this regard. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who went to Delhi last week, did not raise the matter with the PM. The importance being given to ensure the eight-lane Salem-Chennai highway is missing in this project, or else it would have been half-complete by now, he said. The central government is shirking the work claiming that the state government’s co-ordination was lacking. Enrollment of students should begin at least in the coming academic year, Venkatesan has said. In this respect, movements and processions should be organized with the involvement of the public to emphasize the implementation of the project at the earliest, the MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiims-project-lags-as-tn-govt-not-keen-says-su-venkatesan/articleshow/80489491.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Railways installs new surveillance system at Bihar's Hajpur, 13 stations||PATNA: East Central Railway (ECR) GM L C Trivedi inaugurated an internet protocol (IP) based video surveillance security control centre at the headquarters in Hajipur on Monday. It has been made functional at 13 more stations under the ECR with an aim to further strengthen security system. Railways has already made this system functional at most of the major stations, including Patna Junction. Trivedi on Wednesday lauded the railways’ efforts to install such an advanced security surveillance system. “Railways centralized surveillance control centre will thus keep a watch on the security at foot overbridges, passenger reservation system (PRS) and ticket booking counters, waiting halls and circulating areas,” he said. According to ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar, railways has introduced it at Danapur, Barh, Biharsharif, Mokama, Jhajha and Rajgir stations under Danapur division while Begusarai and Mansi under Sonepur division and Chopan, Chandrapura, Parasnath, Renukut and Singhrauli of Dhanbad division in coordination with Railtel. The IP based security surveillance is functioning at 28 major stations across the country under the integrated security cover plan with sole objective to keep a close surveillance on the activities of antisocial people and miscreants involved in pilferage and luggage lifting on station premises, Kumar said. The system will function round the clock and CCTV cameras have been placed at each vantage point on the station premises so that RPF men on duty could alert security personnel deployed on the station premises to check any mischief, including touts, he said, adding railways has planned to provide such system not only at 6049 stations across the country, but also in 14,387 coaches being manufactured by railways to strengthen internal security system in the years to come. ECR AGM Ashok Kumar, principal chief engineer of signal and telecom Rajesh Kumar and other senior officials of the ECR were present at Hajipur on the occasion, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-installs-new-surveillance-system-at-hajpur-13-stations/articleshow/80487300.cms||Kumod Verma
January 28, 2021||Patna||Oppn parties flay Centre for R-Day Delhi violence||PATNA: Opposition parties in Bihar blamed the central government for the violence during the agitating farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said BJP agents were involved in the hooliganism and for leading the march towards Red Fort. “Everywhere on the Internet, it is clear that Deep Sidhu, who is a BJP agent, was among the main conspirators. Their video instigating others to march to the Red Fort has become viral,” Tiwari said. He added that those climbing the Red Fort were not farmers and whatever happened was because of intelligence failure. “What were the intelligence and police doing? They all are under home minister Amit Shah, who intentionally allowed it to happen," Tiwari said. RJD state president Jagdanand Singh echoed Tiwari’s views. Singh said farmers had been protesting for over two months and not a single violent incident happened. “Farmers were on the route given to them. Those creating nuisance in Delhi were the ones who sit with Narendra Modi,” Singh said. He further said that the farmers' fight for their right will continue and RJD along with other opposition parties will successfully form a human chain in their support on January 30. “Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday asked everyone to come forward to form a human chain in solidarity with the farmers on January 30,” Jagdanand said. State Congress leaders also rapped the Modi government for the violence on Tuesday. “Farmers are on the border and they are protesting for two months without any incident. Whatever happened yesterday, was planned to portray them in a wrong light," said Madan Mohan Jha. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said the unfurling a flag other than the national flag on Red Fort was wrong. “But those who did it were not farmers, but people like Deep Sidhu and RSS members. They are goons hired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi." CPI-ML state secretary Kunal said a majority of farmers were protesting peacefully and following the routes and instructions given to them. He said, “Whatever happened in Delhi, the government is responsible for that. Because of the government's failure, such a situation has been created. Also, no harm to the national flag was done and thing entire thing is being shifted to a new episode now." However, BJP state spokesperson Dr Sanjay Jaiswal criticised the opposition for the situation which occurred in Delhi. “Everyone knows who did this and how the opposition had supported some anti-national elements. They cannot differentiate between agitation and anti-national activities. Things would have become much uglier, had not Delhi Police acted calmly. I am thankful to the Delhi Police for handling the entire situation tactfully. Many cops had been badly injured. The opposition wanted something bigger than what occurred."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-parties-flay-centre-for-r-day-delhi-violence/articleshow/80486156.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 28, 2021||Patna||Cong, CPI(ML) hold rallies ‘for farmers’||PATNA: The opposition Congress and CPI-ML took out rallies in solidarity with the farmers on Republic Day on Tuesday. While the tractor rally was taken out by CPI-ML members in various parts of Bihar, the state Congress took out a Kisan Tiranga Yatra at Bikram. Opposition Mahagatbandhan, including the three Left parties, RJD and Congress are also gearing up for the formation of a human chain on January 30 in support of farmers and against the new farm laws. Both CPI-ML and RJD requested others to come forward and participate in the human chain. CPI-ML has also formed a three-member team to connect with the people. Talking about the march taken out on Tuesday, CPI-ML state spokesperson Kumar Parvez said in Patna, “A tractor rally was taken out from AIIMS till Chitkohra roundabout which was led by Phulwarisharif MLA Gopal Ravidas and attended by party members along with the RJD members. Apart from nearly 50 tractors, people also marched on foot and bike. Similar tractor rallies were taken out across Bihar and several pockets of Patna district.” The tractor rally in Patna was addressed by Akhil Bhartiya Khet va Gramin Mazdoor Sabha national general secretary Dhirendra Jha, who said the ongoing farmers protest was reminiscent of the protest during the Independence movement. “Now, the entire country is coming together against the divisive policy of the Modi government and standing in support of farmers. People have made it clear that they will no longer tolerate another Company Raj in the country,” said Jha while addressing the rally. Talking about the Kisan Tiranga Yatra, which was flagged off by state Congress incharge Bhakta Charan Das on Tuesday, Mishra said, “A large number of people, including farmers, participated in this yatra which was taken out from Aspura village till Gandhi Maidan in Bikram. It was a symbolic yatra in which several people were on tractors,” said Mishra, criticising the NDA government at the Centre for the incident which occurred in Delhi on Tuesday, which he said was Centre’s tactics to divert the issue of framer’s plight. He further said apart from the human chain formation on January 30, Congress has also planned for a ‘pad yatra’ on the same day in Champaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-cpiml-hold-rallies-for-farmers/articleshow/80486182.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 28, 2021||Business||Contactless cards: 10L shops to get Pine Labs app||Mumbai: Pine Labs, a payments solution company, has said that it will onboard 10 lakh shops and entrepreneurs — including taxi drivers and street vendors — in the next one year. This would be for contactless card payment acceptance. The move follows the firm developing an AllTap app that converts any mobile phone with near field communication (NFC) technology into a card-acceptance terminal. Announcing the launch of the app, Pine Labs MD & CEO Amrish Rau said that the payments card industry security standard council has come out with norms for commercial off-the-shelf devices (mobile phones). This has made it possible for Pine Labs to onboard merchants without having to meet them physically. The hitch is that the phone can accept only contactless payments in addition to the QR option. Most banks have started issuing contactless cards, while other solution providers like Samsung Pay and Google Pay allow cardholders to store their credentials in a secure app and convert the phone into a ‘tap-to-pay’ device. Rau said the pandemic has increased the shift to digital. “The small merchants sitting on the fence had clearly decided that if they do not go digital, it would be difficult. We have been deploying 25,000 terminals a month after Diwali,” said Rau Besides changing the workflow to onboard a merchant by making it fully digital, Pine Labs has also simplified the KYC process. “Within a month, it should be possible to onboard a ‘kali-peeli’ taxi driver for card acceptance with only a PAN (permanent account number),” he said. Pointing out that the app had the potential to bridge the digital divide not just in India but in markets abroad too, Rau said that Pine Labs would look at bringing this service to other countries in Asia and in the Middle East as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/contactless-cards-10l-shops-to-get-pine-labs-app/articleshow/80488775.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Business||Canada gets Times Network’s ET NOW on Bell Fibe TV||New Delhi: Expanding its footprint in international markets, Times Network, India’s premium broadcast network, on Wednesday announced the launch of ET NOW on Bell Fibe TV in Ontario and Quebec through a distribution partnership with Ethnic Channels Group (ECG), the world’s largest multicultural broadcaster. With the brand ethos, Rise with India, ET NOW focuses on matters that affect India’s inclusive development and empowers Indian viewers to take part in India’s growth story. Offering South Asian viewers a wide spectrum of business news, ET NOW brings curated content such as India Development Debate, Start Up Central, The Money Show and India Tonight and more with a holistic deliberation on the Indian financial markets, global and local trends impacting the economy. “Enhancing our offerings for South Asian Canadian viewers in alliance with Ethnic Channels Group, we are excited to bring ET NOW to Canada on Fibe TV with Bell, the country’s largest television provider,” said Jagdish Mulchandani, COO and executive president, Times Network. “ET NOW has been a market leader in the business news category for over a decade and I am confident this launch will be an enriching addition to the discerning taste of the Indian diaspora seeking superior coverage on business and financial news.” “The stock market today is seeing a surge in retail investors in addition to the institutions, and India is a top investment destination for many money managers,” said Slava Levin, co-founder and CEO of ECG. “ET NOW delivers to Canadian viewers a wealth of domestic and international financial news and provides a business point of view that is not seen on other networks.ET NOW’s content is tailored to viewers seeking English-language business and financial breaking news from India and international markets.” Nextologies, a global leader in providing broadcast technology solutions, will transport the ET NOW signal within Canada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/canada-gets-times-networks-et-now-on-bell-fibe-tv/articleshow/80488907.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Symphony on water: Musical fountain in heritage zone soon||Lucknow: Visitors to the Hussainabad Heritage Zone will soon be greeted with a new musical fountain in the midst of the 180-year-old Picture Gallery pond (Shahi Talab). A light and sound show on the history of Awadh will be another highlight. The musical fountain had been pending for the past four years. Lucknow Development Authority has now completed it and opened it for the final trials. The project is likely to be inaugurated by CM Yogi Adityanath soon. LDA has sent an invite to the CM office. Constructed at the cost of Rs 5 crore, the series of colourful fountains have songs playing in the background with the support of programmed cassettes and auto sensing. The fountain will be 20-feet high. The water show will be accompanied by a laser show on the history of Lucknow, its pristine monuments, cultures, festivals, and food. An audio-video show against the backdrop of the iconic 181-year-old Satkhanda building will be another attraction for the public. “Once the CM inaugurates the project, the public will be able to watch the show daily. Footfall of visitors will be restricted keeping in view Covid-19 protocols,” said , LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh. The fountains will be functional from 6.30pm onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/symphony-on-water-musical-fountain-in-heritage-zone-soon/articleshow/80489106.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||RRTS to be integrated with Meerut metro||Lucknow: With the proposed regional rapid transit system (RRTS) set to shorten the Delhi-Meerut transit time to less than 60 minutes, getting around Meerut will also be easier as the proposed Meerut Metro service will be integrated with RRTS. According to UPMRC sources, at least six additional stations will be included along the RRTS proposed corridor between Modipuram to Partapur. “The RRTS will integrate these stations for UPMRC and Metro train will operate along with semi-high speed aerodynamic trains of RRTS. While Metro trains will have nearly 18 stoppages on the corridor, RRTS will have six stoppages,” said a source. Meerut Metro will operate on two corridors. The second corridor will be 14.15-km-long between Shardhapuri Phase 2 and Jagriti Vihar extension with 13 stations. Simultaneously, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) will work on Gorakhpur lite Metro system, which will also have two corridors: the 16.95km Shyamnagar-Sooba Bazar stretch and the 14.3km Gulariha-Nausad crossing stretch. For Gorakhpur Metro, the corporation is expected to operate three-coach trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rrts-to-be-integrated-with-meerut-metro/articleshow/80489138.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 28, 2021||Surat||Fire breaks out at Garden Vareli’s Jolva unit, no casualties||SURAT: A major fire broke out in the polyester yarn unit of the Garden Vareli Silk Mills at Jolva in Palsana taluka on Wednesday. However, no casualty was reported. Sources said that the fire broke out in the polyester yarn manufacturing unit located on the second floor of the company. The yarn material kept in the manufacturing unit caught fire. However, the company’s hydrant system was activated and that its fire fighting teams took control over the fire. Two fire tenders from Kamrej and one from Bardoli were rushed to the spot.  Sub-officer of the Kamrej fire station, JA Vala, told TOI: “The fire occurred in the POY section of the Garden Vareli Silk Mills at Jolva, located on the second floor. When we reached the spot, the fire was brought under control, but the smoke was still coming out from the windowpanes. However, we immediately started cooling exercise by spraying coolant.” “Nobody was injured in the incident. The fire could have occurred due to short circuit. We saw many electricity cables dangling in the unit, which may have caused the fire,” added Vala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-breaks-out-at-garden-varelis-jolva-unit-no-casualty/articleshow/80485559.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Enter Hazratganj parking at your own risk||LUCKNOW: Be ready for a harrowing experience if you plan to park your vehicle in the multilevel parking lot at Hazratganj. The space remains pitch dark even during the daytime as its electricity supply was snapped two weeks ago on account of non-payment of the bill. TOI had reported this matter on January 21 and the Lucknow Development Authority, which runs the parking lot, had assured to resolve it in two days. But nothing has been done so far, leaving the vehicle owners to manoeuvre their way through the dark passages of the grand parking space. No alternative arrangement has been made to ensure that people can at least safely navigate the entry and exit points. TimesViewRather than waiting for any untoward incident to happen, senior officers should intervene not only to get the power connection restored at the earliest, but also to fix responsibilities. They should also make arrangements for alternate sources of energy like solar powered lights or generators to ensure round the clock illumination in case of power cuts or failures for one reason or another. LDA charges hefty parking fees from people and in duty bound to provide basic facilities in return.Despite the blackout, commuters visiting Hazratganj have no option but to use it since parking vehicles on the roadside invites fine. Most of them use the mobile phone torch while the parking staff relies on candle light. On Wednesday, TOI again found that the CCTV cameras and elevators were still operating in the absence of power supply. “After much struggle I found space for my vehicle on the first floor. Then I had to search for the stairs using my phone’s torch. Safety was another concern since it was all dark and I was along with my wife and child,” said Amit Khare, who visited the parking lot on Wednesday evening. “We are paying the parking fee so that our vehicle remains safe. With no electricity in the parking, I was constantly worried about my car since anyone can play mischief taking advantage of the darkness. If we are being charged fee then authorities must ensure providing a safe space for our vehicles,” said Annu Thapa, owner of an electronic shops in Hazratganj. Alka Lamba, a salesperson in a Hazratganj showroom, said, “I park my two-wheeler there daily. But I fear for my safety when I return there from work in the evening as the parking lot remains pitch dark.” When contacted, LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh reiterated that power bill will be cleared soon. He added that a team of officials will also be sent to the parking facility to inspect the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/enter-ganj-parking-at-your-own-risk/articleshow/80489084.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police: FIR details Republic Day siege at Red Fort||NEW DELHI: An FIR filed by Delhi Police said thousands arrived at Red Fort on January 26 and took control of the World Heritage Site within an hour. The FIR, registered at Kotwali police station, lists 141 security personnel as those injured during the violence. The FIR says that around 12.15pm, 30-40 tractors and 100-120 bikes rushed forward when the Republic Day tableaux were arriving from Rajpath. The mob first crashed into ambulances and then forced its way past the barricades, damaging some tableaux in the process. The rioters then caught the cops and removed the magazines from their MP-5 sub-machine guns and SLRs before handing them back. The mob also looted pistols and anti-riot gears from the cops. “The mob tried to snatch the MP-5 gun of constable Bhawani Singh. However, he managed to save the gun, but could not save the magazine which had 20 live rounds. Similarly, the mob also snatched the magazine with 20 live rounds of constable Naresh’s SLR gun,” the FIR states. It adds that the farmers were asked to return to their pre-decided routes for the tractor rally, but they “did not pay heed to police warnings and broke the barricades with their tractors. They also tried to run their tractors over police personnel”. Describing the scene at Red Fort, the FIR states that the crowd hoisted different flags on the ramparts. “The unruly mob was asked to come down from the ramparts. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked the personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells,” the FIR says. “They damaged a bus, a government Gypsy and other vehicles. The mob stole anti-riots gears: cane sticks, shields, body protectors, helmets, etc from the police personnel.” The FIR also details how the mob took some policemen hostage near the Lahore Gate and damaged the ticket counter there. Police invoked sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 152 (assaulting or obstructing public servant when suppressing riot, etc), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 307 (attempt to murder). Also invoked were Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Provisions of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and the Arms Act. Actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana have been named as accused in this FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-details-r-day-siege-at-red-fort/articleshow/80526200.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||2 West Bengal men held in Mumbai for kidnap of minor||MUMBAI: The crime branch on Tuesday arrested two men wanted by the West Bengal police in a human trafficking and kidnap of a minor girl. They were handed over to the West Bengal police team, which had been camping in the city since a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-wb-men-held-for-kidnap-of-minor/articleshow/80488188.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Business||Axis Bank to treat home loans of credit card defaulters as NPAs||MUMBAI: Axis Bank has said that those who get classified as defaulters on credit cards will see their home loans tagged as a non-performing loan as well. The bank has said that this is a part of its prudent provisioning practice in tackling troubled loans. From the lender’s perspective, a loan that is classified as a non-performing asset (NPA) would mean that the bank would have to take a hit on its earnings. This is because it has to provide for such a loan and, at the same time, any interest payments that it has already received will cease to be regarded as income. For the borrower, what this means is that the bank will at some point initiate recovery proceedings and may recall the entire loan. A loan is classified as an NPA when it is overdue for 90 days. Currently, there is a standstill on classifying defaults during the pandemic as NPAs because of a Supreme Court stay order. However, Axis Bank is already making provisions from its earnings, although the order would mean that recovery proceedings cannot be initiated. The RBI did allow banks to go in for one-time restructuring, but the last date for the applications ended on December 31. The bank’s conservative approach to loan classification was disclosed by the bank’s MD & CEO Amitabh Chaudhry while announcing the bank’s results for the quarter ended December 2020. The bank reported a net profit Rs 1,116 crore, which is a 36% drop from the net profit of Rs 1,757 crore in the quarter ended December 2019. The bank said that the profits were adversely impacted due to the prudent expense and provisioning charge of Rs 1,050 crore. For the third quarter, the bank said that Rs 6,736 crore of additional loans slipped into default. The bank’s CFO Puneet Sharma said the retail slippages came from unsecured loans, self-employed segment and mortgages as well. Chaudhry said, “We are in the risk-taking business. When we see risk in front of us, we have to make prudent provisions. We have provided as though the Supreme Court dispensation (barring lenders from classifying loans as NPA) is not there. We have reversed interest earnings and fees from our income on these loans.” According to Sharma, taking a borrower-led approach for recognising NPAs rather than a loan account-led approach was more prudent. He said that despite the high provisioning, there was record growth in retail disbursements in December 2020. Chaudhry added, “On one side, we have a stock of loans where, post-moratorium and Covid crisis, there is a problem which we have recognised. On the flip side, the third quarter was the best in terms of disbursement. Our focus is to look at more secured rather than unsecured business. The momentum of business is picking up day after day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-to-treat-home-loans-of-credit-card-defaulters-as-npas/articleshow/80488723.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Private hospital in Bihar's Katihar scores 66% vaccination||KATIHAR: With 400 out of the 600 registered beneficiaries at the centre having already received the Covid-19 vaccine shots, Katihar Medical College and Hospital has topped the chart among the government and private hospitals in the district in the first phase of the vaccination drive launched countrywide on January 16. This centre has achieved 66% of the target compared to 54.94% in the six government-run hospitals in the district till Tuesday. District immunization officer Dr DN Jha said Katihar Medical College and Hospital played a pro-active role in giving jabs to the beneficiaries. “At government-run vaccination sites at Katihar Sadar Hospital, Manihari, Barsoi, Falka, Kadwa, Dandkhaura, Korha and Kurshela, there were lots of ‘negativity’ about the side effects of the vaccines,” he said. Besides, 90% vaccination has been done at two government hospitals at Kurshela and Dandkhaura. The district has total nine sites, including Katihar Medical College and Hospital, which is in the private sector. Manish Kumar, district programme manager, said, “Till Tuesday, at least 2,510 out of the 4,569 health workers were administered Covishield. Whereas the total beneficiaries in the health sector in the district are approximately 18,000.” Kumar said among the 2,510 beneficiaries, 696 ICDS staff (anganwadi sevikas), 707 ASHAs, 351 ANMs, 170 doctors, 126 housekeeping staff and 460 other health workers have been vaccinated. “The sites at Kurshela and Dandkhaura have achieved maximum target (90%), while Barsoi and Kadwa have just 30% turnout till date. We usually avoid giving vaccines to diabetic, pregnant and lactating mothers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospital-in-katihar-scores-66-vaccination/articleshow/80485987.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Bihar registers 86 fresh Covid cases, four deaths||PATNA: Altogether 86 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday and 722 people recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s recovery rate has reached 98.8%. Besides, four deaths, including three from Patna and one from Bhagalpur, were reported on Wednesday after which the state’s toll reached 1,490. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), on the other hand, reported the death of a 30-year-old woman from Danapur. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that five patients were admitted to the hospital and two discharged. Only three Covid patients were admitted to the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. Meanwhile, out of the 86 new cases during the last 24 hours, 32 were from Patna. Although the district’s tally has reached 52,109, it has 832 active cases with 50,865 recoveries and 412 deaths so far. Covid cases were also reported from Saran (8), Kaimur (6), West Champaran (5) and Lakhisarai (5).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-registers-86-fresh-covid-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/80485925.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||On reopening day, 34k students of Std V-VIII attend school in rural areas||Nagpur: In a strong response to reopening of Std V-VIII on Wednesday, almost 34,000 students in Nagpur’s rural areas were back on campus. While schools within city limits will remain shut till February, in rural Nagpur almost 23% of the eligible students showed up on day one. In comparison only around 13% of eligible students of Std IX-XII had attended school on day one in December. TOI was the first one to report on January 16 about state government’s green signal for reopening of Std V-VIII. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad had told TOI that kids will be brought back with safety protocols in place. Contrary to rumours on social media, attendance in physical mode is not mandatory even for Std V-VIII students. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer said, “We had a terrific response to school reopening considering that today was the first day. Attendance figures for high school students has also risen sharply across the state.” Though consolidated attendance data for Wednesday was not available till the time of filing this report, sources in the education department say more 20 lakh students have been attending school daily in Maharashtra. This is a big jump from 2.9 lakh in November. Vanjari said, “We always knew this was going to happen because schools are taking all necessary precautions. Sanitization of premises, testing of teachers and maintaining physical distance has been the key.” Nidhi Yadav, principal of Delhi Public School (Mihan), said students were happy to be back on campus. “We had almost 25% from Std V-VIII attending classes today. Even Std V kids were extremely disciplined in ensuring that all safety guidelines were being followed. It was not all a challenge in handling everyone. We are also planning to restart our transportation service, which will enable more kids to rejoin school,” said Yadav. In Maharashtra, schools were reopened for Std IX-XII from November 23. It’s estimated that over 20 lakh students from this section are attending schools daily in state. With ‘middle school’ students now joining in, the attendance figures are sure to shoot up in the coming days. STATISTICS: (*Nagpur rural / Std V-VIII) Total schools: 1,788 Total Students: 1,50,717 Students Present: 33,916 Total teachers: 10,627 Teachers present: 5,854||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-reopening-day-34k-students-of-std-v-viii-attend-school-in-rural-areas/articleshow/80488219.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 28, 2021||Madurai||New Covid-19 cases fall to 57 in south TN||Madurai/Trichy:The southern districts reported 57 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,35,832, which include 548 active cases. Meanwhile the central region saw a drop in the number of fresh cases as the eight districts registered 43 cases taking the tally to 75,717, which include 390 fresh cases. Both the regions recorded no deaths on Wednesday. Madurai reported 14 fresh cases, the highest in the region, followed by Dindigul (10), Tirunelveli (8), Kanyakumari and Tenkasi (7 each), Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga (2 each), Theni and Tuticorin (3 each) and Virudhunagar (1). Madurai has the highest number of active cases (110) followed by Kanyakumari (103). With no deaths on Wednesday, the region maintained the toll at 2,123. Trichy is the only district in the central region to have fresh cases in double digits as it registered 16 fresh cases pushing the tally to 14,628, which include 107 active cases. Thanjavur restricted its fresh cases to only three on Wednesday, taking its tally to 17,636, the highest in the central region. Nagappattinam recorded seven and Tiruvarur six fresh cases. Pudukottai, Ariyalur reported four and Karur districts three fresh cases. Perambalur continued to maintain zero fresh cases. Tiruvarur and Nagappatinam have 79 and 69 active cases, while in Thanjavur the number is 65. Perambalur has one active case, while Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Karur have 14, 22 and 33 active cases on Wednesday. The death toll of the region stood at 941.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-covid-19-cases-fall-to-57-in-south-tn/articleshow/80489492.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Meerut||Stir has been hijacked, farmers should return home now, says Union min Sanjeev Balyan||Muzaffarnagar: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan on Wednesday slammed the violence which erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi and asked the protesters to return home, alleging that the stir has now been “hijacked by anti-social elements”. “I am a farmer too. And I am shocked, and feel insulted with what happened. The government had agreed to farmers’ demand. But we all saw what happened in Delhi. It is no longer a farmer agitation. On the contrary, anti-social elements have entered the scene, they have taken over. Strict action will be taken against perpetrators of violence,” the Muzaffarnagar MP said here.Remembering farmer leaders like Chaudhary Charan Singh and Mahendra Singh Tikait, the Union minister said that during their time the farmers never took recourse to violence.Balyan further said, “I urge farmers to come back home. It is not farmers’ agitation anymore. The government has already said that the three farming laws can be held for 18 months. We are ready to consider other demands too.”BJP’s UP chief Swatantra Dev Singh also condemned the violence. “Political parties and communists are behind this agitation,” Singh claimed at the same event. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/stir-has-been-hijacked-farmers-should-return-home-now-says-union-min-sanjeev-balyan/articleshow/80485824.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 28, 2021||Kolhapur||Schools across Maharashtra lively as younger students return||PUNE: The usual chatter and energy filled schools across the state which reopened for students from standards V to VIII on Wednesday after eight months except for some municipal corporation areas such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and Nagpur.  The situation was in sharp contrast to the November 23 reopening of classes for standards IX to XII. Just 5% attendance was registered on the first day which continued for several weeks. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad visited some schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits as well as in Pune rural area to monitor the preparation. She also spoke to students. Primary education director Dattatray Jagtap said the exact attendance would be available by Thursday as they are still compiling the data collected from the length and breadth of the state. However, the response has been positive from information that has come in, he said. These classes have a total student strength of 78 lakh in the state with over 7 lakh in Pune district. While schools in the PMC limits reopened for standards IX to XII earlier this month, they will start for standards V to VIII on February 1. But schools under Pune ZP area have reopened for standards V to VIII and Gaikwad visited these schools on Monday afternoon. Dipali Sawant, a teacher at a ZP school in Wardha, said she recorded 60% attendance in standard V in her school which is expected to become 100% within this week. “We had kept masks ready in the school which we gave our students. They were extremely happy to be back in school after such a long time. As they are really young, we had to tell them multiple times to keep a safe distance and to keep their masks on. However, children adapt fast, and they will get used to wearing masks and sit on one bench per student, wash their hands frequently and keep a safe distance,” Sawant said. Rajashree Shinde, another ZP teacher from Rajgurunagar in Pune, said that they had been getting requests from parents to reopen the school and they were the happiest about this decision. “We checked the temperature and oxygen saturation levels of each child while coming to the school as well as when leaving the school. As many as 32 of the 75 students in standards V, VI and VII were present and I am sure the number will be 100% tomorrow. We are also taking online classes for students who did not turn up,” she added. Atharv Kharat, 10, a student of standard V from a ZP school in Sindhudurg, said he had been waiting desperately for school to reopen. “We had kept our masks on the whole time. It was really nice to be back in school. Some of my friends remained absent, but they will come in a few days. Our temperature was checked and we sat alone on the bench. We have school on alternate days now, but it would be nice to have school every day,” he said. 50% show up in Nashik Of the 2,479 schools across Nashik district, 1,084 resumed operations for the students of standards V to VIII. Reports from about 1,400 government-run and private schools were still awaited on Wednesday night. “Of the 1,025 government-run schools in the rural areas, we have received the reports from only 357 in the seven talukas that have started functioning on the first day of the schools’ reopening,” Rajeev Mhaskar, primary education officer of Nashik zilla parishad, said. In seven talukas, barring one school, all 357 started functioning. As many as 10,838 students attended the schools physically and 476 of the 501 private schools started on Wednesday. As per the reports available less than 50% of students attended school. Two sessions in Kolhapur Most schools in Kolhapur district, including those in the city limits, resumed classes for middle school students. To cope with the Covid-19 norms— those allowing one student per bench — schools scheduled classes in two three-hour sessions. These two sessions addressed the issue of availability of classrooms. Over 2.31 lakh students are in standards V to VIII in the district. 60% present in Aurangabad Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s education officer Ramnath Thore said some schools reported up to 60% attendance. “As per instructions from AMC administrator, we did not resume sessions for standard V as yet within the city’s limits,” he added. Consent letters from parents are a must, he said. The civic body has 72 schools, of which 48 offer education to middle school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/schools-lively-as-younger-students-return/articleshow/80491134.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 28, 2021||Pune||Schools across Maharashtra lively as younger students return||PUNE: The usual chatter and energy filled schools across the state which reopened for students from standards V to VIII on Wednesday after eight months except for some municipal corporation areas such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and Nagpur.  The situation was in sharp contrast to the November 23 reopening of classes for standards IX to XII. Just 5% attendance was registered on the first day which continued for several weeks. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad visited some schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits as well as in Pune rural area to monitor the preparation. She also spoke to students. Primary education director Dattatray Jagtap said the exact attendance would be available by Thursday as they are still compiling the data collected from the length and breadth of the state. However, the response has been positive from information that has come in, he said. These classes have a total student strength of 78 lakh in the state with over 7 lakh in Pune district. While schools in the PMC limits reopened for standards IX to XII earlier this month, they will start for standards V to VIII on February 1. But schools under Pune ZP area have reopened for standards V to VIII and Gaikwad visited these schools on Monday afternoon. Dipali Sawant, a teacher at a ZP school in Wardha, said she recorded 60% attendance in standard V in her school which is expected to become 100% within this week. “We had kept masks ready in the school which we gave our students. They were extremely happy to be back in school after such a long time. As they are really young, we had to tell them multiple times to keep a safe distance and to keep their masks on. However, children adapt fast, and they will get used to wearing masks and sit on one bench per student, wash their hands frequently and keep a safe distance,” Sawant said. Rajashree Shinde, another ZP teacher from Rajgurunagar in Pune, said that they had been getting requests from parents to reopen the school and they were the happiest about this decision. “We checked the temperature and oxygen saturation levels of each child while coming to the school as well as when leaving the school. As many as 32 of the 75 students in standards V, VI and VII were present and I am sure the number will be 100% tomorrow. We are also taking online classes for students who did not turn up,” she added. Atharv Kharat, 10, a student of standard V from a ZP school in Sindhudurg, said he had been waiting desperately for school to reopen. “We had kept our masks on the whole time. It was really nice to be back in school. Some of my friends remained absent, but they will come in a few days. Our temperature was checked and we sat alone on the bench. We have school on alternate days now, but it would be nice to have school every day,” he said. 50% show up in Nashik Of the 2,479 schools across Nashik district, 1,084 resumed operations for the students of standards V to VIII. Reports from about 1,400 government-run and private schools were still awaited on Wednesday night. “Of the 1,025 government-run schools in the rural areas, we have received the reports from only 357 in the seven talukas that have started functioning on the first day of the schools’ reopening,” Rajeev Mhaskar, primary education officer of Nashik zilla parishad, said. In seven talukas, barring one school, all 357 started functioning. As many as 10,838 students attended the schools physically and 476 of the 501 private schools started on Wednesday. As per the reports available less than 50% of students attended school. Two sessions in Kolhapur Most schools in Kolhapur district, including those in the city limits, resumed classes for middle school students. To cope with the Covid-19 norms— those allowing one student per bench — schools scheduled classes in two three-hour sessions. These two sessions addressed the issue of availability of classrooms. Over 2.31 lakh students are in standards V to VIII in the district. 60% present in Aurangabad Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s education officer Ramnath Thore said some schools reported up to 60% attendance. “As per instructions from AMC administrator, we did not resume sessions for standard V as yet within the city’s limits,” he added. Consent letters from parents are a must, he said. The civic body has 72 schools, of which 48 offer education to middle school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-lively-as-younger-students-return/articleshow/80488340.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 28, 2021||Nashik||Schools across Maharashtra lively as younger students return||PUNE: The usual chatter and energy filled schools across the state which reopened for students from standards V to VIII on Wednesday after eight months except for some municipal corporation areas such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and Nagpur.  The situation was in sharp contrast to the November 23 reopening of classes for standards IX to XII. Just 5% attendance was registered on the first day which continued for several weeks. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad visited some schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits as well as in Pune rural area to monitor the preparation. She also spoke to students. Primary education director Dattatray Jagtap said the exact attendance would be available by Thursday as they are still compiling the data collected from the length and breadth of the state. However, the response has been positive from information that has come in, he said. These classes have a total student strength of 78 lakh in the state with over 7 lakh in Pune district. While schools in the PMC limits reopened for standards IX to XII earlier this month, they will start for standards V to VIII on February 1. But schools under Pune ZP area have reopened for standards V to VIII and Gaikwad visited these schools on Monday afternoon. Dipali Sawant, a teacher at a ZP school in Wardha, said she recorded 60% attendance in standard V in her school which is expected to become 100% within this week. “We had kept masks ready in the school which we gave our students. They were extremely happy to be back in school after such a long time. As they are really young, we had to tell them multiple times to keep a safe distance and to keep their masks on. However, children adapt fast, and they will get used to wearing masks and sit on one bench per student, wash their hands frequently and keep a safe distance,” Sawant said. Rajashree Shinde, another ZP teacher from Rajgurunagar in Pune, said that they had been getting requests from parents to reopen the school and they were the happiest about this decision. “We checked the temperature and oxygen saturation levels of each child while coming to the school as well as when leaving the school. As many as 32 of the 75 students in standards V, VI and VII were present and I am sure the number will be 100% tomorrow. We are also taking online classes for students who did not turn up,” she added. Atharv Kharat, 10, a student of standard V from a ZP school in Sindhudurg, said he had been waiting desperately for school to reopen. “We had kept our masks on the whole time. It was really nice to be back in school. Some of my friends remained absent, but they will come in a few days. Our temperature was checked and we sat alone on the bench. We have school on alternate days now, but it would be nice to have school every day,” he said. 50% show up in Nashik Of the 2,479 schools across Nashik district, 1,084 resumed operations for the students of standards V to VIII. Reports from about 1,400 government-run and private schools were still awaited on Wednesday night. “Of the 1,025 government-run schools in the rural areas, we have received the reports from only 357 in the seven talukas that have started functioning on the first day of the schools’ reopening,” Rajeev Mhaskar, primary education officer of Nashik zilla parishad, said. In seven talukas, barring one school, all 357 started functioning. As many as 10,838 students attended the schools physically and 476 of the 501 private schools started on Wednesday. As per the reports available less than 50% of students attended school. Two sessions in Kolhapur Most schools in Kolhapur district, including those in the city limits, resumed classes for middle school students. To cope with the Covid-19 norms— those allowing one student per bench — schools scheduled classes in two three-hour sessions. These two sessions addressed the issue of availability of classrooms. Over 2.31 lakh students are in standards V to VIII in the district. 60% present in Aurangabad Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s education officer Ramnath Thore said some schools reported up to 60% attendance. “As per instructions from AMC administrator, we did not resume sessions for standard V as yet within the city’s limits,” he added. Consent letters from parents are a must, he said. The civic body has 72 schools, of which 48 offer education to middle school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-lively-as-younger-students-return/articleshow/80491133.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Schools across Maharashtra lively as younger students return||PUNE: The usual chatter and energy filled schools across the state which reopened for students from standards V to VIII on Wednesday after eight months except for some municipal corporation areas such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and Nagpur.  The situation was in sharp contrast to the November 23 reopening of classes for standards IX to XII. Just 5% attendance was registered on the first day which continued for several weeks. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad visited some schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits as well as in Pune rural area to monitor the preparation. She also spoke to students. Primary education director Dattatray Jagtap said the exact attendance would be available by Thursday as they are still compiling the data collected from the length and breadth of the state. However, the response has been positive from information that has come in, he said. These classes have a total student strength of 78 lakh in the state with over 7 lakh in Pune district. While schools in the PMC limits reopened for standards IX to XII earlier this month, they will start for standards V to VIII on February 1. But schools under Pune ZP area have reopened for standards V to VIII and Gaikwad visited these schools on Monday afternoon. Dipali Sawant, a teacher at a ZP school in Wardha, said she recorded 60% attendance in standard V in her school which is expected to become 100% within this week. “We had kept masks ready in the school which we gave our students. They were extremely happy to be back in school after such a long time. As they are really young, we had to tell them multiple times to keep a safe distance and to keep their masks on. However, children adapt fast, and they will get used to wearing masks and sit on one bench per student, wash their hands frequently and keep a safe distance,” Sawant said. Rajashree Shinde, another ZP teacher from Rajgurunagar in Pune, said that they had been getting requests from parents to reopen the school and they were the happiest about this decision. “We checked the temperature and oxygen saturation levels of each child while coming to the school as well as when leaving the school. As many as 32 of the 75 students in standards V, VI and VII were present and I am sure the number will be 100% tomorrow. We are also taking online classes for students who did not turn up,” she added. Atharv Kharat, 10, a student of standard V from a ZP school in Sindhudurg, said he had been waiting desperately for school to reopen. “We had kept our masks on the whole time. It was really nice to be back in school. Some of my friends remained absent, but they will come in a few days. Our temperature was checked and we sat alone on the bench. We have school on alternate days now, but it would be nice to have school every day,” he said. 50% show up in Nashik Of the 2,479 schools across Nashik district, 1,084 resumed operations for the students of standards V to VIII. Reports from about 1,400 government-run and private schools were still awaited on Wednesday night. “Of the 1,025 government-run schools in the rural areas, we have received the reports from only 357 in the seven talukas that have started functioning on the first day of the schools’ reopening,” Rajeev Mhaskar, primary education officer of Nashik zilla parishad, said. In seven talukas, barring one school, all 357 started functioning. As many as 10,838 students attended the schools physically and 476 of the 501 private schools started on Wednesday. As per the reports available less than 50% of students attended school. Two sessions in Kolhapur Most schools in Kolhapur district, including those in the city limits, resumed classes for middle school students. To cope with the Covid-19 norms— those allowing one student per bench — schools scheduled classes in two three-hour sessions. These two sessions addressed the issue of availability of classrooms. Over 2.31 lakh students are in standards V to VIII in the district. 60% present in Aurangabad Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s education officer Ramnath Thore said some schools reported up to 60% attendance. “As per instructions from AMC administrator, we did not resume sessions for standard V as yet within the city’s limits,” he added. Consent letters from parents are a must, he said. The civic body has 72 schools, of which 48 offer education to middle school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/schools-lively-as-younger-students-return/articleshow/80491135.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Farmers’ movement not over: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday demanded action against “individuals and the party” behind the Republic Day violence in Delhi during the agitating farmers’ tractor rally. But the “unfortunate” violence doesn’t mean that the movement that represents the farmers’ issues has ended, said Kejriwal, who spoke about the incident for the first time while addressing AAP’s ninth national council meeting. Addressing the 9th National Council meeting of Aam Aadmi Party | LIVE https://t.co/gqiEMbq2PE— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1611812482000Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia claimed that the violence was carried out under a design to defame the agitation and no action was being taken against actual culprits. He demanded repeal of the three central farm laws against which the farmers had been agitating. Addressing the 9th National Council meeting of Aam Aadmi Party | LIVE https://t.co/mWaNepX8Vu— Manish Sisodia (@msisodia) 1611829195000Kejriwal, AAP’s national convener, said, “The people and the parties who are the real culprits should be given the strictest punishment. But violence does not mean that farmers’ issues are over. The movement of the farmers, due to which they are sitting on the borders for the last 60 days, is not over.” Urging everyone, including party volunteers, to “support the farmers in our states”, he stressed, “Our support should be non-violent. Whenever you do that, leave your party caps and flags at home. The support should be non-political, and you should support them as a common man.” The national council, which met for the first time since AAP’s victory in the 2020 Delhi assembly elections, extensively discussed the three farm laws and decided to boycott the President’s address to Parliament on Friday before the Budget session as a mark of support to the protesting farmers. “All party MPs in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha will boycott” the President’s address, AAP later said in a statement. “The farmers of our country are in distress. They have only been deceived by all parties in the last 70 years. They were promised loan waiver that did not happen and jobs to their children that did not happen. Over 3.5 lakh farmers have committed suicide in the last 25 years,” Kejriwal said. “Now, these three farm laws will snatch their livelihood and give farming to the corporates. For the farmers, it is a question of existence... If they do not sit in the biting cold, they would not be able to retain their livelihood.” The AAP convener alleged that BJP and Congress had destroyed the nation in the past 70 years and that was the reason why people loved AAP. He claimed that what Congress and BJP could not do for so long, AAP had done in the past five years. By bringing an ordinance in a “surreptitious manner” during the Covid pandemic, BJP is trying to benefit a handful of industrialists, AAP alleged. Delhi government has provided various essential facilities to the protesting farmers at the borders, including free Wi-Fi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-movement-not-over-cm/articleshow/80526328.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Woman dies in road accident||Nagpur: A 43-year-old woman riding pillion died while her daughter and brother-in-law sustained serious injuries after a rashly driven two-wheeler hit their vehicle on Waddhamna-Wanadongri road on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Vanita Bawankar, 46, a resident of Butibori. The injured Sukhram Bawankar (41) and his niece Ankita have been admitted to a hospital for treatment. Police said on Tuesday around 3pm Bawankar was riding a motorcycle with his sister-in-law Vanita and niece Ankita. They were going to Butibori from Surabardi. On the way, a speeding two-wheeler being driven by an unidentified motorist from the opposite direction hit their motorcycle resulting in the trio sustaining serious injuries. Before Vanita could get medical assistance, she succumbed to the injuries. Wadi police have booked the unidentified two-wheeler rider under relevant sections of the IPC and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/80488249.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||VBA organises Kisan Bagh in Aurangabad on Wednesday||AURANGABAD: The Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) organised ‘Kisan Bagh’ in the city in support of the farmers protesting against the three new farm laws at the Delhi border.  A large number of people gathered in front of the revenue divisional commissioner’s office for the event. The organisers said Kisan Bagh was in the lines of the Shaheen Bagh protest. It was organised across the state as a sign of solidarity with the protesting farmers. Dr Jameel Shaikh, one of the organisers, said, “The three farm laws passed without following the due process, are meant for tilting things in favour of private companies.” In the city, former organisers of Shaheen Bagh were seen playing a crucial role in the day-long protest. Professor Abdul Samad and Khaled Patel said turning a blind eye to the sufferings of the farmers, who have left their farms and have been agitating for over two months, shows the BJP government’s concern for the farmers. VBA’s Amit Bhuigal said, “Wednesday’s protest was only for a day. If we get instructions from our party chief, we will call for an indefinite strike.” Pamphlets explaining the three laws, the possible ways in which the can affect the farming community, how the prices of essential commodities will surge after private companies are involved, were also distributed. Organisers said if the government fails to consider the farmers’ demands, they may launch an indefinite agitation in front of revenue divisional commissioner’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vba-organises-kisan-bagh-in-aurangabad-on-wednesday/articleshow/80485835.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 1 more arrest in drugs case linked to Sushant Rajput Singh’s death||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested a 23-year-old man, Yen Valavalkar, in the drugs case that came to light after the death of actor Sushant Rajput Singh. This is the 26th arrest in the case. Yen has allegedly admitted to have procured marijuana, ganja, and weed from Dwayne Fernandes, Suryadeep Malhotra, Anuj Ghuge and Showik Chakraborty, the brother of actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was Rajput’s girlfriend. “We had sent summons to Yen, but he didn’t turn up. We have found some incriminating chats...and learnt that he has made payments to Fernandes via e-wallet,” said an officer. —S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-more-arrest-in-drugs-case-linked-to-rajputs-death/articleshow/80488262.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 28, 2021||Goa||Top posts in power dept vacant, JERC wants rationalisation of manpower||Panaji: At a time when the state’s power supply has been a subject of intense debate, it has come to light that top posts in the department continue to remain vacant. The department’s chief electrical engineer post along with two additional chief engineer posts are yet to be filled. Delays in timely promotions of degree holders from junior engineers to assistant engineers in the past has resulted in several posts lying vacant, including four superintending engineers (electrical), 15 executive engineers (electrical) and 45 assistant engineers, among others. In a reply to an unstarred question, power minister Nilesh Cabral submitted to the legislative assembly that there are a total of 1,361 posts lying vacant in his department. These, however, still include posts such as draughtsman, mechanics, mason mistry, plumber, carpenter, turner, welder, draftry, lift operator and blue printer which have no contribution to mainstream business, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had pointed out. Observing that the department is extremely overstaffed, the commission has been stating that its employee costs are too high, where every employee serves around 100 consumers against the national average of one employee serving 2,500 consumers. The employee to consumer ratio is higher than even Puducherry and Chandigarh, the commission had stated. Over the years, the commission has repeatedly directed the department to analyse its employee strength and reduce its manpower and related costs, and submit a systematic manpower study report with focus on manpower rationalisation. However, the department is yet to submit these details. In May last year, JERC had again brought up this issue with serious concern and directed the department to finalise the draft report and submit it for the decision of the state government. The commission had also stated that the issue of rationalisation of manpower cannot be postponed indefinitely as it is not in the interest of consumers. In its reply last month, the department informed the commission that it would submit the report by February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/top-posts-in-power-dept-vacant-jerc-wants-rationalisation-of-manpower/articleshow/80489631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cops ‘forget’ to report cash||AHMEDABAD: An inquiry is being conducted into an incident in which it has been alleged in a video that some cops of Bapunagar police, during a search in an attempt-to-murder case with a firearm — found Rs 5 lakh in cash but didn’t mention it in the panchnama. The inquiry has been handed over to DCP Zone- 5, Achal Tyagi by additional commissioner of police ( Sector-2) Gautam Parmar. The policemen have claimed they had returned the money to the accused after duly counting it. According to police sources, in November 2020, some persons had fired upon one Ashok Goswami. “Goswami who was injured in the firing had lodged a complaint of attempt to murder against one Gaurav Chauhan and three others,” said a police source. ‘In the video, it is seen that some cops are holding the accused and some others found Rs 5 lakh in cash from the office. They are seen in the video counting the cash,” added Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-forget-to-report-cash/articleshow/80487105.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||International cargo & passenger services likely from Aurangabad airport soon||AURANGABAD: International air cargo and passenger services are likely to start from the Aurangabad airport in the near future, indicated Amol Ket, the customs additional commissioner. He added the work on the dry port in Jalna is expected to be completed in about a year, following which, import and export services from the dry port too will begin. The officer was speaking during the International Customs Day celebration at GST Bhavan, Aurangabad. Principal additional director-general (directorate general of systems and data management, Chennai) K V S Singh, CGST, Aurangabad joint commissioner SB Deshmukh and the National Academy of Customs, Indirect Taxes and Narcotics’ assistant director Deepak Mata were briefing the officials and stakeholders on the topic ‘Customs Bolstering Recovery, Renewal and Resilience for a Sustainable Supply Chain’. In 2014, the Aurangabad airport was declared a customs airport. The department had announced that it would start its services there. All the formalities to provide customs facilities at the airport were completed. Officials said the customs facilities were delayed due to non-submission of required documents by the airlines. Ket said the customs department, on its part, has met all the requirements. However, airlines still need to submit bonds. Talks have been held with the airlines, said Ket expressing confidence that the service would be launched soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/international-cargo-passenger-services-likely-from-aurangabad-airport-soon/articleshow/80485850.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||MNS wants FIR against power minister Nitin Raut for cheating||YAVATMAL: The district unit of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has lodged complaint with city police on Wednesday against the state energy minister Nitin Raut accusing him of cheating electricity consumers across the state. A delegation under the leadership of district chief Deva Shivramwar and secretary Anil Hamdapure met superintendent of police Dilip Bhujbal Patil and submitted a memorandum urging him to register an FIR against Raut for doling out false assurances to Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) consumers of providing concession during the lockdown period. The leaders claimed that Raut has later disowned the promise made publicly. “It is a deliberate attempt to cheat people and cause mental torture,” said Hamdapure. He has warned of launching a mass agitation across the state if the government refuses to revise the exorbitant rates and the energy bills imposed on the consumers arbitrarily when they were facing unprecedented financial crunch due to Coronavirus pandemic. Many of them have been rendered jobless or their salary is reduced to 25 to 50%. Under such circumstances, imposing huge energy bills can never be acceptable and it is arbitrary and unjust,” said Shivramwar, after lodging the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mns-wants-fir-against-power-min-raut-for-cheating/articleshow/80488268.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Varanasi||Gorakhshpeeth donates Rs 1.01 crore for Ram temple||Gorakhpur: The Gorakshpeeth donated Rs 1 crore 1 lakh for the Ram temple construction on Wednesday. Shri Ram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai arrived at the Gorakhnath temple in the morning and met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Yogi, who is also Peethadhishwar of Gorakshpeeth, handed over a cheque of Rs 1 crore 1 lakh, including Rs 51 lakh from Devipatan temple and Rs 50 lakh from Gorakhnath temple for the Ram temple construction to Rai. Many industrialists from Gorakhpur also gave donations amounting to around Rs 5 crore on the occasion. Recalling the Ramjanmabhoomi movement, while talking to reporters, Champat Rai said Mahant Digvijaynath ji played a very active and important role in 1949 and Mahant Avaidyanath lead the crusade later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhshpeeth-donates-rs-1-01-crore-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80487383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Oppn supported mobsters behind vandalism during tractor rally: BJP||Lucknow: A day after protesting farmers went on a rampage in Delhi and created ruckus in the Red Fort, BJP leaders slammed opposition parties accusing them of supporting mobsters who wreaked havoc in the national capital by indulging in violence. On Wednesday, Union minister and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Baliyan accused the opposition of damaging the democratic set up through backchannel support to violent agitators. BJP’s Loni MLA Nand Kishore Gurjar went a step ahead and demanded slapping of National Security Act on opposition leaders, including Aam Aadmi Party convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav and their trial in a fast track court. Addressing a gathering at Purkazi assembly seat in Muzaffarnagar, Baliyan said people will not forgive the agitators who insulted the national flag and attacked Delhi Police personnel, many of whom are sons of farmers. “This appears to be a handiwork of parties which have lost ground among people and are inciting them in the name of protests,” he said, adding the country has seen farmers’ demonstrations under former PM Chaudhary Charan Singh and Mahendra Singh Tikait. “Not a finger was raised at the farming community. All protests went through peacefully,” he said. Baliyan said Mahendra Singh Tikait sought rights for farmers to sell their produce at the place of their choice. If anyone has a problem, he was free to contest election and make new laws, he added. Baliyan said the protest is not of the farmers, for the farmers and by the farmers. “The government is ready to address the concerns of farmers, but when talks were still on, anti-social elements entered and incited violent protests,” he said. BJP organisation secretary Chandra Mohan said the violence has caused restlessness among farmers in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-supported-mobsters-behind-vandalism-during-tractor-rally-bjp/articleshow/80489187.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 28, 2021||Bhopal||Cases in MP fell by 300% in Jan compared to last month||Bhopal: The growth of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has slowed down by at least 300% in the month of January so far, compared to the growth in the previous month. In December, 34,306 new Covid-19 cases were reported between December 1 and December 31, and in this period the count of positives increased by 16.5% to 2,54,085.But between January 1 and January 26— only 4.7% growth in the count of Covid-19 cases has been reported and it has grown by only 11,514 to 2,54,085.However, though the average growth has been below 5%, there are several districts where the growth rate has been higher.In 17 districts, the growth rate in Covid-19 cases has been more than 5 per cent. The tribal Betul district has registered the highest jump, where a growth of 10% has been reported in the number of cases. Betul is followed by state capital Bhopal, where more than 7% growth in Covid-19 cases has been reported.However, when it comes to districts which have shown much improvement, it is Morena district where less than 1 per cent growth has been reported, followed by Mandla district where 1.9% growth in the count of Covid-19 cases has been reported in the month of January so far. This is percentage-wise growth, but when it comes to absolute numbers, Burhanpur district has reported the lowest number of cases — only 20 — in the 26 days of January.Sources said that districts with higher percentage of growth in Covid-19 cases should be monitored to ensure that the spread of the disease is contained further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cases-in-mp-fell-by-300-in-jan-compared-to-last-month/articleshow/80485858.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: SRA U-turns, stays project as original builder stakes claim||MUMBAI: After a two-decade wait for decent homes, Mazgaon’s Dongarbaba slum residents stare at an uncertain future. The Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) has stayed the redevelopment scheme having approved it earlier as the original developer has again staked claim to the project. In January 2020, the SRA conducted a secret ballot with biometrics and approved Alamdar Infrastructure selected by the residents—78% had voted in favour—for the redevelopment project. The developer was issued no-objection certificates by SRA’s engineering, town planning, finance, and assistant registrar’s offices. The SRA even issued a letter directing the developer to obtain an NOC from the collector’s office as the slum is on government land. Times ViewWhile Mumbai aspires to become a slum-free city and the slumdwellers pine for a decent home, SRA officials meant to facilitate these appear to be working otherwise to frustrate these very aspirations by highly selective reading of documents. How long can the city and slum dwellers wait? Strong and exemplary action must be taken against such SRA officials found to be colluding with developers to serve as a deterrent for the future.But, last week, the SRA executive engineer informed Alamdar Infrastructure that the scheme has been recorded—meaning closed—as Monarch Estate and Developers, that had originally initiated the redevelopment project in 2001, had re-submitted documents for approval in November 2019. The letter stated that after scrutinising Monarch Estate and Developers’ proposal and based on a 2001 Bombay high court judgment, the first claim belongs to the original developer. It also stated that the present redevelopment scheme is being recorded on the CEO’s directions. Monarch Estate and Developers, in its submission to the SRA, said its 2001 scheme could not be carried out due to an HC stay on all redevelopment projects on plots reserved as open spaces. The developer further claimed that the SRA closed the scheme in 2010 based on the slumdwellers’ complaints without giving him an opportunity to present his side. He claimed 36 of the 66 residents had given their consent and an Annexure II had also been issued for the scheme. This claim has been upheld by the SRA legal department, which states that as per the 2011 HC order, the authority must scrutinise a proposal and the file was wrongfully closed. However, SRA documents show that Monarch Estate and Developers was issued a show-cause notice in December 2010 and given a fortnight to reply why the scheme was not making any progress. In January 2011, the then CEO of SRA noted: “Since hearing notice was issued and developer has chosen to remain absent, scheme may be recorded.” Clearly, the legal department does not seem to have read these documents. On Monday, the SRA stayed the reopening of the files of Monarch Estate and Developers and the closure of the current redevelopment scheme after the slumdwellers stormed the SRA office and protested. Housing minister Jitendra Awhad said the builder was being provided an opportunity to present his side as per the HC order. “The case will be examined and if the HC order does not apply, we shall not allow it.” Satish Lokhande, SRA CEO, said he has called for a hearing on February 1, where both developers and slumdwellers will be given an opportunity to present their case. “I shall hold a review and take a decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sra-u-turns-stays-project-as-original-builder-stakes-claim/articleshow/80488322.cms||Clara Lewis
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Delimitation, quotas upset Ahmedabad civic body incumbents’ dreams||AHMEDABAD: Nearly 60% of incumbent councillors of the BJP and to a lesser extent the Congress will lose their seats to ward delimitation — the process of the readjusting ward boundaries within a municipal corporation based on population numbers — which was undertaken in October. Another major reason is that certain seats will be now reserved. Delimitation will also allow parties to accommodate leaders from new areas. In the Jodhpur ward, all the sitting councillors were general candidates, but in 2021, Jodhpur had one seat for women reserved for a Baxi panch candidate, while one seat for men was reserved for schedule caste candidates. This will force the BJP to change two of their sitting councillors. Another example is the newly amalamated area of Bopal-Ghuma. The area was spilt among three existing wards — Jodhpur, Bodakdev and Thaltej. In all three wards, the BJP had all won all seats. To accommodate leaders from Bopal-Ghuma, the BJP will have to deny tickets to one of their sitting councillors. “There is the possibility that some senior sitting councillors may have to call it a day ,” said a senior BJP councillor. In certain seats which have been reserved for women, sitting councillors have pushed their spouses forward as candidates. “Some old timers have demanded that their seat be changed as boundary adjustments have tipped the equation in favour of a competing candidate within the party,” said a BJP official. Party office bearers said some councillors may rebel and threaten to fight as independents. A senior councillor said that apart from the change of wards, senior party leaders including former office-bearers of the AMC have also demanded tickets for family members including their sons. Senior leaders say that even sitting BJP MLAs and former MLAs have sought tickets for their children. The Congress on the other hand is most likely to retain all its sitting councillors while for the other seats they may choose candidates who are below 55 years of age. The dilemma for the Congress is mainly about the minority community councillors and leaders who may defect to the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) which has announced it will contest local body elections in the state. Congress office-bearers in the city said the party has promised senior councillors that if they are denied tickets, the party will nominate family members in their stead. A senior Congress worker said leaders such as Surendra Baxi and Taufiqkhan Pathan among others have pitched for their younger family members. However, there is still confusion whether any member of Badruddin Shaikh’s family or his close associates will be given a ticket. Shaikh died of Covid this year. Officials of both parties said the changes in boundaries of wards such as Jodhpur will either force sitting councillors to change wards or they may not get party tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delimitation-quotas-upset-civic-body-incumbents-dreams/articleshow/80487085.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Jobless youth, 2 others end life||NAGPUR: A 22-year-old jobless youth and two others ended their life in the city on Wednesday. In the first incident, Suresh Yadav, 22, hanged himself at his house near Chandmari Mata Mandir Chowk in Wathoda area. Wathoda police said Yadav was disappointed over not getting any job. In another incident, one Aniruddh Pandit (34) hanged himself at his Pragatisheel Colony residence on Wardha Road on Wednesday morning. Dhantoli police are probing further. Amit Durgesh, 28, a resident of Lakdipool locality, also ended his life by hanging self from the ceiling fan. Kotwali police have registered a case of accidental death and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jobless-youth-2-others-end-life/articleshow/80488285.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Serving humanity is not ‘haraam’: Ayodhya mosque Trust hits back at Asaduddin Owaisi||AYODHYA: In a sharp riposte to AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi’s statement in Bidar, Karnataka, that the Ayodhya mosque on 5acre land was ‘haraam’ (un-Islamic), secretary of the Ayodhya mosque Trust, Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), Athar Hussain, said, “Owaisi is a Hyderabadi politician and his remarks are part of his political agenda. Also, no piece of land on this earth can be ‘haraam’, where namaz (prayer) is offered to Almighty Allah.” Taking Owaisi head-on, Hussain said, “Owaisi comes from a region, which has not borne the struggle or felt the trauma of the first war of independence. It’s possible his ancestors never took part in the 1857 revolt against the British. We are from Awadh, which was the crucible of revolution and we are dedicating the IICF centre in Ayodhya in the memory of one of our greatest freedom fighters, Ahmadullah Shah, who liberated Faizabad from the British for at least a year. Is commemorating the martyrdom of Ahmadullah Shah by naming the centre after him, ‘haraam’ too? Speaking at an event in Bidar on Tuesday, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi, said the Ayodhya mosque was against Islamic tenets and so was offering prayers and donating for its construction. Talking exclusively to TOI, Athar Husain said, “I don’t think the land where we do ‘sajda’ (bow in obeisance) to Almighty Allah land can be ‘haraam’. I don’t think our charity hospital, which will heal and serve hundreds of sick and infirm free of cost will be ‘haraam’. Feeding the hungry is part of our deen (religion) and our community kitchen that will feed 2,000 people every day cannot be un-Islamic.” The greenfield mosque complex will house a library and museum will tell people about Islam, sacrifice of Muslims for India and raise concern about climate change, he said, adding “Owaisi should rethink his statement, leave aside his narrow political agenda and not call service to humanity as haraam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/serving-humanity-is-not-haraam-ayodhya-mosque-trust-hits-back-at-owaisi/articleshow/80489339.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Forest ranger in Aurangabad arrested for taking bribe of Rs 1,000||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad unit of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has arrested a 57-year-old forest ranger with the social forestry department, for allegedly demanding and accepting bribe from a farmer to clear his dues for the saplings, he planted under tree plantation scheme The accused has been identified as Bhagwan Magar, who was posted with the social forestry department at Kannad tehsil. As per the news release by the ACB, the complainant had reached out to the accused requesting him to clear his bills for saplings and fertilizers for the plantation done under the social forestry scheme.  The accused initially ignored his plea and after much persuasion, the accused allegedly demanded bribe. Unwilling to give in to the demand made by the forest department official, the farmer reached out to the ACB and lodged a complaint. During the verification carried out by the ACB, it came to fore that Magar demanded Rs 2,000 for clearing his bills. While negotiating for the bribe amount, the accused agreed to clear it for Rs 1,000.  Accordingly, a trap was laid at Chincholi Limbaji village, where the accused had asked the farmer to come with bribe amount. The accused was caught soon after he accepted the bribe. Magar has been arrested and an offence under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered with the Aurangabad rural police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/forest-ranger-arrested-for-taking-bribe-of-rs-1000/articleshow/80485856.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Allahabad||Covid-19: 7,200 healthcare workers to be vaccinated today||Prayagraj: Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to 7,200 healthcare professionals at 40 locations in Prayagraj district on Thursday under the second day of phase one vaccination drive. Nodal officer (vaccination) and deputy chief medical officer Dr Rahul Singh told TOI on Wednesday, “The vaccine will be administered to 7,200 healthcare professionals in 60 sessions at 40 locations, including six government hospitals including Motilal Nehru Medical College, Motilal Nehru Divisional Hospital (Colvin), District Women Hospital ( Duffrin), Beli Hospital, SRN Hospital, and Central Railway Hospital, 14 private hospitals — Kamla Nehru Hospital, Nazareth Hospital, Jagrati Hospital Vatsalya Hospital, Narayan Swaroop, Yash Lok hospital, Narayani Hospital, Prayag hospital, Phoenix hospital, Jeevan Jyoti hospital, Parvati hospital, Asha hospital and United Medicity along with all 20 community health centres in trans-Ganga and Yamuna pockets.” “The vaccination will start at 9am and will continue till 5pm. SMSes have already been sent to the 7,200 listed beneficiaries,” he added. Dr. Singh said a six-member team of medical and para medical staff and security personnel has been deputed at each centre and vaccine has already been delivered to all the rural based community health centres on January 26. The vaccine doses were sent under tight police security arrangements. The vaccine will be sent to all city based vaccination sites in the city on Thursday morning. Dr Singh said, “As many as 125 healthcare professionals will be vaccinated at each centre in city location while the strength of beneficiaries at CHC will be between 100 and 125 beneficiaries. He added that 40 nodal officers — one deputy or additional chief medical officer rank health official — have been assigned one centre each to monitor the vaccination drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-7200-healthcare-workers-to-be-vaccinated-today/articleshow/80488055.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Sattari locals hold R-Day rally, seek land rights||Valpoi: Thousands of villagers from Sattari taluka held a rally in Valpoi town on Tuesday demanding land ownership rights to dwellers and cultivators. In the case of dwellings, they have pressed for the deletion of the government as ‘owner’ from the Form I & XIV and transfer of land rights to house owners. At Tuesday’s public meeting held at Valpoi market, they also demanded that the Mokasdari system be abolished and land be transferred to cultivators and dwellers. Mokasos are land titles that were given to the influential during the Portuguese rule. The protest originated from Hathwada junction at Valpoi and culminated at Valpoi market where a public meeting was held. It was resolved to exclude arable land from Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, de-notify boundaries and transfer land rights to cultivators. The other resolution adopted was to “transfer all lands mentioned as ‘Alvara’, ‘Class II’ and under other categories to cultivators and dwellers”. Locals from different villages in Sattari marched through the streets of Valpoi town holding placards and chanting slogans against the government for not resolving land rights issues. Villagers said they have been demanding land ownership rights over the past 60 years, but that their demands fell on deaf ears. Ranjit Rane, a local leader, said that the government must think twice before enforcing forest laws in the taluka, as people are the sole owners of the land. He further warned the government not to take the people of Sattari people for granted. “If the government can transfer the land bearing survey number 67/1 to the IIT within a short span of time, it can also give us land rights immediately and include our names in the Form I & XIV,” Rane said. Rajesh Gaonkar said the villagers will never allow the government to take away their lands as many have been wholly relying on their properties for agricultural produce over several decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sattari-locals-hold-r-day-rally-seek-land-rights/articleshow/80488310.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kanpur||Bodies of woman, paramour found hanging from tree||Kanpur: The bodies of a married woman and her alleged paramour were found hanging from a tree in Hasemau village under the limits of Bhognipur Kotwali police station of Kanpur Dehat district on Wednesday morning. The police said that the bodies of 22-year-old Aarti and her 25-year-old alleged paramour Shyam Lal have been sent for post-mortem examination and the matter is being investigated from all angles. The police said Aarti, a resident of Asewa village, was married to one Chetan Singh of Mohammadpur village in Kuthaund police area of Jalaun, while her alleged paramour Shyam Lal was a native of Gubar village under Rajpur police station of the district (Kanpur Dehat). Police were trying to ascertain the reasons that prompted the two to resort to extreme step. However, preliminary investigations revealed that Aarti was in a relationship with Shyam Lal prior to her marriage and wanted to marry him, but her family members got her married to Chetan Singh in June 2020. “The two probably entered into a suicide pact and later hanged themselves to death,” the police said. Inspector Bhognipur Dharmendra Singh said, “Aarti had gone missing from her parent’s house on Tuesday evening. Similarly, Shyam, who had left his Gubar village home on Tuesday morning telling his parents that he was going to Sikandara, remained untraceable till late night. The two thereafter had reached Hasemau village where they apparently hanged themselves to death from a mango tree using a single rope.” He added, “As of now, no FIR has not been registered so far as no complaint has been filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bodies-of-woman-paramour-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/80488040.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Varanasi||Purvanchal e-way: 75% works complete||Lucknow: To meet the deadline of March for completion of Purvanchal Expressway, the Uttar Pradesh Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Wednesday issued directive for expediting the mud work and construction of railway overbridges on the route. After presiding over a review meeting, UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi said that while 75% of the physical work on the expressway has been completed and the developers have been asked to complete the remaining mud works which is 97% complete. Awasthi said that 92% of the structural works have also been completed. “Instructions have been issued to finish the construction of flyovers, long bridges, small bridges, interchanges and toll plazas,” he said. Awasthi said that the work of completion of 3.2km-long airstrip on the Purvanchal expressway for emergency landing of fighter aircraft is also nearing completion. The CEO said that the authority would also be constructing 3.75 metre wide service lane on both sides of the expressway to allow seamless movement of nearby residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/purvanchal-e-way-75-works-complete/articleshow/80489277.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Anil Baijal visits hospital, meets policemen||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal visited Sushrut Trauma Centre on Thursday to enquire about the well-being of Delhi Police personnel who were injured on January 26. During his visit, Baijal advised the medical officers to provide the best possible care and treatment to the cops and wished them speedy recovery, a statement from the LG office said. “Visited the Sushrut Trauma Center and inquired about the wellbeing of the injured police personnel. Instructed concerned Medical Officers to provide best possible care and treatment,” the LG tweeted. “I pray for their speedy recovery and urge everyone to exercise restraint for maintenance of peace and harmony,” Baijal said in another tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/baijal-visits-hosp-meets-policemen/articleshow/80526579.cms||---
January 28, 2021||India||National security an excuse to ban apps, says China, tells India not to hurt ties||NEW DELHI: Calling India’s permanent ban on 59 Chinese mobile apps discriminatory, Beijing on Wednesday accused India of repeatedly using national security as an excuse for taking action that violated WTO rules. The Chinese embassy here urged the Indian government to immediately correct its “discriminatory measures” and avoid causing further damage to bilateral cooperation. It said since last year, the Indian side had repeatedly used national security as an excuse to “prohibit some mobile apps with Chinese background” and that the Chinese side firmly opposed India’s actions. “These moves, in violation of WTO non-discriminatory principles and fair competition principles of market economy, severely damage the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies,” spokesperson Ji Rong said. India banned 59 Chinese apps in the middle of the military standoff along LAC last June. In September, 118 more Chinese apps were blocked. The ministry of information technology had blocked the apps under Section 6A of the Information Technology Act after learning the apps engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India. The spokesperson said the Chinese government always asked Chinese companies to observe international rules and local laws and regulations when doing business overseas. “The Indian government has the responsibility to follow WTO rules and market principles and protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors, including Chinese companies. These moves of the Indian government have also hindered improvement of the Indian business environment and the innovative development of related Indian industries,” the official said, adding that China-India economic and trade cooperation was mutually beneficial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/national-security-an-excuse-to-ban-apps-says-china-tells-india-not-to-hurt-ties/articleshow/80490096.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bhopal||60-yr-old health worker shares his Corona jab story||Bhopal: Health worker, TS Mishra, came forward to take the coronavirus vaccine, a day after only 18% turnout was reported in JP hospital. It was the third day of inoculation at the district hospital. Call it auspicious or credit to the counselling skills of people like Mishra who got vaccinated, since then, the hospital’s vaccine trend has moved in only one direction, upwards!Talking about his experience, the 60-year-old Mishra said: “I was more than willing to get the first shot (when vaccination started on January 16). My family were in agreement. The fact is sooner or later we all have to get vaccinated to defeat Covid-19.” Knowing people’s apprehensions about the vaccine, Mishra has been trying to motivate others to take the jab. He has been with the MP health department for 31 years and his coming forward to get the vaccine has been a source of inspiration for many others. Going by health department estimates, it takes about six minutes for each person to get the jab. “Staff nurses, sanitation workers and others approached me to ask about my situation after getting the jab. I returned to work the next day after vaccination,” Mishra told TOI. He has been honest about his experience, recalling that he felt a little discomfort at the vaccination spot and low temperature. “It is the same like taking any other injection,” he said with a proud smile and was quick to remind others to keep wearing a face mask, stay at least 6 feet away from everyone and wash hands frequently.“We have to strive for both natural immunity and vaccine-induced immunity — that is the way forward to return to normalcy,” he added. Mishra is now awaiting the second vaccine dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/60-yr-old-health-worker-shares-his-corona-jab-story/articleshow/80485881.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Allahabad||Diversion plan in place to streamline traffic on Paush Purnima snan today||Prayagraj: A day before Paush Purnima snan, the second auspicious bathing at the ongoing Magh Mela, all streets led to the Sangam – the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati. Devotees from across the country thronged the tent city. Lakhs of devotees, pilgrims and kalpwasis are likely to take a holy dip in Sangam on Thursday on the occasion of Paush Purnima. The mela police have turned the entire mela campus into a fortress and checking and frisking has been intensified in and around the campus. Given thousands of kalpwasis flocking to the tent city to observe one month-long kalpwas from Paush Purnima, the police have diverted routes for the convenience of the devotees and pilgrims. Parking has been made at plot no 17, pontoon bridge workshop, Galla Mandi (Daraganj), Helipad parking, and Kali Sadak road. A senior cop said, "A network of 116 CCTV sets, around 3,500 police and paramilitary personnel, ATS and STF commandos, bomb defusion squad, anti-sabotage teams along with volunteers from different organisations have been roped in to make elaborate security arrangements for the Paush Purnima snan. He added that police have also rehearsed crowd and traffic management. Cops on Wednesday continued to appeal visitors to wear a mask on their faces. Meanwhile, traffic police authorities informed that vehicles coming from Mirzapur and Reewa will be parked at Navprayagam while vehicles coming from Jaunpur and Varanasi will be parked at Sugar mill parking slot. Similarly, vehicles coming from Kanpur will be parked at CMP degree college and KP Inter college parking sites. Besides, vehicles coming from Lucknow, Pratapgarh and Ayodhya will be parked at Colonelganj inter-college and Buxi bundh kachar area. The devotees will be entering into Sangam (mela campus) through GT Jawahar road and Kali Sadak\ Kali ramp and Sangam upper marg. While returning they will have to take Akshayavat marg, Jagdish ramp, Triveni marg and Parade road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/diversion-plan-in-place-to-streamline-traffic-on-paush-purnima-snan-today/articleshow/80488065.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Events at all memorials of martyrs once every month||Lucknow: In commemoration of the Chauri Chaura incident, which is completing 100 years this February, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that events should be organised at all martyrs’ memorials at least once a month. The CM has also directed officials to send a proposal to the railways ministry for developing the Chauri Chaura railway station. On Wednesday, he inspected the newly renovated martyrs’ memorial at Chauri Chaura near Gorakhpur and asked officials to ensure public participation at all such events. He also added that the police band should play at these memorials at least once a week. “The CM has said that the walls of the memorial should have portraits of the martyrs. He said literature related to Chauri Chaura should be compiled, digitalised and published. He also directed us to ensure that Chauri Chaura logo, launched recently by him and the governor, is used in official correspondence,” said an official. During the year-long programme to mark the centenary of Chauri Chaura, the government will honouring the families of those connected with the event. The inaugural programme will be telecast live.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/events-at-all-memorials-of-martyrs-once-every-month/articleshow/80489251.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Eight doctors reject Serum Institute’s Covishield, opt for Covaxin||MUMBAI: In a twist to the Covaxin story, eight doctors from the Mumbai region rejected the Serum Institute’s Covishield vaccine and took shots of Covaxin instead at JJ Hospital on Wednesday. Hospital authorities, who have struggled to persuade potential recipients to accept Covaxin, were enthused by the incident. They said they will henceforth allow voluntary walk-ins for the Bharat Biotech-manufactured vaccine so long as names are registered on the Co-Win app which is used to monitor the immunisation programme. The arrangement, though, is a one-way street for now – such flexibility is not on offer for those allotted Covaxin but show preference for Covishield. Among those who opted for Covaxin on Wednesday were a gynaecologist, his paediatrician wife and their medical intern son, two ophthalmologists, a port health official and a critical care physician from Panvel. Dr Vivek Giri, the port health officer, said he opted for Covaxin as he is more confident of the technology, which uses an inactivated virus, and that it could tackle mutated strains. Panvel-based critical care physician Dr Supriya Sahasrabudhe said the time-tested technology has worked in hepatitis and rotavirus vaccines. “I had the choice to take Covishield, but I wanted Covaxin,” she said. Goregaon-based gynaecologist Dr Sudhir Naik, his wife and son also took Covaxin. “Till evening, I had no pain on the injection site or fever,” Dr Naik said. Another recipient said his wife took Covishield, but he chose Covaxin. Dean of JJ Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar said it was encouraging that doctors were keen on Covaxin. “We will be willing to give it to anybody wanting to take it voluntarily even if they are not a part of the JJ group,” he said. The acceptability of Covaxin among JJ's own staffers continues to be low though. On Wednesday, 18 in all took the vaccine, including the eight doctors, down from 34 on Day 6. The target for the day was 100. JJ, the only Covaxin centre in the city and one of the six in the state, has seen the poorest response while the district hospital in Amravati has seen the best. Of the 2,064 recipients of Covaxin in Maharashtra till date, merely 163 were from JJ compared to 656 from Amravati. Nagpur and Pune have vaccinated 366 and 354 respectively. Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research has been in controversy since it was granted an emergency approval before completion of phase III trials. The vaccine is given in a ‘clinical trial mode’ with an informed consent signed by recipients. Dr Sankhe said the Mumbai centre has been getting calls from doctors from all over MMR willing to take it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8-docs-reject-serum-institutes-covishield-opt-for-covaxin/articleshow/80488359.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC notice to SEC in PIL over ballots||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday issued notice to the State Election Commission (SEC) over a PIL demanding that the coming civic body elections should be conducted through ballot papers and not through Electronic Voting Machines (EVM). Petitioner Imtiyazkhan Pathan has sought HC directions for ballot paper elections because the SEC, in a reply to an application filed under provisions of the Right to Information Act, said that it has got no Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machine available with it. Pathan’s lawyer K R Koshti stressed on a Supreme Court judgment with regard to the use of VVPAT, if a poll is conducted through EVMs. The state government told the high court that nowhere in the country, VVPAT is used in civic elections. It is used only in the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections. The government also claimed that EVM is safe and insisting on ballot paper is putting the clock back. The government pleader also argued that there are nearly 22,000 candidates, who contest in civic body polls. In such a situation, it is not possible to use VVPAT machines and for this special rules need to be formulated and there is a detailed process. Advocate Koshti countered it by asserting that the SEC would not be burdened much, if VVPAT facilities are attached with EVMs. And if SEC does not use VVPAT, there is an issue of credibility and to address this, polls are required to be conducted through ballot papers. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath has sought reply from the election commission by February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-to-sec-in-pil-over-ballots/articleshow/80487081.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: AAP’s clinics shut, BJP’s still to start||AHMEDABAD: Ahead of the local body elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced it will ‘replicate’ it’s mohalla clinic model in Gujarat, providing basic healthcare services, by launching a mohalla clinic in Ahmedabad last month. Barely 10 days on, and presumably flustered by the AAP move, the state government announced a similar health project for the urban poor, saying such health centres will be called Deendayal clinics. Both announcements came even as the dates for the local body elections were to be announced. A month later, the reality is that none of the mohalla clinics are functional, even as AAP says they were started “on a trial basis” only. As far as the Deendayal clinics are concerned, nothing has happened after the announcement. Both projects are aimed at providing healthcare facilities in densely populated slums. A senior officer in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation said that the proposal to set up Deendayal clinics is at the approval stage. “The clinics have not been started yet. The matter is at the approval stage right now,” said the official. In December last year, deputy CM Nitin Patel had said the clinics “would be started on priority basis and AMC will be asked to finalise the places where they can be started.” AAP state media convener Tuli Banerjee said the mohalla clinics had been started on a trial basis for a short period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aaps-clinics-shut-bjps-still-to-start/articleshow/80487092.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
January 28, 2021||Varanasi||UP is land of spirituality,heart of the nation: CM||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that Uttar Pradesh is the land of religion and spirituality and is the heart of the nation. Yogi went to attend the ongoing Ram Katha recital by Morari Bapu in Kushinagar on Wednesday and welcome him to UP by saying, “Our state is the land of religion and spirituality. This is the heart of the nation. The heart keeps the entire body healthy, similarly Uttar Pradesh plays its role in the nation. The land of Krishna in Mathura, the land of Ram in Ayodhya, Kashi Vishwanath in Varanasi, the Sangam of River Ganga and Yamuna at Prayagraj, all are in Uttar Pradesh. Lord Buddha also spent his last time here in Kushinagar.” The CM further said, “Ram ka naam devatva ki ore le jaata hai. Ram keval upasna ke madhyam nahi varan rashtra ki maryada hain (The name of Lord Ram takes us towards divinity. Ram is not only a medium of worship but is also the dignity of our nation). The battle of Ramjanmabhoomi was fought to save that dignity.” “Listening to Morari Bapu’s Ram Katha at a time when the sun is in Uttarayan is very auspicious, and will bring good health and welfare,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-is-land-of-spiritualityheart-of-the-nation-cm/articleshow/80487119.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||CII council suggestsways to tap investments||Lucknow: Ahead of the next budget, the CII Uttar Pradesh State Council submitted a memorandum to the state government on Wednesday, giving suggestions on addressing challenges that UP is facing in becoming the most favoured business destination in the country. The recommendations included tapping into the potential of sectors like handicraft and agriculture where the state has competitive advantages, it said. Ankit Gupta, chairperson, CII UP State Council said that suggestions were aimed at improving investment environment which would help UP become a favoured investment destination. “We have made recommendations on improving infrastructure, including availability of electricity at competitive rates and ease of availing the open access scheme. Urban development is another factor that would play a critical role in the growth of industrial units in the state, especially water availability in NCR and re-allotment and development of sick industrial units,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cii-council-suggestsways-to-tap-investments/articleshow/80489260.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Gorakshpeeth donates Rs 1.01 crore for Ram temple||GORAKHPUR/AYODHYA: The Gorakshpeeth donated Rs 1 crore 1 lakh for construction of Ram temple on Wednesday and the cheques were handed over by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who’s also the peethadhishwar, to Ayodhya temple Trust general secretary Champat Rai. The donation included Rs 51 lakh from Devipatan temple and Rs 50 lakh from Gorakhnath temple. Another Rs 5crore was contributed by Gorakhpur industrialists for the temple. In Ayodhya, World Sindhi Society donated 200kg of silver moulded into bricks of 1kg each. The Sindhi delegation comprising members of 17 countries, reached VHP’s headquarters at Karsewakpuram on Tuesday carrying bricks on their heads. After handing over bricks to Trust secretary, Champat Rai, president of World Sindhi Society, Raju Manwani, said, the organization represents Sindhis in India and abroad. Vijay Jolly, former Delhi MLA and member of the delegation said, he is visiting Ayodhya after 28 years. “I came to Ayodhya in 1992 with Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi as BJP youth wing leader,” he said. Talking to reporters in Gorakhpur, Champat Rai recalled Mahant Digvijaynath’s role in the Ramjanmabhoomi movement in 1949. “The movement reached its peak under Mahant Avaidyanath. Today, I got the opportunity to pay tributes to Mahant Avaidyanath and Mahant Digvijaynath,” he said. The entire country is willingly contributing for the temple, he said. “We had appealed for contributions from Makar Sankranti and the entire country is contributing with enthusiasm, Rai said. Replying to a query on the mayhem at Red Fort on Republic Day, Rai said, “Whatever happened in Delhi was against the nation. Punjab is a land of patriots, but some people have misguided the farmers. The people of Punjab follow the tradition of Guru Nanak Dev, Teg Bahadur, Arjundev and Guru Govind Singh. I believe people who follow a tradition of sacrifice cannot do such wrongs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakshpeeth-donates-rs-1-01cr-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80489371.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 28, 2021||Kanpur||BJP responsible, ignored farmers’ woes: Akhilesh||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday held the ruling BJP responsible for the violence that took place in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally. He said the government had overlooked the pain and anguish of farmers for long because of which their resentment has turned into anger. “The way the Centre overlooked, insulted and pointed fingers at the protesting farmers all the while, it angered the farmer community. Thus, the government is solely responsible for the situation. Taking moral responsibility for the prevailing situation, the Centre should immediately withdraw the new farm laws unconditionally,” Akhilesh Yadav tweeted in Hindi on Wednesday. Meanwhile, addressing a gathering after the hoisting of the Tricolour on the Republic Day in Saifai, SP principal general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav said the BJP government at the Centre was working in the interest of a select few at the cost of 125 crore people of the country. The government is selling away public-sector units to private entities. He said Lucknow airport has the name of a private entity written everywhere only corroborating the fact that the airport has been sold off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-responsible-ignored-farmers-woes-akhilesh/articleshow/80489217.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Is Shegaon shrine trust an establishment under Labour Act: HC asks govt||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday asked the state government whether Gajanan Maharaj Sansthan managing the popular Shegaon Shrine was an establishment under the Maharashtra Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1953. The HC further directed the government to inform whether devotees, who’re offering their services to the trust for managing temple affairs without any charge, are employees under the same law and paid wages. A division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor issued these directives while hearing a plea of Sansthan that challenged Akola labour commissioner’s orders asking it to deposit Rs2.68 lakh with its office on the pretext that it had employed over 800 employees for managing its affairs. The case was filed in 2006 and has been pending for over 14 years. According to petitioner’s counsel Arun Patil, the labour commissioner had issued a show cause notice to the trust asking why it shouldn’t be included in the list of companies under Maharashtra Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1953. On November 2, 2006, the commissioner inspected the temple premises and asked the trust to deposit Rs2.68 lakh for employing over 800 employees in a ten-year period from 1996 to 2006. The petitioner challenged this order in high court through Patil, contending that the commissioner passed orders without granting them an opportunity to hear their side as per principles of natural justice. Patil pointed out that they didn’t employ any person and all those working there were devotees offering their services voluntarily. The Sansthan, however, provided them some remuneration. He argued that the commissioner didn’t provide them details on how he reached the amount of Rs2.68 lakh towards wages and why a specific period of ten years was being taken for the consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/is-shegaon-shrine-trust-an-establishment-under-labour-act-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/80488318.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 28, 2021||Varanasi||GAIL sanctions Rs 21cr for replacing motorboat engines||Varanasi: The Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) has paved the way for the conversion of all diesel engine-operated boats in Ganga into CNG fueled ones by clearing the hurdle of funding and sanctioned Rs 21 crore for the project. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Thursday, “GAIL has sanctioned Rs 21 crore from its corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund for this project, which will help in replacement of all diesel engines installed in boats with CNG fueled engines. We received the letter from GAIL in this regard two days ago.” “We have roped in Metallurgical & Engineering Consultants (MECON) Limited, a public sector undertaking under the ministry of steel of the Government of India, to execute this project. It will soon start the process of floating tenders and other formalities. The deadline for this project is year-end, but we will try to ensure conversion of all boat engines before the festival of Dev Deepawali in November,” said Agrawal. The idea of replacing all diesel engines by CNG-fueled ones had been floated in 2020 as they produce a lot of noise and smoke, causing pollution and discomfort to tourists. There are around 1,500 such boats in Varanasi. A proposal of Rs 37 crore had been submitted to GAIL for the replacement of existing diesel engines of motorized boats operating in Ganga and many other components seeking allocation from its CSR funds. GAIL gave consent for providing Rs 21 crore, Agrawal said. The boatmen are being made stakeholders under this project and a token amount would be charged from them, he added. The commissioner said CNG engines will be installed in the boats and their old diesel engines would be disposed of to ensure they are not misused. GAIL is setting up a CNG station near Khidkiya Ghat for refilling of the new boats through dispensers placed on a jetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gail-sanctions-rs-21cr-for-replacing-motorboat-engines/articleshow/80516057.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Seven North Delhi Municipal Corporation dumpers damaged in rally||New Delhi: Besides DTC buses, the violence on January 26 led to damage of several North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s garbage dumpers, which had been placed to stop the tractor march from deviating from the pre-fixed route. Mayor Jai Prakash said seven dumpers had been badly damaged with their glasses, tyres and several parts made dysfunctional near Bhalswa landfill site. Citing that each unit costs Rs 40- 50 lakh, the mayor added that an FIR would be filed and recovery of the damages sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seven-north-corpn-dumpers-damaged-in-rally/articleshow/80526697.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||‘UP touched lives of 5cr under Mission Shakti programme’||Lucknow: The department of women and child development in Uttar Pradesh has reached out to more than 5 crore people under the Mission Shakti campaign since it began in October 2020, sensitising them about women empowerment and their rights. A government spokesperson said that out of the total people with whom the department has connected, 1,98,74,468 are women and 1,37,16,793 are girls. Director, women welfare department, Manoj Rai said that platforms like ‘Shakti Samvad’ and ‘Haq ki Baat’ are also being used to redress grievances of women in both rural and urban areas. To acknowledge the contribution of women and girls in different fields, he said, the government is organising events like ‘Nayaka’ and gender champion. “The state government has helped 27.95 lakh women through the ‘Nirashrit Mahila Pension Scheme’ while 5.8 lakh girls have received benefits of ‘Kanya Sumangala Yojana’. As many as 51,25,579 girls have got direct benefit of ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ scheme. Through the ‘Rani Lakshmi Bai Mahila Evam Samman Kosh Yojana’, 4,937 victims of violence have been supported,” he said. Rai added that under Mission Shakti, government and non-government organisations are making rural women aware about job opportunities. Not only are they being trained for work in small and cottage industries but they are also gaining experience in organic farming, mask making and dress and jewellery designing, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-touched-lives-of-5cr-under-mission-shakti-programme/articleshow/80489262.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt mulls starting of classes till class IV, transport buses next||PUNE: The state government is thinking of reopening classes till Std IV depending on the response to reopening of schools for standards V to VIII , school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Monday. Most middle school classes opened in the rest of the state on Wednesday, and those in Pune Municipal Corporation areas will start on February 1. Gaikwad was in the city to attend the 54th foundation day celebration of Maharashtra State Bureau of Textbook Production & Curriculum Research (Balbharati). She visited a few schools in the city and rural areas to monitor their working and to check if the SoPs were being followed. “The government has decided to reopen schools in phases. Depending on the smooth running of standards V to VIII and assessing the ground situation, we will think about reopening classes till Std IV. The attendance in classes IX to XII has reached about 76%. We are hoping for a good response from students of standards V to VIII too,” the minister said. She said they have received some complaints that despite schools reopening and their willingness to attend, students are unable to do so due to lack of school buses. “We will talk to the transport minister to check its conduciveness,” Gaikwad added. On the dropout rate due to a long gap in the physical academic year because of the Covid 19 pandemic, Gaikwad said the department has started a statewide survey to identify such hotspots. “We want the students of standards X and XII to be stress-free and at the same time get exposure to various fields. For this, 426 experts have been engaged for educational counselling and guidance for students of standards X to XII. We will also be engaging over 500 subject experts who will answer doubts of students via Facebook or YouTube, live,” Gaikwad said. She also launched a newly revamped website of Balbharati and the 50th edition of Kishore, a magazine published by Balbharati for teenagers. A coffee table book on Balrakshaks who help the government bring out-of-school children back to school was also launched. A group of parents said it was initially communicated to them that the minister would meet them post lunch. They wanted to discuss schools’ fees with the minister. Agitated parents raised slogans against Gaikwad. She left the building via the rear door. Parents bring up fees’ issueA group of parents submitted their grievance about private schools taking full fees from the parents despite many facilities not being used by the students along with a list of decisions taken by other states to cut down the term fees. Gaikwad, at the press conference, reiterated that the matter is sub-judice and a solution must be arrived at by holding discussions between the parents and the school’s administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-mulls-starting-of-classes-till-std-iv-transport-buses-next/articleshow/80488382.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 28, 2021||Goa||Dhirio claims another bull’s life||Mapusa: Within two weeks of a bull dying in a violent bullfight in Mandrem, another one lost its life in a gory incident in the same northern village Wednesday morning. Sources say that some secluded paddy fields in the coastal village of Mandrem have become a hotbed for bullfights in the state. Fighter bulls are brought not only from North Goa but also from south and Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg district for bullfights that are organised early in the morning. Mandrem has become popular for the banned sport as fans touch Mandrem at 5.30am even from South Goa to watch the fights. The terrain - open fields in hinterland Mandrem – are seen suitable for organising bullfights On Wednesday, two fighter bulls – one from Parra and the other from Sindhudurg – were engaged in a bullfight in a remote part of Mandrem. In the intense fight, the bull from Kudal got the better of his rival and the Parra bull lost his life. The bull from Maharashtra also sustained injuries. The police filed a FIR against the owners of the two bulls. Prajyot Dnyaneshwar Masurkar, a resident of Parra, and Ajim Abdulla Mujawar of Kudal, Sindhudurg, have been placed under arrest, said police inspector incharge of Pernem police station Jivba Dalvi. An offence under Section 429 read with 34 of the IPC and Section 11 (m) (ii) (n) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act was registered by the police. Two persons were arrested after one bull died earlier this month at Mandrem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhirio-claims-another-bulls-life/articleshow/80488374.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad woman back home after 18 years in Pakistan jail||AURANGABAD: “It feels like I have entered paradise,” 65-year-old Hasina Begam said after getting down from the train at the Aurangabad railway station on Tuesday night. It was a homecoming for Begam after spending 18 years in prison in Pakistan. She had gone to the neighbouring country to meet relatives but landed up in jail after losing her passport and other belongings as soon as she reached there. She could not tell the Pakistani police where her relatives resided as she had lost their address details too. Back home in India, Begam’s name got deleted from the voters’ list over the years after she was not found to be residing at her husband’s home in Saharanpur (UP) or even in her native Aurangabad. In the absence of any identity proof, the Aurangabad police finally traced the registration of a 600 sq ft plot in her name that she had purchased about three decades ago to establish her identity and facilitate her return to India. “Our policemen did a tremendous job by tracing her relatives as well as the plot she had purchased,” Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta told TOI. While Begam did not want to talk about her incarceration in Pakistan, her nephew, Zainuddin Chisthi, who was at the railway station to receive her, told TOI, “She was married to one Dilshad Ahmed of Nawab Ka Qila in Saharanpur. She went to Lahore in Pakistan to meet some of her relatives. Before she could meet them, she lost her possessions. Suspecting her to be a spy, the police arrested her and she was sent to the Lahore jail.” While in prison, Begam gave the authorities her husband’s details and address. “This was passed on to the Indian authorities and central agencies reached out to Ahmed about five years ago. However, he could not share any of her identity proofs, including their nikah-nama, following which her file was closed with a negative remark,” said Chisthi. A couple of years ago, Begam made a fresh plea with the Pakistani authorities and gave details about her sister and nephew (Chisthi), who live in Rashidpura, Aurangabad. Based on communication received from the government, Aurangabad’s City Chowk police led by inspector Sambhaji Pawar and his team led by assistant sub-inspector Riyaz Ahmed tracked down Chisthi and his mother and learnt of the plot Begam had purchased. “Using the copy of the purchase, Begam’s identity was established and this paved her return back home,” said Pawar. Begam was handed over to the Indian authorities in December 2020, but could not travel back to Aurangabad due to the Covid-19 restrictions and the ongoing farmers’ protest. She was accommodated at the hostel of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar before being sent back to Aurangabad. Chisthi told TOI, “Begam did not have children. Later, Ahmed married another woman. My aunt continued to live with him but would frequent Aurangabad. She did not come for my marriage in 2002 but we did not question her as she was short-tempered. After six years of marriage, I went to Saharanpur and found that she had gone to Pakistan and had not returned since then. Ahmed was under the impression that she had returned from Pakistan and was living in Aurangabad.” Speaking to TOI, inspector Pawar said, “Her nephew told us that they tried to trace Begam in vain after learning she had not returned to India for years. But we too are trying to find out as to why no missing complaint was registered by her husband or her relatives all these years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-woman-back-home-after-18-yrs-in-pak-jail/articleshow/80485885.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Amit Shah asks police to identify those behind violence||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the Delhi situation and directed Delhi Police to identify every mischievous element behind the violence and “anti-national acts”, such as foisting a religious flag on Red Fort. At the meeting, Shah is said to have been briefed by police commissioner S N Srivastava on all the FIRs registered relating to the violence, and the people detained and questioned so far. The investigation in the days to come will focus on gathering evidence from all possible sources, including CCTV and video footage, to identify people who instigated and directed the violence. The probe will also look at possible sources of funds and resources used to create chaos. All these individuals, including leaders of farm organisations participating in violent activities, will be prosecuted, said sources. The role of farmer leaders, notwithstanding their attempts to dissociate themselves from Tuesday’s violence and blame “infiltrators”, is a key part of the investigation. It is the assessment of Delhi Police and central intelligence agencies that key people, such as prominent farm leader Darshan Pal encouraged the militant component to take the initiative at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Meanwhile, as Punjab actor Deep Sidhu emerges as a key figure behind the chaos at Red Fort, including the planting of ‘Nishan Sahib’ or Sikh religious flag, TOI has learnt from sources that National Investigation Agency will soon issue a fresh notice summoning him as witness in the case against Sikhs for Justice and other pro-Khalistan outfits like Babbar Khalsa International. He was among the 40 people summoned as witnesses, of which only 15-16 had turned up. Sidhu did not respond to the first summons and will be issued a second notice soon. As per the NIA’s FIR registered on December 15, 2020, SFJ and other banned pro-Khalistan organisations, along with frontal outfits, have entered into conspiracy to create an atmosphere of fear and lawlessness and incite people towards rising in rebellion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shah-asks-police-to-identify-those-behind-violence/articleshow/80488425.cms||Bharti Jain
January 28, 2021||Bhopal||More BJP netas join bandwagon to rename Halali dam in Bhopal||Bhopal: After formerCM Uma Bharti’s demand to rename Halali dam in the state capital, BJP Lok Sabha MP Pragya Singh Thakur and cabinet minister Vishvas Sarang have joined the chorus to rename certain places in and around Bhopal, saying that they convey a sense of “betrayal and hatred”. “There was no city called Islam Nagar in Bhopal. The way Mughal rulers of the Medieval era and especially Dost Mohammad Khan (founder of Bhopal state), killed friendly kings at Halali that the water of the nearby river had turned red due to their blood. The entire area was called Lal Ghati. Halali dam (a popular picnic spot) was named after the incident where Hindu kings were slaughtered,” said Pragya on the sidelines of Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. “Names such as Lal Ghati, Halali bus stand, Halali dam will be changed and the original names from history will be used. New names based on our revolutionary leaders will be given to these areas. The appearance of the new Bhopal will also beautiful,” said Pragya. The BJP MP said, “Uma didi (Bharti) spoke on this issue and she is also making efforts to rename these places. When she was an MP, she tried her best to change the name and the process is still underway. I will also make efforts in this direction.” Recently, Bharti had demanded to rename Halali dam as Samrat Ashok Sagar. In a letter to BJP Berasia MLA Vishnu Khatri, she said that the name ‘Halali’ is an “expression of betrayal, deception and inhumanity in historical perspective”. Bharti urged Khatri to take up the issue of name change with culture and tourism minister Usha Thakur. It was stated that the name of the waterbody is Ashok Sagar in government records but the MP Tourism Development Corporation still writes the name of the place as Halali dam on their signboards. State cabinet minister Vishvas Sarang also demanded to rename Lal Ghati and Halali dam. “Patriots were slaughtered and the entire area had turned red due to their blood. These names should be changed immediately,” he said on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-bjp-netas-join-bandwagon-to-rename-halali-dam-in-bhopal/articleshow/80488350.cms||Rajendra Sharma
January 28, 2021||Goa||Parrikar assumed taxis would join GoaMiles: Lobo||Calangute: Ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo said that former CM Manohar Parrikar had given the go-ahead to launch the GoaMiles app-based taxi service as he was expecting all taxi owners to join it. Clarifying his statement that Parrikar was responsible for starting GoaMiles, he said the decision was taken following directions from the high court to install digital taxi meters. “Parrikar had taken the decision thinking that... the taxi problem would get solved,” Lobo said. “But that was wrong. The high court direction was to install digital taxi meters (so that tourists are not cheated). So he brought in an app, thinking all taxi owners would join, but nobody joined it. Our taxi owners are self-employed. They say we’ve put in our money to buy taxis. They don’t want to work under somebody else. If you join GoaMiles, you’re working under them. They (taxi owners) want to stand on their own feet.” Lobo also said the taxi owners recently had a meeting with CM Pramod Sawant, and that there should be a solution soon. “The issue has to be resolved by the transport department because it’s all about vehicles,” Lobo said. “It has become confusing because the matter comes under the tourism department and its subsidiary, Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC). I feel that one department — transport — should take a call on this and resolve it once and for all,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikar-assumed-taxis-would-join-goamiles-lobo/articleshow/80488351.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Want UT status for Karnataka border dispute areas: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Wednesday that the Maharashtra government will urge the Supreme Court to declare the “disputed areas” along the Maharashtra-Karnataka border as a Union Territory till the SC gives its final verdict in the ongoing border dispute case. The CM said that the issue can be resolved only during the tenure of the current Maha Vikas Aghadi government, or else it would never get resolved. Thackeray appealed to politicians in Maharashtra to unite across party lines for the issue to be resolved. He was speaking at the release function of a book titled ‘Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemawad: Sangharsh ani Sankalp’ (Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute: Struggle and Resolve’) held at the Sahyadri government guest house in the presence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, deputy CM Ajit Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and opposition leader in the legislative council Pravin Darekar. The book has been edited by an officer on special duty (OSD), Dr Deepak Pawar. The Sena pushed its Marathi manoos agenda, for which NCP extended support, while Congress preferred to remain mum. State Congress chief Thorat, who attended the event, did not speak on the issue. Sharad Pawar said, “The Maharashtra government should put its case in a strong manner before the SC as it is the last recourse to resolve the issue.” Thackeray asserted that his government and all political parties are with the Marathi-speaking people living in the disputed areas such as Belgaum, Nipani and Karwar. He pointed out that the Karnataka government had renamed one of the disputed areas, Belgaum, declaring it as the second capital of Karnataka, and had also held a legislature session there despite the border case being sub-judice in the apex court. “Hence the Maharashtra government will plead to the SC to declare the disputed parts as a Union Territory so that the Karnataka government cannot take any decision related to these areas,” he said. The CM, who also chaired a high-powered committee meeting on the issue after the function, said, “The Centre should play the impartial role of a guardian if two states have a dispute in the court.” He also said that all parties in the state should unite and put Maharashtra’s stand aggressively before the Centre. The border issue has been pending in the SC since 2004. Maharashtra has demanded that Belgaum, Nipani and Karwar should be incorporated in the state as the Marathi-speaking population in these areas is in a majority. In 1966, the Centre had formed the Mahajan Commission to study the issue. It was led by the former Chief Justice of Supreme Court, Meher Chand Mahajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/want-ut-status-for-ktaka-border-dispute-areas-cm/articleshow/80488430.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Want UT status for Karnataka border dispute areas: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Wednesday that the Maharashtra government will urge the Supreme Court to declare the “disputed areas” along the Maharashtra-Karnataka border as a Union Territory till the SC gives its final verdict in the ongoing border dispute case. The CM said that the issue can be resolved only during the tenure of the current Maha Vikas Aghadi government, or else it would never get resolved. Thackeray appealed to politicians in Maharashtra to unite across party lines for the issue to be resolved. He was speaking at the release function of a book titled ‘Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemawad: Sangharsh ani Sankalp’ (Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute: Struggle and Resolve’) held at the Sahyadri government guest house in the presence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, deputy CM Ajit Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and opposition leader in the legislative council Pravin Darekar. The book has been edited by an officer on special duty (OSD), Dr Deepak Pawar. The Sena pushed its Marathi manoos agenda, for which NCP extended support, while Congress preferred to remain mum. State Congress chief Thorat, who attended the event, did not speak on the issue. Sharad Pawar said, “The Maharashtra government should put its case in a strong manner before the SC as it is the last recourse to resolve the issue.” Thackeray asserted that his government and all political parties are with the Marathi-speaking people living in the disputed areas such as Belgaum, Nipani and Karwar. He pointed out that the Karnataka government had renamed one of the disputed areas, Belgaum, declaring it as the second capital of Karnataka, and had also held a legislature session there despite the border case being sub-judice in the apex court. “Hence the Maharashtra government will plead to the SC to declare the disputed parts as a Union Territory so that the Karnataka government cannot take any decision related to these areas,” he said. The CM, who also chaired a high-powered committee meeting on the issue after the function, said, “The Centre should play the impartial role of a guardian if two states have a dispute in the court.” He also said that all parties in the state should unite and put Maharashtra’s stand aggressively before the Centre. The border issue has been pending in the SC since 2004. Maharashtra has demanded that Belgaum, Nipani and Karwar should be incorporated in the state as the Marathi-speaking population in these areas is in a majority. In 1966, the Centre had formed the Mahajan Commission to study the issue. It was led by the former Chief Justice of Supreme Court, Meher Chand Mahajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/want-ut-status-for-ktaka-border-dispute-areas-cm/articleshow/80490698.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 26 claimants per BJP ticket for AMC polls||AHMEDABAD: There is a mad rush of aspirants for BJP tickets in the upcoming civic polls in Ahmedabad. Senior BJP leaders say that on an average 26 aspirants are staking claims for each of the 192 seats in the 48-ward Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). A similar trend seems to be running in minority dominated areas as well, claim senior BJP leaders. The party has received, on an average 12 aspirants for each minority dominated ward like Jamalpur, Dariapur, Behrampura, Makhtampura and Danilimda. However, such enthusiasm for BJP tickets is not seen in wards like Sarkhej and Maktampura where Congress and independents candidates play a significant role. Senior BJP partymen claim that in wards like Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Ghatlodia, and Naranpura there were not less than 200 aspirants — each ward has four seats. “The demand for tickets is greater in the western part than in the eastern part. In the eastern part in areas like Nikol, Bapunagar, Naroda, there were more aspirant than in the other wards,” said a BJP official. On Sunday, the last day of accepting applications, city unit BJP party officials claim that close to 5,000 applications were received for ward level party posts apart from councillor aspirants for the 48 wards in the city. “In fact, even our page-pramukhs, who mobilize voters, have applied for key party posts at ward level and also for councillors. It will be a tough choice for us,” said a senior BJP worker. Discussions by the BJP’s city unit on likely candidates have begun on Monday. This body will name a panel of candidates that will be sent to the BJP’s parliamentary board, who will in tun select a list of candidates to represent each ward. Poll pulse high in Surat tooIn Surat corporation which has 120 seats there were over 1,950 aspirants for contesting at an average of over 16 candidate for each seat. In Rajkot there were over 700 candidates for the 72 seats. Officials said that unlike Ahmedabad and Surat, the rush for seeking tickets was less in other corporations including Rajkot, Jamnagar, Bhavanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/26-claimants-per-bjp-ticket-for-amc-polls/articleshow/80487044.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 28, 2021||Bhopal||Less than 190 Covid cases in MP after seven months||BHOPAL: It was after nearly seven months that less than 190 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in a single day on Wednesday. Only 185 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the count of total positive cases in the state to 2,54,270. Earlier, it was on June 29, that 185 new cases were reported in the state. Thereafter, more than 190 new cases were reported every day. Apart from the fresh cases, six deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the Covid death toll in the state reached 3,776. Districts where these deaths were reported include one death each from Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Betul, Barwani and Damoh. On Wednesday, new cases were reported only from 30 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Wednesday include Hoshangabad, Vidisha, Morena, Mandsaur, Raisen, Khandwa, Harda, Sidhi, Singrauli, Datia, Seoni, Guna, Bhind, Sheopur, Tikamgarh, Umaria, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Panna, Niwari and Agar Malwa. Fresh cases were reported in double figures from three districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Bhopal where 60 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 21 tested positive and Jabalpur where 16 tested positive. On the brighter side, 345 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the total count of recoveries in the state reached 2,47,418. A total 16,413 samples were tested on Wednesday, of which 185 tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Wednesday stood at 1.1 per cent. As on January 27 , there were 3,053 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-190-covid-cases-in-state-after-seven-months/articleshow/80485907.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Lobo using taxi drivers as vote bank, says AAP||Panaji: Reacting to ports minister Michael Lobo’s statement on GoaMiles, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) stated that the Calangute MLA is getting anxious and making such statements as taxi owners have intensified their battle against the government-run app based taxi service and their numbers are increasing. AAP Goa convenor Rahul Mhambre said that Lobo on Monday stated that former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had brought in GoaMiles without consulting anybody and asserted that at least he was not consulted on the matter. “However, according to officials of Goa Miles, Parrikar had categorically called Lobo three days before the order permitting Goa Miles was signed and asked him to give his objections, if any, there itself. Michael had reportedly said he had no objection,” Mhambre said. “It is crystal clear that Lobo is using the taxi drivers as his vote bank and his gimmicks to entice them have begun just before assembly elections. Such ‘jumlas’ will never work as Goans have now seen the light and realised that this current BJP govt. specialises in ‘Jumlebaazi’,” said Mhambre “Lobo was pretending to be a saviour of the taxi owners before being inducted into the ministry. But once he became a part of the cabinet, he has left them in the dark only to remember them as elections approach,” said Mhambre. The party said his outburst is nothing but a manifestation of the ongoing battle within the BJP, with some party members and MLAs unhappy with chief minister Pramod Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-using-taxi-drivers-as-vote-bank-says-aap/articleshow/80488383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||‘Roti, kapda aur makan’ no more a slogan, but a reality in UP: Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR/LUCKNOW: Hitting out at the opposition, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that ‘Roti, kapda aur makan’ slogan was used by Congress, SP and BSP only to grab votes, but they never implemented it when they won elections and formed government. “Roti, kapda aur makan just remained a slogan in the previous governments, but it is a guarantee now under the present central and state governments,” the chief minister said after transferring Rs 2,409 crore to the accounts of over 3.42 lakh beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) Urban. “Till 2017, UP stood at the 27th position among all state in PMAY rankings, but after BJP came to power, our government worked on war footing and the state jumped to first rank in just three years. As many as 16.82 lakh people in urban areas, and more than 23 lakh people in rural areas have benefited from the scheme,” the CM said. Yogi said the target of housing for all fixed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be achieved by 2022. All the people are getting the benefits of housing, electricity, LPG, health facilities, etc. under various government schemes, he added. Urging the beneficiaries to use the money for constructing house only, the CM said bribery had become a culture during the governments of Congress, SP and BSP, when Rs 85 out of Rs 100 went into the pockets of middlemen and scamsters. He requested the people to lodge a complaint if any official asks for a bribe for providing benefits of any scheme. “Strict action will be taken and the entire property of the person seeking money will be seized,” Yogi said. The CM also appealed to the public representatives to do weekly review of the houses being constructed under PMAY and ensure the funds given to beneficiaries are used only for building houses. He also virtually interacted with 10 beneficiaries from Varanasi, Mathura, Ayodhya, Saharanpur and Ghaziabad and handed over the keys to 10 beneficiaries in Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/roti-kapda-aur-makan-no-more-a-slogan-but-a-reality-in-up-cm/articleshow/80489351.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 28, 2021||Goa||Once again, CM says no to growing cannabis in state||Porvorim: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday reiterated the government will not go ahead with the proposal of growing cannabis in the state putting to rest all the controversies. TOI was the first to report that the law department has vetted the proposal of the health department to allow growing of cannabis for medical purposes and the same would be placed before the cabinet. Pointing to the written reply given to the calling attention motion that the proposal is being examined by the law department, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said that it shows that the proposal has not been rejected. Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that there is a fear in the minds of the public at large regarding the attempts by the government to legalise production of cannabis, which is being used as a narcotic drug. “The decision will turn Goa into a drug destination,” he said. Replying to the motion, Sawant said that if any proposal comes and if the government says that it is being examined, it does not necessarily mean it will be taken ahead. He also said that the government has received a proposal from a national institute under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). Sardesai said that he got a reply from the health department under the RTI that his application cannot be examined. “The reply gave rise to contradictory versions, which necessitated transparency. Our demand is that the chief minister should table the entire file on cannabis for transparency,” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/once-again-cm-says-no-to-growing-cannabis-in-state/articleshow/80489640.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||New GU year from Aug 10||Panaji: The new academic year 2021-22 for colleges will begin on August 10. A circular from Goa University has stated that the second semester classes fo rall programmes of BA, BCom, BSc, BEd, BBA, BCA, BPA, BSW and BSC including home science will end on July 2. The second semester examinations will begin on June 7 and will continue for a period of 41 days until July 17. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-gu-year-from-aug-10/articleshow/80488403.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Activists in Aurangabad booked for illegal rallies in support of farmers||AURANGABAD: The police on Tuesday registered three cases after three different rallies, including a tractor rally, was organised in the city in support of the tractor rally in Delhi. In the two cases registered at the Kranti Chowk police station, 58 people, including six women, have been booked. In the case registered with the City Chowk police station, 10 people have been booked for illegally taking out a tractor rally. Kranti Chowk inspector Ganpat Darade said, “In a bike rally, 35 people riding two-wheelers gathered at the Mahatma Phule statue. We requested them not to take out any rally illegally, but they did not comply.” Darade said the protestors even obstructed traffic. A case was booked against them for disobeying orders duly promulgated by a government authority, unlawful assembly, rioting, wrongful restraint, repeating or continuing public nuisance. The second offence, under similar sections, was registered against a group of 23 people, including five women, who took out an illegal bike from the Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue at Kranti Chowk. “Some agitators gathered at Delhi Gate on their tractors. They wanted to take out a rally in support of the protesting farmers in Delhi. We requested them to abstain, but in vain,” said inspector Sambhaji Pawar. Later based on a complaint lodged by assistant inspector Syed Mohsin, the protestors were booked on the charges of disobeying orders duly promulgated by government authority and also under sections of the Maharashtra Police Act. Police officials said these are bailable offences. Those booked will be produced before the court at the time of chargesheet filing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/activists-booked-for-illegal-rallies-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/80485914.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 28, 2021||Goa||Two dead, one injured in car accident||Ponda: Two persons died while another sustained injuries after their vehicle crashed into a tree at Dharbandora late Tuesday. Rajdeep Rajendra Naik, 30, a resident of Tisk Usgao and Sarvesh Ramdas Gaude, 27, a resident of Priol succumbed to their injuries while undergoing treatment at GMC. The third car occupant, Shubham Gawas, escaped with minor injuries. Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said the accident took place while proceeding from Usgao to Dharbandora at Piliyem. “Naik, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle. The car went off the road and dashed into the tree,” police said. They were rushed to Dharbandora PHC. Since Naik and Gaude were critical, the duo was referred to GMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-dead-one-injured-in-car-accident/articleshow/80488438.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Goa||Pedestrian killed in Vasco||Vasco: One person was killed and two injured in a hit-and-run at Vasco on Wednesday. Police said three pedestrians — Holilal Jaiswal, 44, resident of New Vaddem, along with Subhash Patil and Shweta Patil — were walking towards the airport along NH 17-B. Car driver Pexton Pereira ran into them and fled. All three were taken to the sub district hospital at Chicalim where Jaiswal was declared brought dead. Both the Patils were taken to GMC. Police later traced Pereira and arrested him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pedestrian-killed-in-vasco/articleshow/80488418.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||In 1 year of Shiv Bhojan scheme, 3 crore thalis served across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena’s pet project, Shiv Bhojan scheme, completed one year on Tuesday. Under the scheme, the government has served around three crore subsidised thalis across 905 centres in the state at a cost of over Rs 86 crore. CM Uddhav Thackeray said the scheme has benefited the poor, especially during the lockdown months. Price at Rs 10 per plate pre-lockdown, the government slashed the rate by half to Rs 5 during the pandemic-induced lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-1-year-of-shiv-bhojan-scheme-3cr-thalis-served/articleshow/80488500.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two Class 10 students hit by train in Gujarat's Khokhra, 1 dies||AHMEDABAD: Two 15-year-old boys were hit by a train near the Jeevandas Damani railway under-bridge in Khokhra on Tuesday. One of them died, while the other is at a private hospital in critical condition. Khokhra police registered a case of accidental death. According to a local social worker, Harshad Patel, seven boys who are due to take their Class 10 board exams and were going to Neha Coaching Centre in Khokhra, even though tuition classes are not supposed to be running due to Covid-19. “They finished classes but as there were seven of them wanting to go back, the rickshaw driver dropped two of them near the under-pass and took the rest in the rickshaw,” Patel said. Police sources said the two boys then crossed the railway wall, which is low, and were were hit by the Somnath– Jabalpur Express. Police sub-inspector R M Chudasama said one the boys died at the spot while the other suffered severe injuries. “The other boys told us that they had gone to the coaching class as their board exams are imminent,” added Chudasama. Police sources said they inquired at the coaching class but found it locked. “As coaching classes are not supposed to be operating, how this one was open is the main question,” said a police source. “The families of the victims are grief-stricken and we have thus not yet recorded their statements,” a police source said. The owner of the coaching class, Akshay Rajput, said, “The students are to take their pen-and-paper Class 10 exams thus their parents asked me to help solve some of their doubts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-class-10-students-hit-by-train-in-khokhra-1-dies/articleshow/80487111.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: 3 held for pelting stones on bus||KOLHAPUR: As many as three people have been arrested by Solapur police for pelting stones at a state transport (ST) bus last week in order to commit dacoity. Two minors were also part of the group that attacked the bus, moving from Satara to Pandharpur, and they have been detained. A special police team of Malshiras tehsil in Solapur checked all those having criminal records and picked up the suspects from Devapur in Aatpadi tehsil in Sangli district. During investiation the police team found that as many as eight people were involved in the crime, out of which three are absconding. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-held-for-pelting-stones-on-bus/articleshow/80485957.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nashik||Nashik cops nab 1, recover sand boa||NASHIK: The central unit of the crime branch has arrested a 25-year-old man from the Tapovan road in the city and recovered a sand boa snake, which he was carrying for sale. The suspect has been identified as Ramesh Vasant Lakare, a resident of Indira Gharkul Colony, Karanjwan in Dindori taluka. Police sub-inspector Mahesh Shinde of the crime branch received a tip-off about a person coming near Metro Mall along Tapovan road to sell the snake, which is an endangered species. Personnel of the crime branch’s central unit rushed to the spot and arrested Lakare, identifying him as per the description given to them. A live sand boa snake was recovered from a plastic bag, he was carrying. The snake has been handed over to the forest department for further action Those found in trade and possession of the snake, face strict action under sections of the Wild Life Protection Act. The snake is said to be used to perform black magic and has a huge demand. The cost of these snakes runs in a few lakhs of rupees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-cops-nab-1-recover-sand-boa/articleshow/80485941.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Red Fort antiquities missing after chaos: Union minister Prahlad Patel||NEW DELHI: Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Patel said on Thursday some antiquities at the Red Fort have gone “missing”, peripheral lights broken, and an information centre and some Republic Day tableaux damaged following the influx of protesting farmers at Red Fort on Republic Day. “All tableaux are kept in the Red Fort premises after Republic Day celebrations and are on display for public for up to a fortnight. When I went there, I saw these have been damaged. These include the culture ministry and Ram Mandir tableaux,” Patel said. He also said the loss of antiquities – two missing brass pots – is priceless. “Antiquities are priceless. While we can assess the monetary loss, how can we gauge the loss of antiquities?…This is the major loss,” he said. Patel has also ordered an inquiry into the matter and sought a report from the ASI. “Peripheral lights were destroyed, the information centre on the first floor was damaged and the area where the Indian tricolour is displayed, and which has brass antiquities, has two of them missing,” he said. Patel added that that government will take action against those found guilty of the “theft” under various sections of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. ASI also issued an order on Thursday saying that the Red Fort will remain closed for visitors from January 27 to January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/red-fort-antiquities-missing-after-chaos-union-minister/articleshow/80526845.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||With increasing incidents coming to fore, PFA demands immediate action against bullfights||Panaji: The increasing number of dhirio or bullfights being reported by TOI has led animal activists in the state to demand a crackdown on the practice of engaging bovines in a violent fight for sport. TOI had reported about bullfight incidents on August 9, 2020 and January 19, 2021. People for Animals (PFA) president, Norma Alvares has written to the chief secretary of Goa, Parimal Rai, demanding immediate police action against the widespread pattern of bullfight events across the state, many of which are being planned online. They have identified several Facebook groups and Instagram handles and submitted the list. The PFA filed a police complaint against a fight on October 22, 2020 in Benaulim and reported several other incidents in South Goa. “Due to the poor lack of enforcement of the ban on dhirio, there appears to be a fearless display of bulls being trained for fights. Records of fights are published regularly across many social media platforms. We have documented certain profiles/groups and just a quick review of the recent activities on these groups confirms widespread, weekly occurrence of dhirio,” the letter states. PFA has demanded that the incidents be investigated on a war footing as well as a review of the illegality of betting and money-laundering that is integral to bullfights. They also demanded that the use of land where the events take place, and the landowners, must be prohibited from committing the illegal activity. The letter also demanded an immediate survey of the bulls used in such fights and their owners. PFA had taken up the issue of bullfights in the high court in 1997 and had obtained a judgment banning the practice. . “We will be constrained to initiate contempt proceedings if steps are not taken immediately.” the letter states. Director of animal husbandry and veterinary services, Santosh Desai, said, “In case of any such crimes, the police will file a case and penalty given as per the Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-increasing-incidents-coming-to-fore-pfa-demands-immediate-action-against-bullfights/articleshow/80488461.cms||Nida Sayed
January 28, 2021||Goa||‘Co-op societies cheating public will be shut’||Porvorim: Members of the Goa legislative assembly on Wednesday raised concerns over the functioning of co-operative credit societies in which “numerous Goans have deposited their hard-earned money”. Co-operation minister Govind Gaude said that he will conduct a survey of financial institutes which offer schemes that double earnings in five years, and shut them down. He also assured the house that the Goa Co-operative Societies Act will be amended to stop financial fraud there while also vesting more powers with the registrar of co-operative societies. Gaude was responding to Ponda MLA Ravi Naik who brought to his notice that there are a lot of financial institutions operating in the state which offer doubling of investments in just five years. Members of the house also pointed out how co-operative and multi-city co-operative societies are increasing their deposits without the permission of authorities.Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco said that there is fear and anxiety in minds of shareholders and depositors of various co-operative societies after the alleged recent Rs 39 crore scam reported in the Visionaries Urban Co-operative Credit Society Limited Gaude assured the house that once required evidence is collected, all those behind such scams will be put behind bars. He also said that if the government arrests them without proof, they will get bail easily from the court. Chief minister Pramod Sawant appealed to investors to deposit their money only after checking the credibility of the co-operative society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/co-op-societies-cheating-public-will-be-shut/articleshow/80489716.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bhopal||All colleges will adopt a village: Higher edu min||Bhopal: Higher education minister, Mohan Yadav, on Wednesday called on chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, and apprised him on implementation of departmental schemes and proposed schemes. Yadav said that all universities and colleges will adopt a village and keep themselves apprised with the status of the implementation of welfare schemes in the village. This will lead to a better implementation of development works in the village. The role of vice-chancellor, principal and students will be important for the development of the village. This initiative will be taken soon. During the discussion over tea, Yadav informed Chouhan that apart from the development of the area, the colleges will also work for the elimination of social evils. Units of National Service Scheme have been doing such activities on certain conditions. The minister informed Chouhan about the arrangements made for higher education during the Corona period and the necessary arrangements being made after obtaining permission for examinations this year. He said there will be no compromise on quality in higher education. The department is focusing on the quality of teaching in each institution. He further said that some other innovations are also being made, under which the higher education department will start some courses that will prepare rural youth for self-employment and placement in various institutions. This will reduce dependence on government jobs. Efforts are being made to start employment oriented courses especially related to agriculture and animal husbandry. Yadav also gave information about higher education arrangements for tribal dominated areas and backward class community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/all-colleges-will-adopt-a-village-higher-edu-min/articleshow/80485947.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kanpur||Techtro pip Sunrise to lift football cup||Lucknow: In a nail-biting finish, Techtro Football Club defeated three-time champion Sunrise FC 3-1 via tie-breaker to lift the Super Sports Cup-2021 football tournament at KD Singh Babu Stadium on the occasion of Republic Day on Tuesday. With both the sides at their aggressive best, no team could score a goal in the stipulated time necessitating a tie-breaker. Techtro's Utkarsh, Kartik and Rohan scored one goal each. Only Akshay from Sunrise could hit a goal for his team. Techtro's Sachin Parihar was adjudged the man of the match. Chief guest on the occasion, sports director RP Singh, guest of honour CGM of UPEIDA Vishwa Deepak and social worker Mahesh Valmiki presented the trophy and Rs 50,000 to Techtro and Rs 25,000 to runner-up. Player of the tournament Vivek Kumar (Sunrise), best goalkeeper Abhishek Rawat (Techtro) and highest scorer Vinod Kumar (Sunrise) received Rs 5,000 each. Meanwhile, Mahesh Valmiki, Motilal, Rakesh Verma, Ashok Rajak, Ishrat Ali and KN Singh were feliciated for promoting sports in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/techtro-pip-sunrise-to-lift-football-cup/articleshow/80489175.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Central govt’s apathy led to violence: Mayawati||Lucknow: A day after violence rocked Delhi during the farmers’ protest against new farm legislations, BSP president Mayawati on Wednesday said the central government’s “sheer apathy” towards farmers issues led to the incident. “Had the Centre paid heed to my repeated requests to accede to the farmers’ demands and withdraw the three farm laws, the new tradition of protesting in Delhi on Republic Day would not have started,” Mayawati said. In a tweet on Wednesday, the BSP chief reiterated her demand that government should take back the legislations. “Whatever happened during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day should never have taken place. It is highly unfortunate and the central government should be extremely serious about the incident. BSP once again appeals to the government to withdraw the laws without any delay and put an end to the farmers’ protest which has been going on for very long,” she said. In a statement on Republic Day, Mayawati had said,“Farmers do not want to bear the government’s apathy any longer. Therefore, they are camping at Delhi’s borders in extreme cold and are going to celebrate Republic Day in their own unique way by taking out a tractor parade,” she had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/central-govts-apathy-led-to-violence-mayawati/articleshow/80489179.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 28, 2021||Delhi||PIL in Delhi HC seeks to remove protesters||NEW DELHI: A day after farmers created chaos in the city, a PIL was filed in Delhi high court seeking directions to remove those squatting in the garb of agitation. The plea also sought urgent directions from the court to clear all the roads and public places, strengthening paramilitary forces to protect important monuments and ensuring safety of life and property of citizens in Delhi. In another prayer, the PIL sought immediate removal of Delhi Police chief and exemplary punishment for senior officers, who failed to foresee the violence and take preemptive action. “While the nation was celebrating Republic Day, a large number of agitating farmers came out on tractors and started moving at will… they did not confine to the agreed route and started running to different places. They not only disrupted the normal life, but also tried to attack police personnel,” the plea said. Blaming police brass,it added, “Due to lack of timely decision making by the commissioner and other senior officers, police post at Red Fort was abandoned by the cops. They also did not wield appropriate force to disperse the mob.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pil-in-hc-seeks-to-remove-protesters/articleshow/80488491.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Siblings drown in pond at Mapusa||Saligao: Chandini, 10, and her brother Piyush, 5, drowned in a pond at Canca near Mapusa Wednesday evening. “As soon as we got the information, our team rushed there. Their bodies were recovered and handed over to their family,” a fire services official said. The two children of the Rajawath family were playing near the Rashtroli temple when the accident took place at 6.30pm. Locals found their slippers and suspected they had drowned in the pond, the official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/siblings-drown-in-pond-at-mapusa/articleshow/80488509.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Covaxin effective against UK strain, says study||Pune: Covaxin, the indigenously developed vaccine against Covid-19, can protect recipients from the more infectious UK variant of the coronavirus, new research has found. The study, yet to be peer-reviewed, was conducted by experts from National Institute of Virology, Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech. It concluded that the vaccine had generated enough antibody capability in recipients (given two doses) to neutralize the mutated variant, also known as lineage B117 or 20B/501Y.V1. India has so far detected over 100 Covid-19 cases with the UK variant of the virus. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR's epidemiology and communicable diseases division, said the research seems to have dispelled "any doubt" over Covaxin's effectiveness against the variant. He added, “When the UK variant first emerged, there was concern worldwide over the effectiveness of vaccines being developed against Covid. Sera collected from Covaxin recipients was used in the laboratory to see if the samples could neutralise the SARS-CoV-2's UK variant. We found that antibodies in the sera could neutralize the variant effectively.” Dr Pragya D Yadav, head of the department of the Maximum Containment Facility at NIV and a co-author of the research, said, "The study - done via the plaque reduction neutralization test - used blood sera from 38 recipients of Covaxin against the UK variant, another heterologous strain as well as 770 homologous variants isolated from Covid-19 patients. The study indicated that it is unlikely the mutation 501Y would be able to dampen the potential benefits of Covaxin." Dr Yadav added that vaccinated individuals’ sera showed "comparable neutralization activity" against the UK variant as well as the heterologous strain of SARS-CoV-2 with similar efficiency." Dr Gajanan Sapkal, head of the Diagnostic Virology Group at the NIV, said, "All the sera had equivalent concentration of virus-neutralizing antibodies against the UK variant and some unclassified strains of SARS-CoV-2. Importantly, sera from the vaccine recipients could neutralize the UK variant, discounting the uncertainty around potential vaccine-induced antibody escape." Dr Panda said the research had important results for the country. “Its findings are good news for India as the indigenous vaccine can not only elicit strong immune response against the predominantly circulating version of SARS-CoV-2, but has also now proven to be equally effective against the UK variant," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covaxin-effective-against-uk-strain-says-study/articleshow/80488558.cms||Neha Madaan
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||34 UP cadets to march before PM in NCC rally||LUCKNOW: Seven cadets from the Lucknow University (LU) and its affiliated colleges have been included in the 34-member contingent from Uttar Pradesh which will take part in the annual PM’s National Cadet Corps (NCC) rally at Cariappa Parade Ground, New Delhi, on Thursday. These cadets have been preparing for this occasion for long and have gone through grilling rounds before being selected for the prestigious parade. At least 1,000 cadets from across the country will take part in the parade. Talking to TOI, most of the cadets said that it was a moment of pride for them to represent Lucknow at the national level. “These 34 cadets are representing the UP Directorate in the event. These include 20 senior division (boys) and 14 senior wing (girls). Of these, eight will give the guard of honour and 26 will march in the PM rally,” said UP Directorate Contingent Commander, Col SK Mishra. In such a rally, guard of honour is followed by march past and both are considered prestigious. After selection, all the cadets are called to Delhi for two-month long practise and rehearsals. These cadets have been practicing for the big day since November 19. Utkarsh Sharma, a BSc (final year) student of Jai Narain PG College, who will give "general saltue" in the guard of honour, said: “General salute is given with weapons during the rally. Very few are selected for the opportunity. It will be a proud moment for me.” Leading cadet Vandana, a BA (final year) student of Lucknow University, who is in the contingent for guard of honour, said she joined NCC to prove that girls could accomplish heights in any discipline and make the country proud by performing tasks which involve both mental and physical toughness. Leading cadet Mahima Tripathi, a student of MCom (final year) at LU, who is also in the contingent for guard of honour, said it was honour for her to be able to salute the Prime Minister. “Determination to excel in the drills and stand out as the best after each round helped me reach this place,” she said. Leading cadet Mohammad Samir, who is pursuing BA (III) at Shia PG College, said, “Hard work, determination and focus helped me realise my dream.” Similar views were expressed by Sidhhartha Saxena, a BA-III student of Lucknow Christian PG College, who has also been selected for march. Corporal Ekta Maurya, a BA-II student of JNPGC, was selected as guard commander but would not be able to join it as she suffered an injury recently. “It is very disappointing that even after reaching this level, I will not be able to participate in the actual rally. I will try again next year,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/34-up-cadets-to-march-before-pm-in-ncc-rally/articleshow/80489164.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||UP: BJP rolls out grassroots machinery to prepare ground for panchayat polls||LUCKNOW: BJP is set to move into a political overdrive for the panchayat elections, touted as the biggest electoral exercise in the world, before the high-stakes assembly poll in 2022. Beginning Thursday, saffron ranks would kick off grassroots meetings to hammer out an exhaustive public outreach strategy in 1,600 organisational divisions, where the three-tier rural local bodies’ polls are due in next few months. The development comes less than a week after BJP president J P Nadda held a series of meetings with party leaders, MPs, MLAs and cabinet ministers to roll out a template to strength the party at the booth level. BJP has created an organisational structure that could potentially scale up functioning and consolidate its position at grassroots and top sources told TOI the party has deputed a senior party leader and a UP minister in all six organisational regions. At the same time, BJP’s regional general secretary has been appointed convener to coordinate with state-rung functionaries and those in districts, where the party appointed convener and a deputy convener at block, zila panchayat and gram panchayat level. “The organisational structure set up specifically for panchayat elections would now coordinate with the parent organisation to step up activity in view of panchayat elections,” said state BJP vice-president and in charge of panchayat elections, Vijay Bahadur Pathak, while speaking to TOI on Wednesday. BJP in UP has 1,918 organisational divisions and meetings are scheduled in 1,600 units, which will be key to panchayat elections. “The idea is to streamline functioning of party workers in all these divisions,” Pathak said. Even though zila and gram panchayat elections do not permit use of party symbols, BJP has decided to field grassroots functionaries to consolidate its position in rural areas. “The party seeks to ensure presence of functionaries in key positions in all 58,000 gram panchayats,” a senior BJP leader said. Party sources said, divisional-level meetings would be monitored and addressed by Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and party general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. Sources said, the party seeks to invoke public welfare initiatives taken by the Centre and the state government in the rural precincts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-rolls-out-grassroots-machinery-to-prepare-ground-for-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80489291.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driver kidnaps builder’s twins for Rs 1 crore, arrested||MUMBAI: DN Nagar police arrested a 42-year-old driver for allegedly kidnapping 10-year-old twin sons of his employer, a real estate developer from Juhu, and making a Rs 1 crore ransom demand for their release. They also nabbed the 24-year-old brother-in-law of the accused who had helped him execute the crime. The driver reportedly planned the crime to arrange money for his daughter’s wedding. It was the driver himself who had initially rushed to the police station after pretending to have escaped from the kidnapper’s clutches around 9.10pm on January 25. His luck ran out when police smelled a rat and questioned him for 18 hours before he confessed to staging the kidnapping. His brother-in-law had made at least four ransom calls using an internet calling app that displayed a France number to the developer’s mobile. The accused had worked with the developer 10 years ago before accepting a driver’s post in Oman. He rejoined the developer in October 2020 after returning to India upon losing his Oman job due to the pandemic. “We managed to save the twin brothers (both Class V students of an English medium school). One of the children was found lying in his father’s SUV near Juhu PVR while the other was found in the safe custody of Croma showroom staff in Andheri West after he managed to free himself and sought help from them. The accused had made the two children take sleeping pills. The duo used an internet calling app that showed the calls to the children’s father were made from France,” said DN Nagar police senior inspector Bharat Gaikwad. Police were certain of the accused’s role in the crime 20 minutes into his questioning. DCP (Zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe supervised a team led by ACP Jyotsana Rasam, senior inspector Gaikwad and assistant inspector Vikas Patil that located one of the children in a semi-conscious state in the SUV. “The second child was tracked after we nabbed the driver’s brother-in-law who took us to a parked bus outside a Croma showroom. The child was not inside though. Later, we found him with the showroom staff whom he had approached for help after he freed himself,” said the police. The driver had planned the offence and called his Delhi-based brother-in-law, who was employed in a mobile showroom, eight days ago and told him the children attended a tennis training class at Manish Nagar in Andheri (West) from 6.30pm to 7.30pm three days a week. “The rescued kids told us at around 7.40pm they left the tennis class and were driving back home when a man stopped the SUV and barged inside and told them to take the pills. Even the driver stuffed pills in their mouths, they said. On reaching Croma showroom, they tied one of the children’s hands and taped his mouth before dumping him inside the school bus while the second was taken near Juhu PVR. The driver confessed to committing the offence and staging the kidnap,” said the police. The duo have been booked for Indian Penal Code sections for kidnapping and causing grievous hurt. The duo has been sent to police custody till February 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-kidnaps-builders-twins-for-rs-1cr-arrested/articleshow/80489656.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 28, 2021||Lucknow||Mumbai jewellery store heist: Three arrested in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Twenty days after the daring heist at a Mumbai jewellery store, three robbers were arrested in Lucknow outskirts on Wednesday in a joint operation by UP Special Task Force and Mumbai crime branch. The booty, including cash, precious gems, gold jewellery and a 4gm diamond were seized. The gang split after robbing the Mira Road jeweller on January 7 and reached their homes in Uttar Pradesh through varied routes and later assembled to distribute the booty, when they were nabbed from near Dewa Road, Chinhat. Those arrested include Vinay Kumar, Dinesh Nishad and Shailendra Kumar of Jaunpur, while Sanjeet of Azamgarh and Sonu Singh of Ghazipur district are on the run, said police. Forty-six gold rings, four necklaces, 10 lockets, 2 pairs of bracelets, 21gm of precious gems, 14gm jewellery, 4gm diamond, Rs 5.27 lakh in cash, 2 weapons, including a police revolver, 38 live cartridges and 2 mobile phones were seized from them. The gang had taken employees and security guards at gun point during the heist, said police. Mumbai police sought assistance from UP STF, after which a team was constituted to nab the criminals. The joint police raid was conducted after cyber sleuths zeroed in on their location in Lucknow, said ADG, STF, Amitabh Yash. Gang leader Vinay Kumar had sold some jewels and reached Lucknow to hide looted ornaments before distributing the booty. “The revolver was looted from police by a gunrunner and sold to the gang,” said, additional SP, STF, Vishal Vikram Singh, who led the operation. During interrogation, kingpin Vinay said, he took to crime to avenge the murder of his father, Chandrahas Singh in 1991. He tried to snuff out his dad’s killer, Udayiram, in 1991 and later murdered his aide, Prem Prajapati in 1993. “In 1994, he killed Udayiram and then looted money and killed a Ghazipur banker in 2001. “In the same year, he and his aide, Manoj Dubey, raided the office of an insurance company, but Dubey was later shot in a police encounter. He also confessed to planning big hits at business establishments, including a Prayagraj jeweller’s shop, Fun Republic Mall and a casino in Goa,” said the officer. On the modus operandi, Vinay said, he and his aides would do a recce of high-value targets and befriend security guards to know about escape routes and easy access.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mum-jewellery-store-heist-3-arrested-in-city/articleshow/80489424.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Tree-cutting creates tension in Assagao||Panaji: Assagao residents on Wednesday gathered near St Cajetan Church where branches of an old Banyan tree - believed to be 200-400 years old – were being chopped to accommodate a project.  Residents said that over 100 barks are lying in the property. Environmental activist Claude Alvares said such incidents are destroying the character and the topography of Assagao. “We had given permission only to chop branches, not the entire tree. After people complained, we stopped the work,” deputy conservator of forests (North ), Santosh Fadte said. The company’s representative Varun Nagpal said, “The tree has been trimmed to accommodate the buildings around it. There has been no uprooting or damage to the tree in any manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tree-cutting-creates-tension-in-assagao/articleshow/80488478.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||PMR records its highest 71% vaccinations on seventh day||PUNE: A total of 3,667 or 71% of the total 5,200 healthcare workers took the Covid shot in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, marking its highest ever turnout so far. Among the PMR components, the Pune municipal areas recorded its highest turnout on Wednesday, with 83% out of 1,700 daily beneficiaries taking the vaccine. While the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas accounted for 721 vaccinations (80% out of 900) on Wednesday, the rural areas lagged with 59% coverage (1,543 out of 2,600). The inoculation drive conducted on Monday (January 25) had recorded 69% vaccination in the PMR. In addition to the on-the-spot vaccination of registered but unscheduled beneficiaries, seamless and uninterrupted functioning of Co-WIN application at most centres were the major factors behind the surge in the number of vaccinations, health officials said. A total of 14,986 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the region ever since the drive began on January 16. Ashish Bharati, chief of the health department, PMC, said, “The drive is slowly getting streamlined. Barring a few exceptions like Kamala Nehru hospital, most centres did not face Co-WIN application-related issues on Wednesday.” When asked if the daily target would further be increased, Bharati said, “The government has asked us not to exceed the vaccination session sites above 16. Hence, for now, we will not be increasing the daily target. Our daily target vaccination will continue to be 1,600 workers till further orders. Although we exceeded it a little on Wednesday.” Four new vaccination sites have been included in the PMC areas from Wednesday. They include Jehangir hospital, Inlaks and Budharani hospital, KEM hospital and Joshi hospital. Barring Joshi hospital, where only 30 of the expected 100 beneficiaries took the shot, the other three newly added sites recorded more than 70% vaccinations on their first day. Talera Hospital in Chinchwad led the vaccination figures in the PCMC limits, with 119 beneficiaries getting the shots there. At the Thergaon Hospital in Pimple Nilakh, as many as 104 beneficiaries got the shot on Wednesday. Pavan Salve, additional health chief, PCMC, said, “We all are working hard on vaccination drive, which is why the response is increasing with each passing day.” Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “It is a marginal drop. Hence, it is not worrisome. We have been maintaining a above 60% vaccination since the beginning of the drive. We will definitely push the numbers in coming days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-its-highest-71-vaccinations-on-seventh-day/articleshow/80488529.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||NBFC loan sanctions in Gujarat declined by 30% in Q2||AHMEDABAD: Slowing recoveries since the pandemic left Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) grappling with liquidity issues and consequently, the loan sanctions by these companies took a hit in Gujarat in Q2 of 2020-21. According to data by Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), NBFC loan sanctions declined 30% from Rs 15,475.87 crore in Q2 of 2019-20 to Rs 10,833.22 crore in 2020-21. “Due to the lockdown, demand across sectors took a hit and therefore, several portfolios such as automobile loans, construction equipment, equipment finance, among others saw a significant decline in sanctions. However, the loan disbursals significantly improved on a quarterly basis,” said Mahesh Thakkar, director general, FIDC. Liquidity crunch faced by the NBFCs was one of the key reasons why the loan sanctions declined. “Due to the moratorium announced by the Reserve Bank of India, repayment cycles were affected greatly. Due to this, lending got impacted significantly in the first two quarters. However, from the third quarter onwards, the lending improved significantly,” said a senior official from an NBFC based in Gujarat. A similar 32% decline was visible pan-India during the same period down from Rs 2.23 lakh crore to Rs 1.52 lakh crore. Categories such as automobile loans, commercial vehicle loans, education loans, equipment financing, and even personal loans showed a drastic decline upwards of 35% in the second quarter, year-on-year. NBFC players also opined that companies had to be frugal when it came to lending and therefore, the norms also underwent a change. “India saw the longest lockdown in the world. Due to this not just the recoveries but even the disbursals took a hit,” said Kamlesh Gandhi, CMD, MAS Financial. “At the same time, NBFCs had to be prudent in terms of lending as the recoveries had slowed due to the lockdown whereas businesses as well as incomes had taken a hit in the initial stages,” Gandhi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nbfc-loan-sanctions-in-state-declined-by-30-in-q2/articleshow/80487148.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Land scam: SC protects Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa from arrest, no trial court relief||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday protected CM BS Yediyurappa from arrest in an alleged land scam case but refused to stay proceedings in the trial court, saying there was no fear of it sending an arrest warrant to him as he is the CM of the state. “You are the chief minister. Who can issue an arrest warrant against you? At the most, the trial court can issue a request letter asking you to appear before it,” a bench led by CJI SA Bobde said when Yediyurappa’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi and KV Vishwanathan apprehended that the trial court would send an arrest warrant after taking cognizance of the complaint. The bench issued notice to complainant A Alam Pasha on Yediyurappa’s petition and said, “There shall be a stay of arrest in the meantime.” Co-accused and former industry minister Murugesh R Nirani, through counsel Sajan Poovayya, too, pleaded for stay of proceedings and sought protection from arrest. The bench stayed arrest, but said, “You are more powerful than the CM.” Yediyurappa and Nirani had filed petitions challenging a Karnataka high court’s January 8 order allowing restoration of a complaint filed by Alam, head of Pash Space International, who alleged that the duo had reneged on their 2010 promise to grant 26 acres of land at Devanahalli Industrial area in Bengaluru for a Rs 600-crore housing project. The land grant was cancelled in March 2011. Plaint to Lokayukta led to filing of chargesheetPasha’s complaint to the Lokayukta had led to filing of a chargesheet, which was quashed by the HC on the ground that the police had failed to obtain sanction for prosecution of Yediyurappa. After Yediyurappa ceased to be the CM, a fresh complaint was filed by Pasha saying since the accused is no longer a public servant, no sanction was required. However, the trial court in 2016 rejected it saying an earlier complaint was earlier dismissed. Setting aside the trial court’s order refusing to look into the complaint, Justice Michael Cunha of Karnataka HC had, on January 8, said, “The quashing of the earlier complaint filed by the petitioner in 2012 for want of sanction, in my view, will not operate as a bar to maintain the instant complaint.” “The prohibition contained in Article 20(2) of the Constitution of India and Section 300 CrPC does not get attracted to the facts of the case as the respondents (Yediyurappa and Nirani) have not been prosecuted or acquitted based on the earlier complaint lodged against them in 2012. In that view of the matter, I do not find any impediment for the trial court to proceed with the instant complaint as per law,” the HC had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/land-scam-sc-protects-bsy-from-arrest-no-trial-court-relief/articleshow/80490222.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 28, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: 2,000 rural private schools restart Classes 1 to 5||BELAGAVI: Coming under pressure from parents to restart classes and the Karnataka government yet to make a decision, nearly 2,000 private schools in Karnataka’s rural areas welcomed Class 1 to 5 children back to their campus on Wednesday. Since the third week of November, the Karnataka government has given permission to incrementally reopen classes, starting with postgraduate and professional courses. The government’s Vidyagama programme – a reachout initative for students – has also resumed after it was suspended in October over fears of Covid infection spreading among students and faculty. However, the government has not made any decision yet on restarting lower grades. Parents were worried about kids forgetting reading skillsThe schools were closed in the second week of March after the outbreak of Covid-19. After a string of meetings with stakeholders and parents, the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association (Rupsa) on Tuesday decided to throw open the doors of schools for all students. Udupi, Chitradurga, Chikkamagaluru and Ballari, among other districts, reported students returning to schools in good numbers. The student turnout is expected to improve in the coming days. The association has about 10,000 member-schools. Rupsa president Lokesh Talikatte told TOI that parents were asking school managements about the delay in reopening schools even after the number of Covid cases was on a downward trajectory in the past six weeks. “Hence, we decided to open the schools,” he added. Sources said parents were becoming increasingly worried about children forgetting essential reading skills. A parent from T Narsipura taluk in Mysuru district said that it was tough to strike a balance between taking care of children who are at home all through the day and working in a textile factory. She said, “The association’s decision is commendable. I leave home for the factory at 7am and return by 7pm. It’s good that children are safe in school and learning directly under teachers’ guidance.” VP Niranjanaradhya, an education expert, welcomed RUPSA’s decision, saying it was in the larger interest of student community. He said, “The state government must seriously consider reopening classes by February 1. Any more delay means children are being denied right to education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2k-rural-pvt-schools-restart-classes-1-to-5/articleshow/80490225.cms||Shreyas HS
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu asks Centre about giving frontline workers, elderly shots||CHENNAI: With less than 15% of the estimated six lakh healthcare providers opting for the vaccine in the past 12 days, the state health department is now contemplating sending invites to frontline workers registered in the Cowin portal and to the elderly population. On Wednesday, the state vaccinated 8,086 health care workers — 7,885 Covishield and 201 Covaxin — about 45% of the targeted 17,900 on Wednesday. The Union health ministry, which supplies Covishield and Covaxin to all states, has insisted that the preregistered healthcare providers alone receive the vaccine now. On Wednesday, officials at the state public health department sought permission to open a parallel window for frontline workers. “The line demarcating a healthcare provider and frontline workers is very thin. We can give the vaccine to those willing and in need of it,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. While the state has taken up largescale advocacy to overcome hesitancy among doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff, the process has been challenging as most healthcare providers have told the government and doctors’ bodies that they want to “wait and watch.” As a result, the attendance is less than 25% in several sites. “If we open the balance to the next category, we can expedite the process,” he said. Moreover, the state’s health helpline (104) and senior officials have been receiving calls and messages from a section of people above 50 years with comorbidities, who are “willing and eager” to take the vaccination. “The mortality is high in this group. Instead of lumping all above 50s into one category, it’s good to prioritise people within this group age-wise. For instance, we may give it to those above 70 years first,” said a senior official from the directorate of public health. Earlier, the department announced that private hospitals inviting ‘registration’ for vaccination or making any attempt to monetise the government-sponsored Covid-19 vaccines will have their licenses cancelled besides facing action under the Clinical Establishment Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-asks-centre-about-giving-frontline-workers-elderly-shots/articleshow/80487140.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: Differing data creates doubt over vaccine dose utilisation||PUNE: The daily vaccination report generated separately by the District health office (DHO) and the health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) quoted different final figures on at least two days of the vaccination drive, creating confusion about the doses utilised in the civic limits. On January 25, the PCMC’s health department had reported vaccination of 791 of the 800 beneficiaries, while the DHO had reported 666 people taking the shots. On January 23, the PCMC’s health department reported 530 vaccinations, while the DHO reported 419. The final figures matter because each centre’s figures explain how many doses were used and how many got wasted. Pavan Salve, additional health chief, PCMC, told TOI that the district health office needed to be asked why they had lower figures than the PCMC. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director, health, Pune region, said he would look into the issue and resolve it by Wednesday night. Activist Maruti Bhapkar said, “The PCMC’s health department had similar issues earlier while recording the Covid-19 cases. The number of the positive patients and the beds available did not match then. Even after a public outcry, the issues were not fixed for many days.” The reports generated by the PCMC and the DHO on Wednesday, however, had matching numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/differing-data-creates-doubt-over-vaccine-dose-utilisation/articleshow/80488585.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||161 Gujarat hospitals have no fire NOC||AHMEDABAD: It seems that hospitals have still not learnt their lesson from the fire at Shrey hospital that claimed eight lives. There are still as many as 161 hospitals under Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation areas that have not obtained fire NOC despite Gujarat High Court’s strict warning seeking compliance with fire safety rules. The hospitals continue to default on the norms even after AMC issued a public notice on December 21, granting 15 days for all hospitals to get their fire prevention systems inspected by the authorities, said a civic body official. Sources in the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Department said the hospitals, which have not obtained fire NOC, have always defaulted on this aspect. "They consider installing fire prevention system in their buildings and hospitals as dead investment and have always evaded compliance of rules. We are going to name them as the high court has asked for a list of such hospitals," an AMC official said. Sources said that there are few clinics and nursing homes that exist in the city which are not registered with the civic body. Since they are not duly registered, their compliance with fire safety laws are not monitored at all. On the day when eight Covid-19 patients lost their lives in the fire that broke out at Shrey Hospital’s ICU on August 6, 2020, only 91 of total 2,022 registered hospitals and nursing homes in AMC limits had valid fire NOC. The HC ordered for strict compliance of rules during the hearing of a PIL filed by advocate Amit Panchal seeking action for lapses in implementation of the fire safety norms. On December 15, 2020, the HC ordered the authorities to place a list of Covid-19 hospitals, schools, factories, and industrial units situated in AMC limits, which failed to obtain fire NOC. The HC has also sought a list of all buildings in municipal and civic body limits which do not possess BU permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/161-city-hospitals-have-no-fire-noc/articleshow/80487137.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: UAPA sections, sedition charge in FIRs||NEW DELHI: An FIR under sections of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and IPC Section 124A (sedition) has been lodged by Delhi Police to probe the conspiracy regarding unfurling of flags at Red Fort and India Gate. Those involved in unfurling the Sikh religious flag, Nishan Sahib, on a minaret of Red Fort on Tuesday will be booked in this FIR, apart from other FIRs of rioting, etc registered by the local police, said sources. Police are also looking into other flags waved at Red Fort during the violence. The UAPA FIR was registered by Special Cell based on multiple threats extended by SFJ throughout January. The outfit had even announced a reward for unfurling the Khalistani flag at India Gate. Even on Wednesday, SFJ announced a reward to anyone who would unfurl the Khalistani flag atop the Parliament on February 1. Around 25 FIRs were registered at different police stations between Tuesday evening and Wednesday in connection with Tuesday’s violence. A review of several FIRs by TOI found that police have invoked IPC sections of rioting, criminal conspiracy, unlawful assembly, destruction of property, assault and other related sections. Robbery and charges under sections of Arms Act were also noted in the FIRs as the farmers had allegedly looted teargas shell crates, pistols and CCTV cameras. The weapon of a sub-inspector along with 10 rounds of ammunition was snatched in Samaypur Badli. Many farmer leaders like Rakesh Tikait, Naresh Tikait, Yudhvir Singh Malik, Darshan Lal Singh, Buta Singh, Satnam Singh Pannu, Rishipal Ambawata, among others, have been named in the FIRs. A senior officer said around a dozen of them have been named. The FIRs are likely to be transferred to special teams in Crime Branch. As reported by TOI, police confirmed that they were probing the role of Punjab-based criminals and gangsters. They said that gangster-turned-activist Lakhvir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana and actor Deep Sidhu had been named in the FIR lodged for the Red Fort violence. Cops will contact their Punjab counterparts in this regard. Details of how the protesters turned violent and ran amok have been mentioned in the FIRs. For instance, the FIR for the violence at ITO describes how policemen, who had rushed to rescue the tractor driver who crashed into the barricades while driving dangerously, had been attacked. Police are taking the help of CCTV footage and mobile videos to extract images of the protesters, especially the ones who went on the rampage at ITO and Red Fort, where maximum violence was witnessed. Facial Recognition Software will be used to identify and arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uapa-sections-sedition-charge-in-firs/articleshow/80488664.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 28, 2021||India||PM asked me why I wasn’t letting bills be passed amid din: Hamid Ansari in book||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi had asked then Vice President Hamid Ansari why bills were not being passed in a din during a conversation when the PM dropped into the latter’s office when Ansari was chairman of Rajya Sabha, the ex-diplomat has written in his just released book. Writing about his decision not to allow passage of bills in a din, Ansari said both UPA and NDA were unhappy but the BJP coalition felt “its majority in Lok Sabha gave it the ‘moral’ right to prevail over procedural impediments in Rajya Sabha. “An expression of this was conveyed to me authoritatively, and somewhat unusually, when one day PM Modi walked into my Rajya Sabha office unscheduled.” “After I got over my surprise, I made the customary gestures of hospitality. He said ‘there are expectations of higher responsibilities for you but you are not helping me’. I said that my work in the Rajya Sabha, and outside, is public knowledge. ‘Why are bills not being passed in the din?’ he asked,” the former VP wrote. Ansari shared an uneasy relationship with the Modi government and the PM. An unusual mention during the former VP’s farewell in Rajya Sabha suggested he had remained constricted by his experience. “A big part of your working life was in West Asia... in the same atmosphere and debate... after retirement, it was minorities commission or AMU... that was your circumference”. In his book “By Many A Happy Accident”, Ansari speaks of India’s descent in recent years into “populism, assisted by authoritarianism, nationalism and majoritarianism”. Recalling a meeting with Modi in 2007, Ansari writes : “A very early caller was Narendra Modi, then CM of Gujarat. After the usual polite exchanges, I said I had questions in my mind that would have been asked had we met in my previous responsibility as Chairman of the NMC. I referred to the post-Godhra happenings in his state in 2002 and asked why he allowed it to happen. He said people look at only one aspect of the matter and pay no attention to the good work he has initiated, particularly for the education of Muslim girls. I sought its details and suggested that he should publicise it; ‘that does not suit me politically’ was the revealingly candid response.” Describing his stint as Rajya Sabha chairman, Ansari said he built cross-party consensus over not allowing bills to be “passed in the din”. Informed “authoritatively” about the problems this caused, he referred to demands by NDA floor managers. “With a paper majority, the bills at times were cleared with voice vote, provided no one asked for the division of votes. However, in the current case, the ruling NDA did not have the majority. So, it was technically, procedurally and morally impossible to pass the bills in din, assuming the majority for the government,” Ansari wrote. The former VP referred also to the worrying “emergence” of a practice of “using the provisions of Articles 109 and 110 of the Constitution relating to money bills” to declare a bill a Money Bill. In the concluding chapter of his autobiography, he cautioned against succumbing to the temptation of the “enforced homogenisation being attempted in a social milieu traditionally enriched by its diversity between communities and within them”. He warns “this ideological potion, premised simplistically on the desirability of oneness of language, ethnicity, religion, territory and culture was administered successfully to a little over a third of the electorate”. Watch PM asked me why I wasn’t letting bills be passed: Hamid Ansari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-asked-me-why-i-wasnt-letting-bills-be-passed-amid-din-hamid-ansari-in-book/articleshow/80490232.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||3 of 5 nabbed from UP for Rs 2 crore Mumbai jewellery store heist||MUMBAI: Three of the five armed men, who robbed valuables worth Rs 2 crore from a Mira Road jewellery showroom in broad daylight early this month, have been arrested in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. The armed and masked men entered S Kumar Gold and Diamonds showroom in Sector 4 of Shanti Nagar, posing as customers at around 2pm on January 7. After an initial interaction with the counter staff, one of them pulled out a revolver while three others moved around the showroom picking up gold and diamonds and putting them in their bags. The entire theft was caught on the showroom’s CCTV. What caught the attention of the cops was that the theft was carried out at leisure for about 15 minutes. The showroom staff stood in silence and the security guard too stayed seated inside the showroom. The staff later told the police that the men carried out the theft with a calm mind. They sweetly asked the staffers to stay away and assured them of no harm. While they left with the loot, one of their motorbikes developed a technical snag and had to be abandoned. Their fifth accomplice was waiting outside. A police team recovered around Rs 30 lakh worth of valuables from the accused. The main accused is still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-of-5-nabbed-from-up-for-rs-2cr-jewellery-store-heist/articleshow/80488648.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||68-yr-old accident victim gives new lease of life to 3 needy patients||Nagpur: A 68-yr-old man from Bhandara, who died in a road mishap, gave a new lease of life to 3 needy patients through brainstem dead organ donation coordinated by the Zonal Transplant Coordination Center (ZTCC) Nagpur on Wednesday. ZTCC President Dr Vibhavari Dani informed that Ramesh Pandurang Kharwade, a resident of Jawahar Nagar near Bhandara, and a retired employee of ordnance factory, met with a car accident on January 25. “He suffered severe head injury and was admitted at Nakade hospital, Bhandara. On January 26, he was shifted to Meditrina Hospital in city. During treatment, his condition neurologically deteriorated, and a team of doctors declared him brain-dead on Tuesday evening,” said Dr Dani. Family members were counselled for organ donation. His wife Shalini readily agreed to donate his organs. Both sons Rishikesh and Lukesh also agreed to donate the organs. “The family is from rural background and both sons are working as labourers. The family understood the need of organ donation and quickly agreed to donate as many organs as possible saying that more needy patients should benefit,” said ZTCC coordinator Veena Vathore. ZTCC secretary Dr Sanjay Kolte informed that the present organ donation was second in 2021. “This was the 69th BSD organ donation under ZTCC Nagpur, 122nd and 123rd Kidney donation, and 53rd liver donation till date. The family has shown the magnanimity by donating all the possible organs for transplant,” he said. As per rules, heart and lungs of a patient more than 65 years of age are not considered for the donation. But, the family had agreed to donate both. Team of doctors at Meditrina Hospital, where the patient was declared brain-dead, also retrieved the liver and conducted liver transplant. Teams at New Era Hospital and Care Hospital conducted kidney transplants. A donor honour corridor was created and free ambulance service to native place was also provided to the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/68-yr-old-accident-victim-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-3-needy-patients/articleshow/80487158.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Fixed rentals, flight path keep city skyline stunted||Chennai: Scrapping the plan for skyscrapers styled like Kuala Lumpur’s Petronas Towers for the Tamil Nadu Commerce Hub at Nandanam has brought to light the problems in promoting vertical development in Chennai. Most other metros are growing vertically, but Chennai has not seen any skyscraper since the state government increased the Floor Space Index (FSI) two years ago. The few high-rises on OMR and the city’s tallest tower coming up at Perambur were planned before the FSI was revised. Height restrictions for properties on the flight path of planes coming into or leaving the city, depth restrictions along key main roads having metro rail corridors and escalating construction cost for top floors that is not commensurate with Return on Investment (RoI) are the major reasons preventing investors from exploring high-rises. The commerce hub, planned with a 50-floor building and a 35-floor building on either side of Anna Salai linked by a skywalk, will now be a three-building complex, with the tallest having 20 floors. Prashant Thakur, director and head (research), ANAROCK Property Consultants, says of all project launches in 2020 in Chennai, just one was a high-rise (ground +20 floors or more). “Despite an increase in FSI, of the nearly 200 projects launched in 2019, the share of high-rises was 7%; in 2018, the share was 21%.” While the height between each floor in residential towers ranges from 3 metres to 3.5 metres, it is between 3.5m and 4.25m for commercial buildings. A 20-storey building will be more than 60 metres tall, but the few that exist are scattered at Koyambedu, OMR and North Chennai, with the height ranging from 63m to 161m. Srinivas Anikipatti, senior director of Knight Frank India (Tamil Nadu and Kerala), said cost of construction increases by 20%-25% after the ninth floor and shoot ups further for additional floors. “But rental returns for office spaces in Chennai remain stagnant at Rs 50/sqft-Rs 65/sqft irrespective of the floors. So, developers don’t go for skyscrapers,” he said. Ajith Kumar Chordia, Olympia Group managing director and former president (TN) of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India, said the increase in construction cost and (construction) time without a proportionate rise in rentals does not make sense for developers to explore skyscrapers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fixed-rentals-flight-path-keep-city-skyline-stunted/articleshow/80487191.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Classes 9, 11 to go back to school||AHMEDABAD: After students of class 10 and class 12, it is now the turn of students in class 9 and 11 to resume in-person classes. The students will begin attending school from February 1, announced state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Wednesday. Coaching classes have also been allowed to reopen for students from classes 9 to 12 from February 1, he added. The decision was taken at the cabinet meeting presided over by CM Vijay Rupani and DyCM Nitin Patel. “Coaching classes for competitive examinations can also restart, but all educational institutions have to strictly observe SOP as per guidelines issued on January 8 ,” the government said. After being shut for over nine months due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government had on January 11 allowed reopening of educational institutions in the state in a staggered manner. Class 10 and class 12 students have returned to physical classrooms in schools while final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students are allowed on college campuses. Chudasama said the decisions apply to government and private educational institutions. “This has been decided in the interest of students so that they do not miss teaching. The decision could be taken only because of reduction in number of coronavirus cases,” he added. More than 17 lakh students are enrolled in class 10 and class 12 courses and a sizeable number of them have begun going back to schools. Plans to restart educational activity in higher classes as well for college students other than those in their final year of studies, are also being considered. College hostels which were converted into Covid-19 care centres are getting fewer patients. So, after the health and education secretaries submit their reports about complete sanitization of such hostel premises, a decision to hand them back will be taken, said government sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/classes-9-11-to-go-back-to-school/articleshow/80487178.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Doors unlocked: Eight firms in Gujarat show interest in hiring convicts||AHMEDABAD: Giving convicts a chance to reform themselves once they finish their sentence, the Prisoners Employment Exchange is up and running with their names, skills, qualifications and other details needed by companies in Gujarat to offer them a shot at making an honest living. Under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), eight companies have shown interest in hiring prisoners if their qualifications match their requirements, said jail officials. The government platform has details of about 260 convicts who have been released from all 29 jails across the state in the last year.  There are about 1,5000 prisoners lodged in state jails across the state. Of these, around 9,500 are undertrials. Additional DGP (Jails) K L N Rao said that this scheme is only for convicts who were imprisoned for two years and less. "Prisoners who have been given life imprisonment are not included in the scheme. We have already started making a list of prisoners to be released in 2021,"Rao said. He added that they will periodically review how many prisoners have taken up jobs through the exchange. Rao also said that apart from the PEE scheme, they are also planning for an annual campus interview of convicts who are to be released soon. "The project is in the pipeline," he added. Two more open jails According to jail officials, there are four open jails in the state: Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Junagadh and Amreli. "We are planning to open two more in Surat and Rajkot where the numbers of convicted prisoners are more. Only convicted prisoners with good conduct are allowed to be kept in open jails. They are paid for the work they do there," said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doors-unlocked-eight-firms-show-interest-in-hiring-convicts/articleshow/80487165.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
January 28, 2021||Pune||25 ASHA workers who served remote villages in Pune get vaccine shield||PUNE: Sonali Nigade (36) is among the many Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, who worked under trying conditions in the remote villages of Velhe taluka, dispensing medicines to senior and other vulnerable citizens, when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak in the district. On Monday, Nigade was among the 25 ASHA workers who received the Covishield vaccine shots at the Rural Hospital (RH), Velhe. “I am happy to have figured among the list of beneficiaries in the first round of vaccination at RH, Velhe. We had to work in an adverse situation during the peak of the pandemic in villages. At times, I would start my day at 7.30am and work till 8.30pm, while contact tracing high and low-risk people,” Nigade told TOI. Another ASHA worker Sangita Khule from Sanswadi village, located at the foothills of the Torna fort, said, “I had to walk almost 10km daily to access the main road to collect medicines for senior citizens. I had to walk 15km daily to reach remote hamlets to conduct surveys during the peak of the pandemic, when no private transport was available. On Monday, I felt honoured when my name figured in the list of beneficiaries.” Rajshree Dharpale, supervisor of ASHA workers in Velhe, said, “ I did not expect to see my name in the first round of vaccination. My family and I are very happy.” On the performance of ASHA workers, Velhe’s health officer Ambadas Deokar, said, “They performed the duty very sincerely in difficult times. Without them, we would not have been able to control the situation in many places. On Monday, maximum of them got vaccinated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25-asha-workers-who-served-remote-villages-get-vaccine-shield/articleshow/80488605.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 28, 2021||Rajkot||Covid-19: Two-thirds of daily cases in Gujarat from eight cities||AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday, Gujarat recorded two-thirds of daily cases (233 out of 353) from eight municipal corporation areas — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, and Gandhinagar. The only death was recorded in AMC area. A sharp drop in cases has been registered in the state: 59% in a month from 850 on December 27 to 353 on January 27. The dip is pronounced in non-urban areas, reveals an analysis of the daily cases. Except four districts — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot — no other district had double-digit cases. Even in the cities, the cases have reduced significantly. “There has been a sharp drop in cases in Surat over the past few days. Ahmedabad’s daily tally has also reduced from 172 on December 27 to 126 on January 11 to 73 on January 27,” said an epidemiologist. “The challenge will be to ensure there’s no surge in cases, especially in cities.” The epidemiologist added that the recovery rate of 96.8% is encouraging, with only 3,976 active patients as of January 27. An analysis of active, discharged, and deceased patients of Covid-19 among major Indian states by the website Covid19India.org revealed that Gujarat had the fourth highest active cases as a percentage of total positive cases. Kerala led with 8%, followed by Maharashtra with 2.2%. For past few days, Gujarat has not released data of daily tests conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/corona-two-thirds-of-daily-cases-from-eight-cities/articleshow/80491187.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Two-thirds of daily cases in Gujarat from eight cities||AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday, Gujarat recorded two-thirds of daily cases (233 out of 353) from eight municipal corporation areas — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, and Gandhinagar. The only death was recorded in AMC area. A sharp drop in cases has been registered in the state: 59% in a month from 850 on December 27 to 353 on January 27. The dip is pronounced in non-urban areas, reveals an analysis of the daily cases. Except four districts — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot — no other district had double-digit cases. Even in the cities, the cases have reduced significantly. “There has been a sharp drop in cases in Surat over the past few days. Ahmedabad’s daily tally has also reduced from 172 on December 27 to 126 on January 11 to 73 on January 27,” said an epidemiologist. “The challenge will be to ensure there’s no surge in cases, especially in cities.” The epidemiologist added that the recovery rate of 96.8% is encouraging, with only 3,976 active patients as of January 27. An analysis of active, discharged, and deceased patients of Covid-19 among major Indian states by the website Covid19India.org revealed that Gujarat had the fourth highest active cases as a percentage of total positive cases. Kerala led with 8%, followed by Maharashtra with 2.2%. For past few days, Gujarat has not released data of daily tests conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-two-thirds-of-daily-cases-from-eight-cities/articleshow/80487270.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||In a day, Amravati division wastes as much vax as city in a week||Nagpur: The wastage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in Amravati district in a single day is almost equal to one week of wastage in Nagpur city. Still, wastage is below the permissible limit of 10%. Vaccine is being administered to health care workers at 35 centres situated in five districts of Amravati division. On January 25, 5,250 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc of government and private hospitals were scheduled for the inoculation in Co-WIN application. The target was to vaccinate 3,500. Till now, 2,757 health care staff have now taken the jab. Due to lack of 100% turnout, vials comprising 2,940 doses were opened. Thus, 183 doses have gone waste. As against total utilization, wastage percentage was 6.22%. The state government had permitted wastage up to 10%. In Nagpur city, 2,527 health care workers were administered the vaccine on seven days between January 16 and 25. Total 2,720 doses were utilized while 193 (7.1%) doses had gone waste. If one compares the wastage of Nagpur city’s one week with single day of Amravati division, it is more or less the same. Wastage of 183 doses in a single day totals up to a huge number in seven days of vaccination programme in the division. Vaccination was 100% at two centres — Wani and Mangrulpir — and wastage was zero on January 25. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Wastage of doses should be avoided and can be easily ensured. There will be no wastage if all 100 turn up. After 100, vial should be opened only if 10 health care workers arrive at the centre. Also, it can be minimized by rounding off the number of beneficiaries. Best idea will be to call and inquire about availability of beneficiaries for the day so that proper planning is possible.” Dental College, Amravati, and the centre at Risod gave the jab to 131 and 111 health care staff respectively. Thus, nine doses were wasted at each centre. Similar was the case at Chikhli, Sultanpur and Risod centres. Vials consisting of 120 doses were opened and vaccine was administered to 112, resulting in wastage of eight doses at Chikhli. At Sultanpur centre, wastage was eight doses as 102 were given the jab. The same is the condition at some centres where below 100 turned up for the inoculation. For administering dose to one person, nine doses were wasted at four centres on this day — Daryapur (81 of 90 doses), Chandur Railway (91 of 100 doses), Washim district general hospital (71 of 80 doses) and Pandharkawda (61 of 70 doses). Eight doses were wasted at seven centres. Deputy director of health services, Amravati division, Dr Rajkumar Chavan said, “Instructions were given from time to time to all centres to minimize wastage of doses. Centres have been clearly directed to continue vaccination only if 10 health care workers arrive after 5pm. Vaccination is being done up to 6pm at some centres in case of delay by health care workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-day-amravati-division-wastes-as-much-vax-as-city-in-a-week/articleshow/80487279.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Cold wind from north chills Mumbai at 15.3°C||MUMBAI: Cold wind in northern India brought chill to the city as Mumbaikars woke up to a minimum temperature of 15.3 degrees Celsius, the lowest this year. Wednesday’s minimum at Indian Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory was the second lowest this winter, with the city having recorded 15 degrees on December 29, 2020. The minimum on Wednesday was 2.2 degrees below normal and lower than Tuesday’s 16 degrees. Colaba recorded a minimum of 18 degrees, which was 1.5 degrees below normal. Last year, the lowest minimum in January was 11.4 degrees. Day temperatures were also low. Santacruz and Colaba recorded a maximum of 29.7 and 28 degrees, 1.9 and 2.3 degrees below normal respectively. IMD said temperatures are likely to remain in that range for few more days. “The minimum temperature in the state will see a dip over the next 2-3 days as the north-western dry winds make way into Maharashtra. Temperatures in parts of North Maharashtra, Vidharbha could range from 10-12 degrees. Mumbai and Thane could see a minimum of around 15 degrees,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. As temperatures dipped, the city’s air quality index (AQI) slipped back into ‘very poor’ category after briefly improving to ‘poor’ for two days. System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said Mumbai’s overall AQI on Wednesday was 307. An AQI of 301-400 is considered very poor and triggers a health warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cold-wind-from-north-chills-city-at-15-3c/articleshow/80488654.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 28, 2021||Vadodara||Covid-19: Two-thirds of daily cases in Gujarat from eight cities||AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday, Gujarat recorded two-thirds of daily cases (233 out of 353) from eight municipal corporation areas — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, and Gandhinagar. The only death was recorded in AMC area. A sharp drop in cases has been registered in the state: 59% in a month from 850 on December 27 to 353 on January 27. The dip is pronounced in non-urban areas, reveals an analysis of the daily cases. Except four districts — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot — no other district had double-digit cases. Even in the cities, the cases have reduced significantly. “There has been a sharp drop in cases in Surat over the past few days. Ahmedabad’s daily tally has also reduced from 172 on December 27 to 126 on January 11 to 73 on January 27,” said an epidemiologist. “The challenge will be to ensure there’s no surge in cases, especially in cities.” The epidemiologist added that the recovery rate of 96.8% is encouraging, with only 3,976 active patients as of January 27. An analysis of active, discharged, and deceased patients of Covid-19 among major Indian states by the website Covid19India.org revealed that Gujarat had the fourth highest active cases as a percentage of total positive cases. Kerala led with 8%, followed by Maharashtra with 2.2%. For past few days, Gujarat has not released data of daily tests conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/corona-two-thirds-of-daily-cases-from-eight-cities/articleshow/80491186.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Surat||Covid-19: Two-thirds of daily cases in Gujarat from eight cities||AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday, Gujarat recorded two-thirds of daily cases (233 out of 353) from eight municipal corporation areas — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, and Gandhinagar. The only death was recorded in AMC area. A sharp drop in cases has been registered in the state: 59% in a month from 850 on December 27 to 353 on January 27. The dip is pronounced in non-urban areas, reveals an analysis of the daily cases. Except four districts — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot — no other district had double-digit cases. Even in the cities, the cases have reduced significantly. “There has been a sharp drop in cases in Surat over the past few days. Ahmedabad’s daily tally has also reduced from 172 on December 27 to 126 on January 11 to 73 on January 27,” said an epidemiologist. “The challenge will be to ensure there’s no surge in cases, especially in cities.” The epidemiologist added that the recovery rate of 96.8% is encouraging, with only 3,976 active patients as of January 27. An analysis of active, discharged, and deceased patients of Covid-19 among major Indian states by the website Covid19India.org revealed that Gujarat had the fourth highest active cases as a percentage of total positive cases. Kerala led with 8%, followed by Maharashtra with 2.2%. For past few days, Gujarat has not released data of daily tests conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/corona-two-thirds-of-daily-cases-from-eight-cities/articleshow/80491188.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Casualties stay in single digit, recoveries exceed infections in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: As many as 320 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday as against 398 recoveries, taking its total infections and discharges above 3.77 lakh and 3.63 lakh, respectively. Among the new cases, altogether 128 people tested positive for the virus in the Pune municipal limits, followed by the rural areas (113) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas (79). When it comes to day’s recoveries, the PMC areas recorded 168 discharges, followed by the rural areas (146) and the PCMC limits (84). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar stated that as many as six patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR in the last 24 hours. An analysis of the daily report showed that PMR fatalities have stayed in single-digit for the past four days. Four people had died of Covid-19 on January 24, while three had succumbed on January 25 and six each on January 26 and 27. Among the Wednesday fatalities, the PMC areas reported two, while three patients succumbed to the infection in the rural areas and one in the PCMC limits. With this, the total death count of the region has reached 9,027, with the PMC areas recording maximum 4,915 deaths, followed by the rural areas (2,312) and the PCMC limits (1,800). The DHO report stated that 5,261 tests were conducted in PMR on Wednesday, with over 3,000 samples being tested in the PMC areas, 1,675 in the rural areas and 515 in the PCMC limits. The sample testing in rural areas increased above 4.51 lakh on Wednesday. The tally of active patients continued to remain below 5,000 in the region. On Wednesday evening, the tally reached 4,847, including as many as 2,893 patients in home isolation and 1,954 undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the region. Health experts have warned people against letting their guard down in the wake of the vaccination drive.  “Please abide by mask and social distancing norms to keep the infection at bay,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/casualties-stay-in-single-digit-recoveries-exceed-infections/articleshow/80488623.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 28, 2021||Goa||Filipe: Tillari canal repairs will require more time||Porvorim/Bicholim: The state government has decided to tab alternate source to provide water to Assonora and Chandel water treatment plants as the water resources department will require more time to repair the breached Tillari canal, said water resource minister Filipe Nery Rodrigues on Wednesday. Due to breach at Tillari's main left canal at Sasoli, Dodamarg, on Monday, the horticulture and agriculture in this area have been severely affected and farmers have demanded that repair work of the canal be undertaken immediately. Rordigues said the WRD engineers are discussing the issue with the engineers from Maharashtra and that the government will provide water from alternate sources so that agriculture and water supply is not disturbed. He added that Amthane water has been diverted for agriculture purpose. Pernem MLA Dayanand Sopte, at Zero hour mention, said that there is fear and anxiety among the people as the damage to Tillari Canal resulted in damage to fields due to water flow and interruption to water flow Assonora and Chandel water treatment plants. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar said the canal should be repaired within five days. Earlier in the day, Patnekar, who visited the Tillari canal on Tuesday, said that he has instructed WRD officials to restore the water supply at the earliest. The Tilari canal supplies water for horticulture and water purification projects in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/filipe-tillari-canal-repairs-will-require-more-time/articleshow/80489737.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Three held in Ambernath robbery case||MUMBAI: The Ambernath police has arrested three robbers involved in the Bhavani jewellery robbery firing case. The hunt is on for the main accused. The arrested accused have been identified as Monu Vishwakarma, Dhiraj Sarvgode and Divyesh Singh. Four robbers entered Bhavani jewellery shop in Ambernath on January 10 and attacked three including the shop owner and fled with valuables worth Rs 6 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ambernath-robbery-case-three-held/articleshow/80488673.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Side effects of Covid vaccines negligible’||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat on Wednesday vaccinated 3,787 healthcare workers, taking the total vaccinations to 95,909. On Thursday, the state is likely to cross 1 lakh vaccinations, achieving one-fourth of the target of the first phase. However, despite enthusiasm from doctors, the rate of vaccinations against the registered beneficiaries is not very high. “Every vaccination programme entails some side effects. But as is the case with other vaccines, the side effects of Covid-19 vaccine are negligible,” said Prof Dileep Mavalankar, director of IIPH-G in a webinar on Wednesday. “All should get vaccinated without any apprehension,” Mavalankar said. The webinar had four speakers — all doctors from the state who have taken the vaccination themselves — and the aim was to create awareness and dispel myths. In answer to a question about which vaccine should be taken, the experts said that both the vaccines have undergone necessary scrutiny. “It’s the only weapon we have against Covid-19 to ensure herd immunity,” said Dr Mukesh Maheshwari, a city-based pathologist. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/side-effects-of-vaccines-negligible/articleshow/80487295.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: Many in queue for Covid vaccine still await formal confirmation||PUNE: A large chunk of healthcare workers, who had submitted their details for priority Covid vaccination, have not even received a note that confirms their names are on the list for the shots.  “They have not received anything confirming the registration. Scores have asked if they need to re-register,” said Aarti Nimkar, president of the Indian Medical Association’s Pune branch. Registration drives for healthcare workers were held between October 24 and January 12. Eye surgeon Mohan Paranjape, who practices near the Mitra Mandal Chowk said, “I had sent mine and details of five of my staffers via email to the PMC’s Sahakarnagar ward office two months ago. But there has been no acknowledgment so far. We don’t know if we’re getting the shot.” Access to the CoWIN app is restricted to senior officials and vaccinators. “So we are in the dark. There should have been some form of confirmation after submission of details,” said a senior doctor who added that she received only oral confirmation from a ward’s medical officer. Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department, said, “Applicants can contact their nearest vaccination centre where staff can confirm their registration on the CoWIN app. We will also see if we can allow CoWIN access to IMA office-bearers so that they can help confirm names, ” he added. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India (HBI) said, “Some healthcare workers got an SMS from the CoWIN app confirming their registration. But there is a large chunk of people who have no confirmation at all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-in-queue-for-vax-still-await-formal-confirmation/articleshow/80488652.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Turning gears: Women trained to drive patrol vehicles||Hyderabad: Being married off at a young age did not stop, V Alivelu, from turning her dream of donning a police uniform into reality. Adding a new feather to her cap, she is now among the first batch of policewomen to drive patrol vehicles in the state. Alivelu, a newly-recruited woman police personnel, said that not even in her wildest dreams did she think she could learn how to drive. “I remember I used to shiver at the beginning while learning,” she said, and added that the trainer was patient in dealing with her mistakes. She said that she always wanted to become a cop, but had to keep her dream on hold because of marriage and two children — now 10 and nine years old. The 28-year-old from Kagazghat village, Rangareddy, who was married at 18, said she is the first in her family to learn how to drive. “Not even my husband knows how to drive,” Alivelu said, adding she is confident that more women police personnel will come forward and learn driving. Just like Alivelu, three women drivers -- K Geetha, B Ganga, and P Swapna — learnt to drive to be part of the first batch of women patrol drivers. “I was scared even to cross a busy road. I overcame it to be part of the patrol team,” said Geetha, from Shadnagar. While Ganga and Swapna are graduates, Alivelu and Geetha completed their intermediate. All the women drivers said it is important for women to learn how to drive. “Now, we don’t need to wait for a driver; we can immediately rush to women in distress. Seeing a woman at the wheel will encourage them to seek help,” said Ganga. Swapna echoed a similar sentiment. The three Dial 100 Immediate Response Vehicles will have a women-only team and calls made by women to 100 will be diverted to the team. In case of domestic violence, they will conduct counselling, warn the respondent or help women file FIRs or petty cases. The teams will work 24x7. Another six women police personnel, who were also provided month-long training, will be joining the patrol team soon. “They need further training and should be joining in a month,” said G Venkata Swamy, motor transport officer, overlooking training of the drivers. Cyberabad CP VC Sajjanar said they did not even know how to ride a bicycle. “These new recruits started to learn to drive after joining the police last October. They picked it up fast,” he said, adding all women police will be trained in driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/turning-gears-women-trained-to-drive-patrol-vehicles/articleshow/80487142.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 28, 2021||Delhi||SC to Central govt: Consider ban on offensive TV channels||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to consider amending the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act to stop TV channels from airing offensive programmes instigating people or targeting a community, and said such a curb would be akin to shutting down of internet in certain areas of Delhi that faced the brunt of rampaging farmers on Republic Day. When tractor rallies by farmers, protesting against farm laws, deviated from pre-agreed routes, entered Delhi and some miscreants hoisted a religious flag atop Red Fort, the authorities had suspended internet in certain localities to stop spread of rumours, fearing it could conflagrate an already volatile situation. Hearing a petition filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind seeking regulation of TV channels to stop circulation of fake news that targeted the Muslim community in the aftermath of the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, "You (the government) stopped internet on Republic Day because of farmers' visit. Why can't similar steps be taken to stop TV channels from airing programmes that instigate people or target a particular community? Why are you blind about it and doing nothing about it?" Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the government was alive to the situation but was not in favour of putting in place any pre-censorship mechanism against TV channels given the importance of right to free speech. "It is impossible to censor offensive content broadcast during a live telecast on a TV channel," he said. However, he said the government was not blind to the situation and pointed out that there was a programme code in place, violation of which attracted penalty and even suspension of broadcast for a certain period. Referring to the impossibility of censoring offensive views expressed during a live telecast, the CJI-led bench said, "We are not interested in stopping people from saying anything they like. We are not concerned about them. We are against channels instigating people or targeting any community through their programmes. Because this leads to violence and loss of lives as well as damage to properties." The bench said taking preventive measures against truant TV channels airing offensive programmes was akin to preventive measures like erecting barricades or resorting to preventive detentions for maintenance of law and order. "Government's power to control a particular type of news, capable of instigating the public or targeting a particular community, is important," the bench said. It pointed out the ambiguity of Sections 19 and 20 of the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, which empowered the government to stop cable TV operators from circulating their feeds in certain areas if the authorities felt that doing so was necessary in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the country, friendly relations with countries and/or public order, decency and morality, which were in sync with the reasonable restrictions provided under Article 19(2) that allows the government to restrict free speech. The SC gave the SG three weeks to take instructions on amending the existing laws for stopping telecast of offensive programmes by TV channels. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde told the bench that the independent self-regulatory mechanism for TV channels imposed Rs 1 lakh fine on truant satellite channels whereas an Indian channel was fined 20,000 pounds in the UK for allegedly using derogatory language against Pakistan during a TV discussion on India's space programme. The SG agreed that Rs 1 lakh fine was a pittance in today's time and age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-to-govt-consider-ban-on-offensive-tv-channels/articleshow/80527331.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: 3 firm partners among six booked in loan fraud case||PUNE: Three partners of a Pimpri-based engineering firm, along with their two guarantors, the members of board of directors of an Ahmednagar-based cooperative bank, and its appointed property valuer are under investigation by the Chinchwad police in a Rs22 crore fraud dating back to March 2018. The police did not specify the number of directors booked in the case, citing their ongoing investigation. The bank’s loan recovery officer, Mahadev Salve, stated in an FIR lodged on Tuesday that the company had on March 26, 2018 applied to the bank’s Chinchwad branch for a loan of Rs11 crore against the mortgage of an industrial shed in the Pimpri MIDC and a bungalow in the town. “The firm partners submitted fake documents relating to the value of the two mortgaged properties and eventually ended up securing Rs22 crore within five days of their application. The directors had sanctioned the loan without verification” the complaint stated. “The property valuer had done an excess valuation of the mortgaged properties and the money was transferred in violation of the bank’s head office manager’s directive of giving only Rs6.5 crore loan to the firm,” it added. The complainant said the matter had come to light during an internal audit and inquiry exercise, following which the role of the suspects “became clear”. He said in the complaint, “The property valuer made a value assessment on the day the three partners moved the loan application. The bank’s directors also sanctioned the loan the same day. Till date, the firm partners have not paid any equated monthly instalment (EMI) to the bank. When the bank checked the trio’s record, it was revealed that they had a history of not repaying loans.” Pimpri Chinchwad deputy commissioner of police Manchak Ipper told TOI, “We have registered a case for offences punishable under sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 34 (all related to cheating, forgery, use of forged documents and common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.” Investigation so far revealed that the bank’s property valuer had in August last year filed an first information report (FIR) with the Ahmednagar police, claiming that one of his employees assessed the value of the mortgaged properties at Rs22 crore as against their actual worth of Rs1.4 crore and prepared a bogus valuation report without his knowledge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-firm-partners-among-six-booked-in-loan-fraud-case/articleshow/80488659.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Three Dial 100 vehicles only for women||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad Police, on Wednesday, flagged off three Dial 100 quick response vehicles manned by female police personnel exclusively for women, along with a SHE shuttle bus at ‘ShePahi’, first of its kind annual conference for women police. Over 750 women personnel took part in the one-day conference. While ‘pahi’ means good work, ‘She’ stands for strength and humanity. Actor, Anushka Shetty, who flagged off special vehicles, lauded the police. “We are the reel stars, you are the real stars,” she said. The Bahubali actor, who also gave away awards to police and civilians for their service, said sacrifices of police are supreme. Swati Lakra, additional director general of police (ADGP), Women Safety Wing, said that every woman police is on par with her male counterpart. “Fifty percent of the population is women. There should be 50% women in the police force too,” she said. Lakra said there is no gender bias in police. She said in 2021, Bharosa centres, which provide support to women and children who have faced abuse, will be opened at 10 places. There are four currently. Cyberabad CP, VC Sajjanar, said Cyberabad police have women in all 17 verticals. “Women police are efficient. Given any responsibility they perform well,” he said, adding, “A mother is behind all our success, including me. I am here because of the discipline she taught me. Women police should teach discipline to whom they meet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-dial-100-vehicles-only-for-women/articleshow/80487202.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||DES hands over rare footage to film archive||PUNE: The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) said on Wednesday that it had received a 16mm reel of around 10 minutes of footage from the Deccan Education Society (DES), depicting the opening of the New English School Tilak Road campus in 1954. The film shows eminent personalities attending the opening of the campus on January 10, 1954. The attendees were being guided through the school premises by PN Virkar, then-principal of New English School, including at the planetarium that stands as the hub of the Y-shaped school building, later named the Kusumbai Motichand Planetarium, one of the oldest school planetariums in India. The chief guest of the opening ceremony happened to be Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, then-vice president of India. The social reformer Dhondo Keshav Karve as well as Wranglers Raghunath Paranjpye and GL Chandratreya were some of the other eminent guests attending the opening of the campus. Also, a part of the footage shows some students, the general public, and the school band that performed at the ceremony. Besides the opening of the New English School, the film includes some shots of the Sir Parashurambhau College, where Radhakrishnan also attended a ceremony, on the same day. The footage was shot by Pune-based photographer MK Kanetkar of Ark Studios. A part of the footage was shot in colour. According to the NFAI, colour footage was rare for the time. “The footage is mainly in black and white, but there are some shots in colour as well. For its time, it is something really rare for such a film to be shot even partially in colour,” said NFAI director Prakash Magdum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/des-hands-over-rare-footage-to-film-archive/articleshow/80488668.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 28, 2021||Goa||BJP demolished all democratic institutions: Congress||PANAJI: Accusing the BJP government of “blunders in governance”, Congress said the party has no moral right to criticise the opposition for protesting and displaying placards after the governor’s address in the Goa legislative assembly. “BJP has demolished all democratic institutions in the country. The act of BJP government to tactfully divert attention from core issues is observed by the people of Goa,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar here on Wednesday. Chodankar was reacting to BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade’s criticism of opposition MLAs for their disruptive behaviour before governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Congress said that it is important for the government to show courage and face the concerns raised by the opposition and provide “appropriate and satisfactory replies”. “Today it appears that the BJP government is in shortcut mode and is trying to curtail the functioning of the Assembly session with an intention to cover up its misdeeds and scams,” Chodankar said.Meanwhile, Congress media cell convener Trajano D’Mello alleged that speaker Rajesh Patnekar is misguiding people over the disqualification petition against the 10 rebel MLAs that is pending before him. “It is very clear, as of now, that BJP is using defection as a political device to usurp and remain in power. This has spoiled the social and political milieu, not only of Goa, but across all states where this device is used,” he said. Congress said Patnekar is using every excuse to delay hearings in the disqualification proceedings and thus making a “mockery of the sacred Constitution”. D’Mello said the Supreme Court has not, at any stage, passed an order restraining the speaker from adjudicating and deciding on the disqualification petition. The writ petition filed by Chodankar before the Supreme Court seeks that the apex court directs the speaker to decide on the disqualification petition filed against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit Congress to join BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-demolished-all-democratic-institutions-cong/articleshow/80489799.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Winter bite on the wane in Telangana, temperature to rise by 3-5 degree Celsius: IMD||HYDERABAD: Winter has lost its bite this year, with the number of days with cold wave conditions reducing to nearly zero. As per India Meteorological Department, February too is set to begin on a much warmer note. It is almost January-end and there is no hint of winter in the city. The coldest day of winter was recorded on December 22 when the minimum temperature dived to 10.4 degree Celsius. Following that, mercury levels only increased with the city recording minimum temperature of 19 degree Celsius and maximum temperature of 33.2 degree Celsius on Wednesday. “Easterly and south easterly winds are blowing over Telangana. Under their influence, Telangana is likely to see a temperature rise of three to five degree Celsius above normal at few places,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad. Figures from IMD indicate that between 2016 and 2020, state had cold wave-like conditions wherein mercury levels dipped below 10 degree Celsius at few places. However, this season, only three days of cold wave were seen in December and not a single day in January. “When northerly winds which are cold blow, they travel up to the central parts of the country. This year, there has been no deep trough that results in movement of such winds. Due to this, it was much warmer,” said YV Rama Rao, consultant, Telangana State Development Planning Society. North districts such as Adilabad and Medak which usually experience minimum temperature in single digits were warm at 12-18 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/winter-bite-on-the-wane-in-t-temp-to-rise-by-3-5-degree-celsius-imd/articleshow/80487255.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 28, 2021||Pune||TDR rider, wider road proposal not contradictory: Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis||PUNE: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis told TOI that the restrictions he imposed on the utilization of the Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) on narrow streets in 2018, when he headed the state urban development ministry, were needed to decongest the old areas in big cities in Maharashtra. “These restrictions and the nine-metre-road widening proposals go hand in hand. These are not contradictory to each other, as being made out by the opposition,” Fadnavis said. MLA Chetan Tupe, also NCP’s Pune chief, and Shiv Sena leader Sham Deshpande had alleged that the PMC was forced to initiate the proposal to widen 335 lanes in the city as Fadnavis had banned the utilization of TDR on six-metre lanes. “Several buildings came up on these narrow streets before 2018. Now, since the other plots on these lanes cannot be redeveloped because of the restrictions on the use of TDR, the BJP is trying to cover up the mistake made by Fadnavis by proposing widening of these lanes,” they said. Fadnavis said the plan to impose restrictions on the use of TDR on six-metre roads and simultaneously initiate the process to convert these roads into nine metres was a “well thought out urban renewal strategy”. “High-rises along six-metre-wide lanes were causing congestion and were putting stress on service lines. Hence, the restriction on the TDR use was imposed,” he said. The plot owners in these lanes, who now wish to redevelop their property by using TDR, would have to leave aside a set-back and ensure that the road section fronting their redeveloped building was nine-metre-wide, he said. Also, this widening would happen as and when the plot owner approached the civic body for redevelopment and would not be forced upon the citizens, he said. When pointed out that this would mean the widening would happen as and when the property owner opted for redevelopment, Fadnavis admitted that the actual widening of the street might take time. “But finally, the lane will become nine-metre-wide. Had we continued with allowing redevelopment of properties on six-metre-wide roads allowing the TDR use, these streets would have remained narrow and yet high-rises would have continued to come up. Hence, this is a much better strategy,” Fadnavis added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-cm-tdr-rider-wider-road-proposal-not-contradictory/articleshow/80488670.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Passenger traffic fell by 60% at SVPI||AHMEDABAD: Increase in business travel, coupled with a boost in tourism in 2019, had boosted passenger movement at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport to 1.17 crore. However, the restriction on international flight movements and widespread travel restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic had led to a fall in passenger movement by 60% to 47.06 lakh in 2020, revealed data provided by the Airports Authority of India. Tour operators felt that leisure travel which took a hit due to pandemic has impacted air passenger footfalls. “Leisure travellers account for a significant chunk of fliers. However, this time around, widespread apprehensions due to the pandemic impacted leisure travel adversely. Moreover, as international flights had been shut for the longest time, footfalls were adversely affected,” said Virendra Shah, chairman of Travel Agents’ Association of India (Gujarat). “That apart, even corporates had imposed travel restrictions. This impacted MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences & exhibitions) travel also to a great extent,” Shah added. Air passenger traffic touched 1.17 crore last year also due to improved connectivity. “The connectivity to international destinations from SVPI airport has improved tremendously. Direct flights to new destinations were ntroduced, and direct connectivity to existing destinations increased significantly. Moreover, some of the airlines also upgraded their aircraft to ones with higher seating capacity. This collectively pushed up passenger movement,” said a source. “On the contrary, in 2020, when flight movements resumed after lockdown, there was only 30% of flight frequency. Most aircraft operated at half the capacity for the longest time, which impacted the overall passenger movement,” said the source. Travel agents also pointed out that non-issuance of refund for cancelled tickets was a huge deterrent. “Most airlines issued credit notes for cancelled tickets or rescheduled ones. This left most people reluctant in booking tickets,” said Anuj Pathak, owner of a city-based travel company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/passenger-traffic-fell-by-60-at-svpi/articleshow/80487322.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||PMC’s plan to widen roads raises posers on legal validity||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) proposal to widen 335 narrow roads to nine metres to pave the way for redeveloping properties along them by using Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) has triggered a heated debate among state town planning officials and elected members over its legal validity. The proposal is not limited to widening 335 streets as being perceived. Rather, it is a policy ratification to convert “in phases” as many as 2,000 narrow lanes, the total length of which measures 800km. Experts and opposition parties have termed it a “major modification” in the Development Plan (DP) of Pune, which they said needed a wider discussion in the civic general body meeting and a ratification by the state government under the provisions of the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act. Civic officials argued that the PMC, being the local planning body, could carry out the modification. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was then state urban development minister, said the PMC’s “nine-metre-wide roads” proposal was fallout of a state policy. “The PMC’s proposal is correct. This is being executed as per the advice we (the urban development ministry) had issued to decongest Maharashtra’s big cities by widening small lanes,” Fadnavis said, adding that a similar proposal was being executed in Thane and some other big cities too. “It is not limited to the PMC. In Mumbai, the provision to widen the narrow streets to nine metres has been incorporated in the DP itself,” Fadnavis said, stressing that the “PMC had done nothing wrong”. During his meeting with additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal and superintendent engineer Rajendra Raut on Monday, Congress leader Aba Bagul had argued that as per section 210 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, the commissioner was required to seek prior approval of the standing committee in “each case” of road widening. “The administration cannot seek an en bloc approval for widening all narrow lanes in Pune, that too as a phase-wise policy for as many as 2,000 streets,” Bagul said. While Bagul has issued a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking a stay on the proposal, BJP leaders Suhas Kulkarni and Ujjwal Keskar have written to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar stating that the proposal be revoked as it was illegal. Raut rejected the objections and asserted that section 210 of the MMC Act did not impose any restrictions on the number of roads the administration could list for widening. Another senior civic officer argued, “It is true, for every major modification in the DP, the PMC needs to seek suggestions and objections from citizens under the MRTP Act. We have not invoked the MRTP Act, yet we have called for citizens’ viewpoint.” When TOI pointed out that by not using the MRTP Act the administration got the proposal approved by the standing committee, without the nod from the civic general body and state government, which would have led to greater deliberations on it, the officer admitted having bypassed that process. “But that does not mean we are not transparent. We have pasted notices across the city and have not hidden our plan. Discussions will happen during the hearing process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/posers-on-legal-validity-of-pmcs-road-widening-plan/articleshow/80488687.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cycle tracks put Thaltej on road to peril||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had in 2019 decided to redevelop the 1.4km 30-metre-wide road from Sanjivani Hospital to the Gurudwara. The redevelopment reduced the road width as vegetable vendors set up their stalls on the pedestrians lanes. The roads and building committee of the AMC had sanctioned the redevelopment of three roads, Pakwan Crossroads to Keshavbaug party plot (2.3km), Judges Bungalows to NFD Circle (about 850m) and Sanjivani Hospital to Gurudwara (about 1.4km). All three roads were 30m wide. The project cost for all three roads to be developed on similar lines to CG Road, was Rs 22.70 crore. The new road from Sanjivani Hospital to Gurudwara, has a pedestrian lane along with a cycle track. The cycle track has bollards at the opening to ensure that two-wheelers do not enter it. Residents of the area say that at several places the pedestrian lanes have been built right up to the gates of houses and societies. Krishna Shah, a resident of the Sindhu Bhavan area, said, “The construction of pedestrian lanes and cycle tracks is good, they have been encroached on by vegetable vendors who earlier stood in the bylanes.” Ankit Sharma, who lives in Memnagar but passes through the area, said, “In the mornings, people coming to buy vegetables park on the road which reduces the earlier three-lane road to just two lanes. Sharma said the AMC and police must regulate parking in the area. A resident of the area said, “The cycle track is never used. Not a single person is seen cycling on the track. In the mornings, when residents go for exercises, they also do not use the cycle track.” He said the AMC should have had a better plan and carried out a survey before designing these roads. The AMC had earlier built cycle tracks along the BRT corridor in some parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cycle-tracks-put-thaltej-on-road-to-peril/articleshow/80487340.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Gang busted, 24 pistols, 38 cartridges recovered||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a major gang from Madhya Pradesh dealing in firearms with the arrest of its main supplier. Police have recovered eight country-made pistols and 20 cartridges from arrested suspect Ronnie alias Babalusingh Barnala (30). His arrest follows the arrest of Rupesh Patil (25) in December last year. The Bhosari police had seized four firearms and four cartridges from Patil. Investigations revealed that Barnala supplied firearms to criminal gangs in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and in rural Pune. Police recovered another 12 more country-made pistols and arrested 11 criminals on police records. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “We have seized 24 county-made pistols and 38 cartridges collectively worth Rs12 lakh. This is one of the biggest seizure of firearms by a police station team in Pimpri Chinchwad.” The police commissioner said, “Bhosari police senior inspectors Shankar Awtade and Jitendra Kadam and their team started investigating the source of these illegal weapons. Barnala’s name figured during Patil’s interrogation. Assistant inspector Sidhheshwar Kailase and his team laid a trap in a forest at Barwani district in Madhya Pradesh on January 15 and nabbed Barnala. Few of our policemen sustained injuries during the chase.” Prakash said, “The police team also succeeded in establishing Barnala’s link and arrested his aide Kalu alias Sushil Pawra from Jalgaon and recovered two pistols and five cartridges from Pawra. “We have arrested nine more criminals and recovered 10 pistols and nine cartridges from them,” the commissioner said.  The police commissioner also announced a reward of Rs50,000 for the Bhosari police team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-busted-24-pistols-38-cartridges-recovered/articleshow/80488675.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 28, 2021||Pune||Builders bat for Budget booster||Pune: The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) has requested the Centre to increase tax exemptions in the upcoming Budget to boost the housing sector. The association wants enhancement in the limit of deduction under Section 80C of income tax for principal repayment on home loans as well as extension of timelines for the affordable housing projects. It has sought tax incentives to boost the investment in Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) “The central government should ensure exemptions for the purchasers to boost the real estate sector, as was done by the state (stamp duty waiver). We have requested exemptions in income tax and GST. It directly impact the buyers and, in turn, boost the realty sector,” Credai (India) vice-president Shantilal Kataria told TOI after submitting the recommendations to the government. The real estate sector has been under stress for over two years. The Covid-19 pandemic has made the situation worse. Credai stated that investment of up to Rs50,000 in REITs should be allowed as deduction under Section 80C. The National Real Estate Development Council, on the other hand, wants removal of the ban on subvention scheme for home loans, stating that such a restriction is not in favour of home buyers. “Loss from house property should be fully allowed to be adjusted against other heads of income. In case of the unadjusted loss, it should be fully allowed to be carried forward to subsequent years,” said Abhay Kele, secretary Pune, National Real Estate Development Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/builders-bat-for-budget-booster/articleshow/80488683.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Outnumbered, but not outdone: Injured cops recall Republic Day horror||NEW DELHI: Had he not jumped into that moat at Red Fort, he could well have had his neck slashed. At least that is what assistant sub-inspector Joginder Raj recalled a day after the rioting at Red Fort on Republic Day. “The attackers had all sorts of weapons,” Singh said. “They climbed to the ramparts and hoisted their flag. Someone gave them the national flag, but they threw it down. A senior police officer picked it up to prevent it being dishonoured.” Around 300 policemen like Raj were injured in the violence. Numerous police personnel were injured when escaping the wrath of the protesting farmers on Tuesday. On Wednesday evening, S N Shrivastava, police commissioner, visited the various hospitals where the injured policemen have been admitted and enquired about their well-being. While many of the injured cops were discharged after treatment, some are in critical condition, some in the ICU. Two police personnel and two protesters are in Lok Nayak Hospital, all four reported to be stable now. “One policeman has injuries in the head and the neck region. The other policeman suffered hand injuries. One protester had facial injury and the other head injury,” said a source. The maximum number of injured cops are from North district, most of them posted at Red Fort. Inspector PK Jha was trying to erect barricades under Tilak Bridge when a mob charged at him. While Jha was protected from the blows on his back by his riot gear, a stone landed on his face and knocked out two teeth. Jha was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre in an auto. Constable Ritu was on duty at Red Fort when she sustained injuries. “A heavy iron grille fell on my leg and my colleague’s chest. We couldn’t move. It was a scary time, because the protesters had swords, lathis and spears,” she said. Inspector P C Yadav received injuries on his head, neck and arms in a sword attack, but he managed to save a colleague and escorted him to safety. “When we were trying to stop the agitators from climbing to the ramparts, I saw a colleague bleeding from his head and on the verge of collapsing,” Yadav told TOI. “I picked him up and carried to a safer area, but I was hit on the head with a sword. My helmet broke and I fell unconscious when I was hit on the head again.” Yadav underwent surgery on Wednesday. “We maintained restraint and requested the farmers to let me take my colleague to the hospital,” Yadav said on Wednesday. “We did not use force. If we had, there could have been many casualties.” Balwant Singh, SHO, Mohan Garden, sustained fractures on both his hands when posted near Uttam Nagar on Najafgarh Road. “Our duty was to ensure that the farmers on the tractor parade did not cross the road. Around 2.30pm, the tractors arrived as scheduled, but the farmers turned violent and damaged a bus that obstructed their progress,” said Singh. He particularly remembered one extremely violent man who was venting all his anger on the bus. When the SHO approached the man, he was attacked with a lathi. Singh’s arm was badly wounded and he had to be moved to the hospital. “We had placed a crane to stop them from crossing a certain point,” added Singh, “but they were violent and wielded weapons and sticks. Some of them were even drunk.” Additional DCP (East) Manjeet Singh Sheoran, who was on duty at the Ghazipur border, managed to save his life when a tractor tried to run over him. Another IPS probationary officer, Pukhraj Kamal, who was managing law and order at Akshardham, sustained a head injury after farmers pelted stones at the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/outnumbered-but-not-outdone-injured-cops-recall-r-day-horror/articleshow/80488689.cms||Sakshi Chand
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Day 1: 259 enjoy sightings at Gorewada safari, FDCM earns Rs62k||Nagpur: The Day 1 of the jungle safari at the Balasaheb Thackeray International Gorewada Zoological Park saw 259 tourists enjoying the newly-started facility. The Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) earned over Rs62,000 revenue in ticket sales. “We were not expecting such a crowd on the first day. Tourists were happy to sight a tiger playing in the water body. Most of the tourists sighted tigers, leopards, and sloth bears,” said Pramod Panchbhai, divisional manager, FDCM. “As per the Covid-19 protocol, we are allowing 20 visitors in each bus. The 14 trips organized between 8.30am and 4.30pm on Wednesday could have accommodated 280 tourists but actually 259 visited, which is a good show. Of these, 19 booked online berths while 240 were offline,” said Panchbhai. The total earning from ticket sales was Rs62,160, with cash collection at counter contributing Rs57,600. “Though there is no ban on the entry of children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years, the district administration has advised them not to visit the safari,” said Panchbhai. On Tuesday, while inaugurating the park, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said it would prove to be a stepping stone in the development of Vidarbha. To stem the opposition over renaming the park, Thackeray asked the FDCM and forest minister Sanjay Rathod to develop the Gondwana Theme Park, which will showcase the culture of the tribals of Vidarbha. However, the announcement made by the chief minister is already included in the project plan. Tourists from world over visit the Masai Mara in Kenya to see the culture of the Masai tribe. On the Gorewada zoo, Thackeray said, “There will be no going back on the development of Vidarbha. At the same time, development should be sustainable and achieved by striking environmental balance.” Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said, “Gorewada is a classic example of how real development can be achieved by balancing environment, wildlife, forest, and tourism.” Thackeray added the MVA government is the first state government which has given the forest ministry its due, which otherwise is looked over as a ‘speed breaker’ in various projects by leaders and people. “We held three state wildlife board meetings in one year and notified 10 conservation reserves to strengthen Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) corridor and Kanhargaon wildlife sanctuary to boost Tadoba. The chief minister also declared 800 hectares Aarey land in the heart of Mumbai as a reserve forest and intents to declare 1,387 hectares of mangroves in Thane district as reserve forest,” said Aaditya. Guardian minister Nitin Raut said, “It is a glorious moment that the long-pending project has finally seen the light of the day. Nagpur being the gateway to tiger capital, Gorewada will get the much-needed boost as thousands of tourists arrive in the city to visit Pench, Tadoba, Umred-Karhandla, and Bor. If some of these tourists visit Gorewada, it will boost direct and indirect employment in the region.” Raut also demanded to integrate both the Gorewada jungle safari and the international zoo by constructing an underground tunnel or overpass. FDCM managing director N Vasudevan urged the government to pump in money for the second phase of the project, which consists of an African safari, the trail of senses, bird park, biopark, night safari, and other attractions. Of the Rs450 crore project, till now the FDCM has spent Rs100 crore. “If the state gives remaining Rs350 crore in phases, we can complete the project in the next two years without any private partner. The master plan of African safari has already been approved by the CZA,” said Rathod. The minister termed the politics over renaming of the zoo as unfortunate. “There was no proposal to declare the zoo as Gondwana park but I appeal to the tribal outfits not to fall prey to vested interest.” ‘Capture nilgais, wild boars for zoo safari’ Congress leader and former MLA Dr Ashish Deshmukh has appealed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to launch a drive to capture nilgais and wild boars causing huge crop damage in the region and shift them to the Gorewada zoo safari. Many farmers have left farming considering the huge damage to standing crops. Both the animals are listed under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and farmers either take help of private shooters to kill them or electrocute them. In the process, many times endangered animals like tigers also get killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-1-259-enjoy-sightings-at-gorewada-safari-fdcm-earns-rs62k/articleshow/80487476.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||GSK transfers malaria vaccine production to Bharat Biotech||Hyderabad: Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has inked a product transfer agreement with pharma giant GSK and global non-profit organisation PATH for manufacturing the world’s only malaria vaccine (RTS,S/AS01E1), which was developed by GSK. The manufacturing of the RTS,S antigen part of the vaccine as well as the vaccine will be transferred to Bharat Biotech. With this, by 2029, the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker will become the sole supplier of the vaccine. However, GSK will retain production of the vaccine’s adjuvant AS01E, which it will supply to Bharat Biotech. Bharat Biotech was selected as a partner based on its experience in development, production and supply of global health vaccines through a comprehensive competitive process in consultation with the World Health Organization, the company said. The malaria vaccine is currently being piloted under the Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme in Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi with five lakh children already receiving the first dose since pilots in 2019. The tie-up is part of GSK’s commitment to donate up to 10 million doses for use in the pilot project and to supply up to 15 million doses annually until 2028 if the product is recommended for wider use by WHO. Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna M Ella said the partnership will help provide global access to the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gsk-transfers-malaria-vaccine-production-to-bharat-biotech/articleshow/80487284.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation has promises to keep as stink rises||NEW DELHI: While sanitation workers of North Delhi Municipal Corporation continued to be on strike, the civic body may accept their demand of paying all benefits from the current date once they are regularised. However, these arrears will be given only after the corporation’s financial situation gets better, mayor Jai Prakash said on Thursday. “We have released salaries of all sanitation workers till December and it has been credited in their accounts, too, but they are still not coming to work,” the mayor said. “Their unions are making demands that are impossible to fulfil under given circumstances. Still we are considering their point to provide all benefits and dues to sanitation employees after their regularisation from the current date” once the corporation’s financial situation improves, he added. The corporation is meeting agitating workers and trying its best to solve the problem, but “we can’t compromise on sanitation and may think about action if they don’t return to work soon”, Jai Prakash said. Sanitation workers, however, said the corporation had made similar promises earlier, too, but didn’t keep them. J P Tank, president of Delhi Nagar Nigam Shramik Sangh, said their demands for medical insurances, arrears and regularisation of workers were valid. “We have minutes of meetings when similar promises were made but were not fulfilled. The corporation has not even paid the salaries of other Group 4 employees, including gardeners,” said Pant. “Once their salaries are released and the process to regularise contractual workers starts, we will call off the strike.” “We are firm on our demands and the corporation can’t play divide and rule by paying full salaries to one section and not paying others for four-five months,” said A P Khan, convener of Confederation of MCD Employees Unions. Meanwhile, the corporation is deploying private workers at night to lift garbage from major roads, roundabouts and market areas, and for sweeping, said the mayor. However, garbage was found scattered on roads and outside dhalaos at various places in Narela and and Rohini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-has-promises-to-keep-as-stink-rises/articleshow/80527593.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Bail for accused woman in 584kg narcotics haul case||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to Sandeep Kaur, one of the accused arrested in connection with the recovery of around 584kg narcotics worth around Rs 2,600 crore at the Attari border at Amritsar in June 2019. “The state counsel has opposed the bail application on the grounds that the family members of the appellant (Sandeep Kaur) are involved in other cases under the NDPS Act. In our considered view, the registration and pendency of the cases against the other family members of the present appellant is hardly of any relevance for considering the bail application of the appellant in the present case, wherein, admittedly, no recovery was affected from her,” the HC has observed while granting her bail. With regards to the confessional statements of Sandeep Kaur before the investigating agency, the HC observed that the legality and sanctity of confessional statement would be adjudged at the time of conclusion of the trial. Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash of the HC have passed these orders while allowing the bail plea filed by Sandeep Kaur. She was arrested in connection with smuggling of 584 kg narcotics, worth around Rs 2,600 crore, into India from Pakistan through the Attari Integrated Check Post (ICP) hidden in rock salt bags. The international drug racket based in Pakistan and Afghanistan was busted with the seizure of the huge cache of drugs. The matter has been probed by the NIA after it was handed over to the central agency on July 23, 2019. In her plea for bail, Kaur had argued that she is in custody since July 16, 2019, and there was no evidence on record indicating any incriminating evidence against her. It was also argued that she had been falsely implicated in the present case as her name did not figure in the first charge sheet and it was only a part of deeper conspiracy on the part of NIA that she was framed in the entire picture and presented as an alleged conspirator, acquiring property as proceeds of crime. Opposing the bail plea, the counsel for the NIA argued that she being facilitator was arrested for abetment, conspiracy, and aiding in utilizing and acquiring property from the proceeds of the crime. “During investigation, the involvement of an international drug racket based in Pakistan as well as in Afghanistan has come to light. This being a case of narco-terrorism, having national and international implications requires in depth investigation as to the funding of different terror groups through the proceeds of narcotics consignment being smuggled from across the international border,” the agency had argued. On June 29, 2019, the Amritsar custom commissionerate intercepted two persons, Gurpinder Singh, an Amritsar-based trader, and Tariq Ahmed Lone from Handwara, Jammu and Kashmir, which resulted in seizure of 532kg heroin and 52kg of mixed narcotics substance, which was being illegally smuggled into India from Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bail-for-accused-woman-in-584kg-narcotics-haul-case/articleshow/80488691.cms||Ajay Sura
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: Police detect 7 burglaries, arrest trio||PUNE: Police have arrested three persons, including two criminals on the record, and detected seven burglaries recently reported in Wakad, Hinjewadi and Vadgaon Maval. The detections led to recovery of gold ornaments, three motorcycles and other valuables, collectively worth Rs6.9 lakh. The main suspect, Prakash Lanke (44), is a resident of Vishrantwadi. Lanke, who introduced himself as the state deputy chief of a social and political organization, has been named in 22 cases registered with the Pune and Pune rural police. His accomplice Samir Shaikh (39) of Hinjewadi also has cases registered against him with the Government Railway Police and Pune rural police. The third suspect is an 18-year-old, said Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash. Police arrested the trio with the help of CCTV footage. “Lanke had even threatened the investigating team claiming he was the deputy chief of the organization and had been involved in the suspension of 18 police personnel so far,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-detect-7-burglaries-arrest-trio/articleshow/80488685.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Farmers, govt to blame for rally violence in Delhi: Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: Blaming both the farmers and Centre for the tractor rally violence in Delhi on Tuesday, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut termed the incident a ‘national shame’. Pointing out that the farmer leaders did not stick to their promise of a peaceful rally against the new agriculture laws and that situation could have been averted if the Centre wanted, Raut asked if “any invisible hands were playing politics on the farmers’ issue”. “The government has a system, strength, army, other police forces, still the farmers entered...Red Fort and touched the tricolour...it is the failure of the government,” he said. Without naming BJP, Raut, in a sarcastic tweet, asked whose resignation would the Centre now seek—Congress president Sonia Gandhi, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Mahara-shtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, NCP chief Sharad Pawar or US President Joe Biden? tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/farmers-govt-to-blame-for-rally-violence/articleshow/80488702.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Veda Nilayam cannot be thrown open to the public: Madras high court||CHENNAI: In a setback to the Tamil Nadu government, the Madras high court on Wednesday restrained it from opening the Poes Garden residence of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to the public as a memorial. Justice N Seshasayee, however, permitted the state to proceed with the ceremony of declaring open a memorial alone as scheduled on January 28. “The building shall not be thrown open to public without the leave of the court. The main gate to the premises of Veda Nilayam alone can be opened during the function. The building shall not be opened at any time, even during the function, since taking the inventory of the movables and their valuation is not yet complete,” the court said. “It is made clear that holding the function will not in any way confer any right on the government, nor deprive the petitioners of their right in the subject matter of the writ petitions,” the court added. The court passed the interim orders while asserting that the right, title and the interest of the heirs of late chief minister cannot be marginalised. The issue pertains to separate pleas moved by Jaya’s heirs J Deepa and J Deepak challenging the notification for acquisition of the residence into a memorial. Since the government has notified its intent to declare open the residence as a memorial in a function scheduled on January 28, the duo requested the court to step in. Reserving adjudication on the primary challenge to February 24, Justice Seshasayee said that no flex banners or obstructive hoardings shall be placed, and that the city police commissioner is directed to ensure that no undue inconvenience is caused to those living in the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hcveda-nilayam-cannot-be-thrown-open-to-the-public/articleshow/80487366.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Nag river rejuvenation moves forward, NRCD to appoint PMC||Nagpur: National River Conservation Directorate (NRCD) of jal shakti ministry will soon appoint a project management consultant (PMC) to prepare tender document of Nag river rejuvenation project. The draft tender document will have to be approved by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) following which the civic administration will float tender for the project. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had arranged a meeting of the ministry in New Delhi on Nag river in city, Mula and Mutha rivers of Pune and centrally-funded irrigation projects in the state. Jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, state irrigation minister Jayant Patil, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and others attended it. Gadkari told the media after the meeting that cost of Nag river rejuvenation project was Rs1,700 crore and a loan for the same had been approved by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). “The banks of the river will be beautified on the lines Sabarmati waterfront in Ahmedabad,” he said adding that boats would sail from Ambazari overflow point to Pardi in the river. The state cabinet had cleared the Nag river project about a year ago, but it was stuck up in jal shakti ministry. Gadkari said the Union finance ministry had prohibited ministries from sanctioning new projects. “I however, obtained permission for Nag river project,” he added. The city MP directed the municipal commissioner to collect data for preparation of tender document of the project. Jayant Patil said all the centrally-funded irrigation projects in the state would be completed in two years. “The Gosikhurd project would be completed by 2023. Its pace had slackened due to Covid. Moreover, some technical difficulties had cropped up,” he added. Patil said 26 projects of the state had been included under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchan Yojana and 91 under Baliraja Jal Sanjeevani Yojana. “The Centre has promised to provide required amount for these projects,” he added. The state minister said he has demanded that big irrigation projects like Jigaon (in Buldhana district), Sulwade, etc should be given status of national projects. “River linking was also discussed in detail in the meeting,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nag-river-rejuvenation-moves-forward-nrcd-to-appoint-pmc/articleshow/80487351.cms||Ashish Roy
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Unreserved passengers spotted in trains||Nagpur: Even as the Central Railway has claimed that only passengers with confirmed and RAC tickets are allowed to travel, many without reservation have been found travelling in the trains. Post Covid-19 protocol, the current ticket windows have been closed and there is strict enforcement on entry and exit for ticket holders from the west side of the station. Yet, passengers are entering the station without reserved tickets, putting a question mark on the so-called tight security. “Even if passengers are found without confirmed reservation, the train ticket examiners (TTEs) should deboard them. Instead, the TTEs are allowing them to travel by handing over excess fare tickets,” said Basant Shukla, general secretary, Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK). “Why fine is being charged from ticketless travellers who then crowd coaches? This boosts revenue for the railways which is facing a financial crisis. Of the late, there is an increase in the number of such passengers. How they manage to enter the station is a mystery,” said Shukla. “Even if only those having confirmed tickets are allowed at the station, inside the coaches, it is business as usual for beggars and vendors. Beggars in coaches is a common sight,” says Brij Bhushan Shukla of Rail Yatri Sangh. Assistant commercial manager & Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “Because of strict enforcement by the railway staff cases of passengers travelling in trains are being detected.” Rao further said unreserved passengers are still not being allowed to travel. “Even the general coaches’ berths called 2S (second sitting) are being allotted under reservation. Such passengers may be boarding the trains at some other stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unreserved-passengers-spotted-in-trains/articleshow/80487379.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jammu||Punjab: Bail for accused woman in 584kg narcotics haul case||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to Sandeep Kaur, one of the accused arrested in connection with the recovery of around 584kg narcotics worth around Rs 2,600 crore at the Attari border at Amritsar in June 2019. “The state counsel has opposed the bail application on the grounds that the family members of the appellant (Sandeep Kaur) are involved in other cases under the NDPS Act. In our considered view, the registration and pendency of the cases against the other family members of the present appellant is hardly of any relevance for considering the bail application of the appellant in the present case, wherein, admittedly, no recovery was affected from her,” the HC has observed while granting her bail. With regards to the confessional statements of Sandeep Kaur before the investigating agency, the HC observed that the legality and sanctity of confessional statement would be adjudged at the time of conclusion of the trial. Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash of the HC have passed these orders while allowing the bail plea filed by Sandeep Kaur. She was arrested in connection with smuggling of 584 kg narcotics, worth around Rs 2,600 crore, into India from Pakistan through the Attari Integrated Check Post (ICP) hidden in rock salt bags. The international drug racket based in Pakistan and Afghanistan was busted with the seizure of the huge cache of drugs. The matter has been probed by the NIA after it was handed over to the central agency on July 23, 2019. In her plea for bail, Kaur had argued that she is in custody since July 16, 2019, and there was no evidence on record indicating any incriminating evidence against her. It was also argued that she had been falsely implicated in the present case as her name did not figure in the first charge sheet and it was only a part of deeper conspiracy on the part of NIA that she was framed in the entire picture and presented as an alleged conspirator, acquiring property as proceeds of crime. Opposing the bail plea, the counsel for the NIA argued that she being facilitator was arrested for abetment, conspiracy, and aiding in utilizing and acquiring property from the proceeds of the crime. “During investigation, the involvement of an international drug racket based in Pakistan as well as in Afghanistan has come to light. This being a case of narco-terrorism, having national and international implications requires in depth investigation as to the funding of different terror groups through the proceeds of narcotics consignment being smuggled from across the international border,” the agency had argued. On June 29, 2019, the Amritsar custom commissionerate intercepted two persons, Gurpinder Singh, an Amritsar-based trader, and Tariq Ahmed Lone from Handwara, Jammu and Kashmir, which resulted in seizure of 532kg heroin and 52kg of mixed narcotics substance, which was being illegally smuggled into India from Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/bail-for-accused-woman-in-584kg-narcotics-haul-case/articleshow/80490883.cms||Ajay Sura
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh ED case: Hearing on February 15||LUDHIANA: A court here on Wednesday adjourned the hearing of a revision petition filed by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his son against a lower court order allowing ED to inspect fresh records filed by income tax department in tax evasion cases against them. The next hearing in the court of additional district and session judge Atul Kasana is February 15. On September 18 last year, the court of judicial magistrate Jasbeer Singh, while allowing ED application, had allowed the investigating agency to inspect fresh income tax records related to the cases of CM and his son and had allowed ED to inspect those on September 28 last year. Later, the court of additional district and sessions judge, admitting two revised petitions filed by the CM and his son Raninder Singh against the September 18 order, had ordered stay on ED inspection of records related to the cases. The counsel for Raninder Singh, advocate Gurmukh Singh, said he was not available in city, so the case was adjourned. On August 14 last year, in an application filed by the ED in the court of judicial magistrate Jasbeer Singh, the agency pleaded it was seeking permission for inspection of documents filed by the tax department in all three ongoing cases against Capt Amarinder and Raninder. In the application, filed on the behalf of assistant director of ED, the agency had contended that since the subject matter came within the ambit of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999, it was authorised to probe the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/capt-ed-case-hearing-on-feb-15/articleshow/80488696.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Student held for harassing woman in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police arrested a 22-year-old undergraduate student for harassing a neighbour, calling her from virtual phone numbers. The accused, K Bharath is from Pocharam in Ibrahimpatnam mandal of Ranga Reddy. A few months ago, Bharat sought sexual favours from the woman. He even tried to blackmail her stating he would malign her by telling lies to her husband. The woman warned Bharath. Accused then started calling her and her husband using an app providing virtual phone numbers and abused them. Police arrested Bharath from his house on Wednesday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-held-for-harassing-woman/articleshow/80487306.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Meerut||Man disguised as ‘beggar’ enters house, kills woman in Meerut||MEERUT: A 45-year-old housewife was brutally killed by an unidentified man who disguised himself as a beggar and broke into her house in Meerut on Wednesday. The mother of two was found with her "throat slit and eyes gouged out", sources said. Police are yet to find out the motive and looking for the accused. The woman was alone when the alleged murder took place inside the house in Kalanjari village under Jani police station limits. The police are treading cautiously. "There are a lot of rumours such as she was beheaded and her eyes gouged out. It was a gruesome murder no doubt. Her throat had been slit and stab wounds are there on the body as well," Keshav Kumar, SP (rural) said. "Further details will emerge only after a postmortem report. Forensic teams are at the spot and picking up vital clues," Kumar added. The woman's two children are aged around 18 and 20. Both had left for college a couple of hours before the murder. According to police, the woman's husband works as a government contractor in Bhiwadi, Rajasthan, and she was alone at the time of crime. "I had come to my sister in-law's house at 11am. It was bolted from outside. I opened it and when I entered, my sister in-law was lying on the ground with blood stains all over. Almirahs were also open," one of her relatives said. According to sources, an unidentified man in the appearance of a beggar was seen near the house. "We are exploring all angles and investigation is ongoing," the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-disguised-as-beggar-enters-house-and-brutally-kills-housewife/articleshow/80486130.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 28, 2021||Pune||Sahakarnagar residents submit over 550 objections, stage agitation||PUNE: Residents of Sahakarnagar on Wednesday submitted 550 objections to the road-widening plan of the Pune Municipal Corporation, taking the total number of reservations against the plan to nearly 700. The residents carrying banners against the proposal staged an agitation at the PMC headquarters in Shivajinagar. They raised slogans demanding cancellation of the plan. Ashwini Kadam, an NCP corporator, said, “The road-widening is not necessary and will cause more harm than good. Residents were kept in the dark while taking such a decision.” NCP leader in the PMC and leader of opposition Deepali Dhumal said, “The residents are already suffering from financial losses because of the Covid-19 outbreak. If they lose a part of their house now, then it will be a double whammy for them.” According to the leaders and residents, majority of these societies never demanded wider roads. In a few societies, the roads have dead-ends and touch the hills. If these roads are widened, they will not serve any purpose because there is hardly any vehicular traffic. Residents claimed that some locations where road-widening was being planned had chawl-like structures. They do not need to be widened as there is hardly any redevelopment plan. Such locations should not be included in the road-widening plan, they stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sahakarnagar-residents-submit-over-550-objections-stage-agitation/articleshow/80488694.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||CISF jawan on way to R-Day parade dies in accident||Nagpur: Just a month ahead of retirement, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawan died in an accident while he was on way to attend Republic Day parade. The deceased has been identified as GD Raghuwanshi (59, a resident of Airport Colony) and was a head constable and yoga instructor in CISF. Police said Raghuwanshi, a recipient of DG medal for his outstanding service, was to retire in February. Raghuwanshi had left home on his two-wheeler to attend the R-Day parade at the airport on Tuesday morning, said police. On the way, his two-wheeler was hit by a milk vendor’s motorcycle. He sustained serious injuries and was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed at around 3pm on Tuesday. He is survived by wife Gauri and two daughters Dr Neha and daughter Nidhi, who too is a medicine student. The last rites were performed at Mangrulpir in Washim district on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cisf-jawan-on-way-to-r-day-parade-dies-in-accident/articleshow/80487372.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Padayatra for NRI policy reaches Telangana's Sircilla||HYDERABAD: An 800km padayatra being undertaken to demand an NRI policy for Telangana reached Rajanna Sircilla district on Wednesday. The long march was undertaken by Gulf Workers Awareness Centre Krishna Donikeni, who had earlier worked in Dubai. In the 24 days of the padayatra so far, 516 km have been covered. “It is a sad situation for workers who go to the Gulf to take up jobs. Some are cheated. Some are thrown out of employment. Many also commit suicide. For this very reason, we are demanding a comprehensive NRI policy that will benefit workers,” Donikeni said. The GWAC has been conducting awareness programmes in the Gulf for workers every Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/padayatra-for-nri-policy-reaches-sircilla/articleshow/80487385.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court notice over e-publication of all gazettes, notifications||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday issued notice to the state government asking it to file an affidavit about publishing of all government notifications/gazettes on their official portal. The high court inquired with the government after petitioner-advocate Bandish Soparkar filed a PIL and demanding that all government notifications should be available to the public online. The central government and 22 state governments do it regularly and post notifications on their websites for public consumption. However, Gujarat has been irregular in this practice. To the HC’s query, the government pleader said the process of e-publication of all government notifications is under way and she assured the court that the issue would be addressed soon. The petitioner submitted that the directorate of government printing and stationery is bound to issue free of cost copies of government gazettes. The e-publication of gazettes takes place only with regard to change of names, and there are various notifications and special gazettes that are not made available to the public on its website. The lawyer complained that he filed the PIL after he made representations in this regard to various authorities, but did not receive any response. The HC asked the authorities to file an affidavit to show progress towards e-publication of gazettes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-notice-over-e-publication-of-all-gazettes-notifications/articleshow/80487384.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||‘50 trees felled in forested area of Delhi's Greater Kailash-I without nod’||NEW DELHI: After residents of Greater Kailash-I submitted a complaint about an earthmover damaging trees in a forested patch behind S Block, the forest department has carried out a field inspection and found that over 50 trees were damaged or felled in the area. Officials said the area was a “deemed” forest and no prior permission was sought from the forest and wildlife department to fell trees or carry out any work in the area. A private contractor had allegedly carried out the work on behalf of a central government department, which is to take over the land, the forest department said. Times ViewTrees help a city breathe. In a pollution-racked city like Delhi, they are life-savers. Damaging 50 trees, while carrying out a task for which no permission was taken, is flagrant violation of law. Firm action should be taken against the errant party.Deputy conservator of forest (south) Amit Anand said the complaint was received on January 25 with photographs of an earthmover damaging trees. Residents said some trees might already have been cut. “An inspection was carried out the same day and over 50 trees were found to have been felled or damaged by the earthmover. Work was stopped immediately. Notices will now be issued under Delhi Preservation of Trees Act 1980 and action will be initiated against the private contractor and the landowning body,” said Anand. The patch is part of a “deemed” forest area, where any such action requires a permission from the forest department, even if the land is government-owned. The work was handed over to a private contractor by a government body, which owns the land, an official pointed out. “As per available information, the central department is taking over this land,” the official said. Despite the ownership, parts of the morphological ridge or a deemed forest require permission for felling, construction work or pruning of trees, the official added. Indian Army recently ran into a similar trouble for construction work to repair a wall in Delhi Cantonment area, which was part of a deemed forest. A notice was issued and it was found that 27 trees were damaged or felled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/50-trees-felled-in-forested-area-of-gk-i-without-nod/articleshow/80488717.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: 2 more FIRs against woman for sedating, robbing ‘dates’||PUNE: A software engineer (33) from Kharadi and a businessman (24) from Sangli lodged separate FIRs on Monday after an ongoing police investigation against an arrested woman revealed that she had lured many men through a dating application to meet her and had stolen their valuables after spiking their drinks with sedatives. The Wakad police, who recently arrested the woman for stealing valuables of a Chennai businessman in a similar fashion, had approached her two previous victims and convinced them of the need to lodge complaints following which they approached the Chandannagar police. The techie has alleged that the woman stole his gold chain worth Rs45,000 at a Kharadi hotel room on November 27, 2020 while the businessman, who hails from Kavathe Mahankal in Sangli, alleged that she stole his gold chain and cellphone, totally worth Rs1.10 lakh, in February last year. An officer from the Chandannagar police said, “The techie hails from Ahmednagar and stays in Kharadi where he works with a private company. He had downloaded the dating app and started interacting with the woman. Both exchanged their phone numbers and after a while decided to meet at a hotel in Kharadi on November 27, 2020. In the room, they decided to have some drinks. The woman, who had introduced herself as ‘Sayali’ to the techie, added some sedatives in his glass without the techie noticing.” Police said the techie lost consciousness soon after and the woman stole his gold chain and walked out of the hotel. The techie did not lodge a complaint initially thinking that such an incident would defame him, police said. In the other incident, the same woman stole a chain worth Rs90,000 and cellphone worth Rs20,000 of a 24-year-old businessman from Kavathe Mahankal after meeting him at a hotel room in Chandannagar. The businessman told police that he too had downloaded a dating app and started chatting with this woman who introduced herself as ‘Priya’ from Pune. The woman adopted a similar modus operandi to steal the businessman’s valuable items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-more-firs-against-woman-for-sedating-robbing-dates/articleshow/80488700.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Covaxin effective against UK variant of Covid: Study||PUNE: Covaxin, the indigenously developed vaccine against Covid-19, can protect recipients from the more infectious UK variant of the coronavirus, new research has found. The study, yet to be peer-reviewed, was conducted by experts from National Institute of Virology, Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech. It concluded that the vaccine had generated enough antibody capability in recipients (given two doses) to neutralize the mutated variant, also known as lineage B117 or 20B/501Y.V1. India has so far detected over 100 Covid-19 cases with the UK variant of the virus. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR's epidemiology and communicable diseases division, said the research seems to have dispelled “any doubt” over Covaxin’s effectiveness against the variant. “When the UK variant first emerged, there was concern worldwide over the effectiveness of vaccines being developed against Covid. Sera collected from Covaxin recipients was used in the laboratory to see if the samples could neutralise the SARS-CoV-2’s UK variant. We found that antibodies in the sera could neutralize the variant effectively,” he said. Dr Pragya D Yadav, head of the department of the Maximum Containment Facility at NIV and a co-author of the research, said, “The study, done via the plaque reduction neutralization test, used blood sera from 38 recipients of Covaxin against the UK variant, another heterologous strain as well as 770 homologous variants isolated from Covid-19 patients. The study indicated that it is unlikely the mutation 501Y would be able to dampen the potential benefits of Covaxin.” Dr Yadav added that vaccinated individuals’ sera showed "comparable neutralization activity" against the UK variant as well as the heterologous strain of SARS-CoV-2 with similar efficiency." Dr Gajanan Sapkal, head of the Diagnostic Virology Group at the NIV, said, "All the sera had equivalent concentration of virus-neutralizing antibodies against the UK variant and some unclassified strains of SARS-CoV-2. Importantly, sera from the vaccine recipients could neutralize the UK variant, discounting the uncertainty around potential vaccine-induced antibody escape." Dr Panda said the research had important results for the country. “Its findings are good news for India as the indigenous vaccine can not only elicit strong immune response against the predominantly circulating version of SARS-CoV-2, but has also now proven to be equally effective against the UK variant," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covaxin-effective-against-uk-variant-of-covid-study/articleshow/80488713.cms||Neha Madaan
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Padma awards: Centre picked only one from Maharashtra's list of 99||MUMBAI: The Maha Vikas Aghadi government had sent 99 names for the Padma awards to the Centre, but only social worker Sindhutai Sapkal was picked from the list. While the state had recommended Sapkal’s name for the Padma Bhushan award, the Centre conferred the Padma Shri. This year, six persons from Maharashtra have been conferred the Padma awards, but barring Sapkal, the remaining five recipients were selected by the Centre. The state had recommended industrialist Mukesh Ambani, banker Deepak Parekh and former cricketer Sunil Gavaskar for the Padma Vibhushan, while Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla’s name was sent for the Padma Bhushan. Shiv Sena MP and Saamna editor Sanjay Raut’s name was recommended for the Padma Shri in the ‘others’ category. Actors Madhuri Dixit, Mohan Agashe as well as Dr Milind Kirtane and skydiver Shital Mahajan were recommended for Padma Bhushan. Other recommendations included late Wing Commander (Retd) Captain Deepak Sathe, pilot-in-command of the plane that crashed in Kerala, for the Padma award. The state had also recommended the names of microbiologist Dr Jayanthi Shastri, head of civic-run Kasturba Hospital’s Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory and Pune-based virologist Minal Dakhave Bhosale. Other doctors included Dr Sanjay Oak, head of the state’s Covid-19 task force, task force member Dr Rahul Pandit, Dr Mufazzal Lakdawala, Dr Sultan Pradhan, Dr Jagganath Dixit, Dr Suresh Bhonsale and Dr Himmatrao Bawaskar. Nutritionist Rutuja Diwekar’s name was also sent for a Padma Shri. The recommendations were sent in October 2020 by a committee headed by protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray. Bollywood actors included late Rishi Kapoor, Hrithik Roshan, Rani Mukherjee, Ranvir Singh and Johny Lever for Padma Shri awards, besides Marathi actors Dilip Prabhavalkar, Ashok Saraf, Sudhir Gadgil and Vikram Gokhale. Conservation architect Abha Lambah and beach clean-up activist Afroz Shah were also recommended for Padma Shri. Sportspersons included Yuvraj Walmiki, Uday Deshpande, Prabhat Kohli, Anjali Bhagwat, Shankar Narayan, Smriti Mandhana and Ajinkya Rahane. A minister on the panel said in the last seven years only six persons recommended by the state government have been given awards. “In 2015, 2016 and 2017, only one name was selected, while three names were selected in 2018. This time we had made a careful selection from across fields and were hoping the Centre would take cognisance of the recommendations,” the minister said. Minister for Protocol Aaditya Thackeray confirmed to TOI that 99 names were sent to the Centre. In the last seven years, only six persons recommended by the state government have been given the awards, said a minister on the panel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/padma-awards-centre-picked-only-one-from-maha-list-of-99/articleshow/80488734.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 28, 2021||Pune||Uddhav Thackeray launches unique jail tourism initiative at Yerawada Central Prison||PUNE: “Reading history books and getting a glimpse of its historical importance in real life has been a thrilling experience for me, thanks to the jail tourism initiative launched at Yerawada Central Prison,” said 15-year-old student Sushil Giri on Tuesday. Giri was among a group of Std X students from Genba Sopanrao Moze High School at Yerawada, who were the first visitors at the prison after the state government approved the department’s proposal to promote jail tourism at the 150-year-old Yerawada prison. Giri said, “I never got an opportunity to visit the jail even though it is quite close to my school and residence. I came to know about its rich history after I visited the jail. I got a lot of information about how our leaders had spent their time in jail.” Another student Swapnali Mane added, “The jail guide shared information on the Poona Pact agreement signed between Mahatma Gandhi and Babasaheb Ambedkar under a tree inside the jail in 1932. I have read in books that our leaders were lodged in jails during the freedom struggle. I got a first-hand experience on what it is like in a jail and how our leaders had undergone their sentence.” Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray launched the initiative at the Yerawada jail through an online event in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on the occasion of Republic Day. Home minister Anil Deshmukh attended the inaugural function online while in Gondia. Addressing a select gathering, Thackeray read some extracts from a book written by his father Bal Thackeray, when he was lodged at the jail for three months. Thackeray stressed on the need to organize re-orientation programmes for inmates undergoing shorter sentence. Pawar said, “The inmates should be counselled and trained to deter them from committing a crime in the future.” He lauded the jail official’s role in organizing training programmes and taking numerous initiatives for inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thackeray-launches-unique-jail-tourism-initiative-at-yerawada-central-prison/articleshow/80488706.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 28, 2021||Thane||Thane man killed as car rams into tree||THANE: A 33-year-old car dealer from Vasant Vihar area died while his 25-year-old female friend suffered severe injuries after the speeding high-end luxury vehicle they were travelling in smashed into a tree near Upwan, early on Wednesday. The woman, Shivani Bhanushali, a resident of Unnati Woods, Ghodbunder road was driving the Toyota Land Cruiser Lexus while her friend Sumit Dhakanakar who was seated next to her, the police said. The woman is learnt to have initially told the authorities she was trying to save a stray dog that had ventured in her path. The police however said they would probe further to know if she was drunk and record her detailed statement later once she recovers. According to Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management cell at the Thane corporation, the incident was reported around 5.30am when Dhakanakar and Bhanushali were travelling towards Pawar Nagar from Upwan area. It is believed the duo was returning from a party at Yeour but the police refused to confirm the same. Passersby alerted the authorities who managed to retrieve the duo from the mangled remains of the vehicle. Officials said Bhanushali had a lucky escape as the airbags opened up in time while the ones where Dhakanakar was seated probably didn’t open up due to which he possibly suffered the impact of the collision “Bhanushali was at the wheel and was apparently speeding when she failed to control the vehicle while taking a turn at the Birsa Munda junction as it swerved and crashed into a huge tree along the footpath,” said assistant commissioner of police, Pankaj Shirsat. “The woman told us she spotted a dog in the middle of the road and tried to save him which led to the mishap. We are investigating if the duo was drunk after the woman is in a position to record her statement,” said API Gangavne from the Chitalsar Manpada police station that is investigating the case. A case has been registered against Bhanushali under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-man-killed-as-car-rams-into-tree/articleshow/80488719.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 28, 2021||India||Regulate health e-service aggregators, states told||NEW DELHI: The Centre has asked states to take urgent steps to regulate online health service aggregators that are providing diagnostic or other services without meeting the regulatory requirements or having registered under the law. In a letter to all state chief secretaries, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has underlined concerns about certain online health service aggregators — operating in various parts of the country — not providing any details of laboratories, on behalf of which, they are providing services, nor their registration status, including compliance with minimum standards. “It is a matter of grave concern, as it affects the health and safety of citizens who may obtain services from these online aggregators and subsequently be aggrieved,” the letter from Bhushan said. States have been asked to prepare a “time-bound action plan” and implement it to regulate such online health service aggregators and related service providers. Besides, the Centre has also advised states to engage the home department to investigate such matters to prevent any violation of applicable laws. The move comes in the wake of the Delhi high court seeking action against online health service aggregators which are operating illegally or in violation of the law and collecting diagnostic samples including that for Covid tests. The court’s observation were made in August in response to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking a ban on the alleged collection of diagnostic samples by online health service aggregators for testing of Covid-19 infection, posing as “medical diagnostic laboratories”. The petition filed by Jaipur-based pathologist Rohit Jain had also sought ban on the illegal online health service aggregators which are not registered under the Clinical Establishment (Registration & Regulation) Act 2010 or under any other regulations and are running without any medico-legal liability for collecting and testing samples for diagnosis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/regulate-health-e-service-aggregators-states-told/articleshow/80490324.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 28, 2021||Jodhpur||75,805 Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a single day||JAIPUR: As many as 75,805 healthcare workers received Covid-19 vaccine in a single day on Wednesday, accounting for 74% of the turnout target set by the health department. The department had set a massive target to vaccinate 1,02,250 healthcare workers in a day. For the purpose, 1,203 vaccination sites were readied across the state, including 127 in Jaipur. For Covishield, the turnout stood at 75% on Wednesday, with 72,890 receiving the jab from a possible 97,238. Ajmer (119%) and Bundi (115%) topped the chart of districts achieving the highest turnout for Covishield. Meanwhile, Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, has been made available in other districts. It was, earlier, available only in Jaipur. It is now available at 51 sites- Jaipur (26), Udaipur (16), Kota (7) and Jodhpur (2). “We had set a target to administer Covaxin to 5,012 healthcare workers in four districts. Out of these, 2,825 have received the jab or 56% of the turnout target," said a health department official. In Jodhpur, Covaxin achieved a turnout target of 105%, while in Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur it stood at 71%, 65% and 41%, respectively. According to the department, the Co-WIN app, which had reported glitches earlier during the inoculation drive, has improved considerably in enabling its teams to work in a hassle-free environment. As the adverse events following immunisation is less than 0.05% or negligible, many doctors, who have themselves taken the jab, are appealing to healthcare workers to get vaccinated. This has infused confidence among them to take the first dose of the vaccine. Only 129 adverse events have been reported from the state since January 16. Out of these, 24 were reported on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-75-5k-raj-health-workers-get-vaccinated-in-a-single-day/articleshow/80490671.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt defends track conversion in Gir sanctuary||AHMEDABAD: The state forest department defended its plans to permit track conversion for the railways, laying of gas pipelines and optical fibre cable in and around the Gir sanctuary, stating that it has given due consideration to the proposals and utmost care will be taken that wildlife is not disturbed. The forest department has till date not granted permission to any agency or department to carry out the activities till date, but it asserted before the Gujarat high court that the state board of wildlife has “given thoughtful consideration to all the nuances and has thereafter forwarded the recommendations taking into consideration the larger perspective and interests without disturbing the ecology”. The chief conservator of forests, wildlife circle of Junagadh, D T Vasavada, filed an affidavit and opposed an application filed by the amicus curiae, Hemang Shah, who took exception to allotment of 150-hectares of land to the railways for gauge conversion and electrification of tracks passing through Gir sanctuary and to the laying of oil and gas pipelines as well as optical fibre cables, expressing apprehensions that it would adversely affect the wildlife, especially Asiatic lions. He cited various news reports published in TOI in this regard. Shah assists the court in the suo motu PIL on lion conservation in Gir. The forest department clarified that the railways has asked for 148.48 hectares of land in the sanctuary. The proposal is at a nascent stage. It has been deliberated on by the state board of wildlife and recommended to the national board of wildlife for clearance subject to certain conditions and fulfilment of certain criteria. Gujarat State Petronet Ltd has sought allotment of 173.228 hectares of land for an underground gas pipeline passing through the sanctuary’s eco-sensitive zone. It is 4.815km away from the sanctuary. This proposal was forwarded to the state government. The condition for laying the pipeline is to restore the land to its natural condition. For the optical fibre cable, the Gujarat Fibre Grid Network Ltd and Jio Digital Fibre Pvt Ltd proposed to restore the land to the original condition after laying the cables. There will be no chopping of trees. The Puschim Gujarat Vij Co Ltd has also proposed an overhead 11KV electricity line in a certain division. The forest department maintained that none of the plans have been implemented yet, but the state authorities are aware of the conservation needs of the lions in this part of the world and its efforts have yielded good results. The lion population increased by 27% from 2010 to 2015 and by 28.87% in the next five years. A further hearing on this issue is posted for February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-defends-track-conversion-in-gir/articleshow/80487390.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: Helmets now mandatory to visit RTO||PUNE: Two-wheeler riders would have to wear helmets for entering the city’s regional transport office (RTO), else they would be penalized. Senior officials of the RTO stated on Wednesday that one of their inspectors would be conducting checks. A fine of Rs500 would be levied on rule violators. “A large number of people visit the RTO office for work. They need to wear helmets if they are riding a two-wheeler,” deputy regional transport officer Sanjay Sasane told TOI. Sanjiv Bhor, another senior official with the RTO, said, “The action has already begun. E-challans will be issued to violators and they will have to pay the penalty online.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/helmets-now-mandatory-to-visit-rto/articleshow/80488730.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: 4 night shelters to reopen following safety protocols||PUNE: Four night shelters run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for beggars and homeless people will reopen soon after they being shut because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body has initiated steps to ensure social distancing at these facilities. Usage of sanitisers has also been made mandatory. The shelter homes are run with the help of NGOs and social groups where the homeless get a place to stay the night. According to civic officials, the urban community development (social development) department of the PMC runs four night shelters at Senadatta Peth, Yerawada, Bopodi, and Pune station. Altogether 72 people were living in these shelters. The four facilities can accommodate 130 people. The actual transportation and relocation of homeless people is done by the police and the civic body helps in providing shelter and food to these people. Space is allotted at the shelter home by the PMC, while the food is provided with the help of NGOs. “We have planned a meeting next week to discuss reopening of these facilities. The department concerned has put a proposal in this regard,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-night-shelters-to-reopen-following-safety-protocols/articleshow/80488716.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Trying to recreate history, farm protesters court infamy||NEW DELHI: ‘Qila Fateh’ is the stuff of legends for the Sikhs. The raising of the Nishan Sahib at Red Fort by a section of the protesting farmers on Tuesday appeared to reverberate with the emotions treasured by the community about the 1783 breaching of Qila-e-Mualla, as Red Fort is known in Sikh history. Historians, of course, aren’t certain about the authenticity of the Sikh claim. There is an instance of the Sikh army at the walls of Delhi, but the entry into the fortified residence of the Mughal emperor “was developed in Sikh legends and historical veracity is missing even in the work of historian Jadunath Sarkar”, pointed out Swapna Liddle, historian and author of Chandni Chowk, the Mughal City of Old Delhi. Historically correct or not, the said breaching of the fort continues to inspire the Sikhs. In 2018, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee decided to annually celebrate Delhi Fateh Diwas, when it is held the Sikh standard, the Nishan Saheb, was first unfurled on the ramparts and the army led by Baghel Singh Dhaliwal penetrated right up to Diwan-i-Aam to lay claim to the city where they later built iconic gurdwaras. On Republic Day, historical proof wasn’t on the minds of the rampaging Sikhs. They wanted to replay what they consider an epochal episode in their community legend. Atop tractors, the protestors asserted they would unfurl their flag at Red Fort. As Kanwaljeet Singh, a young protestor from Kurukshetra, belligerently declared, “Red Fort is the symbol of power, and the Prime Minister speaks from its ramparts. We want to capture it and make the PM hear our voice.” On Wednesday, the remains revealed the chaos of the previous day. There was heavy police presence there and when the damages were assessed, the overturned police jeep near the ticket counter was a start remnant of the violence. Several metal detector gates lay broken, as did automated fare collection gates, conveyor belt, metal detectors and other items. In the audio room, where headphones are provided to tourists in different languages for information on the medieval fort, the chaos was in easy to see. The moat, into which many police personnel jumped to escape the protestors’ attacks, was strewn with broken helmets, police boots, even a forlorn Aadhaar card and a bloody handkerchief. Some of the Republic Day tableaux, include of CPWD, were found ruined. The Archaeological Survey of India did not comment on the damages incurred in the fort. On Tuesday, the protestors surged in and tried to breach the gates leading to the Naubat Khana. When police used force to deter them, the farmers retaliated. Police personnel, outnumbered, jump off the walls to escape them, leaving the field free for vandalising. After smashing CCTV cameras and uprooting the fencing, the young protesters assembled outside the World Heritage Site’s ticket counter and in minutes, using rods, sticks and rocks, shattered the glass structure. They went on to wreck the toilets and ransack some rooms, which held files and documents. The security room, with its metal detectors and monitors for CCTV cameras, was also damaged. On Wednesday, ASI said Red Fort would be shut for the public till January 31. Usually, the monument is closed from January 21 to 27 for the Republic Day events. Having suffered damages, ASI is closing the fort for a few more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trying-to-recreate-history-farm-protesters-court-infamy/articleshow/80487418.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 28, 2021||Ajmer||75,805 Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a single day||JAIPUR: As many as 75,805 healthcare workers received Covid-19 vaccine in a single day on Wednesday, accounting for 74% of the turnout target set by the health department. The department had set a massive target to vaccinate 1,02,250 healthcare workers in a day. For the purpose, 1,203 vaccination sites were readied across the state, including 127 in Jaipur. For Covishield, the turnout stood at 75% on Wednesday, with 72,890 receiving the jab from a possible 97,238. Ajmer (119%) and Bundi (115%) topped the chart of districts achieving the highest turnout for Covishield. Meanwhile, Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, has been made available in other districts. It was, earlier, available only in Jaipur. It is now available at 51 sites- Jaipur (26), Udaipur (16), Kota (7) and Jodhpur (2). “We had set a target to administer Covaxin to 5,012 healthcare workers in four districts. Out of these, 2,825 have received the jab or 56% of the turnout target," said a health department official. In Jodhpur, Covaxin achieved a turnout target of 105%, while in Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur it stood at 71%, 65% and 41%, respectively. According to the department, the Co-WIN app, which had reported glitches earlier during the inoculation drive, has improved considerably in enabling its teams to work in a hassle-free environment. As the adverse events following immunisation is less than 0.05% or negligible, many doctors, who have themselves taken the jab, are appealing to healthcare workers to get vaccinated. This has infused confidence among them to take the first dose of the vaccine. Only 129 adverse events have been reported from the state since January 16. Out of these, 24 were reported on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-75-5k-raj-health-workers-get-vaccinated-in-a-single-day/articleshow/80490672.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||100 more Aapli Buses to operate from Feb 1||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar on Wednesday directed the civic administration to increase Aapli Buses on city’s roads by 100 from February 1. Currently, the civic body is ferrying only 175 buses out of 360 due to Covid-19 scare. According to Borkar, now that the Covid-19 vaccine has arrived, the NMC should increase the number of city buses. Borkar gave the directives at a meeting of the transport department held on Wednesday. He said municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B is creating hurdles in procuring 40 electric buses. According to him, the civic body had received Rs3.50 crore from the central government as subsidy. The then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had finalized a firm to operate the electric buses after the civic body agreed to pay Rs66 per km. “Now, Radhakrishnan wants further reduction in rates,” he said. Borkar also expressed anguish against the administration for releasing payment of Rs3.56 crore to DIMTS during the lockdown period. According to him, the NMC was supposed to pay DIMTS as per bus operating on city roads. “But it seems, the cash strapped NMC is giving undue favours,” he said. He further said the transport committee will also discuss the issue of Rs90,000 payment to eight DIMTS officials who were stationed at New Delhi but assigned for the city project. Meanwhile, after much wait, the department will organize an online auction of 110 defunct city buses parked in one of its city depots at Jaitala depot. A senior official from the department told TOI that the ousted city bus contractor Vansh Nimay Infraprojects Limited had parked 230 defunct buses at three different places. “A total of 110 were parked at Jaitala depot, while remaining 120 buses on two private lands,” he said. According to NMC sources, VNIL owns around 123 of the 230 scrapped buses while 106 were of NMC which it had received from the Central government under JNNURM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/100-more-aapli-buses-to-operate-from-feb-1/articleshow/80487392.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||75,805 Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a single day||JAIPUR: As many as 75,805 healthcare workers received Covid-19 vaccine in a single day on Wednesday, accounting for 74% of the turnout target set by the health department. The department had set a massive target to vaccinate 1,02,250 healthcare workers in a day. For the purpose, 1,203 vaccination sites were readied across the state, including 127 in Jaipur. For Covishield, the turnout stood at 75% on Wednesday, with 72,890 receiving the jab from a possible 97,238. Ajmer (119%) and Bundi (115%) topped the chart of districts achieving the highest turnout for Covishield. Meanwhile, Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, has been made available in other districts. It was, earlier, available only in Jaipur. It is now available at 51 sites- Jaipur (26), Udaipur (16), Kota (7) and Jodhpur (2). “We had set a target to administer Covaxin to 5,012 healthcare workers in four districts. Out of these, 2,825 have received the jab or 56% of the turnout target," said a health department official. In Jodhpur, Covaxin achieved a turnout target of 105%, while in Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur it stood at 71%, 65% and 41%, respectively. According to the department, the Co-WIN app, which had reported glitches earlier during the inoculation drive, has improved considerably in enabling its teams to work in a hassle-free environment. As the adverse events following immunisation is less than 0.05% or negligible, many doctors, who have themselves taken the jab, are appealing to healthcare workers to get vaccinated. This has infused confidence among them to take the first dose of the vaccine. Only 129 adverse events have been reported from the state since January 16. Out of these, 24 were reported on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-75-5k-raj-health-workers-get-vaccinated-in-a-single-day/articleshow/80488724.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Udaipur||75,805 Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a single day||JAIPUR: As many as 75,805 healthcare workers received Covid-19 vaccine in a single day on Wednesday, accounting for 74% of the turnout target set by the health department. The department had set a massive target to vaccinate 1,02,250 healthcare workers in a day. For the purpose, 1,203 vaccination sites were readied across the state, including 127 in Jaipur. For Covishield, the turnout stood at 75% on Wednesday, with 72,890 receiving the jab from a possible 97,238. Ajmer (119%) and Bundi (115%) topped the chart of districts achieving the highest turnout for Covishield. Meanwhile, Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, has been made available in other districts. It was, earlier, available only in Jaipur. It is now available at 51 sites- Jaipur (26), Udaipur (16), Kota (7) and Jodhpur (2). “We had set a target to administer Covaxin to 5,012 healthcare workers in four districts. Out of these, 2,825 have received the jab or 56% of the turnout target," said a health department official. In Jodhpur, Covaxin achieved a turnout target of 105%, while in Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur it stood at 71%, 65% and 41%, respectively. According to the department, the Co-WIN app, which had reported glitches earlier during the inoculation drive, has improved considerably in enabling its teams to work in a hassle-free environment. As the adverse events following immunisation is less than 0.05% or negligible, many doctors, who have themselves taken the jab, are appealing to healthcare workers to get vaccinated. This has infused confidence among them to take the first dose of the vaccine. Only 129 adverse events have been reported from the state since January 16. Out of these, 24 were reported on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-75-5k-raj-health-workers-get-vaccinated-in-a-single-day/articleshow/80490670.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||New fintech park proposed by Gujarat for GIFT City||GANDHINAGAR: Expecting a fresh wave of investments in financial technology (fintech) services, the Gujarat government is working on plans to set up a new fintech park that will serve the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) in Gandhinagar. The fintech park will also serve new areas near the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City City. The fintech sector has seen tremendous growth in recent years. Singapore has emerged as the hub for this new market and a similar technological disruption is making inroads into India. The Gujarat government is also looking at creating a dedicated fintech policy that will give a number of incentives to companies which set up base at GIFT City IFSC (International Financial Services Centre) and surrounding areas.  Apart from central government sops, the state government plans to provide additional incentives as well. The policy, according to government sources, will be a crucial driver for startups on the lines of Paytm, PhonePe, RazorPay, MobiKwik, and PayU. Fintech has redefined how transactions are done. “Apart from the IT-based ecosystem and infrastructure, one of the biggest enablers for a fintech company planning to set up operations in GIFT City IFSC is that it now has a unified regulator,” said an industry expert. A final draft of the fintech policy is almost ready, said government sources. “We have held up the announcement of the policy, as we expect a major boost in the form of tax holiday from the Government of India for companies setting up base at the GIFT City IFSC,” a source said. “This tax holiday announcement is expected in the Union budget. After the Union budget, the state government will announce its own set of additional incentives through the new fintech policy. This will provide a quantum impetus to the GIFT City project.” The state government has already sought the approval of the central government for the announcement of the new fintech policy. “Private developers will be allowed to develop fintech-related projects in line with their requirements,” the source added. “Under the new policy, the proposed fintech park will be given significant support. Customized support to major fintech companies on the lines of manufacturing companies will also be offered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-fintech-park-proposed-by-state-for-gift-city/articleshow/80487407.cms||Kapil Dave
January 28, 2021||Pune||Guard booked for wife’s murder in Pune||PUNE: A 25-year-old watchman at a Phursungi residential society was booked on the charge of murdering his wife (22) and misleading the police that she died in an accident when their motorcycle skidded off the road at high speed. “The watchman, Rajesh Soni, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad. He had banged his head against a wall to cover up the murder and claim that he, too, suffered injuries in the ‘road accident’,” said senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Hadapsar police. However, the post-mortem (PM) conducted on the deceased called his bluff as the report revealed that she died of head injuries caused by some heavy or blunt object, said Kadam. Kadam told TOI, “Rajesh suspected his wife of infidelity and, on the night of January 17, banged her head against a wall in their house following a quarrel. After we received the PM report, our team visited his house and found forensic evidence, indicating that it was a murder incident. The woman’s brother, Nabin Janala (25) of Pimpri, lodged an FIR on Monday.” Kadam said, “Both, Rajesh and his wife, hailed from Nepal and stayed on the premises of a housing society at Phursungi. They have two children. Four days prior to the crime, Rajesh spotted Sangeeta chatting with a man. He suspected her of having an affair with the man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-booked-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/80488721.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||CM in city, cops on bandobast, traffic violators have a field day||Nagpur: Despite a high court order for deployment of at least one traffic police personnel at each major traffic intersections, the Nagpur traffic police deployed its almost entire manpower to ensure a smooth passage to the VIP convoy of CM Uddhav Thackeray who was in the city to inaugurate the Gorewada international zoo on Sunday. With police personnel missing from many parts of the city roads, violators had a free run as no authorities were there to catch them. The city traffic police, which booked about an average 2,300 violators per day in the first 25 days of January, making it a total of 60,411 violators, only 287 violators were booked in the city on Sunday. The Sonegaon traffic zone found no traffic violations at all. On January 26, around 76 were nabbed for riding without a helmet and 35 motorists for riding triple seat. Around 40 four-wheeler drivers were booked for driving without a seat belt. With 73 cases, Sitabuldi zone reported the maximum violations, followed by MIDC (43), Sakkardara (31), Sadar and Ajni zones caught 28 each violators. Indora and Cotton Market traffic zones booked the least number of violators with 18 and 17 cases respectively. However, the Telangkhedi Lake promenade, which is the hub for various celebrations in the city, was peaceful due to ongoing construction activity. This year, the traffic police had barricaded the Futala Lake Y-point road. TOI too spotted that with no action, violations by motorists — especially youngsters — indulging in hooliganism at many places including Indora, Cotton Market and Nandanwan. Most of the youths were seen shouting and waving the national flag while driving dangerously and rashly. A section of Nagpurians blamed a lack of police action as one of the major reasons why youngsters indulge in brazen violations. “For VIP bundobust, the police administration should have deputed personnel either from headquarters or police stations. Traffic police should not be deployed for any bundobust,” said a citizen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cm-in-city-cops-on-bandobast-traffic-violators-have-a-field-day/articleshow/80487445.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Farmers on borders: We didn’t start the fire||NEW DELHI: Farmers at Singhu border on Wednesday claimed that taking the tractor rally to Red Fort and unfurling Nishan Sahib on a minaret was never on their agenda. Condemning the act, the unions said they had postponed their February 1 march to Parliament. Security had been tightened at the border and paramilitary forces had been stationed in large numbers in addition to police. The situation at Singhu border was peaceful, but the farmers said they would continue their stir till the agri laws were repealed. Farmer union leaders accused the Centre of “hatching a conspiracy” to malign the movement and suppress their voices. Mehtab Singh, a farmer from Amritsar, said Tuesday’s violence had not killed their spirit. Majinder Singh, a farmer from Jalandhar, said they had more patience than the government and were ready to sit at the borders for months till their demands were met. Bharatiya Kisan Union president Khurmar Singh, who is a member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said some miscreants crossed the border for the tractor rally at 8-8.30am without taking others into confidence and police deployed at the borders didn’t stop them. Dr Ashish Mittal, general secretary of All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha, said, “The entire movement is in our favour, which is why despite instigation and repression by police, genuine farmers didn’t raise their voice. Some youths might have lost their patience as the route was curtailed despite waiting on the borders for months. We will be taking corrective steps to consolidate our movement and will not let it break.” Balvinder Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana, said, “There were a few who had probably made up their mind to ruin the show. Moreover, when the rally started on Tuesday, we were surprised to see that police had barricaded the designated route. While some youths went on another route, on our leaders’ request we went to Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar and took a U-turn from there to return to our protest site.” Satyavan, national president of All India Kishan Khet Mazdoor Sangathan, a resident of Haryana, said the identity of the miscreants was not known immediately and it took time to identify them. Meanwhile, to make travelling easier for people crossing Singhu border, Khalsa Aid Charitable Trust from Fatehgarh has been running a free e-rickshaw service for the past 25 days. Also, to minimise the use of plastic bottles, RO plants were installed recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-on-borders-we-didnt-start-the-fire/articleshow/80487454.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 28, 2021||Pune||Duo detained for posing as Shirur MP||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune police on Wednesday detained a man, along with his aide, on the suspicion of posing as Shirur MP Amol Kolhe and demanding money from a city-based builder to support people during the Covid-19 lockdown. “A few days back, Kolhe had submitted a complaint application to the police in this regard. On Wednesday evening, we traced the man who called the builder impersonating as Kolhe,” said deputy commissioner of police (Crime) Bachchan Singh. “The Wanowrie police on Wednesday night were in the process of registering a case of cheating and impersonation against the duo,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-detained-for-posing-as-shirur-mp/articleshow/80488747.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||947 Uttarakhand students selected for first phase of the National Inspire Award 2021||Dehradun: As many as 947 Uttarakhand students have been selected for the first phase of the National Inspire Award 2021. The awards are meant to encourage students to research more on various scientific topics. The selected students will be given monetary assistance by the central government in order to develop the prototype of their respective science models. Earlier, students from all over the country sent a blueprint of their models. The maximum number of students — 155 — were selected from the Chamoli district, followed by 154 students from Udham Singh Nagar, 144 students each from Tehri Garhwal, 126 from Dehradun, 108 from Pauri Garhwal, 53 from Haridwar, and 18 from Bageshwar. Notably, Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) scheme is one of the flagship programmes of the department of science and technology (DST), Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/947-uttarakhand-students-selected-for-first-phase-of-the-national-inspire-award-2021/articleshow/80486201.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 28, 2021||Patna||Begusarai girl’s day out as SHO on Republic Day||PATNA: It was a memorable day for 13-year-old Anjali Kumari on Tuesday, as the country celebrated the 72nd Republic Day, she got the honour of being the station house officer (SHO) for a day at Begusarai’s Balia police station. An international Taekwondo player, Anjali became the first person in Bihar to get this rare opportunity. This people-connect initiative was the brainchild of the real SHO of Balia Avdhesh Saroj, an IPS officer (probationer). Anjali, an international Taekwando player and a Class-IX student of a private school in Balia, told TOI over the phone on Wednesday that she will cherish this experience her whole life and thanked the SHO for giving her the opportunity. “It felt great. I had never imagined that such an opportunity would come to me,” Anjali said, adding she aspires to become an IAS officer. Saroj said he used to see Anjali practising Taekwondo with others at the Balia block ground every morning while jogging. “Her practice motivated me. After inquiry, I came to know that Anjali has won competitions even at the international level. And that is when it was decided to invite her to become SHO on the occasion of Republic Day,” Saroj said, adding he is sure that Anjali has a bright future ahead of her. He said Anjali’s parents well as a few friends were also invited at the police station and an arrangement for dinner was made for them. “She jointly hoisted the national flag with me at the police station on Republic day,” he added. “My father Manoj Kumar Swarnkar is our coach. My youngest brother Aryan (10) has played a national level championship while another brother Krish (11) has played till state level,” Anjali said, adding during the lockdown she kept practising her moves at home with her two younger brothers. She said her routine includes waking up at 5 am, practising till 8 am, cycling to school starting from 9 am and returning by 2 pm, attending coaching classes for Maths and science and going to bed by 10 pm. “I want to become an asset to my country. Though I have represented India in an international championship it was held within the country. I want to represent the nation in a bigger event of Taekwondo somewhere abroad,” Anjali said. Talking about her day at the police station, Anjali said tried to help one Vikash Kumar, who came to the police station to submit a written complaint about the continuous traffic jam at Bhagatpur road at Balia. “I asked a sub-inspector Jagriti Kumari to inspect the spot. It was due to encroachment,” Anjali said, recalling some more complaints were also received while she was acting as the SHO for the day. SHO Saroj said based on action taken by Anjali, they are now taking the necessary action and preparing a report to be submitted to the sub-divisional officer for encroachment removal from the road. “She was made aware of working of a police station, patrolling system and other responsibilities of police. A station diary entry was made noting that she headed the police station on Tuesday. She looked after all the petitions received on Tuesday,” Saroj said. Anjali’s father Manoj said she started training for Taekwondo at the age of seven. “She won a gold medal in the 2nd India Open International G-1 Taekwondo championship held at Hyderabad in 2019 beating opponents from Australia, Oman, Saudi Arabia and Nepal,” he said. The proud father said Anjali has also won medals at the 63rd, 64th and 65th SGFI National School Games Taekwondo U-14 championship. “She has won medals in numerous state and district level Taekwondo championships,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/begusarai-girls-day-out-as-sho-on-r-day/articleshow/80487438.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 28, 2021||Bhopal||Eight from Madhya Pradesh killed in road accident at Tonk||JAIPUR: Eight people from Madhya Pradesh died and four others sustained injuries after the vehicle in which they were travelling was hit by a loaded cement truck from behind on Tonk-Kota highway at 2.30 am on Wednesday. The victims were travelling from Khatu Shyamji temple to Jerapura in Rajgarh in MP. The injured have been rushed to SMS Hospital in Jaipur. According to Tonk SP Om Prakash, a Force Traveller, which was carrying 14 passengers, tried to overtake a vehicle on a bridge but applied brakes after seeing another vehicle coming from the opposite direction and got another end. “The cement truck coming from behind smashed into the tempo traveller killing eight persons on the spot, including two children aged seven and eight years. The intensity of the accident was so huge that the truck went over the top of the van leaving the body parts of victims strewn around the vehicle,” Prakash said. Police had to bring a crane to remove the van and retrieve the mangled bodies. The deceased are Radhey Shyam Soni, 48; Ram Babu Soni, 37; Lalit Soni, 24; Nayan Soni, 15; Akshat Soni, 7; Mamta Soni, 28; Santosh Soni, 28; and Akshita Soni, 8. The four injured are Dilip Soni, 32; Vinod Soni, 24; Daksh Soni, 14; and Sarita Soni, 31. Miraculously, a three-year-old girl survived unhurt in the accident. Police said that cousins Lalit Soni and Pawan Soni had come to Khatu Shyam Ji on foot as part of a group from Rajgarh to hold special prayers. They reached the temple on January 25. They were followed by their immediate and extended family members. “After a day's stay they were returning home in two tempo travellers. The tempo going ahead met with the accident killing Lalit and seven others while Pawan was travelling in another bus,” Prakash said. A case has been filed against the truck driver and the cops are investigating if the driver was driving rashly or if the tempo traveller applied brakes too quickly resulting in the accident. CM Ashok Gehlot condoled the deaths and tweeted, “Sad to know that eight persons have lost their lives in a road accident in Tonk while returning to their town in MP from Khatu Shyamji.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eight-from-mp-killed-in-road-accident-at-tonk/articleshow/80491164.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Teen puts up banner in Mumbai to thank cops for tracing her bicycle||MUMBAI: A city police team was in for a pleasant surprise when a banner appreciating their efforts was put up. What made the gesture doubly heartwarming was the fact that it came from a Class 8 student who wanted to thank her heroes for recovering her stolen bicycle within 24 hours. On Republic Day, Tuesday, 13-year-old Aditi Sawant visited D N Nagar police station along with her parents and handed over a letter of appreciation with the names of all the policemen who helped trace her bicycle worth Rs35,000. More than the price tag, Aditi has an emotional attachment to the bicycle as her father had gifted it to her two years ago for excelling in exams. In the letter addressed to senior inspector Bharat Gaikwad, Aditi has said, “I am writing to express my deepest gratitude for your dedication and professionalism towards finding my bicycle. My bicycle was stolen on January 21 at 6.30am. We submitted the CCTV footage the next day and the Mumbai police found my bicycle within 24 hours. Your officers are doing a fantastic job. Today I feel proud of Mumbai police.” The banner thanking the police team has been put up outside Aditi’s building at Ganesh Chowk, Andheri west. Aditi’s mother Asha says they did not think the police would take the case seriously. “We were stunned when the police traced the bicycle within 24 hours. It was our daughter’s wish to show her appreciation to the Mumbai police. We decided to place the banner in the locality so that others also know and appreciate the efforts of the police,” Asha told TOI. “It made us happy when the child along with her parents visited the police station and applauded our work,” said senior inspector Gaikwad. The juvenile accused caught for the crime has been sent to a correction home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teen-puts-up-banner-to-thank-cops-for-tracing-her-bicycle/articleshow/80488766.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Eight from Madhya Pradesh killed in road accident at Tonk||JAIPUR: Eight people from Madhya Pradesh died and four others sustained injuries after the vehicle in which they were travelling was hit by a loaded cement truck from behind on Tonk-Kota highway at 2.30 am on Wednesday. The victims were travelling from Khatu Shyamji temple to Jerapura in Rajgarh in MP. The injured have been rushed to SMS Hospital in Jaipur. According to Tonk SP Om Prakash, a Force Traveller, which was carrying 14 passengers, tried to overtake a vehicle on a bridge but applied brakes after seeing another vehicle coming from the opposite direction and got another end. “The cement truck coming from behind smashed into the tempo traveller killing eight persons on the spot, including two children aged seven and eight years. The intensity of the accident was so huge that the truck went over the top of the van leaving the body parts of victims strewn around the vehicle,” Prakash said. Police had to bring a crane to remove the van and retrieve the mangled bodies. The deceased are Radhey Shyam Soni, 48; Ram Babu Soni, 37; Lalit Soni, 24; Nayan Soni, 15; Akshat Soni, 7; Mamta Soni, 28; Santosh Soni, 28; and Akshita Soni, 8. The four injured are Dilip Soni, 32; Vinod Soni, 24; Daksh Soni, 14; and Sarita Soni, 31. Miraculously, a three-year-old girl survived unhurt in the accident. Police said that cousins Lalit Soni and Pawan Soni had come to Khatu Shyam Ji on foot as part of a group from Rajgarh to hold special prayers. They reached the temple on January 25. They were followed by their immediate and extended family members. “After a day's stay they were returning home in two tempo travellers. The tempo going ahead met with the accident killing Lalit and seven others while Pawan was travelling in another bus,” Prakash said. A case has been filed against the truck driver and the cops are investigating if the driver was driving rashly or if the tempo traveller applied brakes too quickly resulting in the accident. CM Ashok Gehlot condoled the deaths and tweeted, “Sad to know that eight persons have lost their lives in a road accident in Tonk while returning to their town in MP from Khatu Shyamji.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eight-from-mp-killed-in-road-accident-at-tonk/articleshow/80488751.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Crisis in making: Mollem’s green cover loss and Goa’s water woes||MARGAO: Nearly 21 years after the then governor, the late Lt Gen (retd) J F R Jacob, spoke about protecting the water security of Goa, today it is witnessing a tectonic shift inside one of the eight biodiversity hotspots of the world at Mollem, as three Centre-funded infrastructure projects have the potential to turn it into a parched state. It is not just water but the three projects that cut through the biodiversity paradise pose a mighty threat to endemism and the impending damage to the flora and fauna of the region will be “colossal”, said forest officials. Former RFO Prakash Salelkar said he had sighted tigers on various occasions in the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary of Mollem. “The tiger habitat needs to be preserved,” Salelkar, who holds the distinction of travelling 42km through the state’s forests in 12 hours to familiarise himself with Goa’s Western Ghats, said. Wildlife and forest officials said several smaller wildlife species are also endemic to the forests. “Animals and plants have invisible linkages by which they are connected to each other. So, if we are removing one component from the ecology, we are disturbing the whole ecosystem. It’s very much like a spider’s web,” a wildlife officer said. Mollem forests also constitute the catchment areas for the Khandepar, the main source of raw water for the Opa water treatment plant supplying potable water to Tiswadi and Ponda talukas. “It’s ironic that while Goa is fighting with Karnataka over the Mhadei water diversion, the government has no qualms in destroying the catchment areas of the Khandepar by bringing in the three potentially disastrous projects,” a senior forest department official said. After one of his trips to the dense forests of Mollem, in a casual conversation with wildlife lovers at Cabo Raj Bhavan, Jacob—who had declared Mhadei and Netravali forest ranges as wildlife sanctuaries in 1999 during the President’s rule in the state—had said: “People and politicians will oppose it and there will come a time when I will not be in this world. But people will thank me for declaring these areas ‘protected’ for ensuring water security of Goa.” It’s precisely water security—the primary reason for declaring forest areas as “protected”—that is now facing a real threat with the three infrastructure projects: The rail double-tracking of Castlerock-Collem-Vasco stretch, the four-laning of Panaji-Belagavi national highway and the 440 KV power project. “We have a huge biodiversity in the Western Ghats of Goa. But two-three times of the area from which biodiversity has been documented lies unexplored,” a senior forest official said. “The scope for further research is vast.” While other parts of Western Ghats were thoroughly studied and documented by the British, Goa’s forests remained excluded from scientific exploration owing to the Portuguese rule. Wildlife experts said unlike the Portuguese, the Britishers were good naturalists, which led to the exploration and documentation of the flora and fauna from other Western Ghats states. Goa Golden Jubilee Vision Document 2012 states that the state’s wildlife sanctuaries have more than 1,512 documented species of plants, 275 species of birds, over 48 kinds of animals and 60 genera of reptiles, several of which are endemic to the region. Ruby throated yellow bulbul, different types of amphibians—tree toads, gliding frogs, balloon frogs, Indiana frog and legless frogs—and several types of owls and countless number of spiders, Harper spit vipers and king cobras are predominantly found in the Mollem forests. Sources said the purpose of declaring Mollem forest a wildlife sanctuary in 1968 was to protect and preserve the biodiversity of the forest “so that the water regime in this area is protected”. “It is mainly to protect the rivers originating in the Western Ghats. While the Dudhsagar river is flowing through the Mollem national park, there are so many other tributaries originating and merging with this river ensuring a sustained water supply. Any anthropogenic presence in the catchment area can lead to devastation,” the senior forest official said. Explaining how the projects will wreak havoc on the fragile ecosystem of the Western Ghats, forest officials even inadvertently debunked the argument that the damage caused to the environment would be minimal as the alignment of the second track runs parallel to the existing one. “Nature requires time to heal itself,” another senior forest official said. “We have a railway line passing through the Braganza Ghat, which was laid over 150 years ago. Everything has healed now. Nature has been restored and components of the ecosystem back in place. Any activity there now will lead to disruption once again.” In order to hammer home a sense of magnitude of destruction that will entail if the projects take shape, the official said it takes not less than 300 years for the formation of a two-inch layer of forest soil. “If you take just one cubic meter of forest soil and observe it under a microscope, the life forms you will be able to see under it will be immense. It will take five-six years to study just that 1cu m of forest soil. Just imagine the scale of destruction if large swathes of forest land are destroyed for infrastructure projects,” he said. Wildlife officials underscored how ecological destruction will lead to extinction of species surviving on that habitat. “Once a species becomes extinct from this area,” said a senior forest official, “there is no way to get it back. These areas are unique and unique areas support unique types of species. If they are deprived of their habitat, they will cease to exist any longer. And if they go, all the other components of the ecosystem—and they are so many of them—will move out.” To elucidate his point about the intricate web of the wildlife ecosystem and the need for conservation, the official gave an example of the civet cat feeding on the fruits of the fishtail palm (bheralo maad as it is commonly known). “When the civet cat eats the fruits of this tree, its seeds pass through the digestive system, and its droppings help in the germination of those seeds during the monsoon. If the animal is removed from the ecosystem, the dispersal and germination of these seeds will stop. This connection or invisible linkages needs to be appreciated and understood,” he said. (Tomorrow: How Parrikar put his foot down)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crisis-in-making-mollems-greencover-loss-and-goas-water-woes/articleshow/80488763.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Turning every village into a wellspring||CHENNAI: There’s something about transformation stories from rural India that can warm the weariest of hearts. You may have found yourself exhilarated over Mohan Bhargava’s (Shah Rukh Khan) gift of electricity to Charanpur in Swades, or Bhuvan’s historic sixer that brought home victory to the players of Champaner in Lagaan. But beyond and outside these extraordinary film sets are real-life innovators – way less conspicuous, but toiling away to spread hope like wildfire across faceless, policy-starved rural landscapes. One such is a young team of crusaders from the Cuckoo Forest School in Pulinayur in Singarapettai and Akarmaa Foundation, an NGO working on heritage, environment and education. Thanks to their four-year-old vision, the women of Valasai Dhuruvam, a small village in Tiruvannamalai, have finally ended their routine nine-kilometer trek every morning to fetch stagnant water from a quarry – the only source of water for their households for past decade. Including Valasai Dhuruvam, the team has revived six public wells in villages in and around Tiruvannamalai and Krishnagiri, many of which are neighbourhoods habitually impacted by the absence of a solid portable water distribution mechanism. “Most times, we’re referred to wells in need of revival by the youngsters in these villages, who are local youth club members. Once they have us on board, they do all the leg work, including getting permissions from the local administration,” says Madhu Manjari, architect with the Public Well Revival Movement. There are several reasons why public wells are left neglected. At a time when getting water on your tap, having it delivered at your doorstep as against fetching it, and having access to a tank or borewell, are factors equated to a quality standard of living, wells as we know them, have lost relevance. This is a common gap in perception the team has had to face in several villages including Valasai Dhuruvam. Restoration begins with identifying a well, dewatering and desilting it, and opening up its aquifiers (a body of saturated rock through which water can move, which in the case of defunct wells remains closed for years on end). The team then cleans the outer periphery of the well where foliage, trash could have amassed, plasters it, constructs a parapet wall and installs pulleys inside. “We also install a small motor and water tank outside for the elderly to fetch water,” says a member of the team. Water security is, and always has been a local issue that must be tailored for resident communities. Because most times, what makes decentralised recharge and storage of water – which is what functional public wells and tanks enable – inaccessible, is a complex blend of social, political and cultural impediments; and not just poor monsoons. "Water is a political issue; discrimination on the basis of caste, class, gender, all play a role in securing it for a community," says water activist and urban planner Vishwanath Srikantaiah. When they set out to revive a well, the first and immediate response from the villagers often is dissuasion or indifference. “But we start working, and the first to get curious and join us are the kids. Over the next couple of days, a few adults start trickling in, and soon after that, it becomes a community initiative,” says Madhu. What we need are the kind of solutions that give the most affected people control, says Vishwanath. "In addition to wells, reviving a local lake or a tank completes the cycle, as it allows rainwater to store in these water bodies and infiltrate the ground, which in turn provides water for the wells, which the communities can build for themselves too," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/turning-every-village-into-a-wellspring/articleshow/80487433.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four private hospitals staff say no to Covid shot, govt counsels||HYDERABAD: Four private hospitals in the city which had not allowed state health officials to carry out Covid vaccination programme on their campuses, are still reluctant to let in the officials since the roll-out of the drive on Monday. All four have over 100 healthcare staff and were hence earmarked as vaccination session site for the roll out of the programme for private healthcare staff. But the entire staff at these facilities said that they were not interested in taking the vaccine. Not only that, they had even turned away vaccination officers assigned by the government for their centres. Since the Covid vaccination programme is meant to be a voluntary drive, health officials are not forcing any beneficiary to take the vaccine. After facing staunch opposition from the entire staff at these hospitals, the officials reported back to higher authorities, who then planned on counselling the staff at the hospital. “We have given them a round of counselling already. We are working on them, they will get convinced,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. Meanwhile, state health authorities have set a target to vaccinate 36,000 private healthcare staffers on Thursday across 450 vaccination centres in the state. The vaccination programme to cover 1.55 lakh healthcare workers in the private healthcare set up began on Monday and will continue up to the first week of February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-pvt-hosps-staff-say-no-to-covid-shot-govt-counsels/articleshow/80487459.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 28, 2021||Pune||Businessman in car nearly runs over cop near Yerawada police station||PUNE: A constable had a narrow escape when an internet services businessman from Kalyaninagar, summoned for arrest procedure over a production warrant issued in a dud cheque case by a court in Port Blair, nearly ran him over while escaping from the Yerawada police station in his car around 2am on Tuesday. Constable Vinayak Mudholkar was standing in the way of the car when the businessman switched on the engine in a bid to drive out of the premises.  Despite seeing Mudholkar on the way, the businessman pressed the accelerator at full throttle. Mudholkar managed to jump out of the way in the nick of time before the businessman sped away from the police station. Mudholkar later lodged an FIR for attempt to murder against the businessman. He is on the run. “We have launched a hunt for the businessman. We have the rquisite details and will soon arrest him,” inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police told TOI. “The businessman is into providing internet connectivity services in different parts of India,” the inspector added. Waghmare said, “Late on Monday night, we brought the businessman to the police station against summons and the procedure for his arrest was on till the wee hours. He was standing in the verandah with Mudholkar and assistant sub-inspector Prvain More when he told the two policemen that he was feeling cold and should be allowed to sit in his car with its heater on for some relief. The unsuspecting policemen let him do so. But the moment he was in the car, he started to drive away.” Waghmare said, “Both Mudholkar and More thought that he would start the heater and sit in the car for a few minutes. Mudholkar stood in front of the car and More stood near the driver’s window. The businessman first pushed More hard and the latter fell on the ground. The businessman drove his car towards Mudholkar at a high speed. Mudholkar managed to jump out of the car’s way to save himself.” Neither Mudholkar nor More sustained, The businessman could have easily run over Mudholkar had the constable not jumped out of the car’s way, inspector Waghmare said. “By the time we could get into our vehicles and chase the businessman, his car had left the area,” he said. Waghmare said, “A court in Port Blair (Andaman and Nicobar islands) has issued an arrest and production warrant against the businessman in a Negotiable Instrument Act case. The police station received the warrant. The businessman was detained and taken to the police station on Monday night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-in-car-nearly-runs-over-cop-near-police-station/articleshow/80488756.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||Victoria celebrates ‘Nirbhik Subhas’ through rare exhibits||KOLKATA: A handwritten letter declaring his desire to resign from the Indian Civil Services in April 21, a letter to his mother explaining why India is God’s chosen land, a photograph showing how he was given a hero’s welcome at Singapore, the last available photograph of Netaji in Saigon on August 18, 1945, his uniform and arms he used are among the rare exhibits that will be on display at the Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH) from Thursday for two years. The exhibition, ‘Nirbhik Subhas’, has been curated to celebrate his 125th birth anniversary. VHM has collaborated with the Archaeological Survey of India and National Archives to bring this exhibition to life. The ASI’s Netaji Museum within Red Fort has a large number of items that he used — his uniform and arms — during his days as the head of the Azad Hind Fauj. It has loaned them to the VMH for display at the exhibition. From the National Archives, his files, letters and photographs have been sent for the exhibition. The entire show, which is being called a living exhibition, because items will be continuously added to it for the next two years, has been put together with the help of the Design Factory (India), which was chosen by the ministry of culture for the special project. Visitors will be allowed from 11am though several Covid protocols are in place. Not more than 200 will be allowed inside the museum. A route has been chalked out for them and there will be a time limit for each visitor. This has been done to avoid crowding because VMH expects the exhibition to be a major draw. In some of the letters displayed, we see a teenaged Subhas writing to his mother about his views on nationalism. In 1938, after Netaji became the president of the Congress in its Haripura session, even Time Magazine had him on the cover, showing his international popularity. This, too, will be one of the exhibits. Rare photographs showing Netaji hoisting the tricolour at Andamans, freeing it from the Japanese and establishing the Azad Hind government and renaming the islands as Shaheed and Swaraj, will be on display. “We have photographs of a garlanded Netaji, holding his hat in his hand, being welcomed in Singapore by the jubiliant Indians. This was on July 2, 1943, when even the streets were decorated and students sang nationalist songs,” said Jayanta Sengupta, curator of VMH. Another big draw is bound to be the last photograph of the leader saluting his soldiers and supporters while alighting from an aircraft at Saigon, where he was seen last on August 18, 1945, before he “disappeared”, it was said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/victoria-celebrates-nirbhik-subhas-through-rare-exhibits/articleshow/80488760.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 28, 2021||Pune||Mula-Mutha project gets a big boost||PUNE: The process to call a tender for pollution abatement in the Mula-Mutha river has received a go-ahead, confirmed union minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi on Wednesday. Gadkari said that the Jal Shakti ministry has approved the process to initiate the tender. A decision was also taken to appoint a consultant for a similar project in Nagpur. Gadkari also suggested to provide the treated water to industries or MIDC. “In Mathura, the treated water is being given to the industry and the local body is getting revenue in return. The PMC too can give the treated water to industries and generate revenue,” Gadkari said. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and other civic officials were visiting Delhi on Wednesday to discuss various city-centric projects. “PMC has completed all the compliance work for tenders. The final proposal has been sent to the union government. After the green signal, the tenders will be issued. Then actual ground works will start,” said a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mula-mutha-project-gets-a-big-boost/articleshow/80488761.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bareilly||Man who died was just back from Aus, wife, 21, still in Melbourne||Rampur: Like many young farmers across the farm belts in Punjab, Haryana and UP, Navreet Singh would make the trip to Delhi’s Ghazipur border to join the protest every few days. The 24-year-old had just come home from Australia, newly married, and was a vocal opponent of the new farm laws. On Tuesday, he was among the protesters on tractors that veered towards the heart of Delhi. Moments after his tractor turned turtle, people found him dead. On Wednesday, the lingering question of how he really died hanging heavy, his family cremated him. His village with 8,000-odd people, Dibdiba in UP’s Rampur, had gone quiet, police presence marking every inch. “We are taking care of the law and order situation in the village,” Rampur additional SP Sansaar Singh told TOI. Navreet’s has been an influential family. For generations, his family has held 12 acres of farmland in Dibdiba. His grandfather, Hardeep Singh Dibdiba, has written five books in Punjabi on Sikhism and against terrorism. “I am going to write about this protest, tell the truth,” he said on Wednesday. Five years ago, Navreet had moved to Australia to study. His sister had chosen Canada. While pursuing a graduate course in commerce, he met Mansweet Kaur, also a student, in Melbourne. They fell in love and, last year, they got married. His father, Sahab Singh, and grandfather were getting old. After his graduation was over, he came home. "He had come to India to celebrate his wedding three to four months ago," said Hardeep, who is also ad hoc president of the Rajasthan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. Mansweet, now 21, stayed back to complete her graduation. “He could have lived an easy life abroad. But he wanted to help out at the farm,” his uncle Inderjeet Singh told TOI. At the time, resentment against the new farm laws had started building up. When the protests began in Delhi, there was no holding him back. With troops of young farmers from nearby villages, he would go and mark his presence at the peaceful protests at the Ghazipur border and come back. His grandfather would head for the Rajasthan border. “He would be at the protest since it started,” Hardeep said. "He died a martyr." On January 23, Navreet left Dibdiba for Ghazipur again. He meant to stay on for the Republic Day protest. When he died, his wife, more than 10,000 km away, got to know before others did. “She came to know Navreet had died when the news exploded on social media within minutes. It was their wedding photo, next to that of his body that was being shared. She has not recovered from the shock,” Daljeet Singh, a neighbour, said. She could not make it to her husband’s funeral. (With inputs from Yudhvir Rana in Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-who-died-was-just-back-from-aus-wife-21-still-in-melbourne/articleshow/80485095.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 28, 2021||Patna||Bihar: BJP spokesman shot at on college campus||PATNA: State BJP spokesperson Prof Afzar Shamshi (53) was shot at on his college campus under Jamalpur police station area in Munger on Wednesday morning. Jamalpur College’s professor-in-charge Lallan Prasad Singh (55) was arrested for his alleged role in the incident. Shamshi is associate professor in the Department of Industrial Relation & Personnel Management at the college. At least three unidentified youths fired on Shamshi when he reached the college premises at around 11.45am. He sustained a bullet injury in his head and was rushed to Patna for better treatment. Munger SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon told TOI over phone that Shamshi had some dispute with Singh. He said Shamshi is also the president of an ITC workers’ union in Munger. “Singh’s financial powers were transferred to Shamshi in April last year after irregularities surfaced in the Jamalpur College,” the SP said. Dhillon said Shamshi had also written to the vice-chancellor of TMB University, Bhagalpur, for making him the professor-in-charge of the college in place of Singh. “Shamshi had written several letters to the university alleging financial irregularities in the college,” he said. He said the VC had formed a committee to inquire into the financial irregularities, but Singh did not appear before it. Dhillon said Singh was transferred to SRK College, Barbigha, in 2018 but he never joined. Shamshi continuously raised the issue before the university. The SP said these were the reasons behind the incident. “Police recorded Shamshi’s statement. He has accused Singh of hatching a conspiracy to kill him,” he said. He said at least three unidentified youths had come to the college premises in an e-rickshaw. “Shamshi had just entered the college campus and his driver was about to park the car when two rounds were fired,” he said. The SP said one empty 9mm cartridge was recovered from the spot. He said Shamshi’s driver is eyewitness to the incident. “Efforts are on to nab the youths,” he added. He said Shamshi is an accused in a case with Kotwali police station in connection with a clash between two factions of ITC workers in 2019. “He along with opponents had been sent to jail in the case. Police had later submitted chargesheet against all the accused, including Shamshi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-spokesman-shot-at-on-college-campus/articleshow/80487470.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 28, 2021||Pune||Assembling of third TBM starts at Swargate, excavation by mid-February||PUNE: The underground Metro work is set to get a further push in February as three tunnel boring machines (TBM) — two at Civil Court and one at Swargate — will start excavation from the two locations. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (MahaMetro) stated that it has started assembling one TBM at the Swargate end of the mass transportation system, from where the machine will travel towards Mandai. Two more TBMs are being set up at Civil Court in Shivajinagar to begin the tunnelling work towards Kasba Peth. All three machines will work in full swing by mid-February. This will expedite the tunnelling work in the 6km underground stretch from Range Hills to Swargate. The two machines at Civil Court have completed the excavation from Agriculture College to Civil Court. A MahaMetro official said, “Both machines were pulled out from the tunnel at Civil Court last month and are now being re-assembled for the next-stage excavation. The setting up of the machines is a huge task. Various technical parameters need to be met before these machines begin the actual excavation. We hope to complete the assembly of all three machines in the next few days to make them ready for tunnelling work”. The tunnelling work to begin from next month is crucial, as a machine from Swargate to Mandai will travel underneath the city’s old congested areas. On the other hand, the two machines that will begin the excavation from Civil Court will cross the Mutha river. The MahaMetro has stated that the traffic in Swargate and the areas towards Mandai would not be affected because of the work because the machine would travel 15 metre below the ground level. MahaMetro general manager (public relations) Hemant Sonawane said, “All necessary precautions will be in place when actual excavation starts. A basic tunnel of the structure has been excavated at Swargate to lower and assemble the TBM.” Three machines will as per the plans meet in the Mandai area. “The excavation will continue for the next few months. The plan to take the machines out from the Mandai area will be ready by then,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assembling-of-third-tbm-starts-at-swargate-excavation-by-mid-feb/articleshow/80488774.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 28, 2021||Goa||54,176 trees cut at Mopa site, 500 replanted: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant, in a written reply to a question tabled by independent MLA Rohan Khaunte on Wednesday, said 54,176 trees have been cut at the Mopa airport site and 500 trees have been replanted. Sawant also informed the House that 1,500 jobs are expected to be available once Mopa airport becomes operational. Construction of the airport is in progress and the first phase is expected to be commissioned next year. In two separate orders in August 2018, the forest department had granted conditional NOCs for felling trees for the construction of the greenfield Mopa international airport. One of the conditions was that the user agency shall replant ten times the number of tree saplings against the actual number of trees felled, with tall saplings of local or indigenous species within the project area and in the vicinity of Mopa in blank areas identified in consultation with the forest department, the chief minister stated in his reply. To the question of recruitment by the project proponent, Sawant replied that 26 Goans have been recruited directly under GMR Goa International Airport Limited (GGIAL) while 479 Goans are working at the airport construction site. “Clause 5.9 of the concession agreement envisages obligations relating to employment of people of Goa and displaced families. More than 1,500 jobs are expected to be available once the airport becomes operational. The government has already approved setting up an aviation skill development centre at the airport site to impart training to Goan unemployed youth to be eligible for such jobs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/54176-trees-cut-at-mopa-site-500-replanted-cm/articleshow/80488795.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Active cases lowest since May in state||Hyderabad: Active novel coronavirus cases went down to 2,819 for the first time since May 31, even as Telangana recorded 147 new cases and one death on Wednesday. With the latest numbers, the total count of cases in the state stands at 2,93,737, while the death toll has gone up to 1,593. The recovery rate has now reached 98 percent. Meanwhile, testing hit a low of 16,486 on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/active-cases-lowest-since-may-in-state/articleshow/80487461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||‘A genocide anywhere is a genocide everywhere’||Kolkata: Lt Col (retd) Quazi Sazzad Ali Zahir of Bangladesh, who has been conferred the Padma Shri for public affairs by the Indian government this year, wants Pakistan to admit its guilt for the genocide in Bangladesh. A senior officer in the Pakistan Army, he had ‘deserted’ to join the ranks of Bangladeshi Mukti Joddhas and was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court thereafter. The sentence still stands. “What is an apology? It is nothing. We demand an admittance of guilt from Pakistan for the genocide in Bangladesh,” said Lt Col Zahir. In 1971, during the Liberation War of Bangladesh, Lt Col Zahir moved to a camp set up for Mukti Joddhas in India and used his skills to train youngsters in the Sylhet Sector. After the liberation of Bangladesh, he has been at the forefront in creating awareness among the new generation about what took place in those turbulent years where millions of Bangladeshi nationals were tortured and gave their lives for the liberation. Apart from other efforts, Lt Col began the concept of publishing graphic novels for children, highlighting the martyrdom of Mukti Joddhas and the role played by the Indian Army in the liberation of Bangladesh. Recipient of The Independence Day Award, Bangladesh’s highest civilian award, in 2013, he says that the Padma Shri is also a great recognition. “This is a great honour. It highlights the struggle by the people of our two nations against a genocide being perpetrated. This has far-reaching implications. It’s not only about 1971 and what happened in Bangladesh. A genocide anywhere is a genocide everywhere. That is what we have been attempting to teach the new generation, so they may never have to face any other genocide anywhere,” he added. Lt Col Zahir is now nearing 70. He was a youngster when posted to the 6th Field Artillery Regiment in Sialkot, Pakistan. After the atrocities in Bangladesh started, he fled to India and organised the 2nd Artillery Force under Sector 4 in the Sylhet region. With the help of six 105mm field guns provided by India, he commanded the Raushan Ara Battery that provided artillery cover to the Mukti Bahini Z Force during their several operations in the Sylhet region.“Unfortunately, the world never pinned down Pakistan for the genocide it committed. That is our greatest regret,” Lt Col Zahir (retd) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-genocide-anywhere-is-a-genocide-everywhere/articleshow/80488769.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Last meeting of GHMC council nixed as mayor election nears||Hyderabad: At a time when some projects including construction of two-BHK houses and construction/ widening of nalas are moving at a snail’s pace, the last general body meeting of the current Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) council scheduled on Wednesday was cancelled. The general body meeting was scheduled to discuss and approve the budget, but due to model code of conduct ahead of mayoral election for Greater Hyderabad, it had to be called off. The plan was to discuss and approve the GHMC draft budget of Rs 5,600 crore for 2021-22. As on date, around 50,000 houses being built under dignity housing scheme are near completion but the works are moving at snail’s pace as contractors have not received payments. “Contractors have formed a syndicate and have decide that unless the Rs 200 crore dues of two-BHK houses are not released, they will not execute the major works, instead they decided to deploy some labour and take up minor works when there is pressure from the civic body,” said a GHMC official. There is hardly any progress pertaining to nalas too. A proposal to lay new drains and the existing 472 storm water drains with Rs 298.34 crore and upgrade the nalas by removing encroachments has not been executed. In the budget proposed for 2021-22, Rs 170 crore was exclusively marked for storm water drains. “If the meeting would have commenced as scheduled, by April, money for multiple civic works would have been sanctioned,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/last-meeting-of-ghmc-council-nixed-as-mayor-election-nears/articleshow/80487468.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccination at pvt hospitals in city receives more response than govt ones||Nagpur: Covid-19 vaccination programme which started in private hospitals on Wednesday received more response when compared with government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) hospitals. The number of health workers vaccinated in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Wednesday was the highest since the launch of the programme on January 16 as the centres went up from 92 to 112. The NMC started vaccination at eight of the nine scheduled private hospitals on Wednesday. Kunal Hospital could not bring its centre into operation. The civic body scheduled 100 health care workers for each centre. 490 took the jab for a turnout of 61.25%. In Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI), 130 took the jab without wasting any doses. 30 more staff was vaccinated availing the benefit of on-the-spot vaccination of registered health care staff. Director Dr Anup Marar said that since health care workers have worked hard during these turbulent Covid times, “chairman Udaybhaskar Nair had desired that they be respectfully treated”. CIIMS administered vaccine to 108 staff, 73 at Kinsgway and 66 at Dande hospital. The response at the remaining four private hospitals was Wockhardt — 43, Jafri — 23, Kubde — 26 and Bhavani — 16. The NMC increased one more centre at IGGMCH on Wednesday. Now, three hospitals — NMC’s Pachpaoli, GMCH and IGGMCH have two centres each. Shri Ayurvedic College also failed to begin vaccination at its centre. At 10 centres in NMC and government-run hospitals, 439 turned up for the inoculation — a turnout of 43.9%. In city, the number of centres increased from eight to 18. 929 took the jab (51.61%). 20 centres increased in the region. Apart from 10 in Nagpur city, one centre was increased in Amravati district, followed by five in Chandrapur district and four in Yavatmal district. Nagpur district is having the highest number of centres at 32. 9,249 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants among others took the jab in the region on Wednesday. The turnout was 82.58%. However, not all of the 120-150 per centre scheduled are being vaccinated. In Nagpur district, five, of which two from city and three from rural, achieved 100% or more vaccination. Among 11 districts, Gadchiroli recorded 126.43% turnout with 885 taking the jab as against target of 700. Wardha and Buldhana too achieved 100% target with 1,153 (104.81%) and 1,052 (105.2%) turned up for the inoculation. The total number of health care workers administered vaccine increased to 38,874 in the region. Another 1,20,553 health remain to be vaccinated. To cover all registered health care workers, the state government has delivered the second lot of vaccines for the region. Deputy director of health services, Amravati division, Dr Rajkumar Chavan received 61,000 doses of Covishield for five districts of the division at around 6pm at Akola. The total number of doses of this division increased to 1.33 lakh as they had received 72,000 in the first lot on January 13. Six districts of Nagpur division had received 1.16 lakh doses on January 14. 96,000 doses are likely to be received in second lot on Thursday. Total number of doses in this division will rise to 2.12 lakh. Thus, the region will have 3.45 lakh doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-at-pvt-hospitals-in-city-receives-more-response-than-govt-ones/articleshow/80487466.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||Principals’ appointment likely to be over next wk||Kolkata: The government is likely to conclude the process of appointing principals to 80 colleges by the first week of February. Shortlisted candidates are senior professors from some of the best colleges and universities in the city, such as Jadavpur University, Calcutta University, Lady Brabourne College and IIT, Kharagpur. There are 111 colleges being run by a permanent principal at present. The provisional merit list drawn up by the West Bengal College Service Commission contains 80 names. “After the counselling, they should be able to take over the reins of the college by the first week of next month,” said an official of the higher education department. The interviews were conducted in December. Close to 22 Calcutta University colleges, such as Rani Birla Girls’ College, Seth Soorajmall Jalan Girls’ College, Bangabasi Morning College and Surendranath, College, are functioning without permanent principals. “Principals have more authority in sanctioning budgets for any project. Principals can also request the affiliating university to start new courses or increase seats in existing subjects,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the Calcutta University chapter of All Bengal Principals’ Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/principals-appointment-likely-to-be-over-next-wk/articleshow/80488762.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||TBM Urvi prepares for ‘main’ drive||Kolkata: Tunnel-borer Urvi has completed its “initial” drive while burrowing the west-bound tunnel for the East-West Metro corridor. It will rest for a month before launching the “main” drive.Whenever a tunnel TBM begins digging, it initially digs 80m to create space to shove its own 75m length inside. Till now, only the main 9m of the machine — comprising cutterhead, front and middle bodies and tailskin — was operational. The rest — or “backup gantry” — will be added from Thursday to prepare for the “main” drive, when the machine will hit optimum speed.Urvi might be resting in between her “initial” and “main” drives but hectic job starts for the team led by ITD’s chief tunnel engineer Suvajit Bisai as the “backup gantry” is being added on through the shaft. Assembling the TBM will take around 10 days. Then, some construction work will be done to prepare for the “main” drive when the TBM burrows 12-15m a day. Till now, it dug 6m a day and took longer time to cross the 25m across the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tbm-urvi-prepares-for-main-drive/articleshow/80488772.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 28, 2021||Pune||PMPML bus catches fire||Pune: A Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus caught fire on Thursday morning, whille it was going to Katraj from Swargate. The engine started spewing smoke near Balajinagar at around 10:30am. An official of the Pune fire brigade, who was in the area, saw the incident and evacuated around 22 passengers who were aboard the bus at that time. The PMPML is probing the incident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-bus-catches-fire/articleshow/80488764.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana promises to give jobs to STs from across state||HYDERABAD: The state government on Wednesday informed the HC it will implement tribal empowerment policy across state and not confine it to notified Agency areas, urging it to close the contempt cases. “We have identified 600 jobs in Singareni Collieries to be given to candidates belonging to Scheduled Tribes (STs) and we will commence and complete this recruitment soon,” state’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar informed a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy on Wednesday. “As some of the jobs belong to those STs who gave land for Singareni, we will give the same to them regardless of whether they come from the Agency area or not,” he added. “As we have now decided to extend the tribal empowerment policy to the whole of the state, we will accommodate STs even from the non-notified areas while filling the 600 jobs in Singareni Collieries,” he said, while urging the court to close the contempt cases filed by some of the candidates against them. He was referring to two contempt petitions filed by aggrieved ST candidates from Yellandu in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Their counsel informed the court that though the petitioners lost land for open cast mines of Singareni, they were denied jobs in Singareni firm on the ground that their area did not fall under a notified Agency area. The state had earlier contended that GO 34 issued for implementing the tribal empowerment policy did not have any provision for tribals in non-notified area. Petitioner’s counsel informed the bench that even after the petitioners succeeding before the high court, which directed the authorities to give jobs to the people who lost their land, the Singareni authorities and the state refused such benefit to the petitioners. The bench earlier took up the contempt proceeding against the responsible officials. It was in this background that the state has now come forward and contended that it would give jobs not just to the petitioners alone but also to all those eligible STs even if they were not land losers or from the notified areas. The bench closed all contempt cases and warned the state that they would be automatically restored if the state fails to fulfil its promise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-promises-to-give-jobs-to-sts-from-across-state/articleshow/80489808.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: A pre-planned conspiracy by Centre, say these protesters||NEW DELHI: Farmers protesting at Tikri border on Wednesday claimed that they were not involved in the violence that broke out at Nangloi Chowk on Republic Day and alleged that it was a pre-planned conspiracy by the Centre. Condemning the violence, the farmers said they had always appealed for peace and miscreants had entered the rally to show them in a bad light. When TOI visited Tikri border, not many were willing to speak about the tractor parade. Those who did speak claimed they followed the pre-designated route and did not engage in violence. The protesters even cornered mediapersons claiming they were telling one-sided stories. Bhupinder Singh from Firozpur in Punjab claimed, “We participated in the parade by following the pre-designated route and returned here. Miscreants tried to hamper our peaceful protest.” The same sentiment was echoed by others there. Jagga Singh from Barnala in Punjab alleged, “The violence occurred on the directions of the Centre. We have been protesting here peacefully and have never harmed any police officer or broken barricades, so why would we do that now?” Meanwhile, at Nangloi Chowk, where several vehicles had been damaged a day earlier, police were seen clearing the roads. A crane was removing the boulders that had been placed on the road. The damaged vehicles were a centre of attraction for locals who were seen clicking pictures of the wreckage. Locals who had felicitated the farmers on Tuesday during the tractor parade were disappointed upon seeing the damage. Though none of the shops were damaged, the owners were upset as they had to down their shutters. Akbar, a shopowner, said, “Our shops were closed for the past three days as a precautionary measure. We support our farmer brothers, but on Tuesday we saw cops running for cover. Even we could have been targeted. What happened wasn’t right.” “We had been hearing about the tractor parade for the past few days and were looking forward to it. However, what we saw was unimaginable. The tractors moved in a zigzag manner and could have injured anyone. We saw police rushing towards the registrar office to save themselves. A tractor even rammed a pole. Someone could have died. It was scary and shocking,” said Sandeep Singh, another shopowner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-pre-planned-conspiracy-by-centre-say-these-protesters/articleshow/80487473.cms||Sakshi Chand
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Chloride from burning plastics behind dense fog in Delhi: Study||CHENNAI: A study led by researchers from Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, found that high levels of chloride in the particulate matter in the atmosphere, which is a result from burning plastic waste and a few industrial processes, is primarily responsible for the haze and fog during winters in northern India, particularly Delhi. The researchers found that complex chemical reactions involving hydrochloric acid (HCl) is primarily responsible for high PM2.5 chloride and subsequent haze and fog formation over Delhi. The HCl from various sources combines with ammonia, which is emitted in great amounts over the region. The ammonium chloride (NH4Cl) so formed condenses to aerosol and exponentially increases the water uptake ability of aerosols resulting in increase in their size. This leads to dense fog. In the absence of the excess chloride, the fog formation would be suppressed significantly. “This work put forward importance of measurements and modelling approaches to scientifically conclude that half of the water uptake and visibility reduction by aerosol particles around Delhi is caused by locally emitted HCl, potentially due to plastic waste burning and industrial processes,” said professor Sachin Gunthe, department of civil engineering, IIT-M. The study led by IIT-M was done in collaboration with Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Germany; Harvard University, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA; and Manchester University, UK. The team gathered data for a month in Delhi. The researchers said burning of plastic-containing waste emits highly toxic ‘dioxins’, which can accumulate in the food chain causing reproductive and immunity problems. “With the results from the first couple of days, it was very clear to us that Delhi is different because generally for a polluted urban region such as Delhi, one would expect sulfate to be the highest inorganic fraction of particulate matter. However, we found chloride to be the highest inorganic fraction of particulate matter,” professor R Ravikrishna, department of chemical engineering, IIT-M.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chloride-from-burning-plastics-behind-dense-fog-in-delhi-study/articleshow/80487462.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Buried in coal: A mantri’s business & non-payment of cess||PANAJI: Every day, lines of trucks leave Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) laden with tonnes of coal meant for the steel plants in hinterlands of Karnataka. But most of these trucks have quietly slipped away with coal, neither paying the cess to the state government nor making an entry in the registers of MPT. The cess that has accumulated between 2014 and 2018 has gone up to nearly Rs 208 crore and the state government was forced to send notices to as many as 19 companies involved in the import and transportation of coal through Goa. At the core of the problem lies a business enterprise with links to urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik. Three independent sources told TOI that Naik is the biggest beneficiary as he has got a contract for transporting coal to steel plants and industrial units in Karnataka. A port official said a large chunk of the contract for coal transportation has been given to Mayuresh Transport Services. The company in turn subcontracted trucks registered in Karnataka to transport the coal to industrial units in the neighbhouring state. Some of these trucks, said the MPT official, were not registered with the state government. The port currently has leased five of its 11 berths to the Jindal Group, Adani Group and Vedanta Group, who together handle 6-8 million tonnes of coal per year. While JSW’s South West Port Ltd transports coal on train wagons and Vedanta moves coal through barges, the Adani Group depends on trucks to transport coal across the state to Karnataka. A trade notice issued by MPT lends credence to the allegations levelled by local activists and the opposition about illegalities in coal transportation. MPT has issued the notice to Adani Mormugao Port Terminal Private Limited (AMPTPL), Mormugao Stevedores Association and Mormugao Ship Agents Association. “It has been reported that different transporters and operators are carrying coal or coke and other cess payable commodities from Mormugao Port Trust to different states without registering at the office of the concerned authority,” said the trade notice. Congress vice-president Sankalp Amonkar alleged all stevedoring contracts (loading and unloading of cargo from ships) at MPT are given to Milind Naik. “Mayuresh Transport, which transports coal for Adani, has links with Milind Naik,” alleged Amonkar. But Naik rubbished those allegations and brazened it out. “Those are not my trucks and that is not my company. Even if they are my trucks and if it is my business, then what is the problem. It is not illegal to have a business,” said Naik. Naik admitted that he runs a stevedoring agency at the port, M N Constructions, but said all his business activities are legitimate. “If they can prove the allegations, then I will quit. Simply making allegations does not work, let them prove it. Take the support of the law, investigate and prove,” said Naik. Another official said in order to avoid paying cess to the state government, cargo could be split up in smaller consignments and transported on different dates. “Let’s say a company imports 20,000 tonnes of coal and splits the bill of entry into two for 10,000 tonnes each. Cess will be paid on 10,000 tonnes but the same documents will be shown for the other 10,000 tonnes. It is possible,” said the official. The transport department also wrote to MPT to ensure that trucks that are used for coal transportation are registered with the directorate of transport. Under section 93 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, any agent or company that transports goods needs to obtain a licence and pay a Goa Rural Improvement and Welfare Cess to the state government. “All transporters or operators and concerned agencies are hereby directed to register and obtain a licence from the concerned authority and subject to such conditions prescribed by the state of Goa,” said deputy traffic manager S Shinde in the trade notice to AMPTPL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/buried-in-coal-a-mantris-biz-non-payment-of-cess/articleshow/80488771.cms||Newton Sequeira
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: No bail to Pinjra Tod member||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed a bail plea of a Pinjra Tod member, Natasha Narwal, booked under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a northeast Delhi riots case observing the allegations against her were “prima facie” true. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, “On perusal of the chargesheet and accompanying documents for the limited purpose of bail, the allegations against the accused, Natasha Narwal, are prima facie true…hence, embargo created by Section 43D of UAPA applies for grant of bail.” Appearing for Narwal, advocate Adit S Pujari argued that there was only a protest against CAA and no conspiracy. The protest was organic and secular, he added. On allegation of acid-related attack, Pujari argued that between February 23 and 26, there was no loss of lives owing to acid-related injury, and eight people who sustained acid-related injuries, didn’t fall within the jurisdiction of Jaffrabad police station. The court, however, underscored Narwal’s contention that she had no role in raising funds for riots, or that acid-related injuries were not within the jurisdiction of Jaffrabad police station. First, it said, other accused in this case were alleged to have played in the conspiracy, and the “conspiracy had to be read as a whole and not piecemeal”. “There is a linkage shown by the prosecution between Narwal with other accused,” it added. Noting one of Pujari’s contentions that the prosecution had not produced any video evidence to demonstrate Narwal’s role in the case, the court observed that it was a case of a “deep-rooted” conspiracy leading to killing of several people, besides injuries and destruction of property. “At this stage of bail, and in a case of conspiracy of such large scale, not having video is not vital, as conspiracy, by its very nature, is hatched in secrecy, and not having videos of such a conspiracy is obvious rather than doubtful. There are some videos of actual rioting that occurred in February in other cases,” judge Rawat observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-no-bail-to-pinjra-tod-member/articleshow/80527926.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Inmate killing in Byculla jail: State appoints new special PP||MUMBAI: Two months after the special public prosecutor handling the trial in the murder of Byculla jail inmate Manjula Shetye resigned, fearing for her health as Covid-19 safety measures were allegedly not being followed during hearings, the state has appointment her replacement. Special public prosecutor Kalpana Chavan will now examine witnesses in the trial that is being conducted against jailor Manisha Pokharkar and five guards who are accused of assaulting Shetye on June 23, 2017, that led to her death. The accused have been in jail since their arrests in 2017. The trial will continue on Friday. Advocate Vidya Kasle, a senior citizen, who has been a special public prosecutor for around 35 years, had resigned on November 18, 2020. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/inmate-killing-state-appoints-new-special-pp/articleshow/80488778.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||No airport if landowners not convinced: Purandar MLA||PUNE: Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap on Wednesday said the new airport project would remain a non-starter if farmers of the seven villages — earmarked as its new site — remain unconvinced despite his best efforts. Jagtap, a front-runner in convincing the district administration to recommend the site change, told TOI, “I am absolutely sure that I shall succeed in convincing the farmers. But if I can’t convince them, the project will not happen.” When Jagtap was informed about the recent demand of NCP MLA Dilip Mohite of Khed-Alandi to shift the airport to Khed again, Jagtap said, “I shall not give him the chance to do so as I know for sure that I shall be able to convince the villagers in my constituency in Purandar taluka.” Landowners of the seven villages — Mavadi, Pimpri, Rajuri, Naygaon, Rise, Pise and Pandeshwar — selected as the new site of the greenfield airport project, 10km east to the place chosen in 2016, have started holding meetings opposing the project. Shailesh Roman, a resident of Pandeshwar village, said they would constitute a new Sangharsh Samiti to oppose the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/purandar-mla-no-airport-if-landowners-not-convinced/articleshow/80488779.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 28, 2021||Goa||BJP rallies behind Parrikar, condemns Lobo’s statement||Panaji: BJP on Wednesday hit back at ports minister Michael Lobo over his statement that former CM Manohar Parrikar didn’t take anyone into confidence before starting GoaMiles, and said that the party would ensure that nobody from BJP or the government would be allowed to speak against Parrikar. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that Lobo “cannot speak against Parrikar as he is the tallest BJP leader”. Lobo was summoned by the party and appeared before Tanavade and organising secretary Satish Dhond on Wednesday evening. He was told that what happened should not be repeated, and the Calangute MLA agreed. “Whatever Lobo has spoken against Parrikar is absolutely wrong,” Tanavade said. “He can’t speak against Parrikar as he is not alive. We will not allow anyone to speak unwanted things about Parrikar.” Tanavade added that the party respects Parrikar, and that “such statements” are wrong. “I am not going into the merits of his statement because I was not the president of the party at that time, but Lobo has no right to speak like this, and I condemn his statement,” he said. Lobo had said that Goans are facing problems due to the confusion created by Parrikar over GoaMiles. “I have taken personal interest in the taxi issue and it will be resolved,” Lobo told reporters. Reacting to Lobo’s statement, a GoaMiles official said that Parrikar had specifically asked Lobo if he had any problems with the service. “Lobo was called for the meeting and asked if he had any issues with GoaMiles before we were awarded the tender,” he said. “The minister said that the government could go ahead,” GoaMiles director (operations), Parashar Khot, told reporters on Monday, a few hours after Lobo’s statement. GoaMiles started operations in August 2018. The meeting, held 3-4 days before the tender was awarded, was attended by then Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) chairman Nilesh Cabral and senior Goa Tourism officials. The app-based taxi service was launched by Parrikar following severe criticism from tourists and locals of the government’s failure to get app-based taxi aggregators to Goa as an alternative to local cabbies, whose fares are often very high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-rallies-behind-parrikar-condemns-lobos-statement/articleshow/80488781.cms||Murari Shetye
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Chennai has 34% of active Covid cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added eight deaths and 512 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which pushed the death toll to 12,333 and cumulative case tally to 8,36,315. There were 4,676 people still under treatment for the viral infection. With fewer patients in hospitals, increase in doubling time of cases and deaths, and decrease in positivity rate, public health officials in the state are now confident that they are nearing the end of the year-long epidemic. “It’s still important to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Even those vaccinated have been advised to follow pandemic protocol,” he added. Fever surveillance, aggressive testing using RT-PCR kits and early treatment will continue to be focus, he said. Since February 2020, the state has tested more than 1.54 crore people. On Wednesday, the incidence per million was hovering over 10,100. The recovery rate went up to 98% after the state discharged 564 people in the past 24 hours until Wednesday noon. More than 8.19 lakh people have recovered. Perambalur was the only district to report no new infections and 33 districts in the state reported zero deaths. Of the eight deaths, Chennai reported four, Erode two, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet one each. Chennai topped the charts with 159 new cases followed by Coimbatore (51). Cases in all other districts were below thirty and 23 districts reported a single-digit rise. Together the 11 northern districts reported 275 cases and six deaths, followed by the eight western districts which reported 135 cases and two deaths. The ten southern districts reported 57 cases and central districts 43 cases. Perambalur continued to report one active case – the lowest in the state, followed by six in Kallakurichi and 14 in Ariyalur. While Chennai had 1,603 people under treatment, Coimbatore registers had 429 and Chengalpet had 350. Active cases in all other districts were below 250.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-has-34-of-active-cases-in-state/articleshow/80487474.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Rajeev Ranjan to become next TN chief secy||Chennai: The state government is all set to recommend to the governor on Thursday the 1985-batch officer Rajeev Ranjan as the next chief secretary of the state. The incumbent, K Shanmugam, is likely to become advisor to the Edappadi K Palaniswami government. The Appointments Committee of the Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the repatriation of Ranjan, who is currently secretary to department of fisheries, Union ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, to the parent cadre on request of the state. “A letter from CM to the Centre seeking repatriation of the officer was sent on Monday,” said a source. The state government had earlier requested the Centre to extend the service of Shanmugam for the third time, as his second extension of service will be ending on January 31. While the Centre seems to be not favouring the extension of the top bureaucrat, the repatriation of Rajiv Ranjan came through in less than two days. Ranjan, a native of Bihar, has had a stint in finance, industries, revenue, finance and energy before taking over the reins of highways department in 2013, the portfolio held by CM Palaniswami for the past ten years. In 2018, Ranjan went on Central deputation and became special secretary of GST council. “He has been handpicked by the CM,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajeev-ranjan-to-become-next-tn-chief-secy/articleshow/80487482.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 28, 2021||Pune||Poet-writer killed in hit-and-run on Pune highway||PUNE: A 33-year-old poet-writer Swapnil Kolte Patil was killed in a hit-and-run accident on Tuesday night on the Pune-Solapur highway near Urali Kanchan. The Loni Kalbhor police said the accident occurred around 11.30pm in Inamdar Vasti, around 2km away from Kolte Patil’s residence in Koregaon Mul village near Urali Kanchan. “An unknown vehicle hit Kolte Patil’s scooter. He suffered severe injuries and was taken to a nearby hospital. He succumbed to the injuries,” an officer from the Loni Kalbhor police said. He said Kolte Patil also ran a cellphone distribution business. “The accident occurred when he was returning home after finishing work,” the officer said. Kolte Patil’s friend Vinayak Belose told TOI, “Swapnil used to write poems by the nick name “Unad”. Recently he had published his book ‘Mukaddar-Katha Aurangzebachi’ in Marathi.” “It was shocking for all of us,” he said. Kolte Patil is survived by his mother, wife, a son and daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poet-writer-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/80488776.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||GFP: Speaker not neutral, under CMO’s control||Porvorim: Instead of addressing the concerns raised by the opposition, the state government is using delaying tactics to avoid a discussion on key issues such as the three linear projects coming in Mollem, coal transportation and the IIT Goa campus issue, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Wednesday. GFP also claimed that Goa speaker Rajesh Patnekar is no longer neutral and has allowed the state to function as per the dictates of the chief minister’s office. “The speaker has surrendered control over the house and the chief minister’s office is running it from behind like a remote control,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai alleged at a press briefing. He said the attempts by the opposition to raise the issue of coal transportation and the destruction of the Mollem forest due to the three environmentally destructive infrastructure projects were thwarted by unnecessary discussion and motions moved by the ruling side. “This government has made a lot of blunders and scams but if you ask questions on this, they use time wasting tactics and don’t let the questions come up,” Sardesai said. He said that the Pramod Sawant government is behaving like a “fugitive on the run”. “First of all, the session is short and to ensure that the main questions are not taken up, time wasting tactics are used,” he added as he questioned Patnekar’s role in keeping assembly proceedings on track. “My independent view is the speaker is being pressurised by the government and is acting under bias. It is all dictated,” Sardesai said. The former deputy chief minister said that the issues raised by the opposition and ignored by the government have to be discussed in the House. “If they are not discussed then this session is a farce. The opposition’s job is to fight and be the voice of the people,” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-speaker-not-neutral-under-cmos-control/articleshow/80489814.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Residents asked to keep premises clean||Secunderabad: Urging the residents to keep their premises clean, Sitaphalmandi corporator S Hema visited Indira Nagar Colony and Medi Bavi in Warasiguda as part of the Swachh Survekshan-2021 campaign on Wednesday. The sanitation wing of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) took part in the campaign and educated the locals about the need to maintain cleanliness. Hema asked the residents to follow a two-bin system, the initiative launched by GHMC to collect dry and wet garbage separately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-asked-to-keep-premises-clean/articleshow/80487483.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Musical event to mark birth centenary of Pt Bhimsen Joshi||PUNE: The Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal would host a two-day musical programme — Abhivadan — on February 6 and 7 at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch, Swargate, to mark kirana gharana doyen Pandit Bhimsen Joshi’s birth centenary celebrations, which will begin from February 4. “The two-day programme will include musical concerts and recollection of memories of Pt Bhimsen Joshi,” said Srinivas Joshi, the executive president of Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal. The programme would be inaugurated and held in three sessions at 4pm on February 6. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, NCP President Sharad Pawar, Indian Cultural Relations Council President Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol would attend it. On February 7, the programme would be held from 9am to noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/musical-event-to-mark-birth-centenary-of-pt-bhimsen-joshi/articleshow/80488782.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bareilly||MLA’s son booked for assaulting man over poll-related rivalry in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: The son of an MLA was on Wednesday booked for allegedly assaulting a man in UP’s Shahjahanpur in poll-related rivalry. Neeraj, the son of BJP MLA Chetram from Powayan constituency of Shahjahanpur, was booked under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (punishment for rioting) and others. The victim, Shankar Sagar, alleged that Neeraj thrashed him under the influence of alcohol. The FIR against Neeraj was registered at Sadar Bazar police station after locals blocked Shahjahanpur-Palia highway and shouted slogans against the MLA. Soon, a cross FIR was also filed by the MLA against Sagar, who was booked under SC/ST Act and also for attempt of murder. Sagar told TOI, “Neeraj misbehaved when I was sitting at a shop. My cousin is the village head and he thought that I am campaigning for the upcoming panchayat elections.” On the other hand, the MLA said, “Sagar along with others used to sit near our camp office and create problems for women in the area. That is why my son asked him to sit somewhere else. Later in the night, he along with his cousin Ganga Sagar and others came to my home with an intention to kill me.” Station house officer (SHO) Ashok Pal told TOI, “MLA Chetram also gave a complaint that Ganga Sagar along with others came to their house and tried to kill him by throwing a brick and he narrowly escaped. We have registered cross FIRs.” “Sagar has sustained visible injuries. But there was no visible injury mark on the MLA or on his son's body,” the SHO added. CO City Praveen Kumar has been appointed as the investigation officer for both the cases, he said. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mlas-son-booked-for-assaulting-man-over-poll-related-rivalry-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80485110.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||‘Jeena Memorial’ to be built in Salt, says CM Rawat, launches projects worth Rs 150 cr for Almora||Dehradun: CM Trivendra Rawat who is on a two-day tour of Almora, laid foundation stones and inaugurated schemes worth Rs 150.31 crore for the district on Wednesday.  Agreeing to a long-standing demand of deferring formation of district development authorities in the hills, the chief minister said that an official order regarding this will be issued soon. The CM also paid tributes to late BJP MLA from Salt area of Almora district, Surendra Singh Jeena, and his wife who died due to Covid-19 in November last year. The CM announced that a memorial would be built in Jeena’ s name in the constituency. He also announced that a Government College in the area will be re-named after Jeena. Among his other announcements were plans to establish an adventure sports centre at Harda and developing Ramganga banks as an angling hub.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jeena-memorial-to-be-built-in-salt-says-cm-rawat-launches-projects-worth-rs-150-cr-for-almora/articleshow/80486215.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: FIR against BJP corporator for filing false affidavit||HYDERABAD: Police have registered an FIR against the newly-elected BJP corporator Rakesh Jaiswal from Jambagh, for allegedly submitting a false affidavit with the returning officer during the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. Alleging cheating and suppression of facts, J Ravindra, the AIMIM candidate who lost the Jambagh ward 77 polls, had filed a complaint with Abids police onJanuary 14 against Jaiswal. The petitioner in his complaint alleged that in the recently-held polls, Jaiswal suppressed and concealed facts and submitted a “false affidavit on oath”, before the returning officer of ward-77 at Abids, saying that he has got two kids, whereas in reality, he has three kids, making him ineligible to contest the GHMC elections as per the laws. In a bitterly fought GHMC election in December 2020, the BJP won 48 out of 150 seats, leaving TRS with just 56 seats, while the AMIM won 44 seats. MIM candidate Jadala Ravindra said that the BJP candidate had suppressed vital facts about his immovable properties and his dues towards payment of property tax to be payable to the GHMC. After probing the complaint, Abids police filed a case under section IPC 199 (False statement made in declaration which is by law receivable as evidence). “We have obtained prior permission with the metropolitan criminal courts in this matter and issued FIR against Rakesh Jaiswal,” said C Anjaiah, Inspector, Abids police station. Jaiswal denied all charges and said it was just an act of vengeance and added that he has only two kids. “It is only out of vengeance and political grudge and with the AIMIM candidate having lost the election is resorting to such tactics. He has filed a suit with Election Tribunal, let him prove his allegations before the court,” said Rakesh Jaiswal. In a counter-affidavit, filed before the court, the BJP corporator denied of having three children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fir-against-bjp-corporator-for-filing-false-affidavit/articleshow/80487488.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||No provision to assess cumulative impact of Mollem projects: Cabral||Margao: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Wednesday told the House that “there is no provision to assess cumulative impact” of the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects passing through Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem National Park “as they are independent in nature and proposed by different user agencies at different time intervals”. In a written reply to Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte, Cabral stated that while a large number of representations have been received against the three projects, there was no question of reviewing the projects, because the projects were being proposed and admitted “by following all rules and guidelines of [the] Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 and Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.” He also said that environmental clearances are not applicable for the three projects in Goa “as per the project specifications”. Cabral’s reply assumes significance as some independent non-official members of the Goa state board for wildlife (GBWL) had taken exception to the absence of any mention of an assessment of the cumulative impact of the projects on the biodiversity on the entire state. In a memorandum submitted to the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC) during its recent Goa visit, the members had called for an assessment of the cumulative impact of these three linear projects on the entire state. They had urged the CEC to recommend to the Supreme Court to direct the member secretary of GBWL and the chairman of the standing committee of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) to convene the meeting of the GBWL “to re-discuss the three linear projects on merits”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-provision-to-assess-cumulative-impact-of-mollem-projects-cabral/articleshow/80488787.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin effectively neutralises UK variants, claims Bharat Bio||HYDERABAD: India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, effectively neutralises the more infectious UK variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, reducing the possibility of the mutant virus escaping the body’s defence system. This was stated by Covaxin developer Bharat Biotech on Wednesday. “COVAXIN developed by @BharatBiotech with @ICMRDELHI has equivalent immunogenicity against the UK-variant & circulating strains of SARS-COV-2 in India. @icmr_niv is the first in the world to culture the UK variant,” Covaxin’s co-developer Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), too tweeted. A joint Bharat Biotech-ICMR research paper ‘Neutralisation of UK-variant VUI-202012/01 with Covaxin vaccinated human serum’, has been uploaded on bioRxiv, a server which carries preprints of research work before it is peer reviewed. The paper said the researchers performed the plaque reduction neutralisation test (PRNT50), which is used to quantify the titre or concentration of the neutralising antibody for a virus, using the sera collected from 26 volunteers who received Covaxin to test against the UK variant and the heterologous strain of the virus. A neutralising antibody is responsible for defending the human cells from disease causing organisms and their production is triggered by infections and vaccines. The researchers said that the neutralisation activity of the sera on both the UK-variant and the heterologous strain showed a similar efficiency. The research team was led by ICMR director general Balram Bhargava and Raches Ella, project lead: SARS-CoV-2 vaccine and head of business development & advocacy, Bharat Biotech. The paper stated that the genome of the UK variant has 17 mutations, eight of which were found in the spike receptor-binding domain (RBD) that helps the virus attach to the ACE2 (angiotensin converting enzyme 2) receptor present on the surface of human cells. The researchers said they were successful in isolating the virus, which had all the signature mutations of the UK-variant, from UK returnees to India. Covaxin, which is undergoing Phase III efficacy trials on around 26,000 volunteers at 25 sites across the country, has been approved for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) in early January. So far, over half the volunteers have already been administered the second dose of Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-effectively-neutralises-uk-variants-claims-bharat-bio/articleshow/80489813.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court suspends two-year jail term of AAP MLA Somnath Bharti||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday suspended the conviction and two-year jail term awarded to AAP MLA Somnath Bharti in a 2016 criminal case observing that his appeal was going to take “a considerable time for disposal”. On January 22, Bharti was convicted and subsequently awarded the jail term for allegedly assaulting the security staffers and demolishing a wall at AIIMS in 2016. Advocate Irshad, appearing for Bharti, filed an appeal against his client’s conviction and jail term and sought stay during its pendency before the court. Special judge Vikas Dhull said, “Since the appeal is going to take considerable time for disposal and having regards to the grounds set out in the appeal, the application filed by the convict/appellant is allowed the conviction and sentence orders of the trial court are suspended during the pendency of this appeal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-suspends-2-year-jail-term-of-aap-mla/articleshow/80527995.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: FIR against 5 contractors in fake FDR scam||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has filed a first information report (FIR) against five contractors for their alleged involvement in the bogus fixed deposit receipts (FDR) scam while undertaking contracts from the civic body. In December, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar had instructed respective department heads to blacklist 18 contractors for their involvement in the bogus FDR and initiate action. The PCMC eventually initiated criminal action against the contractors after more than a month. Ramnath Pokale, additional commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad police, told TOI, “Following the complaint, we have registered five offences. We will soon make arrests in these cases.” Pokale said that the suspects have been booked for cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fir-against-5-contractors-in-fake-fdr-scam/articleshow/80488789.cms||---
January 28, 2021||India||India lodges protest on Khalistani bid to attack Italy embassy||NEW DELHI: India has lodged a protest with Italy after efforts by Khalistan supporters to vandalise the Indian embassy building in Rome on the occasion of Republic Day. “We have taken up this specific incident with them and conveyed our concerns. Safety and security of Indian diplomats and diplomatic premises is the responsibility of the host government,” said a source. The incident is said to have taken place the night before the Republic Day. Khalistan flags were waved outside the embassy and also slogans scribbled on Indian mission walls. A similar incident was reported to have taken place in Vancouver. The government is likely to take it up with the Canadian authorities. According to sources, India had been constantly raising its concerns with Italian authorities. “We are hopeful that the Italian authorities will take action against the perpetrators and prevent such incidents from happening in the future,” said a source||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-lodges-protest-on-khalistani-bid-to-attack-italy-embassy/articleshow/80490332.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Injured nilgai finally treated||NEW DELHI: A nilgai, which was hit by a vehicle in Chirag Dilli on December 23 and sustained injury on the left hind limb, was finally treated on Thursday. The animal had managed to flee to Jahanpanah city forest, when a forest team was sent for its rescue last month. A forest official said, “We received a call on Thursday that the injured nilgai had been spotted. Our team rescued the animal and took it to a facility in Jangpura, where it was treated. It was later taken to National Zoological Park, but was finally shifted to the forest facility in Tughlaqabad.” It is under medical care and will be released into forest only after its full recovery, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/injured-nilgai-finally-treated/articleshow/80528090.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Patna||Patna woman kills mother-in-law, attempts suicide||PATNA: A 33-year-old woman attempted to commit suicide after allegedly killing her mother-in-law, 55, by stabbing her in the head and gouging out one of her eyes at a village near Parsa Bazaar in Patna on Tuesday. Police said Lalita Devi sustained 40% burns as she attempted to immolate herself after killing her mother-in-law Dharmshila Devi. The daughter-in-law is undergoing treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). The incident took place around 9.30 am when the deceased’s husband and her son were not at home. Villagers informed the police about the murder and suicide attempt. Assistant SP (Patna Sadar) Sandeep Singh on Wednesday told TOI over the phone that Lalita was not being able to conceive even after several years of marriage. “It has surfaced that Dharmashila Devi used to have frequent fights with Lalita on the issue and taunted her for not having a child. These fights may have resulted in Tuesday’s murder,” he added. Singh said police found Dharmashila’s body lying on the floor in a pool of blood with multiple injuries on the head. “Prima facie, the injuries seem to be the result of being hit hard by a blunt object. One of her eyes were also gauged out,” he added. The ASP said a blood-stained knife and the gauged-out eye was lying next to the body on the floor. He said Dharmashila’s husband Ram Kumar has lodged an FIR against Lalita alleging that his daughter-in-law killed his wife. Singh said the injured woman has not been arrested yet as she is undergoing treatment. “Investigation is and on and necessary action will be taken against Lalita,” he added. Parsa Bazaar police station SHO Sanjay Kumar said villagers were the first to inform police about the incident. “Soon after reaching the spot, police sent injured Lalita to hospital in an ambulance which was incidentally there in the village,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-kills-mother-in-law-attempts-suicide/articleshow/80487494.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 28, 2021||Pune||Drastic fall in wholesale prices forces cultivators to shun tomato plantations in Pune||PUNE: Many tomato farmers in the rural parts of the district have abandoned plantations after the wholesale price of the kitchen staple fell to as low as Rs3-7 per kg from Rs 15 a kg barely a fortnight ago. “The reason behind the price crash is excessive intake of tomatoes in the wholesale market,” said Datta Kalamkar, head of the vegetable section of the Gultekdi market yard. “We usually get 1,000 to 1,200 quintal of tomatoes every day. On Wednesday, we got close to 1,900 quintal. This excess led to the price crash to Rs3 per kg, the lowest of this season,” he said. The market yard is getting supply in excess mainly from Pune district, besides Solapur, Ahmednagar and Satara. “The prices will remain in this bracket at least for the next week,” Kalamkar added. The fall in the wholesale price, however, has not reflected in the retail market, where tomatoes are selling in the range of Rs10 to Rs20 per kg. “The vendors continue to eye for profits,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president of commission agents association of the Gultekdi. Maruti Vagdare, a farmer from Takali Haji village in Shirur, said, “Apart from capital investment, a lot of manpower and attention harvesting are needed.” Ganpat Sandhbor, who had grown tomatoes on a two acre land, on Tuesday allowed goats and sheep on his field. “We had sent a consignment to Gultekdi last week. We did not get Rs2,000 in return as against our cost of Rs2,500.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drastic-fall-in-wholesale-prices-forces-cultivators-to-shun-tomato-plantations/articleshow/80488791.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 28, 2021||Delhi||NCPCR seeks report on stranded kids||NEW DELHI: National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Wednesday sought a report from Delhi Police after it emerged that over 250 children who had come to the capital to participate in the Republic Day parade were stranded at Red Fort as protesting farmers stormed the premises. In a letter to DCP (north) Anto Alphonse, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo also sought registration of an FIR against people responsible for the incident. “You are further required to furnish a detailed action taken report (ATR) inter alia the following along with the copy of FIR within 48 hours of date of issue of this letter,” Kanoongo said in his communication to the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncpcr-seeks-report-on-stranded-kids/articleshow/80487502.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||1 dead, 2 hurt as track-relaying machine derails near Kalyan||KALYAN: A 30-year-old contractual labourer with railways died and two others suffered injuries after the gantry of the Track Relaying Train (TRT) machine derailed and fell on them. The incident occurred during the track maintenance work between Ambernath and Badlapur on Wednesday. The mishap affected the railway services between Ambernath and Badlapur. Express trains on the route were diverted via Panvel-Karjat route. A central railway official said, the maintenance work was carried out on Wednesday between 2.00am and 5.00am with the help of the TRT machine, when the gantry (horizontal part) broke and fell on. An official said, one worker got trapped in the machine resulting in a fatal injury. By the time rescue team removed the gantry, the trapped labourer identified as Raju shad succumbed. Two others labourer Vasudev, 26 and Ganesh, 19 suffered injuries and were taken to Kalyan Railway hospital and later shifted to Sion hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-dead-2-hurt-as-track-relaying-machine-derails/articleshow/80487497.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Two killed in Shamshabad road accident||Hyderabad: A 50-year-old labourer and a 30-year-old watchman died when a speeding bike hit a pedestrian near Timmapur in Shamshabad, on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as Shyam (30) from Antharam village in Vikarabad district, and Sakri (50) a labourer from Chinna Tupra village near Maheshwaram. The accident occurred at Rasheed Thanda near Sakri’s village when she was walking back home on Tuesday night from work. “Shyam, who was riding the bike, hit Sakri at a high speed. We suspect that he was travelling from Maheshwaram to his village and hit the woman, who was coming from opposite direction. After the accident, Shyam fell on the road and hit an electric pole. Both Sakri and Shyam died on the spot,” Shamshabad Inspector Y Prakash Reddy said.  Police suspect that Shyam could have been under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident. “His viscera will be sent for lab analysis to identify if he was under the influence of alcohol at the time of accident,” the inspector said. Police registered a case under section 304-a (causing death due to rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and shifted the bodies for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-killed-in-shamshabad-road-accident/articleshow/80487492.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Born and brought up in Nagpur, doctor working in Kerala gets Padma Shri||NAGPUR: To those who know him, it took some time to sink in that Dr Dhananjay Sagdeo, whose name figured in the Padma Shri list announced on Monday, is the Ajay that they know, who has made Kerala his home. In his close family and social circles, the 64-year-old Dr Sagdeo has a moniker. Dr Sagdeo, born and brought up in a middle-class family in Nagpur, was medically trained at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), and inspired by the social work of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). He left the city in 1980 to land in a completely unknown place Muttil in Wayanad district, some 80km from Kozhikode. At 24, he had a bright professional career as a specialist doctor ahead of him, but Dr Sagdeo started serving in a one-man medical facility in a one-room makeshift dispensary-cum-residence in hilly Muttil, where people speak a dialect (Paniya) difficult to understand even for Keralites. Muttil is inhabited mostly by marginal farmers and poor tribals. Dr Sagdeo not only learnt Malayalam and Paniya but also successfully convinced the tribal people, who were reluctant to be treated with modern medicine. Today, the tribal of this area, irrespective of their religion and belief, consider Dr Sagdeo next to God. The one-room dispensary has now developed into a full-fledged, 35-bed hospital with three full-time resident medical officers, visiting specialists and other modern facilities. Started from a makeshift hut, the hospital has branched out with six sub-centres across the hilly region. Initially, its doctors moved about on a second-hand motorcycle. Now, they travel in well-equipped ambulances and conduct health camps every week in the remote areas. Dr Sagdeo has trained over 125 ‘Swasthya Mitras’ (health friends) among tribal youths to give first aid, teach sanitation, hygiene, social help etc. Most importantly, the prevalence of sickle cell, which used to claim hundreds of tribal lives here, has gone down significantly. His family and friends in Nagpur are overwhelmed that their Ajay’s work over four decades work has been recognized with a Padma Shri award. “I have never ever seen a more sincere person than Dr Dhananjay in my life,” said senior city paediatrician and batchmate Dr Vishram Buche. “Social service is in his blood. The entire family is connected to the RSS. After our MBBS, we used to serve at Swami Vivekananda Medical Mission at Khapri (on the outskirts of Nagpur) and used to check hundreds of patients literally in a cowshed while the animals were out grazing.” It was while serving at Khapri that Dr Sagdeo realized how desperately people from tribal and remote areas need medical help. Earlier, he had decided to become an RSS pracharak (those who dedicate a lifetime to spread RSS thoughts without getting married). “However, the then RSS Sarsanghachalak Balasaheb Deoras suggested that he use his medical knowledge for the benefit of society. Deoras asked him to go to Kerala and work in the same Swami Vivekananda Medical Mission, where he is now the chief medical officer,” recalled his younger brother Wing Cdr (retd) Vinay Sagdeo. Vinay said that his brother has worked in adverse “geographical, social, financial and political environments selflessly”. “Ajay is truly living the principle of ‘Nar seva hi Narayan seva’ (serving humans is serving God), taught by Swami Vivekananda,” he said. Dr Sagdeo is married to Sujata Gurjar, who was born and brought up in Kerala. They have two daughters — Aditi and Gayatri. While Gayatri has become a doctor and now helps her father in the same hospital in Muttil, Aditi Shahpurkar, an engineer, is married and resides in Nagpur. “Our Muttil house was very small. My father’s clinic was in the front room. Patients would drop in anytime in the day and night,” says Aditi. Even today, patients who come to the Vivekananda Medical Mission Hospital head to Dr Sagdeo’s house first. “He is woken up at odd hours. He checks the patient and then sends them to the hospital. He never refuses to see anyone,” said Aditi. Family and friends in Nagpur believe that Dr Sagdeo has the best diagnosis skills. Whenever possible, they take his opinion. The tireless work has taken a toll of his health and Dr Sagdeo is set to undergo a bypass surgery at Kozhikode on Friday. Family members have already reached there to support him. They believe that like every challenge in his life, he will face the surgery bravely and will resume service with renewed energy soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/born-and-brought-up-in-nagpur-doctor-working-in-kerala-gets-padma-shri/articleshow/80487608.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 28, 2021||Goa||Vasco fishing jetty likely to be delayed||Panaji: Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearances may delay the fishing jetty project in Vasco by three years, revealed an legislative assembly question (LAQ) published by the state assembly on Wednesday. The commencement of project is subject to grant of CRZ clearance by Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) which is mandatory for filing online application with ministry of environment forest and climate change, failing which validity of terms of reference will lapse. In such scenario port has to apply for fresh terms of reference and conduct fresh environmental impact assessment studies and follow the due process again, which will grossly delay the implementation of the project for further three years.” the LAQ response read. Environmental public hearing for the project modernisation of port infrastructure which includes development of fishing jetty at Vasco bay was conducted in October 2018. The Goa State Pollution Control Board submitted a letter in March 2019 to the regional officer, ministry of environment forest and climate change, Bengaluru, containing replies submitted by the project proponent of queries raised during the environmental public hearing. The port had applied to the GCZMA for granting CRZ clearance for the project on March 2019 and the matter is pending before them since. Due to non-issuance of CRZ recommendation by GCZMA, the port had applied for extension of terms of reference for further period of one year and the same was granted by ministry of environment forest and climate change by extending its validity up to May 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-fishing-jetty-likely-to-be-delayed/articleshow/80489818.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||‘Land issues forced IIT out of Sanguem’||Margao: Chief minister Pramod Sawant, in a written reply to Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar tabled in the House on Wednesday, stated that the site for the proposed IIT campus in Goa was shifted from Sanguem to Sattari “in view of the various difficulties encountered in procuring/acquiring and transferring the land to IIT, Goa”. Sawant said land measuring nearly 13 lakh sqm in Cotarli village of Sanguem taluka and in Nagvem village of Quepem taluka was identified for the IIT campus. He said that despite several meetings having been held by the South Goa collector with the land owners to obtain their consent for acquisition, Form I & XIV of the survey numbers concerned showed the names of many occupants as well as tenants. The written reply also points to a pending litigation in the high court with respect to a survey number in Cotarli, wherein the government of Goa is shown as occupant, after a private party laid claim to the said land. In view of the various difficulties encountered in procuring/acquiring and transferring the land to IIT-Goa, alternative sites were explored,” Sawant said, in reply to Gaonkar’s question on the reason for shifting the site from Sanguem to Sattari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/land-issues-forced-iit-out-of-sanguem/articleshow/80488805.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: PRC gives only 7.5% fitment, raises age of retirement to 60||HYDERABAD: The first Pay Revision Commission (PRC), headed by former bureaucrat CR Biswal, has recommended enhancement of retirement age from 58 years to 60 years along with 7.5% fitment (a formula for determining the pay of employees in the revised pay scales) on basic pay for all government employees. If these recommendations are accepted by the TRS government, the minimum wage will be Rs 19,000 and maximum Rs 1,62,700 per month. However, government employee unions said they were disappointed with the recommendation of PRC. The state government had implemented 43% fitment after the state was formed in 2014 based on the recommendations of PRC formed in the United Andhra Pradesh. The Biswal committee, in its 278-page report, also suggested that dearness allowance (DA) be merged as on July 1, 2018, and the new scales could be implemented from the same day. “The government may take a view on the date from which the financial benefit would accrue keeping in view its resource position and the various demands thereon,” the commission, which included C Umamaheswara Rao and Dr Mohammed Ali Rafat, also retired IAS officers, said in its report submitted on December 31, but made public on Wednesday. Recommending continuation of the practice of following the central government in sanctioning DA twice a year, the committee said for 1% increase in DA sanctioned by the Union government, DA to be announced by the state government would be 0.910%. This would be applicable from January 2019. The PRC has not recommended any special increment for possessing higher qualifications. In what could be a major let down for employees, PRC also reduced house rent allowance (HRA) in different slabs. The slabs of 30%, 14.5%, and 12% were slashed to 24%, 17%, 12% and 11%. Additional HRA was suggested to be hiked from Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500. The increment would be given every three years at 2.33%, while employees sought 3.36%. This would be implemented from June 2018. Making a key recommendation on child care leave (CCL), the PRC suggested that CCL be increased from 90 to 120 days in the case of normal children. For differently-abled children, CCL would be enhanced from 90 days to two years on par with the central government employees. The committee also said CCL would be granted with 100% salary for the first 365 days and 80% for the next 365 days. CCL would also be extended to single male parents, who might include unmarried or widowed or divorced employees. Special disability leave has been be given a new name, Work Related Illness and injury Leave (WRILL) and special disability leave for accidental injury and hospital leave were merged in WRILL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prc-gives-only-7-5-fitment-raises-age-of-retirement-to-60/articleshow/80489815.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||Farmer’s daughter breaks national record at junior athletics||DEHRADUN: Defying all odds, 18-year-old race walker Reshma Patel - daughter of a farmer - broke the U-20 national record on her debut at the National Federation Cup Junior U-20 Athletics Championships held in Bhopal on Tuesday. Patel won gold by clocking 48m 25sec in the U-20 10km walk. Hailing from a village on the outskirts of Prayagraj, Patel told TOI that her parents work as small-time farmers in their village. “My parents are financially not strong. Thanks to my elder brother Indrajeet Patel [a national level long-distance runner], who works at ONGC, my training requirements were fulfilled,” said the young race walker, who has been living in Dehradun for the past five years. The class 12 student further said that she now aims to break the national race walk record in the U-18 category. Her coach in Dehradun, Anup Bisht, said, “The unique thing about her is her ability to take brisk steps. Her short height helps her to keep her feet always on the ground. Her knees are very flexible too. She currently lives with her sister in a rented room. All of us, including her elder brother, ensure that her athletic career doesn’t get affected due to financial issues.” Patel had previously broken the junior U-16 national record for race walk in 2019. Notably, both the record-breaking efforts came during her debut event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-daughter-breaks-national-record-at-junior-athletics/articleshow/80486228.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 28, 2021||Puducherry||‘Congress, DMK differences will be resolved based on mutual interest’||Despite the anti-incumbency wave and exodus of local leaders from the party, Puducherry chief minister and senior Congress leader V Narayanasamy is optimistic that his party will win the upcoming assembly polls. Amid reports of strains in relations between the Congress and its ally the DMK, Narayanasamy in an interview with Bosco Dominique, admits to the hostile attitude from the DMK, but says it will be set right by the party leaderships.How do you rate the performance of the Congress government?It is for the people to judge. Our government hosted more cabinet meetings than any of the previous governments. Some decisions were implemented, and some were not, due to the interference of the lieutenant governor. Again, a few others were forwarded to the Centre. On one side, the BJP-led Centre targets our government and on the other, the lieutenant governor blocks our welfare and developmental schemes. The Union government is not providing Puducherry’s due share in GST compensation and seventh pay commission compensation, among others. Therefore, I must strike a balance in the party and alliance partners and run the government keeping several factors in mind. . Were promises of the Congress met?Every year we have given our performance report to the people by getting our achievements published in newspapers. More than 85% of poll promises are either fulfilled or are in the pipeline. The remaining could not be implemented because of the lieutenant governor’s interference, be it the free rice scheme or MPLAD funds. What did you think of senior DMK leader S Jagathrakshakan’s claim that DMK will contest in all the 30 constituencies in Puducherry?DMK president M K Stalin said discussion about the alliance will be taken up after announcement of election dates. He also said the alliance with the Congress will continue. Similarly, our leader Rahul Gandhi said Stalin will be our chief ministerial candidate in the alliance. Therefore, there is a perfect understanding between the two leaderships. It is the duty of the party in-charge to strengthen the party. They may say many things, but ultimately the leadership will decide. Did you brief your party high command on the DMK’s intentions? Was there any dialogue between the Congress and the DMK about going it on their own?We briefed our leadership when I went to Delhi. We discussed with Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president A V Subramanian and Lok Sabha MP V Vaithilingam. We outlined to our leadership, the political situation and ground realities, including our agitation against the Centre, and lieutenant governor. He (Rahul) said he will take a call at an appropriate time. Has the DMK cited any reason for opting out of the Congress alliance?We had a good relationship in the past four-and-a-half years. They have been supporting us in every forum within and outside the assembly. They have been attending all meetings. We gave them due respect and they reciprocated. Even if there was a little bickering or misunderstanding, we resolved it. Suddenly, we have started facing a hostile attitude from the DMK. It will be set right. This will be based on the mutual interest of the Congress and the DMK. Do you see it as a setback if the party has to contest on its own?The decision of the Congress and the DMK leaderships will be the final. On several occasions we have contested alone, and in some we have contested in alliance with Dravidian parties and emerged victorious. How will the exodus of local leaders including the former minister and MLA from the party impact the Congress? Not even 10 prominent people have gone with Namassivayam (who was sacked from the party). People from his constituency have disowned him. He has taken a suicidal decision. People appointed by him when he was the PPCC chief have resigned. Their loyalty is with him not with the party. Even when he was the PPCC chief, he did not work for the party. He could mobilise only four or five people from his constituency. All other leaders worked hard and hence we won the assembly bypolls in Nellithope, Thattanchavady and Kamaraj Nagar and Lok Sabha polls. Credit does not go to an individual. Yes, there may be an anti-incumbency wave. But our plus point is that the opposition parties are weak Will you be CM candidate again?That will be decided by the party leadership. I am a Congress worker. The leadership will decide the candidates who will contest polls on the party ticket and after winning the polls the leadership will decide on the chief ministerial candidate. Why the constant tussle between the government and the lieutenant governor?Things went well for the first six months. After my victory in the Nellithope bypoll, the lieutenant governor started holding separate meetings with bureaucrats. She was vetoing decisions taken by the cabinet. I called on her along with ministers and told her that we must work within the powers vested in us. I called on her again after 15 days. Everybody said the lieutenant governor must act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. But she did not budge. Later, she said we must work together without the ministers. Then I understood her game plan of divide and rule. But I cannot compromise on issues that negate the powers of the ministers. She hardened her attitude. When the lieutenant governor started blocking all welfare schemes, there was no other option for the government but to approach the court. The lower court passed an order in our favour. She filed an appeal against the order. And again, more than 80% of the order was passed in our favour. Now parliamentary secretary K Lakshminarayanan has filed a contempt of court petition. We have to fight for the rights of the people. Thus, the friction between Raj Nivas and the elected government. Puducherry is neither a producing territory nor a consuming territory. What will be the challenges if it gets statehood?If we get statehood, we will automatically become a member of the finance commission. The Centre collects Rs6,500 crore through income tax, central excise, insurance, banking of around and extends around Rs1,640 crore as grant, whereas we will be entitled to Rs2,800 crore if we become a state. What are the reasons for Puducherry’s debt? Is it populism? What is the way out?There was no debt during our regime. Our fiscal deficit is 1.9% whereas in Tamil Nadu it is close to 5. Despite Covid-19 pandemic and cyclones and the Centre denying adequate funds, we managed our finances well. But we have been paying Rs500 crore with interest every year for the money borrowed by the Rangasamy government 10 years ago. That is an additional burden. We urged the Centre to waive off the loans. They did not do it, while it is yet to pay Rs800 crore GST compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/congress-dmk-differences-will-be-resolved-based-on-mutual-interest/articleshow/80487491.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Tantrik claims he saw a stranger in room day before girls’ killing||Tirupati: The tantrik, who tied talismans to two sisters a day before they were killed by their parents in Madanapalle town of Chittoor district on January 24, said he had seen a man in the house continuously blowing a conch into the ears of the elder sibling. He also said he saw the parents in a sound state of mind. Tantrik Subba Ramaiah told the media on Wednesday that it was the elder sister, Alekhya, who was ill and not the younger one, Divya, as mentioned in the police remand report. He said the younger sister was constantly whispering into the ear of her elder sibling. He said the room where the two sisters were put in was locked from inside. He entered the room after breaking open the door and found the two sisters and a man, whom he could not recognise. While the remand report and the subsequent strange behaviour of the accused couple, Purushotham Naidu and Padmaja, presents them as mentally unsound, the tantrik said they were perfectly alright when he visited their house on January 23. “They were mentally sound. They were not in a state of trance or depression,” he said. Subba Ramaiah, who was questioned by the police, had performed special pujas and tied sacred amulets to both the unmarried girls. He said two persons including GP Raju, a neighbour of Purushotham, approached him with a request to perform special pujas. “When I reached the house I heard loud cries of the girls. None came to open the gates of the house for us to enter. It was only after Raju called the maid of the house and when she in turn called Padmaja and informed us about our arrival that we were allowed inside. Padmaja told us that Purushotham was inside the daughters’ room. They didn’t open the room and we had to break open the door latch to get inside. Inside the room Purushotham was standing silently, Alekhya was lying and Divya was screaming aloud,” Subba Ramaiah said. He said after performing some special pujas for about 30 minutes, Alekhya gained consciousness and he gave her some milk to drink. “Later I left the place and returned with some sacred amulets, Rudraksh, sacred leaves and some puja materials. This time I noticed an outsider, who was present there, blowing a conch close to the ears of Alekhya. I tried sacred amulets to both the girls, performed some pujas again and left the place,” recalled the tantrik. On January 24 Raju once again approached the baba asking him to visit Purushotham’s residence again as the girl’s condition had further aggravated. “But I couldn’t go there that day as I had many visitors,” Subba Ramaiah said. Meanwhile, the accused couple, who are under arrest, continued to remain in a state of trance, according to the Madanapalle sub-jail authorities. Madanapalle sub-jail superintendent Ramakrishna Naik told reporters that both Purushotham and Padmaja spent a sleepless night on their first day in the prison on Tuesday and Padmaja, who was seen meditating the whole night, kept on shouting the name of Lord Shiva aloud, which scared the fellow prisoners in the all-women prisoners area in the sub-jail. “We will present the recommendations of the government psychiatrist before the local magistrate once again on Thursday and based on the outcome of his directions we will decide whether to shift them both to Tirupati for better medical attention,” a jail official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tantrik-claims-he-saw-a-stranger-in-room-day-before-girls-killing/articleshow/80489819.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||Parties condemn Delhi ruckus, want action against Deep Sidhu||Ludhiana: A day after the ruckus in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally, all political parties are condemning the incident, but at the same time are also blaming each other for the violence. Meanwhile, all parties were unanimous on the fact that Deep Sidhu and his associates, who were responsible for the vandalism at the Red Fort, should be dealt with strictly and action should be taken against him and other culprits. Speaking on the issue, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said, “It is a very shameful incident that such act of vandalism and violence took place under the garb of the tractor rally. It is very much clear that this was an attempt by some hooligans to defame farmers and no genuine farmers were involved in it because they were either carrying out peaceful procession or the elderly ones were sitting at Singhu border. Punjab’s farm leaders are getting respect worldwide for their stand against these black farm laws and the way they have managed to stay together.” Bittu added that Sidhu and Aam Admi Party (AAP) are hand in glove and connived with AAP and orchestrated the attack against me and other Ccongress leaders, which took on Monday at the Jan Sansad.” Commenting on the incident, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, district president of the Youth Akali Dal, Ludhiana said, “This is very sad that such dirty game was played by some people to defame the farmers and spark incident of violence in the national capital in which one life was lost while hundreds of protesters and policemen sustained injuries. This was a pre-planned conspiracy by Deep Sidhu and his handlers, who obviously belong to the ruling party at the Centre. This person should immediately be jailed and his mobile records should also be checked to ascertain with which BJP leaders he was in touch all the while and where from he was taking all the commands and executing them.” Meanwhile, Ahbaab Singh Grewal, spokesperson of AAP, said, “We condemn the violent incident which took place on Tuesday in Delhi. Our party is very much concerned over the safety of our farmers and our government in Delhi is extending every kind of help to those injured in this incident. At the same time, we request the Congress, especially MP Bittu, to stop playing dirty politics by making false claims about involvement of any of our party workers in any incident, whether it was attack on Bittu or Tuesday’s incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/parties-condemn-delhi-ruckus-want-action-against-deep-sidhu/articleshow/80487503.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||Rape accused hangs himself in Lohaghat lockup of Champawat||PITHORAGARH: A rape accused hanged himself in the Lohaghat lockup of Champawat district in Uttarakhand on Tuesday morning. No suicide note was found. Police handed over the body to his family after postmortem, and ordered a magisterial inquiry in the matter. It began on January 6, when a resident of Banbasa lodged an FIR at Babbasa police station that his 16-year-old minor daughter was missing from home. On investigation, it was found that 22-year-old Jitendra, resident of village Khera Kasni of Budaun district in Uttar Pradesh, had also disappeared on the same day, said Lokeswar Singh, SP of Champawat. Using mobile surveillance, Jitendra was tracked down to Budaun and arrested on January 9 with the girl. A case of rape and POCSO Act was registered against him, the SP added. He was produced before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of Champawat, who sent him to 14 days of judicial custody. But because Champawat district has no jail, undertrials are kept in judicial lockup at Lohaghat, the SP said, adding that after completing the 14 day remand, Jitendra was again sent to 14 days in custody. On Tuesday morning, he went to the washroom, but when he did not emerge after a long time, another prisoner knocked down the door. There was no response, so the prisoner broke down the door, where he found Jitendra hanging, with a nylon rope around his neck, Lokeswar Singh continued. The prisoner alerted guards, who found no suicide note, Singh further added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rape-accused-hangs-himself-in-lohaghat-lockup-of-champawat/articleshow/80486251.cms||Prem Punetha
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||SC refuses to interfere in HC building permission order||HYDERABAD: The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere in an interim direction given by the Telangana high court to the state of Telangana and the GHMC officials to accord building permissions to several applicants who applied to GHMC for building permissions to raise structures in their plots in survey numbers 77 to 80 of Hafeezpet in Ranga Reddy district. A three-judge bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Koul, Dinesh Maheshwari, and Hrishikesh Roy said this while dismissing the appeals filed by the state GHMC. The high court last year found fault with the GHMC and revenue authorities for referring to the list of prohibited land in respect of according building permission to A Salivahana Reddy and Gopi Prasad. The HC also questioned the selective application of the prohibited list on the applicants. The bench directed GHMC to accord building permissions to the applicants also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-refuses-to-interfere-in-hc-bldg-permission-order/articleshow/80487501.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 28, 2021||Navi-mumbai||21-year-old jumps into Navi Mumbai creek in suicide bid; rescued||NAVI MUMBAI: A 21-year-old Mankhurd resident, who attempted suicide by jumping into the Vashi creek was rescued by a local fisherman and the Vashi cops. The youth, who works as a mechanic, jumped from the old Vashi bridge after an argument with his lover on Tuesday night. Senior inspector of Vashi police station, Sanjeev Dhumal, said that the police control room alerted them about the youth. A beat marshal and a constable quickly reached the spot. A local fisherman, Mahesh Sutar, was called in, who reached the spot with a fishing boat along with a friend. The police team used another boat to accompany the fisherman. Sutar pulled the youth onto his boat after spotting him drowning about 500 metres away from the bridge pillar.  Semi-conscious Reddy was shifted to the other boat where the cops revived him. He was taken to the Vashi civic hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/vashi-cops-fisherman-rescue-mankhurd-youth-who-jumped-into-vashi-creek/articleshow/80488825.cms||George Mendonca
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||R-Day violence: Left parties flay Union govt||Coimbatore: The violence that broke out during the farmers’ parade in the national capital on Republic Day was a ploy of the BJP government to divert attention from the main issue, representatives of CPM and CITU, who conducted a protest on Wednesday, said.The government allowed 300 cops to get injured and caused the death of a farmer, said Left cadres who conducted the protest near the water tank in Sivananda Colony. “The farmers had been protesting for 50 days and anger has been building up,” CITU district secretary C Padmanabhan said. “When the government knew lakhs of farmers were coming to Delhi to take part in the tractor rally, they should have expected that it would get violent. The government knew it would get violent, and yet allowed the rally,” he said.The government allowed violence to break out, Padmanabhan said. “This is just to reduce support for farmers and deviate attention from the farm laws. The PM tweeted about riots in Washington, but he is silent on farmers dying.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/r-day-violence-left-parties-flay-union-govt/articleshow/80487508.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Dist achieves 143% of vaccination target||Coimbatore is the only district in the state to cross its Covid-19 vaccination target as of Tuesday night.Data shows that the district has vaccinated 6,275 people against its target of 4,400 people, which is 143% of the target. Western districts in general have performed better than northern and central districts, with most of them achieving more than 50% of target.All the top five districts in terms of vaccination against Covid-19 are in the region. As of the first 10 days, Namakkal stood at second place with 75.8%, followed by Tirupur which achieved 71.9%, Salem with 68.9% and Nilgiris which achieved 67.4%. Health department officials attribute this to awareness and information sharing they did among private as well as government doctors with the Indian Medical Association’s help. “We highlighted key points on safety of the vaccine, busted myths and rumours regarding its side effects and displayed pictures of health secretary and minister taking the shots to motivate walk-ins among our staff,” Namakkal’s deputy director of public health Dr Somasundaram said.Health officials in Coimbatore also attribute their coverage to more doctors coming forward, which motivated junior doctors and other staff to follow in their footsteps.Data shows that of the 6,275 people who have been vaccinated so far, 35.6% are doctors and 29.7% nurses. Of the doctors, 56% are private hospital or clinic doctors. Among nurses, 72% are private hospital, nursing home or clinic staff. “One factor that helped was senior doctors taking the vaccine in the first four days, following which their juniors followed. Nurses saw them healthy and safe, and followed in their footsteps,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said.The private-to-public ratio of doctors who have taken the vaccine has reflected in the beneficiary ratio. While the ratio for doctors was 56:24, the overall ratio is 59.4:40.6.Another factor that led to the district achieving more than its target was the health department administering the vaccine through more sessions, though the number of sites were fixed at four. “Besides the four approved sites, we administered vaccine at all block-level PHCs within corporation and rural areas and at ESI Hospital. On some days, we administered vaccines at 10 to 14 such locations,” said Ramesh Kumar. “After we saw crowds to a PHC dropping, and more enquiries from another PHC, we immediately shifted the vaccination booth.”Though increasing locations where the vaccine would be administered may lead to increase in wastage, officials said they have been keeping it at the permitted limits of 10%. “From January 19 to 22, we had 900-1,000 people getting vaccinated daily, which is more than double our target,” said an official. “Despite increasing sessions, we have not been wasting more than the permitted limits.”On the other hand, some tier II districts like Trichy which have hardly achieved 42.9% of the target, say hesitancy to take the vaccine despite awareness drives is the reason. “With existing sites not vaccinating to capacity, the requirement to host multiple sessions does not arise,” said an official of the Trichy's district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-achieves-143-of-vaccination-target/articleshow/80487506.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||Manufacturers seek doubling import duty on man-made yarn||Ludhiana: With just less than a week to go for the Union Budget-2021, the yarn manufacturers of the region are demanding that the import duty on the man-made yarns be raised from 5-10% in order to safeguard the local yarn manufacturers, who are suffering due to high import duty on cheap quality of yarn, which costs way lower than the India-made yarns. Giving more information, Sanjay Garg, president of Northern India Textile Manufacturers Association (NITMA), said, “We deeply admire the vision of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi and ministries of finance and textiles for numerous initiatives taken to spur the domestic textile sector. In addition to all positive steps by the government there is an urgent need of raising customs duty on man-made yarns to 10%, which is currently at 5%. Based on the substantial data, there are huge issues being faced by the domestic man-made fibre (MMF) textile industry. The monthly average imports of virgin polyester spun yarn have increased by 972% in a span of fiver years (2015 to 2020). Besides this, imports from Vietnam alone have increased by a mammoth 10,512%, that is 107 times.” Garg added that, “Another worrying indicator about the problems being faced by us is that average monthly imports of MMF for 2020 are 5,212 tonne per month out of the total domestic monthly consumption of 22,000 tonne per month, which means that imports enjoy 25% of the total market share, and what is even more alarming is that this trend is increasing with great speed. Import numbers have been rising substantially year after year due to an extremely unreasonably low prices offered by Indonesian and Vietnamese spinners on account of huge idle capacities created owing to their government’s incentives. Representations on the above have also been sent to the ministries of finance and textiles.” Sidharth Khanna of Adisudana Industries, another yarn manufacturer, “The man-made yarn sector, which is one of the largest employment generating segment within the textile industry and its highly capital and labour intensive industry as well. The unreasonably low-priced imports of man-made yarn into India have been causing considerable amount of injury to domestic manufacturers for the last five years or so. The industry has deep concerns over the rise in import quantities being dumped into India, which can potentially cause permanent damage to domestic thee MMF sector with a cascading effect, from closure of units to NPA’, and eventually resulting in huge employment loss.” He added that, “As a recapitulation, we appeal to the ministry of finance and ministry of textiles to consider increasing the customs duty on man-made yarn from its present level of 5% to 10% immediately in the ensuing Union Budget-2021 for the growth and expansion of domestic MMF industry and to prevent mass loss of employment.” Prior to this, the spinning industry had been demanding anti-dumping duty on the import of viscose spun yarn from China, Indonesia and Vietnam. After they took up the demand with the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR), the department had taken this proposal with the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/manufacturers-seek-doubling-import-duty-on-man-made-yarn/articleshow/80487509.cms||Mohit Behl
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two-day surge pushes diesel over Rs 83, petrol 14p shy of Rs 93||MUMBAI: There has been a big hike in petrol and diesel prices in Mumbai over the past two days, taking petrol to a new all-time high of Rs 92.86 per litre while diesel has crossed the Rs 83-mark the first time ever. Parbhani is the district where petrol retails at the highest rate, breaching the Rs 95-mark. Petrol took a leap by 58 paise within two days in the city to retail at Rs 92.86 per litre. And diesel went up by 64 paise to be sold at Rs 83.30. Cost per km for petrol-driven cars in Mumbai during peak hour rush has gone over Rs 5.80, sources said. As many as 23 districts in Maharashtra have petrol prices which have breached the Rs 94-mark. Parbhani has the highest rate with petrol at Rs 95.26 and diesel at Rs 84.36. Both petrol and diesel have gone up by nearly Rs 17 during the Covid months and this is the highest hike recorded within a year, sources added. The transporters associations have sounded a red alert. "There is acute pressure on All India Motor Transport Congress to take a call to strongly protest against the insensitivity of the government towards their plight as the rising fuel cost is making operations economically unviable. The AIMTC managing committee will convene an emergency meeting to announce our agitation. We are waiting for the Union budget as well since we expect some relief in terms of Excise Duty cuts," said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman-core committee and former president of AIMTC. Mahendra Arya, president of All India Transporters Welfare Association (AITWA), said, "Government is immune to the outcry of the transport industry which is reeling under the ever increasing cost of diesel…the Government blames transporters for the very high logistics cost in India. Yes it is high, but mainly due to the tax burden which is not available for credit in the GST chain." Arya said increase in freight charges would push up prices of essential commodities. Transporters said rising costs would also make road freight more expensive than rail, rendering their business uncompetitive. Abhishek Gupta from Bombay Goods Transport association said there is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to rising diesel prices and a hike of over 25% over the past nine months. He said 12-15% of small truck owners could be out of business in coming months. "This is evident from the number of vehicles getting repossessed by banks/financiers," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-day-surge-pushes-diesel-over-rs-83-petrol-14p-shy-of-rs-93/articleshow/80487527.cms||Somit Sen
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Jilted lover shoots girl dead in Bharatpur||Jaipur: A jilted lover has shot dead a girl for refusing his overtures in Bharatpur on Tuesday. The accused Sunil Jat (23) works as a tractor driver entered the locked house of the victim Ankita Singh (19) and pumped two bullets in her stomach. She was declared brought dead at the hospital. The victim was a third year student in Bharatpur.Police said that accused’s extended family and the victim’s family are known to each other for the past 15 years. The victim’s parents are teachers in a government school in Deeg and on the fateful day they had left their home for flag hoisting in their respective schools.“The parents had locked the home from outside fearing that Sunil who had been following the victim and threatened her on several occasions, might come home, to bother her again. The accused somehow got to know that house was locked but the Singh was inside. He entered the house through terrace and killed the girl,” said the police.Both parents were informed about the incident by their younger daughter who was at home during the incident.Report said that the accused Sunil had snatched the mobile phone of Ankita while she was on the way to the bank to collect her passbook in November. Singh reported the matter to her father Shakti Singh who then informed Sunil’s paternal uncle Dashrath and maternal uncle Nepal Singh. Both the uncles are neighbour of Singh. The family had apologised with the victim’s family and promised of not repeating any such move in the future.Sunil, hails from Fatehpur Sikri in Uttar Pradesh, was waiting to take the revenge of the insult caused to his uncle by the hands of Ankita’s father and killed her finding her at home on the republic day. The incident has caused shock waves in the city. “Police has formed several teams to arrest the main culprit. We have rushed the police to his native village and working on some leads,” said Devendra Kumar Bishnoi, SP Bharatpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jilted-lover-shoots-girl-dead-in-bharatpur/articleshow/80487507.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||Dog attacks, seriously injures elderly woman||TNNLudhiana: An elderly woman was seriously injured after a pit bull dog allegedly attacked her while she was working at Razur village in Koom Kalan. The injured has been identified as Paramjit Kaur, a MNREGA worker.Jagjit Singh, her son, said she was working in the village when a youth came with his dog and when his mother told him to take it away, he said it didn’t bite.Victim’s son said after that the person again came with the dog around evening, when his mother was winding up work. He untied the dog’s leash while talking on his mobile phone, Jagit said, adding that the animal attacked his mother and badly injured her right leg. Paramjit was rushed to Samrala civil hospital.Dr Navdeep Singh, who is treating her, said the injury could have been fatal. He said she got 25 stitches and required blood transfusion as well, but was out of danger now.Jagjit demanded strict action against the dog owner. Police claimed they were yet to get intimation from hospital. Koom Kalan SHO inspector Pawan Kumar said though he had got a call about the woman mauled by a dog, there was no information from the hospital. Necessary action would be taken after getting details from the hospital, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dog-attacks-seriously-injures-elderly-woman/articleshow/80486247.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||Controversy erupts over CETP plant||Ludhiana: Controversy has erupted over the upcoming dyeing industry’s common effluent treatment plant (CETP) project at Tajpur for the dyeing industry as several members of the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) have opened a front against the other faction led by president Bobby Jindal, alleging that the latter and his associates are not allocating them share in discharge of water into the CETP according to their contribution. The aggrieved members on Wednesday organised a meeting at a city hotel against the other faction and levelled serious charges. Raghuvir Singh of Mahindra Dyeing said, “The working of the managing committee of the CETP is not transparent as the shares for processing of waters of dyeing factories have not been allocated according to the monetary contribution made by the members. Some of the members who contributed less money were given more share than the members who paid more money, but got less share. The person having more share will be able to get processing of more water from his dyeing factory, which means he will get to do more business than the one having lesser share.” According to Mandeep Singh of Saral Dyers, “Our directors and secretary are doing injustice with members. These members have managed to keep 22% of the shares with them which is way more than what they should be getting as per their contribution.” Kamal Chauhan of Mahadev Washing said, “On December 22, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) issued an order for freezing the shares of our CETP and kept all powers with it, which means the department too is aware that some kind of scam is taking place in the managing committee of the project. Moreover it has been 10 years and no elections of the PDA took place and we are being kept in dark about the working of the association as only 5-6 persons decide about everything and pass orders while rest of the members do not have any idea about anything.” Refuting the charges, Jindal said, “The PDA is a limited company governed by rules and every little decision is taken as per law and with the consent of the members. Sadly, there are some elements in our association who just want to create rift among members and also put a roadblock in the completion of the CETP. Moreover, without studying the facts and ground realities they just want to give false narratives to misguide other members as well. In the recent case a handful of members are claiming that they got less share according to their contribution, this is not only laughable as everyone was allotted the shares according to the exact contribution that too via a tender.” Jindal added that, “Everything is on record and if any member has any confusion he can come to the office of the association and clear his doubts.” Meanwhile PPCB Chief Engineer , Gulshan Rai could not be contacted for his comments on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/controversy-erupts-over-cetp-plant/articleshow/80487520.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||Highest in state: Over 10k healthcare workers vaccinated||Ludhiana: More than 10,000 healthcare workers have received the jab in the district to date in the on-going first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Meanwhile, the authorities are uploading the data for the second phase of the drive and the process has to be complete by January 31.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “So far, 11,843 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in Ludhiana, which is the highest in the state.”A health department officer said, “On Wednesday as well, Ludhiana topped the districts of the state in vaccination, as 2,191 healthcare workers received the shot. As many as 788 were vaccinated in Amritsar. Twenty-two sessions were held in Ludhiana to vaccinate such a number.”The civil surgeon said they were creating awareness among the healthcare workers about the vaccine being safe, so that more of them came forward. “It’s difficult to say when will we be able to complete the process of giving the first shot of vaccine to more than 30,000 healthcare workers in the district. One third of the target has been met till now,” he added. Meanwhile, an officer said the process of registration of the frontline workers for the second phase of vaccination drive was going on.Principal secretary, health department, Hussan Lal said, “Registration of frontline workers of all categories has been done, except those of the revenue department. They have been asked to get it done by January 31. The government of India will be able to say when the second phase will start. Hopefully, it will begin immediately after the phase one.”Another senior health department officer said, “They (government) have told us that phases can run concurrently as well depending on the availability of vaccines.”The local health department officials said while the number of healthcare workers registered for vaccination was more than 30,000, that of frontline workers must be around 70,000 to 80,000. The frontline workers comprised police, revenue department employees, security forces personnel, Army personnel, workers of municipal corporation and disaster management, among others.A health department official said, “With rumours against the vaccines doing the rounds, the department needs to work hard to dispel wrong information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/highest-in-state-over-10k-healthcare-workers-vaccinated/articleshow/80486258.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer tourism industry offers to pay up for SpiceJet losses||Jaisalmer: Expecting a severe blow to the tourism business after SpiceJet announced discontinuation of its services to Jaisalmer from Thursday, hoteliers and members of industry have offered the carrier to bear its losses for continuance of flights.SpiceJet currently operates flights between Delhi, Jaisalmer and Ahmedabad. The decision of the company has created panic among the hoteliers who have been trying to resurrect their businesses after the losses they suffered due to the pandemic.On Wednesday, representatives of the industry, including Jaisalmer royal Chaitanya Raj Singh, met district collector Ashish Modi and said that they were ready to compensate for the losses of SpiceJet if it continues to operate.SpiceJet’s representatives also took part in the meeting through a video call. The businessmen have decided to give an offer to the SpiceJet in this regard.SpiceJet revealed that it incurs an expense of Rs 6 lakh from Delhi to Jaisalmer and Rs 1 lakh to Ahmedabad per day. The company is suffering losses due to low passenger load. The businessmen have decided to pay the fare for the vacant seats and has offered bank guarantee to the company.The plan will be experimented in February and March. Hoteliers have decided to share the compensation based on the size of the hotel. The fraternity will also set up various mechanisms and platforms to boost airline ticket sales.In Jaipur, members of Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators (RATO) and Hotels & Restaurants Association of Rajasthan submitted a memorandum to tourism director Nishant Jain requesting intervention of the government for continuance of SpiceJet’s services to the city.A leading hotelier in Jaisalmer Manvendra Singh Shekhawat said, “The tourism fraternity of Jaisalmer is trying to find a way out collectively by talking to the airline as well as the government. We have assured the airline about minimum seat guarantee. The tourism industry is expecting a good season in the coming months as most of the hotels and resorts are booked for the next month.”Another hotelier Mayank said that in the meeting, it was suggested that SpiceJet could alter flight routes and frequency to maximize load and profits. The plan offered included Delhi-Jaisalmer (3 days) and Ahmedabad-Jaisalmer (3 days).Mayank said the flights can be scheduled in a way that even people from extended regions like Mumbai, Jaipur, Bengaluru and Chennai can reach Delhi or Ahmedabad and take the next flight to Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-tourism-industry-offers-to-pay-up-for-spicejet-losses/articleshow/80487522.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||New site to come up in Peelamedu to speed up Covid vaccination drive||Coimbatore: Public health department officials are readying another vaccination site on the Coimbatore Medical College campus in Peelamedu to make it more convenient for private hospitals to bring their staff for vaccination. Unlike the other sites, where only one person can administer the vaccine, the new site may have 10 vaccine administrators — allowing 10 people to receive the jab simultaneously. This will help increase capacity of the site from 100 a day to 1,000 a day.Officials inspected the site near the college library to see if it can be converted into a vaccination site for private hospital staff and the college’s under-graduate students. “This is mainly meant for large private hospitals who want to vaccinate their staff members in large numbers. Since they can’t do without their staff for so many hours, we are requesting the state government to increase the capacity of the site from 100 to 1,000 for a few days,” said a health department official. “We are checking if we can place 10 vaccinators on the spot, so they can cover 100 beneficiaries in an hour.”With a capacity of 1,000 a day, the centre may be able to vaccinate a private hospital’s entire staff in three days.The centre was chosen due to the large halls, adequate parking space and its proximity to multi-super specialty hospitals. “Hospitals are hesitating to send their staff to primary health centres or Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where it is too crowded,” said another official. The hesitancy led to daily vaccination figures dropping to 376 people on Wednesday. The 376 people primarily included more than 100 CMCH students and more than 90 nurses from the hospital. The numbers fell below 700 a day from Monday.Last week, both Coimbatore and Tirupur district’s health department officials had offered to visit large private hospitals, who could promise at least 100 willing beneficiaries, and vaccinate them in the private hospital campus. However, this week, the state government forbade them to visit private campuses until the central government gives go-ahead, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-site-to-come-up-in-peelamedu-to-speed-up-covid-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80487511.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Ooty records lowest minimum temperature of this season||Udhagamandalam: The hill town experienced its lowest minimum temperature of this winter season on Wednesday with mercury dipping to 5.3degree Celsius. Formations of thick frost were found in most of the places in and around Ooty. The tourist retreat had not witnessed frost formation till January third week which was viewed as an unusual event. The lowest minimum temperature recorded during the past one and half month in the town stood between 6 and 7 degree Celsius. Usually, the temperature would dip to 2-3 degree Celsius during the winter season in the town. "The lowest minimum temperature recorded this winter so far was on Wednesday at 5.3 degree Celsius at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG). As we sprinkle water twice a day on the grass lawn spread in the frontage of the garden, formation of frost was kept away there," joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj said. "However, the football ground at the HADP high altitude sports training centre located adjacent to the GBG and other low-lying areas in the town experienced frost formation," he added.Chillness was also felt on the day as if it was 3 or 4 degree Celsius, the official said, adding that there were no reports of damage of crops due to frost in the district.According to an official, athletes used the synthetic running track at the HADP high altitude sports training centre on early Wednesday morning while the football ground experienced frost formation. Ooty remained wet in December with three cyclones and extended northeast monsoon occurring in the month. Winter season sets in the hills, normally, at the end of November and lasts till mid of February. But December and January are the months known for the typical winter weather. Ooty maintained an average maximum temperature between 11 and 17 degree Celsius throughout this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-records-lowest-minimum-temperature-of-this-season/articleshow/80487515.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||NGOs mull ways to protect elephants||Coimbatore: Wildlife NGOs have decided to appeal to the Bar Association of Coimbatore to not appear on behalf of the two men arrested for throwing a burning tyre to chase away a 40-year-old elephant, which died in Masinagudi last week. They also plan to appeal to the Coimbatore and Nilgiris collectors, and forest department officials, to take stringent action against the accused.As many as 30 members of wildlife NGOs in the region met at Podanur to remember the two tuskers — in Nilgiris and Bouluvampatti range — that lost their lives, and to discuss ways to prevent such incidents. “Stringent action should be taken against the two accused in the Nilgiris tusker case as a deterrent to others from committing such heinous crimes,” N I Jalaluddin of Nature Conservation Society said.The NGOs also discussed about extending voluntary on-ground support to prevent unnatural death of elephants. Elephant corridors should be protected to bring down the human-elephant conflict, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngos-mull-ways-to-protect-elephants/articleshow/80487518.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Will build places of worship in time, says govt||Hyderabad: The state government on Wednesday assured the secretariat employees and representatives of Hindu, Muslim and Christian communities that the works on construction of temple, church and mosque would be completed in time along with the new Secretariat complex. Ministers Mahmood Ali, Koppula Eshwar and Talasani Srinivas Yadav held a meeting with the leaders of various communities and representatives of secretariat employees and told them that the CM K Chandrasekhar Rao-led government is a secular one. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-build-places-of-worship-in-time-says-govt/articleshow/80487516.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||BJP-RSS sponsored violence during tractor rally in Delhi: Farmer leader||Jaipur: While Rajasthan farmer leader Rampal Jat said it was a failure of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leadership in controlling the violence during tractor rally in New Delhi on Tuesday, another farmer leader Himmat Singh said there were attempts by BJP and RSS to sabotage the tractor rally on Delhi-Jaipur national highway as well. But, these attempts were thwarted by the farmers, he said.Singh said while the tractor rally, involving over 1,000 tractors, from Alwar’s Shahjahanpur to Manesar via NH-8 (Delhi-Jaipur highway) was peaceful, the violence in Delhi was “sponsored by BJP and RSS people”. “Deep Sidhu, a BJP worker, was responsible for instigating people in Delhi. How did the march reach Red Fort when the route was not approved earlier? Police allowed them move ahead instead of stopping them,” said Singh.Singh further said, “Two-three vehicles even tried to hijack the rally on Delhi-Jaipur highway. But, we didn’t let them do so. We told them to stay away from the ‘peaceful rally’ and not to provoke the farmers. It was not the failure of sanyunkt morcha’s leadership. The sabotage was planned by BJP-RSS.”On the other hand, Jat said, “This was a failure of our leadership. Second, we are committed towards truth, non-violence and peace. It is required to have a strong leadership to lead such a large group. I felt the leadership was not so strong. Third, I am not ruling out the fact that government wanted the violence to occur. But, we should have been alert. There has been lapse from both sides,” Jat told TOI. “It is the failure of intelligence, police, administration and the farmer organisations.”“I believe deviating from the approved route itself was wrong. Why can’t we be disciplined? Had the tractor rally been disciplined, it would have been a historic moment. But we lost this opportunity,” added Jat, who led a rally of over 100 tractors from Gurugram on Tuesday.Rashtriya Loktantrik Party convener Hanuman Beniwal said, “We had condemned the insult to the national flag at Red Fort on Tuesday itself. But, I believe, farmers can’t do such a thing because they had a big role in the freedom movement. Some anti-social elements have done it. There is no place for violence in this movement.”BoxPetrol pump assn threatens to shut pumps, Ganganagar farmers return to ShahjahanpurJaipur: A group of farmers from Ganganagar-Hanumangarh, which had crossed over to Haryana’s Dharuhera last month, returned to Alwar’s Shahjahanpur on Wednesday. Also, Jat leader Rajaram Meel had announced to organise a march towards Delhi on Wednesday as Haryana police were planning to remove the barricades on the border on the request of petrol pump owners, said sources. Later, the barricades were not removed. A group of petrol pump owners, under Haryana petrol pump association, on Wednesday raised slogans against the farmer leaders protesting the violence in Delhi. They even threatened to shut the petrol pumps on Delhi-Jaipur highway if the barricades on the border were not removed by Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-rss-sponsored-violence-during-tractor-rally-in-delhi-farmer-leader/articleshow/80487510.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Bill seeking amendments to Lokayukta Act tabled||Porvorim: The government on Wednesday introduced five bills in the assembly, including the controversial amendment bill to the Goa Lokayukta Act. An amendment bill to the Municipality Act, aimed at increasing wards in five municipalities, was also introduced. The Goa Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was tabled by chief minister Pramod Sawant, seeks to amend several sections of the Goa Lokayukta Act, 2011 with a view to bring the act in line with provisions of the Constitution of India, the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as amended vide the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018. The cabinet had, last week, approved the amendments that severely dilute the powers of the anti-corruption authority. The proposed amendments omit provisions enabling complaints against public functionaries on allegations of nepotism, lack of integrity, maladministration and improper or corrupt motive. The bill, which is likely to come up for discussion on Thursday, also seeks to amend a sub-section of the act to relax the criteria for the appointment of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta. Urban development minister Milind Naik introduced the Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to amend a section of the act so as to prescribe the time period between the date of notification of delimitation of wards and reservation of seats and the date of notification of the general election. Sawant also introduced the Goa Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which, if passed, will allow the government to bypass the commission and permit departments to carry out recruitments. He even introduced the Goa (Regulation of House Building Advance) Bill, 2021 (Bill No. 2 of 2021). Environment minister Nilesh Cabral introduced the Goa Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) (Amendment) Bill, 2021. As per the bill, cess will be levied at a rate not exceeding 2% of consideration received on outway supply of goods marketed in non-biodegradable packaging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bill-seeking-amendments-to-lokayukta-act-tabled/articleshow/80488914.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||IAS promotion: SC upholds HC order, asks CAT to decide||Jaipur: The Supreme Court has asked CAT Jaipur bench to decide it at an early date on the issue of promotion from other services to the IAS.At the same time, the SC refused to interfere in the order given by the vacation bench of Rajasthan High Court on December 24, 2020.The SC gave this order while disposing of the SLP of Rajasthan Administrative Service Association and others.In SLP, the association challenged the order of the high court refusing to interfere in the pending promotion case in CAT.The HC said that he did not have jurisdiction to hear in this case. Whereas the association had called for a stay on the interview for promotion from other services to the IAS service. CAT will now hear the case on January 29.Promotion process is underway from state services to IAS. The state government has decided to promote 14 from state services of which RAS for RAS while four posts have been kept for other services.The RAS Association is opposing the decision. RAS association claims that under the Indian Administrative Service Recruitment Rules, rule 81 provides that promotion to the IAS will be done from the state civil service officers only.It means that if an eligible officer of the state civil service is available, then promotion of other state service officers should not be considered. Selection of IAS from officers of other services under Rule 83 could be applied only under special circumstances, it claims.BoxOfficial summoned over hiring of teachersJaipur: The Rajasthan High Court summoned principal secretary education over laxity in compliance of its order in recruitment of computer teachers and rules for their recruitment. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mohanty and Justice Satish Sharma issued the order while hearing on PIL by Chetana Yadav on a PIL.The petitioner moves a contempt petition after the court order in the case was not complied with. Computer education is being imparted in about 15,000 government schools of the state but till date not a single computer teacher has been recruited and no rules were made for their recruitment.On January 17 last year, the High Court ordered the government make separate cadre of computer teachers in two months and in September 16 2020, the court gave further direction to make rules for their recruitment within four weeks but the government has not complied with the orders, said counsel PC Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ias-promotion-sc-upholds-hc-order-asks-cat-to-decide/articleshow/80487517.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers never had to protest so long: Gehlot||Jaipur: Continuing his attack against the Centre over farm laws, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said it has never happened in the history of the country that the farmers had to protest so long to get their demands fulfilled.He said the central government has insulted the farmers and claimed that the process adopted while enacting the fresh legislations was faulty since the very beginning.“No one is ready to listen to farmers and to understand their grievances which is very unfortunate. The farmers have been agitating for over two months in the cold, taking out tractor rallies. This is an unfortunate situation and not in the country's interest,” Gehlot told reporters after attending the Republic Day function at the secretariat here.He asked whether in a democracy does a government not change its decisions.“Changing or withdrawing decisions given public sentiments shows a big heart,” the chief minister said.Gehlot said there are reports of deaths of about 150 farmers during the ongoing agitation, but the government was not bothered.“Demands can be made by any section of the society and there can be a way out. But the process adopted while enacting the farm laws was faulty since the beginning. In Parliament too, the opposition was not heard,” he said.“The basic reason for this situation is distrust,” he added.Thousands of farmers have been protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws, demanding that they be repealed.When asked if the central government was afraid of Congress getting the credit for the agitation, Gehlot said neither the farmers' unions nor the party want to politicise the movement.He added, “It is the duty of the opposition parties to show unity.”Gehlot claimed that a situation has arisen in the country where all institutions like judiciary, CBI, income tax and enforcement directorate are politicized and under pressure.The chief minister also appealed to the protesting farmers to maintain peace and not resort to violence.“The farmers' movement has been peaceful till now. There is an appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and not to commit violence. Violence has no place in a democracy,” he tweeted.He said the violence will be a success of the forces which are trying to make the farmers' movement unsuccessful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-never-had-to-protest-so-long-gehlot/articleshow/80487514.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||600kg banned tobacco products seized, 1 held||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a man from RS Puram on Wednesday for possession of 600kg banned tobacco products worth Rs 5.4 lakh. The arrested person is identified as Vikram Singh, 23, of Edayar Street. A special police team had raided the rented room of the accused on Edayar Street after receiving a tip-off.Police booked Singh under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 and remanded him in judicial custody.The city police had arrested two people a week ago for possession of 475kg of banned tobacco products from Lorrypet at Ukkadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/600kg-banned-tobacco-products-seized-1-held/articleshow/80487521.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||In 2019, overspeeding caused maximum accidents||Ludhiana: Overspeeding is the major cause of road accident deaths in Ludhiana in 2019 as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. Despite that, the Ludhiana Traffic police have only one speed checking radar, which is used in Sahnewal area on the Ludhiana-Delhi national highway. Importantly, the deaths in road accidents due to overspeeding in Ludhiana is even higher than the national average of deaths in 2019 under this category. As per the latest NCRB data, total 365 deaths in 526 road accidents were reported in Ludhiana, of which 314 accidents were due to overspeeding, which resulted in 209 deaths. This means that 57.26% of the total deaths in road accidents in the city are due to the accidents caused by overspeeding. The figure is even higher than the national average, wherein death due to overspeeding comprises 55.2%. The Ludhiana traffic police in 2019 had raised a demand of three more speed radars to check reckless drivers, however, till now the demand had not been fulfilled. Over the years the city traffic police have been using the lone speed radar at different locations, including Ludhiana-Ferozepur road near a mall on elevated road and at present the radar is being used in Sahnewal area on the Ludhiana-Delhi national highway. As per the NCRB data, for the past three years the number of accidents due to overspeeding are also increasing. In 2017, a total 193 road accidents were caused due to overspeeding, in 2018, it increased to 197 accidents and in 2019, a total 209 accidents were caused due to overspeeding. Road safety expert Kamaljit Soi said, “The fear of being caught is a must to stop overspeeding and to curb fatal accidents. The city needs more speed radars. The city traffic police must use speed radars on all those stretches where people have lost lives due to overspeeding vehicles. Besides, the speed radar is used by the police to keep a check on the traffic that is moving out of the city. Rather the radars have to be used for the traffic entering the city as that is more dangerous for the commuters.” Box- Accidents caused due to overspeeding On January 22, Imrana Khatun, 35, of Krishna Colony, Rahon road, and her brother-in-law Mohammad Rahid, 45, of Uttar Pradesh died in a road mishap when their bike was hit by a truck near Transport Nagar. On December 20, two factory worker Ankush Bharti (27) of Jamalpur and Navjot Singh (19) of Lohara died in a road accident near Ganpati chowk, Focal Point. The duo was going on their motorcycle to a nearby market when at Ganpati chowk crossing, a speeding trolley hit their bike. One of them died on the spot, while another died on the way to hospital. On December 16, Agnidev Yadav, 35, a hosiery worker and his nephew Hari Prasad, 25, a plumber of Giaspura died in a road mishap. The duo were going on their bike when at Pratap Chowk an overspeeding bus hit them and crushed them to death. On December 9, Manoj Burman, 38, and his wife Neelu Burman, 35, got injured while their son 7-month-old Aarav died when the auto in which they were travelling was hit by an overspeeding taxi at Bharat Nagar chowk early morning. The couple, along with their son, were going to their house in Phullanwal in the auto when the incident occurred. On December 6, Surinder Singh, 40, a farm labourer, and his wife Surjeet Kaur, 38, of Qutbewal Gujjran village, Ladhowal- Hambran road died when an overspeeding truck hit their bike on the Satluj bridge near Ladhowal toll plaza. When the duo fell down, they were crushed to death. The duo died on the spot. On December 5, Ramesh Kumar, 36, owner of a tea-stall on Sua road, was crushed to death by an overspeeding car. Ramesh was standing outside his tea stall attending to a customer when a Toyota Innova car crushed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-2019-overspeeding-caused-maximum-accidents/articleshow/80487535.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Isro to launch city college’s academic satellite||Coimbatore: A private engineering college in the city has designed and developed a satellite that could perform all Internet of Things (IoT) right from detecting an underground pipeline leakage to fire in forest or multi-storeyed buildings.Named SriShakthiSat, the satellite is developed by the Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology at Chinniyampalayam.The Indian Space Research Organization (Isro) is expected to launch this satellite, along with two other satellites built by JPR Institute of Technology in Chennai and GH Raisoni College of Engineering at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, through PSLV-C51 from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota on February 28.While the Isro has launched nine academic satellites that were developed by various universities in the country, it is for the first time it is launching the ones that are built by private engineering colleges.Addressing the media, S Thangavelu, chairman, Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology, said the students and faculties of information technology, computer science, and electronics and communication engineering departments had been working on the project for the past 10 years and spent more than Rs2 crore to build the satellite. “We will hand over the satellite to the Isro on February 5.” According to him, the academic satellite weighs just 460 gram. “As the satellite would be placed at 500km to 575km above the earth, it would cross India twice a day. To get data round the clock, it will intercommunicate with 300 other satellites. It is built in such a way to collect information regarding bank burglaries, underground water leakage and fire accidents in Bengaluru, Chandigarh and ONGC site in Thanjavur. While the active period of the satellite is six months, it would send signals for another three years.” Thangavelu said the satellite would be used only for academic purposes and the information would be made available to the students from other colleges and schools to encourage space literacy. “We have filed for 29 patents so far.” Pointing out that most of the satellites that the Isro had launched until recently were government funded, he said, “It is only after the formation of the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Centre in June 2020 that private institutes are being encouraged to develop satellites. We had obtained all the required permissions, including registration and frequency allocations, through a single window facility.”The college has set up a satellite ground station on its premises and it would be inaugurated by K Sivan, chairman, Isro, on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/isro-to-launch-city-colleges-academic-satellite/articleshow/80487531.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||10 more students of govt school test +ve||Ludhiana: After six students and 14 teachers of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan, Jagraon, tested positive for Covid-19 recently, 10 more of its students have contracted the virus. Meanwhile, the health department officials have started testing the residents of Ghalib Kalan village, too. A woman teacher of the school had died of Covid-19 on January 23.The health department officials said of the 38 teachers, 14—including the 48-year-old deceased—had tested positive. And of the 127 students, six had tested positive earlier and 10 now. The reports of the remaining students were awaited.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “So far, reports of 16 students have come positive. All the students are asymptomatic.”A health department officer at Jagraon said, “All the infected students have been home quarantined. We are monitoring their health and have told them to report immediately to the health officer in case they develop any serious symptoms.”“Till Monday evening, we had collected around 300 samples of students. The exercise continued on Wednesday as well. There are around 550 students in the school who belong to the village and surrounding areas. Samples of majority of them have been collected. We have received the reports of more than half of them,” said the officials.“The department is also testing residents of Ghalib Kalan village. Besides, we are tracing contacts of the positive cases,” they added.A few days ago, the health department had sent samples of 19 novel coronavirus positive teachers and students of the school to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, for genome analysis of the virus strain. “This will help ascertain whether or not they are infected with the UK strain, which is more infectious. The report will be received in 15 days,” said an official.A health department officer said, “The way the disease spread at the school creates suspicion that the strain which is 70% more infectious may have infected the teachers and the students. The genome analysis, however, will make things clear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/10-more-students-of-govt-school-test-ve/articleshow/80486294.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Man held for objectionable post on Sikh gurus in Kota||Kota: A man was arrested here on Wednesday for uploading some objectionable comments against Sikh religious gurus on his Facebook page. He was allegedly angry with violent protest by farmers in New Delhi. The accused has been identified as Laxminarayan Bairwa, a resident of Sarhawda village in Kota. He will be produced in the court on Thursday.Modak police station SHO Bharat Singh said some members of the Sikh community reached the police station and lodged a report alleging Bairwa had uploaded some defamatory and objectionable content and comments against Sikh gurus on his Facebook page. The police carried out initial investigation into the matter and booked Bairwa under Section 295 and 505 of IPC, he said.Initially, it appears that the accused, in a fit of anger over violent protest by Sikh farmers in New Delhi on Tuesday, uploaded the Facebook post, allegedly defamatory and objectionable against Sikh community and Sikh Gurus, the SHO said adding the accused, however, also mentioned that the Sikh gurus are known for defending and serving the humanity. Further interrogation of the accused is underway, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-objectionable-post-on-sikh-gurus-in-kota/articleshow/80487530.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Ex-Mumbai BJP secretary joins Shiv Sena ahead of BMC elections||MUMBAI: Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, former corporator and Mumbai BJP secretary Sameer Desai joined Shiv Sena on Wednesday in presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Desai, a two-term Congress corporator is the nephew of late Congress leader Gurudas Kamat. Rajul Desai, a BJP corporator from ward no. 56 (Unnat Nagar, Motilal Nagar) will remain BJP member and has planned to join the Sena before the polls scheduled in February 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-city-bjp-secy-joins-sena-ahead-of-bmc-elections/articleshow/80488968.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||Man dies as crane trolley wire snaps mid-air||Times News NetworkLudhiana: A person died after falling from a height of nearly 70 feet while installing a religious flag at a gurdwara near Machhiwara in the district on Tuesday, the police said. The deceased was identified as 48-year-old Harinder Singh of Pooniyan village near Machhiwara.According to information, Harinder Singh, a factory worker, used to replace the Nishan Sahib (religious flag) at the village gurdwara every year with a new one. As part of the annual exercise, Harinder on Tuesday boarded a crane trolley, which lifted him up towards the gurdwara dome. But, as it reached a height of about 70 feet, the trolley wire snapped and it fell on the ground, along with Harinder.He suffered serious injuries in the accident. Although the onlookers rushed him to a nearby hospital, the doctors declared him dead, the police said.Samrala police station SHO inspector Kuljinder Singh said they have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter under Section 174 of the CRPC. His post-mortem examination has been done and it is clear that he died due to the injuries suffered following the fall, he added.Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended on the village as the news about the death of Harinder spread. His body was handed over to his family after the autopsy and he was cremated at the village cremation ground.Villagers said Harinder was a very sociable person. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-dies-as-crane-trolley-wire-snaps-mid-air/articleshow/80486271.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Man arrested for cutting b’day cake with sword||Coimbatore: A 26-year-old man was arrested in Tirupur on Wednesday for cutting a birthday cake with a sword along with his friends at Sakthi Nagar at Anupparpalayam in the city on Monday night and causing public nuisance.The Tirupur city police are on the lookout for the remaining others. They identified the arrested as Johnson, a resident of Anupparpalayam.According to a police officer, about 20-30 youngsters had gathered in front of a temple at Sakthi Nagar and celebrated the birthday of their friend Sathish on Monday night by cutting the cake with the sword. “They also shouted and created nuisance to the public.”Subsequently, local residents lodged a complaint with the Anupparpalayam police with photographs as proof. “We identified three people - Johnson, Sathish and Mukil - from the photographs. While we have arrested Johnson, the remaining two are on the run. We have launched a manhunt for them. We are also in the process of identifying the remaining people. They will be arrested at the earliest,” the officer said.Johnson was produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-cutting-bday-cake-with-sword/articleshow/80487533.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Comedian cheating: Dilip Chhabria’s sister, senior sales executive arrested in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The city crime branch on Wednesday arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria’s sister Kanchan, who is the chief executive officer of Dilip Chhabria Design Pvt Ltd, and senior sales executive Nihal Bajaj in connection with the Rs 5.7 crore cheating case filed by comedian-actor Kapil Sharma. In his complaint, Sharma said he had ordered a customised vanity van in 2017 and paid Chhabria a total of Rs 5.7 crore, but it was never delivered. In fact, Chhabria was demanding more money and even parking charges, he alleged. Kanchan and Bajaj will be produced before the 37th metropolitan magistrate’s court on Thursday, the police said. A team of the crime intelligence unit, led by assistant police inspectors Sachin Vaze, Kiriti Mane and Riyazuddin Kazi, arrested Kanchan from a restaurant at Marine Drive in south Mumbai. “We have arrested Kanchan, a Juhu resident, in connection with Sharma’s complaint. She is the signatory in Dilip Chhabria Design Pvt Ltd (DCDPL) and the financial trail led to her,” said an officer. “As she was evading arrest, we used technical help, tracked her down to a south Mumbai restaurant on Wednesday evening, and arrested her. She was using three cellphones.” Chhabria (68), wife Cherry, son Bonito, daughter-in-law Anushree, sister Kanchan and the company directors are accused in three cases— a Rs 100-crore car finance and dual registration racket, a Rs 5.7-crore cheating case filed by Sharma and a Rs 25-crore cheating case filed by Chennai businessman Indermal Ramani. Chhabria was first arrested on December 29, 2020, in connection with the car finance and dual registration racket. He was also arrested in the Sharma cheating case in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/comedian-cheating-chhabrias-sister-sr-sales-exec-arrested/articleshow/80487553.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||No. of domestic violence cases continues to soar||Coimbatore: The number of domestic violence cases reported in the district has been increasing steadily in the last few years. More than 60% of the complainants had sought the intervention of the court to resolve the issue. While 374 complaints were registered in 2020 in the district, 183 complaints were filed in 2017. Of the 374 complaints, 111 complaints were received during the lockdown period between March and September and the number is 30% higher than the number of complaints received in 2019, said an official from the social welfare department. More than 10 complaints were registered this month alone.Domestic violence complaints are registered directly with the social welfare department, women helpline number (181), in courts and through counsellors. The official said, “Financial and mental distress caused during the lockdown period is considered as the main reasons for increase in complaints this year. Of the complaints registered during the pandemic period, all the cases except one were resolved through counselling sessions.”Explaining that more than 60% of the cases registered before and after the lockdown were taken before courts to find a solution, the official said that 185 complaints filed in 2019 and 164 in 2018 were now dealt in courts.Activists and psychiatrists said combined action from multiple government bodies and society is required to reduce the instances of domestic violence cases.“Instances of physical assault and verbal abuse are equally high in recent times. While some men indulge in such activities under the influence of alcohol or drugs, some others take out their frustrations on their wives due to their economic condition or due to ego clashes. Even though families do not demand dowry directly from the bride, they continue to keep their expectations high and if it is not fulfilled, they take it out on the women,” Dr GP Godhanavalli, a family and student counselor, said.On an average, it takes about two years to pronounce judgment in a case, she said. Most of the time, the case itself gets diluted due to the delay, she added. In some incidents, women are hesitant to file a complaint and continue to undergo the abuse or assault, she said, pointing out that not all the cases are reported. City-based psychiatrist Dr NS Mony pointed out that a 21-member committee formed to reduce violence against women in the district is not functioning for the past four years. “It is the combined responsibility of the government and society to reduce violence against women,” he added.Explaining that men who are emotionally unstable or found to be suffering from depression, anxiety disorder and delusion disorder, also indulge in such activities, he insisted that mental health awareness needs to be created among the public. “Most of the time, problems caused due to mental health illness could be sorted out with therapy and counselling,” he added.Managing trustee of Aram Foundation and charitable trust Latha Sundaram said the attitude of the people should change and definitely a woman cannot be taken for granted to take out their frustrations. “Quick and stringent punishments could instill a sense of fear and it in turn would help to reduce violence against women,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-of-domestic-violence-cases-continues-to-soar/articleshow/80487551.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 28, 2021||Surat||Biggest post-Covid art exhibition to feature 27 artists from Surat||Surat: The artworks of 27 artists from Surat will on display during the exhibition ‘Urja 2021’ that begins from January 29. This will be the first-ever physical art exhibition to be organised on this scale in Surat city post-lockdown. The exhibition will remain open till February 8. The exhibition is being organised by Vanita Art Gallery, run by Vanita Vishram Trust featuring a mix of both, senior and budding and upcoming artists. The senior most artist to exhibit his creation is 70-years-old while the youngest on only 21 years of age. There is no common theme given to artists. A total of 81 creations will be on display which will provide a unique opportunity to art lovers of Surat, said Ojas Desai, convenor for Vanita Art Gallery. “This will be the biggest art exhibition post Covid-19 in the state and we are delighted to see that the visitors will see the new artworks at the gallery,” Desai said, adding that they wanted to make it an annual affair.The Vanita Art Gallery is run by 110-year-old Vanita Vishram Trust which is involved in field of education, empowerment and self–reliance of women. More than 13,000 girls and women are enrolled in the educational institutes run by Vanita Vishram Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/biggest-post-covid-art-exhibition-to-feature-27-artists-from-surat/articleshow/80485179.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 28, 2021||Surat||I-T raid on diamond firm unearths booze||Surat: The investigation wing of the Surat income tax department carried out a search at a city-based diamond company involved in the job-work of the polished diamonds late on Tuesday night and recovered about 15 high-end liquor bottles, hidden on the terrace of the company in Kapodara. Following intelligence on the large-scale tax evasion, the investigation wing of the Surat I-T department had carried out a search at the Deora & Bhanderi diamond firm at Hirabaug in Kapodara last week. The I-T officials are believed to have recovered a huge amount of documents related to the disproportionate assets and book of accounts. During the search operation on Tuesday, the officials recovered 15 bottles of foreign liquor brands valued at Rs 31,000 and dozens of empty boxes of the liquor bottles. The liquor bottles were seized and that the police were informed about the seizure. Sources said that the Kapodara police seized the liquor bottles and have registered a case under prohibition act against the owners of the diamond company on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-t-raid-on-diamond-firm-unearths-booze/articleshow/80485608.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||2 die of Covid-19, 38 test positive||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 38 tested positive on Wednesday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 46-year-old man of Shimlapuri, who had diabetes; and a 65-year-old woman of Karike village. The day also saw a patient from outside Ludhiana succumbing to the virus and 11 from other districts and states testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the Ludhiana toll tally has risen to 996 and that of outsiders to 474.To date, 5,92,670 persons have been tested.Of the 38 new cases, 16 were from flu corner, five contacts of positive patients, 12 from OPD, four through tracing process, and one healthcare worker.The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,628 and that of outsiders 3,893.So far, 24,305 patients have recovered which constitutes 94.83% of the total cases.There are 324 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-of-covid-19-38-test-positive/articleshow/80486326.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Assembly poll: 118 returning officers get ECI training||Trichy: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has intensified preparatory works for the upcoming state assembly election by providing training to the returning officers. Eight national-level master trainers (NLMT) from the ECI provided training to 118 returning officers (ROs) from 20 districts including Trichy, here on Wednesday.The four-day training from 10am to 5pm every day, which will go on till Saturday will cover all the subjects related to the election starting from filing of nomination to announcing the election result.Sivarasu inaugurated the programme at the Saranathan College of engineering at Panjappur in Trichy.Specially trained officials – Anil Salgothra, Sivaprasanth Sharma, SK Siththa, V Ragavendra, RM Pandya, Rohikkhan, Madhusudhan Sharma and Sridhar will be holding classes on various subjects such as filing of nomination, handling of electronic voting machines (EVMs), counting process and announcement of the results etc.Each constituency in the state will have one returning officer. In Wednesday’s programme, 118 returning officers 20 districts including Trichy, Karur, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Tuticorin, Pudukottai, Kanyakumari, Nagapattinam, Salem, Erode, Ariyalur, Dindigul, Perambalur, Virudhunagar and Madurai participated. The meeting for returning officers in the remaining districts has commenced in Chennai simultaneously.Unlike previous elections, the voter-verified paper audit-trial (VVPAT) attached EVMs will be used in all the polling booths instead of in selected booths.This year, the ECI has restricted the maximum number of voters per booth to 1,000. The decision led to the increase of polling booths. For instance, Trichy district has increased its number of booths from 2,531 to 3,432 this year. Hence, the returning officers will be given training on those subjects too.ECI, which usually holds such training programmes in the national or state capital has chosen Trichy also as one of the venues this time. It comes days after Trichy district collector S Sivarasu was awarded for best performance in the preparation of electoral roll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/assembly-poll-118-returning-officers-get-eci-training/articleshow/80488942.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Bhogapuram airport foundation post polls||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government will lay the foundation for the proposed greenfield international airport at Bhogapuram after the panchayat elections. A series of review meetings have been held focussing on the construction of the international airport. It may be recalled that CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and industries minister M Gautham Reddy during their recent visits to Vizianagaram district stated that the construction of the airport would start soon. The proposed airport will be 45 kilometres away from Vizag city, 25 kilometres away from Vizianagaram and 58 kilometres from Srikakulam district in the north Andhra region. Authorities are also making efforts to speed up construction activities to rehabilitate those displaced as the government planned to acquire 2,700 acres for the construction of the airport. According to sources, 2,200 acres would be given for construction of the airport while the government would keep 500 acres for future needs. “We have already acquired 2,342 acres...of the remaining 361 acres, farmers of 123 acres approached the court and demanded the government to pay compensation at present rates,’ one of the officials involved in the land acquisition process said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bhogapuram-airport-foundation-post-polls/articleshow/80487030.cms||Siva G
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Win poll to show gratitude to Amma: EPS to AIADMK cadre||CHENNAI: Unveiling the memorial of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, the ruling AIADMK organized a grand show on the Marina in Chennai on Wednesday that reflected the changing dynamics within the party. Emphasising the need for unity with the assembly election a few months away, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam declared open the phoenix-like structure which they said reflected Jayalalithaa’s “tall personality”. Covid-19 norms went for a toss as thousands of cadres from across Tamil Nadu gathered on the beachfront to ensure the event was a smashing success.  Addressing the gathering, Palaniswami said winning the assembly election and retaining power for the third consecutive term would be the gratitude the party could show to the departed leader. Panneerselvam said the memorial was a temple built by the government for people of all faith. “It is a temple built by us for a leader, who achieved peace, prosperity and progress for the state. A temple that reminds us about the history of an iron lady,” he said. The grand mausoleum would have the permanent stamp of the two leaders in the form of a plaque dedicated to Jayalalithaa. Spurring cadres to work hard for the AIADMK’s victory, Palaniswami sought to remind partymen what Jayalalithaa had stated on the floor of assembly. “Amma said even after her death the party and government would remain strong. It would be like an iron fort that none could destroy. That should be our goal. This is how we can show our gratitude to Amma. Work relentlessly day and night,” the CM said, urging the partymen to take a pledge for a resounding win in the assembly election. With cabinet colleagues and senior functionaries rallying behind him, the chief minister said, “We got a great opportunity to learn politics and the art of governance from Amma.” Palaniswami said his government had built the memorial so that the future generation would know about Jayalalithaa’s greatness. “I dedicate the memorial with a heavy heart,” he said. Her rule was a golden era and was appreciated by all sections for her countless welfare scheme, the CM said.  “She got a state party to become the third largest national party and this historic achievement could not be made until now by any other leader of Tamil Nadu. She looked after the people of Tamil Nadu like a mother nurturing her children. The only woman chief minister, who ruled the state for a long time,” the CM said. He showered encomiums on Jayalalithaa for laying the foundation for TN to become numero uno with her vision 2023 document. He said the government would renovate former CM M G Ramachandran’s memorial soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/win-poll-to-show-gratitude-to-amma-eps-to-aiadmk-cadre/articleshow/80487545.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Local polls to go on as planned, governor assured||VIJAYAWADA: State  commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar and chief secretary Aditya Nath Das met governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan separately on Wednesday. The SEC met the governor first and briefed him on the gram panchayat election process that was started in the state. He told the governor about the cooperation extended by the state government to assist the SEC in the process. Ramesh Kumar explained the reasons for taking disciplinary action against some of the officials and initiating transfer of some officials in the state. Meanwhile, chief secretary Aditya Nath Das also met the governor minutes after the SEC left Raj Bhavan. The chief secretary reportedly briefed the governor about the election and the state government’s initiatives to assist the state election commission. He told the governor that government employees have agreed to take up poll duties. The CS said the government had given assurance to employees on Covid-19 protection to everyone taking part in election duty. Later, the chief secretary, along with other senior officers of the state government and district collectors, joined the video conference conducted by SEC on election process. Addressing the press later in the day, SEC Ramesh Kumar said that he did not have any personal rivalries with chief secretary Aditya Nath Das or DGP D Gautam Sawang and that he was only acting as per applicable laws. Explaining details of his meeting with the governor, the SEC said, “The governor enquired about the election process. I explained the present situation and measures taken by the commission. CS and other officials are supporting us and government employees also agreed to join election duties. Governor promised that he will act as a bridge between government and SEC.” On the participation of government employees, the SEC said he has been close to employee associations during his service and that they have always supported him. He said that some political parties had raised objections over government’s statements promoting unanimous elections and he had asked concerned officials to give their explanation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/local-polls-to-go-on-as-planned-guv-assured/articleshow/80487135.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civic body gives rebates to tax defaulters||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), in order to increase its revenue and get closer to the tax collection target for the ongoing financial year, has launched a discount scheme for the city-based tax defaulters. As per the scheme, the water and property tax defaulters will get hefty discounts if they manage to clear their dues in one go. The total amount due is over Rs 70 crore, including the late fee. Kadambari Balkawade, civic administrator, said, “Concession of up to 40% in late fees will be applicable if the water tax dues are paid before February-end and it will be reduced to 30% if paid before March end. For property tax defaulters, those with properties with size less than 1000 square feet, the concession will be 60% and 50% if paid before the end of February and March respectively. Discounts for non-residential properties too have been launched. We now expect more defaulters to clear their dues.” The concession in water tax dues will not be applicable to government establishments that have dues of more than Rs 10 crore. Also, the civic body has slapped notices to all the big defaulters — both property and water taxes — asking them to clear their dues. Balkawade informed that action against the big defaulters is going on. “For property tax dues, the due amount is being written on the property documents so that the owner cannot sell the property or get any loan against it without clearing the dues. For water tax dues, the KMC is snapping the water connections and it is being restored only after the payment is done,” he said. The civic body on Wednesday disconnected water connections of government offices — railways and social welfare department — as they owe Rs 2.75 crore and Rs 1.60 lakh, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-civic-body-gives-rebates-to-tax-defaulters/articleshow/80485174.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Bridge across Gosthani river in the pipeline||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government is planning to construct a bridge across Gosthani river near Bheemili as part of proposed six-lane coastal highway from Bheemili to Bhogapuram. A detailed project report (DPR) is being prepared for the project. As per initial proposals, the bridge was supposed to be around two kilometres long across the Gosthani confluence where it merges with the Bay of Bengal near Bheemili. However, it is now learnt that the project may be extended from Visakhapatnam port to Bhogapuram, spanning about 50 kilometres at a cost of Rs 1,500 crore. As per the project proposals pertaining to Bheemili-Bhogapuram road, the work would begin with a six-lane route before ultimately being expanded to eight lanes. The coastal highway will be designed in a manner so as to integrate as well as provide radial connectivity with the nearest strategic locations such as tourism points, industrial areas, and social infrastructure. Suitable government lands will be identified along the stretch for development of industries, IT parks, tourism facilities, port-based activities, housing projects, beach resorts, amusement parks among others. The consultant for the project is currently conducting alignment option studies and traffic surveys. Detailed project estimates and implementation cost proposals would be prepared by the consultant, said a state official. The Madhurawada-Bheemili-Bhogapuram stretch has gained a lot of significance after the state government announced its plan of making Visakhapatnam as the executive capital. With a good chunk of government lands, infrastructure and connectivity, the northern zone of Vizag city would likely emerge as the seat of power. Several senior bureaucrats have visited the city in recent times to identify suitable land pockets and offices for the executive capital. The proposed international airport in Bhogapuram and metro rail project till Bhogapuram airport would also boost connectivity. The six-lane highway from Anakapalli to Anandapuram is also nearing completion. On the other hand, Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) is preparing a concept plan covering 360 square kilometres in the vicinity of the proposed airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bridge-across-gosthani-river-in-the-pipeline/articleshow/80486959.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Govt expects Rs 15k crore investments in petrochemical zone||Jaipur: The state government will start allotment of land in the Petroleum, Chemicals & Petrochemicals Investment Region (PCPIR) from July this year and it expects an investment of Rs 15,000 crore in the area and job opportunities for 1.5 lakh people.At a global virtual meeting organised on Wednesday by CII between potential investors from across the world and state government, representatives from nearly 100 companies like Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Oman, Germany, the UK, the USA, Switzerland, Netherland, France, Japan, Singapore, Taiwan, Brazil, Bahrain, Jordan, South Korea, and South Africa participated.Senior ministers and officials of the state assured investors of support and opportunities in the sector. “It is the first global dialogue for investment, however, we wish to hold it as a continuous process for facilitating investments in the region,” said industries minister Parsadi Lal Meena.The PCPIR is being developed by RIICO near the 9 MMTPA HPCL Rajasthan Refinery and Petrochemcial Complex in Barmer district. A range of petrochemical products, including polyethylene, polypropylene, butadiene, benzene and toluene from the refinery will be available for the downstream industries in the region. Situated nearly 9-13km from the refinery, the first phase includes 93 industrial plots spread over 243 hectares.The state government through the dialogue also sought suggestions to improve the investment ecosystem. “New mining policy is being drafted and the suggestions of the participants are most welcome and those would be included for consideration of state government,” said Pramod Jain Bhaya, mines and petroleum minister.The Rajasthan government’s efforts in advance of the global auction also drew appreciation of HPCL chairman Mukesh Kumar Surana. He said that early commencement of work on PCPIR would give investors adequate time before operations of refinery commence next year. He said that there was some impact of Covid on progress of refinery development, however, work has now resumed at normal pace.Principal secretary to CM and RIICO chairman Kuldeep Ranka highlighted the advantages for investment in the PCPIR. During his presentation on opportunities in petroleum sector, MD RIICO Ashutosh Pednekar said that India’s per capita plastic consumption at about 11kg is much less to the world average of 33kg and it offers huge growth potential in products of petrochemicals. Advisor to CM Govind Sharma and Arvind Mayaram also addressed the participants and informed of the investment opportunities.BOXIndustries minister wants govt to reduce power costsJaipur: Industries minister Parsadi Lal Meena urged the advisors to the chief minister to look at ways for reducing electricity rates for industry, which is one of the highest in the country. Towards the end of the global investment summit for PCPIR, Meena said that the advisors need to tell the chief minister the impact of high electricity rates on industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-expects-rs-15k-crore-investments-in-petrochemical-zone/articleshow/80487543.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Ludhiana||‘We condemn Red Fort incident, but will continue our struggle’||Ludhiana: A day after violence was witnessed during the tractor rally in Delhi, many farmers from the district at the dharna site condemned unfurling of a religious flag at the Red Fort, but said they would continue with the struggle till their demands were met. “We don’t approve of what happened at the Red Fort, and the farmers tell us they didn’t have any plan to go there. Those behind it had links with the government. We believe there will be some sort of disturbance for a day or two after which things will normalise. Those who have been sitting there for long will not return till the anti-farming laws are repealed,” said Sukhjeet Singh from Chakar village who is at Tikri border along with many fellow villagers. Some said whatever happened was wrong, but at the same time it exposed the “traitors”. “It is good that the wrong people have been exposed. We condemn the incident and hope that the agitation will grow stronger. We believe that it was planned by the government. Our resolve has become stronger,” said 48-year-old Sukhvinder Singh of Bhatiyan village near Machhiwara, who is at Singhu border.Agreeing that violence dented the agitation, a Samrala farmer said, “We will not return till our mission of getting laws repealed is complete. We will achieve it with peaceful means.”Farmer leaders also said they would continue with the protest. “Till the time laws are not annulled, we will not return. Even if it takes six months or a year. We have support of the people. The incident was not related to us. We want those who unfurled the flag be punished,” said Inderjit Singh, block president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Dakonda, who is at Tikri border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-condemn-red-fort-incident-but-will-continue-our-struggle/articleshow/80486306.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Dalit woman denied entry into Thudiyalur temple||Coimbatore: A dalit woman has alleged that she was not allowed to enter a temple in Thudiyalur. When police took up the issue, a woman and a man, who prevented the dalit woman from entering the temple, apologized to her and assured that they would hold a joint prayer with dalits in the temple on Friday.According to police, R Kamatchi from Ganapathy Nagar near NGGO Colony in Thudiyalur had visited the Karuparayan temple at Balaji Nagar on January 25. “When I visited the temple along with my son, daughter-in-law and two granddaughters around 6.30pm, an aged woman and another man who runs a grocery store in the locality shouted at me ,” Kamatchi said in her complaint to the Thudiyalur Police.“When I asked the reason, they said ‘harijans’ should not enter the temple and told me to offer prayers from outside the temple,” she said.Police traced the grocery shopkeeper and the woman, who apologized to Kamatchi on Wednesday. They further assured that they would hold a joint prayer session with dalits on Friday. Police let them off with a strict warning not to discriminate based on the caste. Kamatchi said that if they did not allow her again on Friday, she would lodge a complaint. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dalit-woman-denied-entry-into-thudiyalur-temple/articleshow/80487548.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Pollachi sex scandal: 1 more victim testifies||Coimbatore: One more victim of the Pollachi sexual assault and extortion case has appeared before the mahila court in the city to testify against the accused recently. With this, four victims have recorded their confession before the court so far.According to a court source, the victim appeared before the mahila court earlier this week and recorded her confession. The sex scandal surfaced in February 2019, when one of the victims lodged a complaint. The remaining three victims came forward to testify against the accused before the court in December 2020.While police had arrested five people - K Thirunavukkarasu, N Sabarirajan alias Rishwanth, N Sathish, T Vasanthakumar and R Manivannan - more than a year ago, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had nabbed three more people - K Arulanantham and P Babu, of Vadugapalayam, and T Haron Paul, of Achipatti - recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pollachi-sex-scandal-1-more-victim-testifies/articleshow/80487539.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan municipal polls: Fate of 9,930 candidates to be decided today||JAIPUR: Over 30 lakh voters will decide the fate of 9,930 candidates as 90 municipal bodies in 20 districts go to polls on Thursday. The polling will begin at 8 am and will continue till 5 pm. Of the 90 municipal bodies, there are 80 municipalities, 9 municipal councils and 1 municipal corporation. State Election Commission Commissioner P S Mehra on Wednesday appealed to the voters to exercise their franchise following Covid guidelines, which include wearing masks, sanitizing their hands and maintaining social distance. “Elections will be under the supervision of 37 observers,” said the commissioner. The counting of votes will be held on January 31 and the elections to the posts of chairpersons will be held on February 7. In all 8,328 EVMs will be used for elections at 5253 polling stations in 3035 wards. Of the 30.28 lakh voters, 15.47 lakh are men, 14.80 lakh voters are women and 56 belonged to the third gender. In view of the Covid situation, each polling station will not have more than 750 voters. The districts where election would be conducted are Ajmer, Banswara, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Bundi, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. “Around 30,000 polling officials have been deployed to conduct voting on Thursday. Adequate police force has been employed to maintain law and order and conduct peaceful elections,” said Mehra. For queries regarding polling, a voter can contact election control room at 0141-2227786, 0141-2385067, 2385059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/municipal-polls-fate-of-9930-candidates-to-be-decided-today/articleshow/80487537.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Bed occupancy in Covid hospitals drops below 3%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 111 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,87,349. The toll increased to 7,152 as two more people — one each from Anantapur and West Godavari districts — succumbed to coronavirus. Altogether 97 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 1,369 active cases with 8,78,828 cumulative recoveries and 7,152 deaths. Krishna district reported 19 new infections, followed by Chittoor (16), West Godavari (14), East Godavari (13), Guntur (11) and Visakhapatnam (11). Five districts posted single-digit case numbers. Prakasam and Vizianagaram did not record any new cases. It is the third consecutive day for Vizianagaram to report zero Covid cases. The active case load is below 100 in eight districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bed-occupancy-in-covid-hosps-drops-below-3/articleshow/80487141.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||After 0 deaths on Republic Day, Nagpur city has 1 on Wednesday||NAGPUR: The daily Covid-19 casualties have reduced significantly in the last two days in Vidarbha. The region reported six deaths on Republic Day and six on January 27. The Covid toll reached 6,932 on Wednesday. Nagpur district reported four deaths on January 26 and 3 on January 27. Interestingly, on January 26, three out of the 4 Covid-19 deaths were of the patients referred to Nagpur from other states/divisions in critical condition. Only one death was reported in Nagpur rural, and no death was witnessed in Nagpur city. No Covid-19 death in city has happened for the first time since July last year. On January 27, city reported one Covid death and zero deaths were reported in Nagpur district. Gadchiroli district reported no new case despite of 150-odd tests conducted on Wednesday. This has happened for the first time since June 2020. Many districts in Vidarbha are reporting single-digit or less than 20 cases in the last 10 days. But, zero new case in a day has happened for the first time. Total 341 new cases were reported in the day and those include Nagpur 166, Bhandara 15, Wardha 7, Chandrapur 14, Akola 16, Amravati 38, Yavatmal 41, and Buldhana 44. Information was not received from Washim and Gondia on January 27. Total Vidarbha Covid caseload has reached 2,70,357. On the other hand, 428 patients recovered in the day including Nagpur 248, Bhandara 14, Wardha 10, Chandrapur 4, Akola 21, Yavatmal 38, and Buldhana 89. Now, total 2,57,561 patients have recovered from the region. Recovery rate is 95.2%, which equals to the state’s average but still less than the national average, which is now nearing 97% mark. Number of patients under treatment reached under-6,000 for the first time since August. Out of 5,864 patients under treatment, 65% are in home isolation. Gadchiroli: No new Covid-19 patient was reported in Gadchiroli on Wednesday. On the other hand, 4 patients recovered and discharged. Now, out of 9,335 total cases, 9,175 have recovered. Covid toll of Gadchiroli is 105. Only 55 patients are under treatment, which is lowest in Vidarbha. Yavatmal: During the last 24 hours, district administration has received 563 test reports of which 41 were found positive. Currently, 429 patients are undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 care centres across the district. Of the 14,155 patients detected so far, 13,301, including Wednesday’s 38, have recovered. Wardha: A 49-year-old man from Deoli died due to coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the toll to 304. Also, 7 new patients were detected, taking the caseload to 9,936. Meanwhile, 10 patients were discharged, thus the recoveries have reached 9,333. As on date, 299 are under treatment. Chandrapur: There were just 14 detections and 4 discharges of Covid patients on Wednesday. No death was registered during the day keeping the toll at 388. This has left 159 patients in the district. The Covid total has climbed over to 23,015, while recoveries to 22,468. Amravati: Death of an.84-year-old male from Khatri Complex took the district’s Covid toll to 414, while 55 recoveries took the total to 20,676. There were only 38 new cases on Wednesday that took the caseload to 21,439. This left 349 patients under treatment. Akola: The district reported 16 new cases and 21 recoveries on Wednesday, while a 25-year-old woman died during treatment. This took Akola’s caseload to 11,444 including 10,478 recoveries and 335 deaths. Now, 631 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district received more than 1,000 Covid-19 test reports on Wednesday. Out of them, 44 were positive taking total case count to 13,745. Out of these, 13,332 have recovered. A 35-year-old man died during treatment on Wednesday. This took the Covid toll to 167. Now, 246 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: No death was reported in the district for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. Total 15 new cases and 14 recoveries were reported in the day. Now, Bhandara has 13,159 total cases, 12,660 recoveries, 320 deaths and 179 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-0-deaths-on-r-day-nagpur-city-has-1-on-wed/articleshow/80487541.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 28, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat HC petitioner booked for extortion||VADODARA: A garments trader lodged an extortion complaint against a man who filed a PIL in Gujarat high court for closing wool market at Kala Bhawana ground last year. The complainant Parvindersinh Rathod told police that since the regular organizer of the market was not going to organize it in 2020 due to the pandemic, he decided to hold the market for three months. Rathod secured all permissions from different authorities and later met the accused Rajesh Shah asking him if he had any objections. Rathod met Shah at his office in Sayajigunj as a precautionary measure as in the past he had got several markets and circus on the same ground closed by filing petitions in Gujarat high court. Shah told Rathod that he will not have any objection if he will be paid Rs 11 lakh. As per Shah’s demand, Rathod paid Rs 2.2 lakh cash on October 22 last year and 10 days later gave another amount of Rs 1 lakh. The market started its operation on November 9 and Shah accordingly started demanding money. Rathod stated in his complaint that he paid Rs 4.1 lakh to Shah and his men on different occasions, yet he filed a PIL against the market. Shah also gave an application to Vadodara Municipal Corporation to shut the market as the unlock protocols were not being followed. After Rathod met Shah, the market was reopened on December 9, but the accused pressurized Rathod to pay him the money. Later Rathod learnt that Shah had similarly threatened several people in Surat and Ahmedabad too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hc-petitioner-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/80485175.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Dentist goes into septic shock days after vaccine in Andhra Pradesh||ONGOLE: A woman dentist, who received the Covid-19 vaccine on January 23, reportedly went into septic shock. The dentist, Dr K Dhana Lakshmi, after being treated at the government general hospital and private hospital in Ongole for two days, was shifted to Apollo Hospital in Chennai for better treatment. According to Prakasam district health authorities, Dr Lakshmi was fine for a day after receiving the vaccine. She had availed treatment for fever as an outpatient at the government general hospital in Ongole on Sunday. However after a day, her symptoms worsened and she was admitted. After a significant drop in vitals, she was shifted to private hospital with better infrastructure but when there was no improvement, the medical team at the government general hospital suggested shifting her to a better facility. Prakasam district collector P Bhaskar said the dentist served as a general duty officer at the government hospital. “We are constantly monitoring her health. At this juncture, we cannot tell what triggered her illness solely based on diagnostic indicators. We have shifted her to Chennai in an advance life-support ambulance along with a team of medical personnel to support her during the transportation,” said Bhaskar. District medical and health officer, Dr P Ratnavali, said that the dentist had been suffering from some infection before the administration of the vaccine. “The fever caused by the vaccine might have aggravated her infection, leading to septic shock,” said Dr Ratnavali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dentist-goes-into-septic-shock-days-after-vaccine/articleshow/80486997.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Born in 23 weeks, ‘miracle’ baby survives||VISAKHAPATNAM: A pre-term infant, born in just 23 weeks of pregnancy and weighing only 420 grams at birth, has survived all odds and is now said to be doing well. The baby girl was discharged after 170 days at a city hospital of which two months were in ventilation. She is now the youngest pre-term baby in Andhra Pradesh. In December 2017, a 25-week pre-term boy was born in Visakhapatnam. According to doctors, only 1% of babies are born before 28 weeks in India and survival rates of such babies are minimal. An infant born after 40 weeks of gestation is called a full-term delivery while delivery below 37 weeks are considered pre-term. The baby was born to S Nandini and Sravan Kumar via spontaneous pre-term delivery, at 23 weeks of gestational age on July 31, 2020. “The baby had a birth weight of 420 grams and was in critical state. Her lungs and other organs were functionally immature...She was prone to severe infections and had zero immunity. The baby was given surfactant injections in lungs to enable them to breathe. She was also given medicines, human milk and nutrition. At this stage, she had immature, transparent skin instead of several layers, mandating us to take extreme care to avoid infection,” said Dr Sai Sunil Kishore, chief neonatologist at Medicover Hospital. During her stay at the hospital, the baby also required invasive ventilation for 25 days and non-invasive ventilation for 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/born-in-23-weeks-miracle-baby-survives/articleshow/80487048.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Holding kid’s hand, unzipping pant not sexual assault: Bombay HC||NAGPUR: Justice Pushpa Ganediwala at Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has reversed the conviction of a 50-year-old man under Sections 8 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012, for allegedly molesting a 5-year-old girl, ruling that unzipping his pants and holding hands of a minor doesn’t come under the definition of ‘sexual assault’. “The acts of ‘holding the hands of survivor’, or ‘opened zip of the pant’, in the opinion of this court, doesn’t fit in the definition of ‘sexual assault’,” Justice Ganediwala, who was appointed as district judge in 2007 and elevated as HC’s additional judge on February 13, 2019, held. “Considering the nature of offence and sentence prescribed, the aforesaid acts aren’t sufficient for fixing criminal liability on accused for alleged offence of ‘aggravated sexual assault’. At most, the minor offence punishable under Section 354-A (1)(i) of IPC read with Section 12 of the POCSO Act is proved against the petitioner,” she added, before quashing charges under Sections 8 and 10 of POCSO Act against Gadchiroli man Libnus Kujur and maintaining conviction under outraging the modesty. Earlier, on January 19, Ganediwala held that groping a 12-year-old minor’s breasts without removing her clothes wasn’t a ‘sexual assault’ as there was no skin-to-skin contact between them. This verdict triggered massive uproar in the entire country with women rights’ organizations protesting. On Wednesday, a Supreme Court bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde stayed the verdict after attorney general KK Venugopal specially made a request to the apex court, warning that it may have wider ramifications and set a dangerous precedent. In the latest case, Kujur had challenged the Special POCSO court verdict of October 5 last year, where he was awarded five years rigorous imprisonment (RI). The case against him was filed on the basis of a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother on February 12, 2018, accusing him of holding hands of her elder daughter, unzipping his pant and asking her to join him in bed, when both parents were away from home for work. “The petitioner is prosecuted for charge of ‘aggravated sexual assault’ under Section 10. As per the definition of ‘sexual assault’, ‘physical contact with sexual intent without penetration’ is essential ingredient for the offence. The words ‘any other act’ encompasses within itself, the nature of acts which are similar to ones, that have been specifically mentioned in the definition. The act should be of the same nature or closure to that,” justice Ganediwala said. “Considering the nature of the act, which could be established by the prosecution and considering the punishment provided for those crimes, in HC’s opinion, the imprisonment (of five months), which petitioner has already undergone, would serve the purpose,” she said before asking the police to set him free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unzipping-pants-holding-hand-of-a-minor-are-not-sexual-assault-under-pocso-hc/articleshow/80515851.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 28, 2021||Nashik||Bhujbal launches website for services||Nashik: Citizens can now log into an official website to file their requests for services or even their grievances with the Nashik district administration. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal launched the nashikmitra.in website on the Republic Day, which facilitates several online measures for citizens. Bhujbal unfurled the national tricolour during the Republic Day programme organised at police parade grounds at district headquarters Nashik on Tuesday. The website lets the citizens make use of the online mode for five different services that are part of 81 services under the Right To Service (RTS). Bhujbal said that the launch of the services underlined the commitment of the administration to in-time delivery and transparency in services. He also felicitated the five gram panchayats that have started various services online and thus became Smart gram panchayats. Nashik zilla parishad president Balasaheb Kshirsagar, MP Bharati Pawar, divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game, collector Suraj Mandhare, special IG Pratap Dighavkar, Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey and others were present at the program. Bhujbal complemented the health, revenue, police and all other government agencies for their valuable contribution during the past year that had brought the normal routine to a standstill due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Reviewing the works of the government agencies, Bhujbal thanked everybody for their support and at the same time appealed to the citizens to ensure they support the administration in in the fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-launches-website-for-services/articleshow/80485184.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana spends 38% of revenue on salaries, pensions||HYDERABAD: The state government has been spending about 38% of its revenue expenditure on payment of salaries and pensions to the government employees along with other establishment expenditure. The amount is nearly 40% of the state’s own revenues that is generated through GST, excise, property registration and other sources. The figures have been incorporated and shown in the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report that was made public on Wednesday. “Compared to other states such as Punjab (49.3%), Kerala (48%) and Maharashtra (41.7%), Telangana expenditure on salaries and pensions is less as the per the figures available of 2016-2017 financial year. While revenue expenditure was Rs 81,432 crore, about Rs 31,000 crore was spent on salaries and pensions (38%),” the PRC committee headed by retired IAS officer CR Biswal stated in the report. Official sources said the expenditure on salaries is directly related to the revenue of the government and expenditure. “If the revenue dwindles, the per cent of the salaries of revenue expenditure goes up. Similarly, when revenue is more, the salaries and pension component goes down. For instance, in 2017-2018, the salaries per cent was 41% due to growth in the state revenues, the 2019-2020 budget estimations projected it as 38%, which may change after getting actuals,” a senior financial official explained. As per the budget reports, the state revenue in 2014-2015 was Rs 51,000 crore including the state’s own revenue and central share, now it is likely to touch Rs 1,13,100 crore in 2019-2020, going by the government’s estimations. But the government is expecting a huge dent in the revenues due to Covid-19 and lockdown. “The commitments of the state government are likely to increase significantly following the introduction of new welfare schemes, financial restructuring of discoms and implementation of Right to Food Act. The financial requirements for new commitments on welfare schemes and infrastructure projects pose a major challenge to the state finances,” the committee said in its conclusion. Meanwhile, chief secretary Somesh Kumar directed secretaries of various departments to complete the promotions by January 31 as per the directions of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-spends-38-of-revenue-on-salaries-pensions/articleshow/80487572.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 28, 2021||Meerut||In Meerut, UP Board examination centres increased to maintain social distancing norm||MEERUT: Keeping in mind the social distancing norm, Meerut district inspector of schools has finalised 117 examination centres — 16 more than the last year — for the UP Board exams. The centres will have CCTV cameras, broadband connection and among other necessary facilities. Last year, there were 101 examination centres in the district. “As many as 117 centres have been finalised in Meerut for UP Board exams. We increased the number of centres as compared to the last year to ensure the maintenance of social distancing due to Covid-19,” said GK Chaudhary, Meerut district inspector of schools. Not just the social distancing, but there is also an increase in the number of students appearing in the exam this academic year, TOI had reported. As many as 43,006 students had got themselves registered for the Class X board exams in 2019-20, which increased to 45,139 in 2020-21. Similarly, 41,587 students had registered for the Class XII exams in the previous session, which rose to 42,198 in 2020-21. “This year, special care is being taken to ensure the examination centres are situated in wide lanes to maintain social distancing during the exams,” said Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-meerut-up-board-examination-centresincreased-to-maintain-social-distancing-norm/articleshow/80486378.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Rs 58,000 crore a year spent on govt subsidies||HYDERABAD: The state government has been spending about 52% of its expenditure on major welfare scheme subsidies, which is about Rs 58,000 crore a year. The amount is being spent only on eight major schemes, that is, Rythu Bandhu, loan waiver, Aasara pensions, power subsidy, scholarships, Kalyana Lakshmi, rice subsidy and interest payments. Of the Rs 58,000 crore, Rs 12,000 crore is being allocated on Rythu Bandhu scheme and Rs 9,500 crore on pension schemes. The PRC report said that there was a significant jump in expenditure on welfare schemes in the last four years. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on several occasions announced that Telangana is at the top among states that spend more on welfare schemes. However, this has put the state government in trouble in mobilizing funds, especially during the current financial year, due to the impact on state revenues amid the pandemic. “When the state was formed, expenditure on subsidies was just Rs 15,750 crore as there were no schemes like Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima. Even till 2017-2018 financial year, the cost of the welfare schemes a year was Rs 29,000 crore which rose to Rs 42,000 crore during 2018-2019 as the state government introduced schemes such as Rythu Bima. The per cent of subsidies cost in the revenue expenditure had gone up from 31% to 52%,” the report said. Official sources said that the amount spent on subsidies also increased as the state government had not only introduced new schemes, but also added more beneficiaries to many schemes like Aasara pensions and free 24x7 power to agriculture sector in view of the 2018 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “The subsidy burden of the state government is significant and is increasing year after year on account of the continued focus on inclusive growth extension of the coverage of the existing subsidy scheme and introduction of new schemes,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-58k-cr-a-yr-spent-on-govt-subsidies/articleshow/80487615.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Thousand jostle for space as EPS opens memorial for Jaya||Chennai: Several large LED screens beamed live the visuals of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami declaring open J Jayalalithaa’s brand new memorial on the Marina beachfront. “This is the most memorable day for us. My heart is filled with gratitude. She is my Amma. I have been waiting for this day,” said 65-year-old R Muthuratnam. The Chinnamanur town functionary of the AIADMK from Theni was doing quick squats, holding on to the lower lobes of her ears, as a mark of reverence to the departed leader. Her friends from the town were busy taking selfies. As soon as the memorial pened, the crowds along the long granite footpath dotted with water cascades and lush green landscape swelled. A Manickam, moving with the support of a walking-aid, made his way to the memorial. His friends had left him sitting at the entrance. “Amma was a saviour for the poor and needy, just like MGR, ” he said. The inscriptions in gold on Jayalaltihaa’s memorial, Makkalal Naan, Makkalukkaga Naan (By the people, For the people) glinted in the sun. Others like P Dharuman from Chinnakallipatti village in Mettupalayam quietly sneaked off to the DMK leader M Karunanidhi’s memorial nearby. “Karunanidhi was one of the senior Dravidian leaders. Why shouldn’t we pay our respects to him,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/thousand-jostle-for-space-as-eps-opens-memorial-for-jaya/articleshow/80487556.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Hill temple readies for muted Thaipoosam||Coimbatore: The famed hill temple at Marudhamalai will witness a muted Thaipoosam celebrations, as the state government has imposed restrictions in the wake of the pandemic.Temple authorities said devotees would not be allowed to participate in the temple car festival in the early hours of Thursday. Devotees will, however, be permitted to go uphill and visit the temple after 7am.The Marudhamalai Subramanya Swami temple usually attracts droves of devotees during the Thaipoosam festival. Rituals associated with the festival had started on January 21, with special pujas in the morning and evening.The celestial wedding of Lord Muruga and Goddess Deivanai would be performed in the early hours of Thursday, following which the deities would be taken in procession around the temple in the temple car. This year, due to Covid restrictions, devotees have been barred from participating in the procession.Temple authorities said the decision to not to allow devotees to enter the temple from 4.30am to 7am during the Thirukalyana Utsavam and Thiru Veedhi Ula rituals was taken based on a discussion held with the district administration recently.Devotees will not be allowed to scale the hillock to reach the temple on Wednesday night as well. After 7am on Thursday, devotees would be allowed to enter the temple and offer prayers. Cars and bikes will not be allowed uphill.Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department officials have, meanwhile, requested devotees aged above 65 and children below 10 years not to visit the temple on Thaipoosam day, as there would be large crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hill-temple-readies-for-muted-thaipoosam/articleshow/80487557.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||2 die as car overturns after hitting median||Namakkal: Two men died after a car in which they were travelling in dashed against the median and overturned on Salem-Madurai national highway near Paramathi on early Wednesday morning.The deceased were identified as V Prabhu, 25, of Modakurichi in Erode district, and his friend N Chandru, 18, of the same village. Prabhu was a milk vendor while his friend was assisting him in the business.The duo came to Pandamangalam in Namakkal district to deliver milk for a marriage function. After delivering the milk, they were returning in a car."When they neared a BSNL office on the NH, Prabhu who was on the wheels lost control of the car. The vehicle had hit the median and overturned," an officer from the Paramathi police station said. He said Prabhu succumbed to his injuries on the spot while Chandru was battling for life under the mangled vehicle.The Paramathi police took Chandru to the government hospital in Namakkal for treatment. They also sent the body to the same hospital for postmortem. “However, Chandru too died before reaching the hospital," the officer added. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Prabhu could have lost his control over the vehicle due to tiredness. "The car had hit the median and overturned," the police officer said. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-die-as-car-overturns-after-hitting-median/articleshow/80487601.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Bypolls for five municipal wards on February 28||NEW DELHI: The state election commission has announced by-elections to fill five municipal councillor seats — two in North Delhi Municipal Corporation and three in East Delhi Municipal Corporation — on February 28. The elections will be held between 7.30 am and 5.30 pm and the notification for it issued on Monday. The last date for filing nominations is February 8 and candidates can withdraw nominations till February 13. Results will be announced on March 3. The state election commissioner on Wednesday said that seats of two councillors from north corporation ward-32 (Rohini-C) and Ward-62 (Shalimar Bagh) were lying vacant from nine months. The east corporation has three vacant seats in Ward-2 (Trilokpuri), Ward-8 (Kalyanpuri) and Ward-41 (Chauhan Bangar). Out of the five seats, Rohini-C and Chauhan Bangar are for general category candidates. Trilokpuri and Kalyanpuri will be reserved for Scheduled Caste category and Shalimar Bagh (north) seat will have women contestants vying for the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bypolls-for-five-municipal-wards-on-feb-28/articleshow/80487637.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Govt, oppn MLAs at loggerheads over Covid management||Porvorim: The governing party and the opposition were at loggerheads during the motion moved to congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Covid management and rolling out of Covid-19 vaccine. The opposition raised apprehensions over the success of the vaccine, while BJP took the opposition head on for politicising the issue. The congratulatory motion was discussed for more than two hours. Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said that the state government had mismanaged the pandemic, whereas power minister Nilesh Cabral, transport minister Mauvin Godinho, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and health minister defended the state government. Reacting to the speech during the congratulatory motion, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said legislators have given political speeches and he doesn’t know if there are early elections in the state. Taking part in discussions, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that people were looking at the vaccine with hope and he congratulated the PM for it. Khaunte said that during the lockdown, a lot of Goans got stuck and quarantine tourism started in Goa and those VIPs having second homes started coming to Goa and staying. “They used to come from the red zone and slowly we started moving into the red zone,” he said. The state saw over 700 Covid deaths, not due to lack of bed or medicines or because they were not treated well, but because standard operating procedures (SOPs) were in a mess, the Porvorim MLA said. “Because of half baked SOPs, Goa started getting Covid positive patients, a lot of political opportunities were taken by the party in the government,” Khaunte said. Sardesai said that Modi has launched the largest vaccination programme of the world and we need to support it and one has to speak good about it. “While doing this one should not give false sense of confidence. If the public representative does not have confidence about the vaccine, then we are falling short somewhere with regards to confidence,” he said. The Fatorda MLA said, “Global experts say they don’t feel comfortable, but our House feels comfortable to move a congratulatory motion.” The MLA was referring to reports that global experts had stated that Covaxin had not published phase-three trial reports transparently. “This is the farce of this Covid management. This has become Carnival or Shigmo or whatever you may say, but the show must go on,” Sardesai said. Taking part in discussion, Godinho said that when the whole country is congratulating Modi why was someone trying to argue and trying to score brownie points. “India is one of the countries which doesn’t have a second Covid wave, while developed countries are facing second and third waves,” Godinho said. Reacting to Sardesai who said that Goa is at the bottom of the list to give Covid vaccine, Cabral said that because of our less population we have been placed at 27 positions and this is not understood by Sardesai. Rane said that there is no question of manipulation, the Covid dose is given by name and one cannot select whom to give the vaccine. “However rich you may be, you cannot access the vaccine unless all these layers are complete and it will not be available in the open market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-oppn-mlas-at-loggerheads-over-covid-management/articleshow/80489034.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||10 injured as goods carrier rams bus||Erode: In a multiple collision involving a goods carrier, a government bus and a truck near Gobichettipalayam 10 people were injured on Wednesday. One of the injured was recused after three hours of struggle. Police said the speeding goods carrier rammed the government bus, which was heading to Erode from Sathyamangalam, near Polavakkalipalayam village on Mysuru-Erode national highway. “The goods carrier was coming from the opposite direction. Meanwhile, the truck hit the bus from behind.”According to a police officer, loadman Mohandass, 28, was trapped under the goods carrier and we rescued him with the help of local villagers after three hours of struggle. It was a challenging task for us. His condition is stable.”Among the injured were bus driver Vigneshwaran, 39, conductor Lakshmikanthan, 35, five women passengers of the bus and three passengers of the goods carrier. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-injured-as-goods-carrier-rams-bus/articleshow/80487585.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Trichy||AMMK cadres celebrate Sasikala’s release from jail||TRICHY: Jubilant AMMK cadres and functionaries painted the town red in several parts of the state to celebrate the release of their leader V K Sasikala from Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Party functionaries and cadres in the central region of the state, mostly in Trichy and Thanjavur, started the celebrations in the morning. In Trichy city, AMMK candidate for 2019 Trichy Lok Sabha parliamentary constituency and former Trichy corporation mayor Sarubala Thondaiman led the celebrations. Around 200 cadres led by Sarubala took out a procession from the party office in Thillai Nagar to the main road. They burst crackers and distributed sweets. Sarubala said that it was an unplanned celebration. “We are jubilant. The only setback is her ill-health. In fact, all the district secretaries and senior functionaries had planned to visit the prison to welcome the leader. Since she is hospitalised, we are celebrating her release here,” Sarubala said. She also termed Sasikala a strong lady. “Despite betrayals, she stayed strong. Even after she was convicted, she organised everything and made Edappadi K Palaniswami the chief minister before going to the prison. It shows her strong willpower,” said Sarubala. In Erode, women and youths danced on the road near the government hospital roundabout as part of the celebration. Party workers in Coimbatore, Mettupalayam, Valparai and Pollachi also celebrated Sasikala’s release. While welcoming Sasikala, most of the AMMK functionaries and cadres expected the AIADMK high-command to decide on working together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ammk-cadres-celebrate-sasikalas-release-from-jail/articleshow/80488943.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Businessman abducted, freed after Rs 3 lakh ransom in Chennai||CHENNAI: Police have launched a hunt for three men who kidnapped a 43-year-old businessman at Manali New Town and released him after one of his friends paid Rs 3 lakh as ransom. The incident occurred on January 21, but came to light only on Wednesday after the victim, Balamurugan of Vichur, lodged a complaint at the Manali New Town police station. Police were initially suspicious of the complainant, but were later convinced after verifying the sequence of events. A case was registered. Balamurugan, who owns a fleet of tanker lorries and uses them to transport oil from refineries to other states, in his complaint said that on January 21 some men known to him invited him to strike a business deal. One of them made the call on his mobile phone number and asked him to come to a spot in Manali New Town, police said. But, when Balamurugan reached the spot, a gang of three strangers brandishing knives bundled him into a car and demanded Rs 10 lakh. He told them he did not have the cash as he had suffered heavy losses in his business. But when the gang members began to threaten to finish him off, he said he could arrange up to Rs 3lakh. His abductors agreed. Balamurugan then made a call to one of his friends and asked him to bring the cash to the spot. After sometime, Balamurugan’s friend reached the place with the money and handed it over to the gang. The kidnappers released the businessman after warning him against approaching police. Balamurugan did not lodge a complaint for some days out of fear but went to the Manali New Town police on Wednesday after being advised by his friends. Police are trying to find out if there was any business rivalry behind the kidnap. They suspect a person or persons known to the victim could be behind the incident. “A special team has been formed to trace the suspects. One of the accused who the victim mentioned is notorious for such criminal activities. We hope to nab the suspects soon,” said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bizman-abducted-freed-after-rs-3l-ransom/articleshow/80487613.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nashik||Petrol, diesel prices shoot up twice in last 2 days||NASHIK: The petrol and diesel prices in Nashik city have increased twice in the last two days. While the petrol prices have shot up by 81 paise to Rs 93.31 per litre, diesel prices have gone up by 88 paise to Rs 82.48 per litre. According to Vijay Thakre, vice-president of Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’ Association (FAMPEDA), there has been a rise in petrol and diesel prices in the last few days. He said that currently fuel prices are at an all-time high. Earlier on October 4, 2018, petrol and diesel prices were recorded at Rs 91.79 per litre and Rs 79.31 per litre respectively. On October 2 this year, the petrol and diesel prices were recorded at Rs 88.29 per litre and Rs 76.25 per litre, respectively. According to Nashik Transport Association, their transport business has been badly affected due to continuous rise in fuel prices. “There has been a continuous rise in fuel prices which is affecting our profit margin. Our profit has reduced by 30% and we are unable to increase the transportation cost due to agreements which the transporters have already signed with the companies for the current financial year. The companies are not ready to increase the transporting cost,” said Rajendra Phad, president of Nashik Transporters’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/petrol-diesel-prices-shoot-up-twice-in-last-2-days/articleshow/80485193.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Murder accused jumps to death in govt hospital||Salem: A 29-year-old man facing trial for the murder of his mother and her younger sister killed himself in the early hours of Wednesday by leaping off the second floor of the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for the injuries that he sustained in the first suicide bid.Police identified the deceased as S Muthuvel, of Nagarasampatty near Pochampalli in Krishnagiri district. An alcoholic, he was a coolie.The Pochampalli police had arrested him on August 28, 2020, and lodged him in the Salem Central Prison for the double murder. “Muthuvel had severely attacked his father, mother and aunt over a property dispute. His mother and aunt succumbed to their injuries in the Krishnagiri government hospital,” a prion source said.The source said Muthuvel was upset as his relatives didn’t take any steps to get him bail. “On January 16, Muthuvel attempted suicide by throwing himself off the first floor of the prison. He was admitted to the Salem government hospital with injuries.” Around 4.45am on Wednesday, the source said, Muthuvel approached the cops on duty in the ward, asking them to take him to the restroom. “They left him in the restroom and came out. Muthuvel removed the windowpane and leaped off the second floor, killing himself.”The hospital outpost police have registered a case based on the complaint lodged by the prison officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/murder-accused-jumps-to-death-in-govt-hospital/articleshow/80487622.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Srirangam Renganathaswamy temple celebrates Thai car festival||Trichy: Srirangam wore a festive look as the Thai car festival of the Renganathaswamy temple was held with religious fervour here on Wednesday.One of the significant religious events at the Srirangam temple, the car festival attracted devotees from Srirangam and other parts of the district. The processional deities Sri Namperumal and Ubhaya Nachiyars were brought to the ‘Thai Ther mandapam’ from Kannadi Arai early in the morning. The decorated car was pulled by the devotees after the pujas. The procession was held amidst the holy chanting of ‘Renga Renga; ‘Govinda Govinda’ by the devotees. The car was pulled through four Uthira streets before being brought to rest. This year’s Thai festival of the temple commenced with the flag hoisting on January 19. The car procession took place on the ninth day of the festival. The festival culminate on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/srirangam-renganathaswamy-temple-celebrates-thai-car-festival/articleshow/80489000.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Ooty man jailed for 44 yrs in Pocso case||Udhagamandalam: The mahila court in Ooty on Wednesday sentenced a man to 44 years in prison for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl in 2017.Antony Vinoth, 34, a married man and a resident of Jeyanthi Nagar in Wellington, befriended the girl in 2017 and impregnated her after promising to marry her. He also forced her to undergo abortion twice. The court found Vinoth punishable under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 and IPC, and also slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on him.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-man-jailed-for-44-yrs-in-pocso-case/articleshow/80487616.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Madipakkam culvert work nears end, traffic chaos likely to ease||CHENNAI: Traffic congestion along Velachery-Tambaram Road near Kaiveli junction at Madipakkam is expected to reduce within a week as culvert work is nearing completion. The state highways department last year had sanctioned Rs 40lakh for said project in order to ensure that excess rain water from Madipakkam streets enter Pallikaranai marsh land. The department had planned to replace old row-pipe type culverts near the road junction with cell-box type culverts (2 x 2 metres). The latter is much more efficient when it comes to handling excess rain water during monsoon. Replacement needs to be done along a 40-metre stretch on both sides of the main road. Therefore, work was split into four phases. To facilitate third phase of work, a portion of the road connecting Velachery with Pallikaranai was blocked from Tuesday, said a senior highway engineer. “This work is expected to be completed by this weekend and the fourth and final phase of work (nine metres) will be taken up and completed in February,” he said, requesting anonymity. However, the current road block has thrown traffic out of gear, particularly during peak hours. With no alternate route or traffic police to regulate vehicular flow, it is chaos every evening, say commuters. Vehicle queues extend till Vijayanagaram bridge. “Amid all this confusion, we don’t understand why the traffic police are placing metal sand barrels and barricades at unwarranted points where no construction work is going on. For instance, when vehicles get down from Vijayanagaram bridge, there are three to four obstacles choking vehicular movement unnecessarily,” said S Anoop, a resident of Ram Nagar, Velachery. In response, a local traffic cop said that vehicles tend to drive in a rash and negligent manner along this road as it is very wide. So, barricades were placed to reduce speed and help them stop motorists during late-night vehicle checks. Besides culvert work, the highway department did some patch work along roads near the under-construction flyover at Vijayanagaram junction at Velachery. “However, the junction’s condition is still worse and non-motorable,” said Srikumar Balakrishnan, a resident-activist from Madipakkam. The highways department attributed this to the ongoing pipe replacement work by Chennai Metrowater Supply and Sewerage Board (CMSSWB) and relaying of roads is scheduled after the board finishes it work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madipakkam-culvert-work-nears-end-traffic-chaos-likely-to-ease/articleshow/80487640.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Congress mounts pressure for Arnab Goswami’s arrest||MUMBAI: Both Mumbai Congress and State Congress on Wednesday mounted pressure on the Mumbai police led by Parambir Singh to press their demand for immediate arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami for blatant violation of the official secrets act. Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap and working president Charan Singh Sapra called on Singh while Congress activists spoke to senior inspectors of all the 94 police stations in the city to press for their demand. Read AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between theSapra said the Congress delegation brought it to the notice of Singh that Goswami has committed offences, which attract the provisions of the official secrets act, National Security Act and Prevention of Unlawful activists act. Read AlsoCong, Left: Who gave Balakot information to Arnab Goswami?NEW DELHI: Slamming Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami’s WhatsApp chat contents, available in the public space, as "anti-national", Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked who in the security establishment divulged the Balakot operations to a journalist before the strikes. He said the occurrence“Parambir Singh assured that he will legal examine the entire case and allegations of the Congress and then decide the course of action. We are happy with his assurance and hope that he will act expeditiously,’’ said Sapra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-mounts-pressure-for-arnabs-arrest/articleshow/80487649.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Award is for those serving humanity selflessly: Dr Sagdeo||Dr Dhananjay Sagdeo said the Padma Shri is a recognition for all the doctors who are serving selflessly in the country. “While the country progressed a lot over the years, many people are still deprived of medical facilities. I hope this prestigious honour inspires some young doctors to work for such needy people,” he told TOI from Muttil. When asked about the challenges he faced, Dr Sagdeo said, “Since I had worked at the Vivekananda Mission Hospital in Nagpur, I was more or less familiar with the tribal communities. I knew what to expect, so I had nothing to worry about. Most of the villagers were not in favour of modern treatment. They did not cooperate too,” he said. But, slowly, Dr Sagdeo gained their trust. “Later, when I used to visit their colonies, they would tell me about their illnesses. This was a positive sign. The children were affected by hunger, diseases and there was severe malnutrition. Slowly, a few patients started visiting the hospital when they fell sick. A few would take the medicines regularly while some would throw them away. Over the years, our efforts have paid off and we have been able to address a lot of their ailments and nutritional problems,” said Dr Sagdeo. Apart from poverty and malnutrition among the tribals, he also had to face distrust among the tribal communities towards modern medicine. “At that time, the tribals didn’t go to hospitals and many believed that diseases were a punishment from God. So we decided to take medical care to the hamlets and started the mobile medical unit and started interacting with them and tried to understand their problems. With that we earned their trust and slowly they started coming to the hospital and were ready to take medicines,” he said. Sagdeo’s biggest contribution has been the work done for the patients of sickle cell anaemia (SCA) disease. On realizing its prevalence in the tribal population of Wayanad, he brought it to the notice of the government, which led to AIIMS, New Delhi, conducting a four-year study in the district. “When I used to frequently get patients with symptoms like fever, joint pain and severe weakness, I suspected that it could be SCA, as I had seen such cases in Nagpur. There was no testing facility for SCA in Wayanad,” said Dr Sagdeo. After he notified the government authorities, the district administration contacted AIIMS, which sent an expert team to the district and later the disease was confirmed as SCA. Under the AIIMS project carried out from 1997-2001, in which SVMM was a partner, nearly a lakh tribals were screened for the disease and colour-coded cards were distributed — red for SCA patients, blue for carriers and white cards for people who were disease free. “As there is no proper cure of the disease, spreading awareness was crucial to control the disease, and we were able to make the tribal community understand the risks of marriage between carriers. Apart from providing treatment for SCA patients, the medical mission has been providing livelihood options for patients through bamboo craft project,” he added. Apart from the hospital, the Swami Vivekananda Medical Mission, of which Dr Sagdeo is the chief medical officer, also runs a single-teacher school, providing vocational training to tribals. Does he miss Nagpur? “Occasionally, I do, especially during festivals. But, since I have a responsibility here, I can’t visit Nagpur often. Wayanad is also like my own hometown now,” says Dr Sagdeo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/award-is-for-those-serving-humanity-selflessly-dr-sagdeo/articleshow/80487656.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Murder accused held after 28 years, sentenced to life||TRICHY: A fast track court in Pudukottai has awarded life sentence to a 66-year-old man who was nabbed two years ago after absconding for 28 years after killing a 20-year-old man in Kottaipattinnam. The accused V Velayuthaperumal had used a pen knife to stab A Samuel to death in 1990 for questioning him when he teased his younger sister. Police said Samuel’s family was living near Velaythaperumal’s house and the latter used to tease Samuel’s younger sister. On May 31, 1990, Samuel picked up a quarrel with Velayuthaperumal which turned into a scuffle and eventually Samuel was stabbed with a pen knife. Samuel died the next day and Velayuthaperumal was arrested by Kottaipattinnam police. Velayuthaperumal was in jail for a year and came out on bail in 1991. However, he went absconding after that and the case remained pending in Kottaipattinam police station ever since. It was sub-inspector N Muthu Kumar who decided to take out the list of unsolved cases in Kottaipattinnam police station after assuming charge in mid-2018. With the Samuel murder case being the oldest one pending, constables S Rajagopal, 33 and S Nagaraj, 50, were assigned to look for clues to solve the case. They thought that the accused would have died after so many years and decided to go to his native village of Aavur in Tirunelveli district to secure his death certificate and close the case. “However, we found that Velayuthaperumal was alive and also got our first breakthrough by meeting his son from his second wife in Tirunelveli,” said constable Rajagopal. He told them that Velayuthaperumal is living with his first wife in Nambiyur in Erode district. The constables quietly launched a hunt for him in Nambiyur. Finally, after a month, they were tipped by an informer that the man had arrived. They dashed to Nambiyur and secured him. It transpired that Velayuthapermal had become Velayuthamani in the last 28 years and was living with his new identity along with his wife, son and daughter. He was selling kitchen utensils on a motorcycle. “We brought him back, established his identity and lodged him in prison,” said Rajagopal. Finding him guilty of killing A Samuel, the court awarded him life sentence with a fine of Rs 3000 on Wednesday. Pudukottai district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan appreciated Rajagopal and Nagaraj for their presence of mind in solving the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/murder-accused-held-after-28-years-sentenced-to-life/articleshow/80489033.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 28, 2021||Delhi||BJP ‘agents’ incited farmers to resort to violence: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday accused BJP of planting its “stooge” actor Deep Sidhu in the tractor rally on Republic Day to instigate farmers to resort to violence. Raghav Chadha, MLA from Rajendra Nagar and co-in-charge of Punjab, said, “BJP sleeper cell agents like Deep Sidhu and central agencies were behind the shameful Red Fort incident.” He claimed that Sidhu was the mastermind of the violence and had a close connection with senior BJP leaders. “We believe the incident at Red Fort, which shocked the entire country, was orchestrated by agencies under the BJP-led central government. We also believe that the whole thing was done by BJP to malign the image of farmer leaders,” said Chadha at a press conference, while flashing pictures of Sidhu with the PM, the home minister and BJP MP Sunny Deol. Condemning the witch hunt against farmer leaders, AAP demanded that Delhi Police must not harass them and only arrest those behind the violence. “The violence was manufactured by BJP to distract the attention of people from the real issue, which is the anti-farmer laws,” the party added. Responding to the claims of Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh that a person named Amrik Singh of AAP was also behind the violence, the party categorically rejected the charges and said he was neither a member nor an office bearer. Chadha claimed that Amrik was a close confidante of Sunny Deol and also close to the top leadership of both BJP and SAD. “He is a BJP member and an office-bearer. He is also involved with SAD,” said Chadha, while showing pictures of Amrik with BJP MPs and SAD functionaries. TOI could not independently verify the credentials of the person or his allegiance. The AAP MLA said it was unfortunate that BJP had been adamant in not accepting the demands of the farmers. “Despite several talks, they did not roll back the anti-farmer laws. Delhi Police failed to maintain the law and order situation and has not taken any step against the people involved in the violence,” added Chadha. Delhi BJP in a press conference alleged that AAP had a direct hand in the violence. The party claimed that apart from Amrik, many AAP members also joined the miscreants and instigated them for the violence. “The Punjab CM is a BJP agent. The Delhi BJP chief and he are defaming AAP in a planned manner,” Chadha responded. Deep Sidhu wasn’t available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-agents-incited-farmers-to-resort-to-violence-aap/articleshow/80487663.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Anglo-Indians seek restoration of quota in Parliament, assemblies||Trichy: A special resolution was adopted by Anglo-Indian associations in Trichy at their executive meeting on Tuesday demanding restoration of special reservation for the community’s nominees in Parliament and state assemblies for a further 10 years till 2030. Anglo-Indian nominations were shelved under Article 334(b) since January 26 last year. The members said the enumerators of the 2011 Census were instructed to compile data based on eight heads of religion. But, they had erroneously enumerated Anglo-Indians as 296 though there were four lakh other members in the community who were treated in the Census as a separate sect in Christianity under the head religion. The term Anglo-Indian refers to a community and not religion and the enumerators should have added 296 to the 4 Lakh, they said. A Roy Rozario, former vice-president of Federation of Anglo-Indian Associations, Chennai, said though the leaders of 11 major Anglo-Indian associations, including four nominated MLAs met Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on January 28 last year, the central government was yet to set right the anomaly. The leaders also urged the BJP high command to apply the same yardstick taken for extending special reservation of seats for SC & ST communities under Article 334(a) for a further period of 10 years till January 26, 2030.  They said socio-economic study of Anglo-Indians was not carried after September 2013 to state that they had developed. No Anglo-Indian has been given a party ticket so far by any political party when even Lakshwadeep has an elected MP for a population of about One lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/anglo-indians-seek-restoration-of-quota-in-parliament-assemblies/articleshow/80489004.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Rly workshop staff protest for officer’s transfer||Trichy: Workers from the Golden Rock railway workshop went on a protest against an officer of the workshop, demanding his transfer. The workers accused A Clement Barnabas, deputy chief mechanical engineer of the workshop of favouring some subordinates and acting with vengeance towards others. The workers from the mechanical department and section supervisors also demanded to revoke all the transfer orders and chargesheets issued against the workers by the officer. Chief works manager (CWM), Shyamadhar Ram held talks with the protesters, following which they dispersed. Ram told TOI that workers of the department came with some issues and he assured to sort out amicably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rly-workshop-staff-protest-for-officers-transfer/articleshow/80489015.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Forest dept rescues sloth bear trapped in fencing wire||Aurangabad: The forest department on Tuesday evening rescued a female sloth bear that got trapped in the fencing wire of a farm near Kinwat in Nanded district. Honorary wildlife warden for Nanded division Atindra Katti said the wild animal remained trapped for more than 24 hours after its hair got tangled in the wire. “The incident occurred at the boundary of the forest department at Dhamandari hamlet. The locals contacted us as the bear was in deep pain and was crying out loud as it was unable to get free on its own,” he said. The forest department captured the bear physically and cut the entangled wires. “We caged the animal after rescue and kept her under observation. The animal was found in good condition after medical examination and released into its natural habitat on Tuesday evening,” Katti said. The sloth bear is listed under the vulnerable status on IUCN’s Red List and protected under Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/forest-dept-rescues-sloth-bear-trapped-in-fencing-wire/articleshow/80485216.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Picking up pieces after farmers go for broke||NEW DELHI: The protesting farmers damaged railings on roads and flower pots on the medians during the tractor parade on Tuesday. PWD officials said that Delhi Police are helping them ascertain the damages. Most of these incidents were reported from Mukarba Chowk, Ghazipur, ITO, Seemapuri, Nangloi, Tikri border and Red Fort. Over 40 buses were also vandalised. At Mukarba Chowk, after clearing the barricades with tractors, the protesters damaged a few cranes. There were similar scenes at Nangloi where some vehicles were wrecked by the protesters A PWD official said iron railings at the medians and road grilles were damaged. “Delhi Police is giving us a list of places that were hit on Tuesday. Once we have a complete list, we will start carrying out repairs,” the official said. “Once our engineers see the damage, will we be able to ascertain the cost involved in repairing the same.” Sanjay Chaudhary, a tea seller at a location in Mukarba Chowk where the farmers and the police clashed on Tuesday, hurriedly shut his shop and fled the area. A day later when he returned, he was relieved to find his shop undamaged in the violence after the tractors refused to go to Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar. While Chaudhary was fortunate, the crane owners of the parking lot there were not. Lalit Kumar of Lalit Crane Service complained that when the violence erupted, he and the other crane owners had to flee. “Returning in the evening, we found our cranes all damaged.” Kumar said that there were 50 parked cranes, and their cubicles had been damaged. Vijay of Anshu Crane Services had given his crane to Delhi Police to place barricades on the road before the tractor rally. He received Rs500 a day for fuel. Republic Day brought new losses. “The windshield costs us around Rs3,500 and I spent over Rs8,000 today to get mine fixed,” he complained. At Nangloi Chowk a trolley used as a barricade against the marchers was overturned by the angry mob. A riot control vehicle was also damaged. At Peeragarhi, protesters broke the road railings and vandalised the advertising poles. Several police cars were also targeted. More than 40 public transport buses in Delhi were damaged by the protesting farmers who deviated from the permitted route for the tractor rally. According to sources, 38 Delhi Transport Corporation buses were damaged on Tuesday. Though DTC has a fleet of 3,762 buses, there are normally around 3,400 buses operating on the roads. Since Tuesday was a national holiday, there were fewer than normal DTC buses on the roads. “Only around 1,975 buses were working because the demand was expected to be low. Of these, 38 were damaged,” a source said, who added that only 900 buses were deployed in the evening following these incidents. An official of Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System, which oversees the bus Cluster Scheme, said “Five Cluster Scheme buses were damaged, three in Uttam Nagar, one near Akshardham and one at GTB Nagar. Their windshields were shattered.” A source added, “The buses should be back on the road after repairs. Despite route diversions and plans to avoid the border areas, some of the buses got caught in the protests, particularly at ITO.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/picking-up-pieces-after-farmers-go-for-broke/articleshow/80487694.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Well armed, Haryana police step up presence at borders with Delhi||CHANDIGARH: In the aftermath of the Delhi violence, Haryana police have fortified national capital’s borders and asked those running community kitchens and staging protests at toll plazas en route to Ambala to wind up. Heavily armed cops from Haryana and Delhi have been posted at the heavily barricaded Singhu-Kundli border in Sonipat and Tikri border on Bahadurgarh side. In a fallout of the Delhi incident, an altercation occurred between farmers and other residents of Karnal villages near the Bastara toll plaza. The villagers allegedly pelted the farmers with stones near Gharaunda, but fled before police could reach there. It was after this that the cops as well as the local administration told managements of community kitchens running from Bastara toll plaza to wind up. Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said, "We asked them to do so as it is causing traffic chaos and to prevent any kind of confrontation with villagers which could lead to law and order issues. One such incident was reported on Wednesday.’’ Four community kitchen are being run in Karnal, including one by dozen villages who had aided farmers from Punjab on way to Delhi by breaking the barricade in Karnal. The other kitchens were jointly run by residents of other villages. In another related development, a group from Rewari district also organized a protest march and meeting over farmers from other states camping on Shahjahanpur-Kheri borders for the past month and a half. They sought removal of the dharna, saying it was in violation of law and breach of social security and other rules related to Covid-19 protocols. "Nobody is following any kind of rule here. Due to the siege on the road, heavy vehicles are plying on internal village roads due to which women and children cannot go out and the roads have got damaged. Since all of them have come from other states, let them protest in their home states,’’ said Suman Kumar, sarpanch of Rasgan village of Rewari. It is learnt that the police on Wednesday has asked those protesting on Shahjahanpur-Kheri national highway not to block the road and to sit on one side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-police-step-up-presence-at-delhi-borders-presses-for-winding-up-of-community-kitchens/articleshow/80489056.cms||Manvir Saini
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Over Rs 2,000 crore additional burden on exchequer likely||HYDERABAD: What will be the burden on the state exchequer if the first PRC’s recommendations are accepted by the state government? The report said that if a fitment of 7. 5% to 10% is accepted, the state governments will have to spend an additional Rs 2,252 crore annually. In the category of service employees, the additional salary bill would be Rs 1,271 crore, HRA Rs 135 crore and other allowances Rs 170 crore. The recommendations for pensioners would cost the state an additional Rs 135 crore, other allowances Rs 170 crore. Fitments and pensions for pensioners would cost another Rs 600 crore and medical allowance bill an additional Rs 75 crore. The total would be Rs 2,252 crore. The state has earmarked Rs 24,896 crore under the head of salaries and wages of component revenue expenditure in the 2020-21 budget. Till November, the state had already paid Rs 15,140 crore. Expenditure on pension was earmarked at Rs 10,065 crore, till November, Rs 4,053 crore was paid. As the Covid-19-induced lockdown and subsequent restrictions had resulted in sharp dip in revenues, the state government had slashed pay of government employees and made delayed payment of salaries. By July, the state had repaid dues to the tune of Rs 2,300 crore to employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-rs-2k-cr-addl-burden-on-exchequer-likely/articleshow/80487651.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||5.6K new cases take state’s total past 9L||Thiruvananthapuram: The total number of Covid-19 infections in the state has crossed nine lakh – and now stands at 9,05,591 -- with 5,659 more cases confirmed on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 5,146 were infected by local transmission while the source of 393 has not been tracked down. Seventy-seven of the cases involved those who had arrived from outside the state. There are 43 healthcare professionals among those newly infected. Over 20 deaths over the last few days were confirmed as due to the novel coronavirus taking the related death toll in the state to 3,664. Meanwhile, 5,006 patients have recovered from the disease, the health department said. So far 71 persons have returned from UK after a new strain of the virus was detected in that country. To date, ten individuals have been diagnosed with the new strain while 45 tested negative. The remaining results are awaited from NIV, Pune. In the last 24 hours 51,130 samples were tested with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 11.07%. With this a total of 94,00,749 samples have been tested in the state. So far 8,29,452 persons have recovered from the infection in the state even as 72,234 patients are still undergoing treatment for the same. On Wednesday, Ernakulam reported 879 new cases. It was followed by Kozhikode (758), Kottayam (517), Kollam (483), Malappuram (404), Pathanamthitta (397), Alappuzha (360), Kannur (357), Thiruvananthapuram (353), Thrissur (336), Idukki (305), Wayanad (241), Palakkad (185) and Kasaragod (84). Those who were infected by local contacts numbered 832 in Ernakulam and 734 in Kozhikode. Kottayam reported 460, Kollam 475, Malappuram 392, Pathanamthitta 350, Alappuzha 355, Kannur 270, Thiruvananthapuram 250, Thrissur 327, Idukki 293, Wayanad 232, Palakkad 99 and Kasaragod 77. Kannur saw 23 healthcare workers contracting the virus, followed by Ernakulam (six), Kozhikode (four), Kollam (three), Thiruvananthapuram and Wayanad (two each), Pathanamthitta, Palakkad and Kasaragod (one each). Currently, 2,14,315 persons are under observation in the state of which 2,02,196 are in home/institutional quarantine and 12,119 in hospitals. As many as 1,269 persons were newly admitted to hospitals. Four new places were added to the hotspot list while one place was excluded. There are currently 406 hotspots in the state. Vaccination drive Nearly 11,115 healthcare workers were given the Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday. With this, the total number of healthcare workers who have received the jab in the state touched 83,645. There are 112 vaccine centres in the state of which 34 are in Thiruvananthapuram. The state capital recorded the highest number of vaccinations on Wednesday, at 2,421.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/5-6k-new-cases-take-states-total-past-9l/articleshow/80486408.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Hundreds of fish die in Ramala pond in Chanda, NGO blames pollution||Chandrapur: Hundreds of fish were found floating dead along the bank of historic Ramala pond in the city on Tuesday. A team of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has collected sample of water from different places of the pond. MPCB regional officer Ashok Kare said the exact cause behind the death of fishes will be known after receipt of the report. NGO Eco-Pro Organization claimed the pond water has been poisoned due to pollution caused by the Macchi nullah flowing into it. The organization on Tuesday staged demonstrations to demand measures to stop pollution in the pond. President of Eco-Pro, Bandu Dhotre claimed that the fishes have been dying since last many days, but the matter came to light when they inspected the pond on Republic Day. “The groundwater in surrounding area too is becoming polluted. There is a foul stench in water of borewells and wells,” he said. “It becomes unbearable when the wind brings along the stench from the Ramala pond to residential areas,” said Dhotre. He claimed that they have raises the matter with the district administration multiple times. “Meetings were held with the then collector Dr Kunal Khemnar and it was decided to clean and deepen the pond, fill it with fresh water pumped out of WCL mine, divert highly polluted Macchi nullah and construct an effluent treatment plant,” said Dhotre. “The proposal never materialized due to the Covid pandemic last year. The cleaning and deepening of pond needs to be done before the onset of monsoon,” he said. The organization has warned to launch an intense agitation if the administration fails to take up the pond’s conservation work this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hundreds-of-fish-die-in-ramala-pond-in-chanda-ngo-blames-pollution/articleshow/80487634.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sena corporator spends Rs 1.4 crore civic funds on free jute bags for ward; opposition cries foul||MUMBAI: At a time when BMC is facing a cash crunch, some corporators such as Shiv Sena’s Yashwant Jadhav have been using civic funds to give out freebies in their wards. BMC has bought 84,000 jute bags for around Rs 1.4 crore. Each bag costs Rs 161 and will be distributed in the electoral ward that has around 50,000 voters. The opposition BJP has alleged at a time when BMC is facing a financial crisis, the Sena is on a freebie distribution spree. “This is nothing but a scam. Buying a jute bag for Rs 161 each is simply not acceptable. Other corporators have bought jute bags for just Rs 30 per piece. This is nothing but daylight loot of BMC money. Jadhav bagged the highest funds this year and they are now desperately trying to use the funds before the financial year ends in March,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in the BMC. Times ViewIn a pandemic year, funds need to be used carefully, especially when the civic body has been speaking of a serious crunch. Even if they were to be sought, they must be equitably distributed so that people across the city are benefitted. Funds must ultimately be of use to citizens and not be utilized as largesse at a time when all parties are preparing for next year’s BMC elections.BMC officials confirmed the E Ward (Byculla, Nagpada) has decided to buy 84,000 jute bags for around Rs 1.4 core. Jadhav, a corporator from Byculla’s ward 209, had bagged around Rs 33.4 crore—more funds than all other civic leaders put together, including those from the Sena. Officials said BMC allows corporators to buy certain items such as jute bags, sewing machines and tablet computers for distribution to residents in their wards. “Each electoral ward has only around 40,000 to 50,000 voters. There are only 25,000 families. So where will they distribute 84,000 jute bags? Will they give two bags per family? There is no demand for these bags and it is a waste of public money. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal must stop this loot and cancel all special funds given to Jadhav,” Mishra said. When contacted, Jadhav, also chairperson of the civic standing committee, said, “BJP is making baseless allegations. There are 25,000 slums in my ward. We are giving two jute bags to each household. They use plastic bags and cannot afford jute bags. We will not give the bags to buildings. There is no corruption and, in fact, BJP can’t get funds sanctioned so they are crying foul now. This is a pro-poor initiative. All residents, including BJP supporters, will get the bags.” “It’s an art to get funds and utilise them. I have not stolen any funds. Why is BJP getting so agitated?” Jadhav asked. Congress corporator Ravi Raja, opposition leader in the BMC, too, is giving out tablet PCs to students worth Rs 1 crore in his ward 176.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-corporator-spends-rs-1-4cr-civic-funds-on-free-jute-bags-for-ward-oppn-cries-foul/articleshow/80488005.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||State govt has failed in preparations of Kumbh: Harish Rawat||Dehradun: Senior Congress leaders and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by alleging that the incumbent state government has failed to make any concrete preparations for the forthcoming Kumbh Mela, one of the biggest religious fairs of the country. Rawat made the remarks after a meeting with seers. Prior to the meeting, Rawat took a dip in the Ganga on Wednesday morning. Later in the day, he met the seers and the authorities of all the ‘akhadas’ in Haridwar. During the meeting, the seers raised concern regarding the pace of Kumbh works. “The Centre has given Uttarakhand lesser funds for Kumbh as compared to what they released for Prayagraj Kumbh. Even Haridwar witnesses a turnout of a crore of pilgrims and the scale of Kumbh is no less than anywhere else. So, there is no justification for this differential treatment. Also, when I visited Haridwar today (January 27), I could see no large-scale permanent construction in the town, contrary to the claims of the government. Besides, the BJP government has also curtailed the timings of the fair. This is another disappointment for local traders and devotees,” said Rawat. He added that even the seers agree that preparedness for Kumbh is not visible on ground. “As an Opposition member, I have performed my duty and highlighted the corruption and the poor management. It's upon the incumbent government now to act,” said Rawat. The veteran leader added that 'shoddy' Kumbh arrangements will be an issue for the 2022 assembly elections. He had earlier tweeted, “I am not aware how much beautification of Haridwar has happened for Kumbh. However, I am sure that pockets have surely been filled up.” Notably, the mega festival is scheduled to start from February 27 and works on various projects are still underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-has-failed-in-preparations-of-kumbh-harish-rawat/articleshow/80486429.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Panel holds talks with unions||Hyderabad: The PRC committee held a consultation meet with employees’ union leaders and took their suggestions and demands in connection with the PRC report. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar assured the employees that their demands will be put before the CM for a final call on pay revision. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panel-holds-talks-with-unions/articleshow/80487660.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Married man held for impregnating 16-year-old gets bail after he tells court of willingness to marry her||MUMBAI: Three months after a 25-year-old married man was arrested for raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court granted him bail after finding the relationship was “consensual” and the accused was willing to marry the minor. The minor’s mother who had initially lodged an FIR, submitted an affidavit in court supporting his release and said she wanted the accused to marry her as she had given birth to their daughter. Allowing the release of the accused, the court said, “It cannot be said that the first marriage of the accused was not within their knowledge. As it is submitted that the prosecutrix (minor) intends to marry him and the accused is also willing to marry her once she turns 18 and that the matter is arising out of the affair and it is the case of a consensual relationship, to me, there is no need to keep the accused behind bars.” Seeking the accused’s release, his lawyer submitted in his community he was allowed to marry more than once. The prosecution strongly opposed the bail plea and said there was no evidence to show his first wife had consented to his second marriage. The prosecution further submitted that the accused entrapped the minor who was unable to understand the consequences and now he wanted to take undue advantage of the situation by offering to marry her. The prosecution pointed out that an earlier attempt by the accused to seek bail was rejected by the court. The case of prosecution is that the minor knew the accused as her father and he were acquaintances. It was alleged that the accused promised to marry the girl and under that pretext he became intimate with her. The girl then got pregnant but kept it a secret. The prosecution further said seeing her growing belly, her mother suspected that she was pregnant. By then, her pregnancy had advanced. It was alleged that when the girl told the accused about her pregnancy, he threatened her not to reveal his identity as the unborn baby’s father. The prosecution said that the girl disclosed the name of another boy to her mother as the father of the child. During the family’s investigations, the accused was identified as the father. The family lodged an FIR and the accused was arrested on October 23. The court said that with the investigations over and chargesheet being filed, there was “nothing” to reject his bail application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/married-man-held-for-impregnating-16-yr-old-gets-bail-after-he-tells-court-of-willingness-to-marry-her/articleshow/80488006.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||First man-eater leopard killed in Uttarakhand forests this year; it had mauled a woman who had gone to bring fodder for her cattle||Dehradun: The man-eater leopard of Almora, on prowl for almost a month now, was put down by three forest department-appointed shooters in the Syalda block of the district on Tuesday (January 26) night. This is the first leopard to have been killed by shooters this year in Uttarakhand forests. Last year, the state had sanctioned the killing of 11 leopards after declaring them man-eaters. To recall, the feline had attacked five people, all women, in the border villages of Almora, Pauri, and Chamoli districts and had killed the livestock of several villagers. Later on January 1, the 10-year-old big cat was declared a man-eater. “On January 17, the leopard killed a 56-year-old woman. This made the situation emergency-like. The feline was physically unfit as one of its claws was missing, as per the post-mortem report. This is probably why it was looking for easy prey near human habitations. We had installed cages and CCTV to trap the big cat but it never entered into the cages. Eventually, the shooters had to put it down,” said Mahatim Yadav, Divisional Forest Officer, Almora range. To trap (or kill) the man-eater leopard, a team headed by famous shooter Joy Hukkil was set up. The team waited for the big cat for several days but in vain. Later, the forest department called a team of shooters from Bijnor (Uttar Pradesh). After unsuccessfully trying to trace the leopard for two days, the UP team also went back. The task was finally carried out by three shooters — Ashish Dasgupta, Ramesh Chouhan and Kirnesh Jung — from Himachal Pradesh. They had come to Uttarakhand on January 25 to eliminate the leopard. According to the latest Wildlife Institute of India (WII) report, Uttarkhand is home to 840 leopards. However, the report only factors in the leopard population in tiger landscapes and not the ones scattered across other areas of the Himalyan state. Due to the high density of leopards in the state and their ability to adapt easily to landscapes, human-leopard conflict incidents have become a perennial issue in Uttarakhand. In 2020, 31 people were killed in human-leopard conflict incidents in Uttarakhand, pushing the forest department to declare almost a dozen felines ‘man-eaters’. According to TOI source in the forest department, the maximum of three leopards each were eliminated by shooters in the Pithoragarh and the Narendra Nagar forest divisions in 2020, followed by two big cats in the Almora forest range, and one each in Haridwar, Tehri, and Badrinath forest divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-man-eater-leopard-killed-in-uttarakhand-forests-this-year-it-had-mauled-a-woman-who-had-gone-to-bring-fodder-for-her-cattle/articleshow/80486424.cms||Shivani Azad
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Robbers kill jeweller’s wife, son; one shot dead||Trichy: A four-member gang of Rajasthani migrants murdered the wife and son of a jewellery shop owner and looted 16kg of gold ornaments from their house at Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai on Wednesday morning before police nabbed two of them and shot dead another to recover the jewellery hours later. The jeweller and his daughter-in-law suffered injuries and were taken to Sirkazhi Government Hospital. The fourth member of the gang was arrested later in the evening. The deceased have been identified as D Asha, 45, wife of jeweller Dhanraj Chowdhry, 51, and their son D Akhil, 24. Dhanraj and Akhil’s wife Nikila Jaleba, 21, are stated to be out of danger. while Dhanraj’s jewellery-cum-pawn shop is at Dharumakulam near Poompuhar. The incident happened around 6.30 am at Dhanraj’s house located at Thadalan South Street on Railway Road in Sirkazhi when Akhil and his wife heard someone calling them in Hindi at the door. An unsuspecting Asha opened the door only to see the gang wearing masks pushing her in and stabbing her. On hearing her cries, Akhil and Nikila rushed out only to be attacked with knives. As Asha and Akhil lay in a pool of blood, Dhanraj came out from the bedroom hearing the cries. As the gang asked him to hand over the locker key, a shell-shocked Dhanraj pleaded with them not to harm his family any more and gave them the key. After tying Dhanraj and Nikila to a cot, the four took all the jewellery from the locker and fled in Akhil’s car parked in front of the house. The gang also took away the hard disc of a CCTV camera fixed in front of the house. Police said it all happened in about 10 minutes and help came from neighbours a little later on hearing the cries of Dhanraj and Nikila. However, both Asha and Akhil had died of critical injuries and blood loss by then. On being informed, Mayiladuthurai superintendent of police Srinatha, deputy superintendent Yuvapriya, inspector Manimaran and a team arrived at the spot. Within minutes, they alerted all police stations along the district’s boundary. As the gang was approaching Olamputhur village under AK Chathiram police limit, about 10 kilometres from the crime scene, the car developed a snag. Subsequently, they abandoned it and started walking across the paddy fields. However, their suspicious movements were noted by villagers who informed police. Mayiladuthurai police rushed to Olamputhur and during combing operations, caught hold of two of the men identified as R Manish, 23, and J Ramesh Patil, 20. Police said when they tried to nab the third accused, Mahibal Singh, 25, he pulled out a gun and tried to escape after attacking a reserve armed policeman with a log. In retaliation, the police opened fire killing him. They recovered the gold ornaments and two guns from the robbers. One of the accused, Ramesh Patil, was working in a two-wheeler spare parts shop at Sirkazhi while Manish was a labourer at a plywood agency in Jeyankondam in Ariyalur district. The deceased Mahipal was working in a shop in Chidambaram. Later in the evening, Kumbakonan West police arrested the fourth accused Karan Ram, 38, who was trying to escape in his car at Muthupillai Mandapam where they were holding a vehicle check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/robbers-kill-jewellers-wife-son-one-shot-dead/articleshow/80489057.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Corporators slam BMC plan for infrastructure bonds||MUMBAI: BMC’s decision to float Municipal Infrastructure Bonds and raise around Rs 4,000 crore to finance infrastructure projects in the city came in for sharp criticism from corporators at the civic standing committee meeting on Wednesday. Corporators demanded a status report on BMC’s finances. SP corporator and MLA Rais Shaikh asked if BMC, Asia’s richest civic body, was going to present a deficit budget. “The administration must bring out a status report on the finances and make public how much in the red they are,” Shaikh said. BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde said the administration had not kept any corporator in the loop. “There must be a white paper on BMC’s finances. It has still not given us a detailed breakup of its Covid-19 spend,” said BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde. “BMC’s financial and credit credentials are good and so we will get a low interest rate. We expect 6% to 6.5% interest rate on these bonds,” said a civic official. –— Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/corporators-slam-bmc-plan-for-infra-bonds/articleshow/80487707.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Syllabus cut only by 20%, need more time: Teachers||Trichy: Saying that the state board syllabus for class Xand XII were reduced only up to 20% against the claim of 40%, state president of Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary Post Graduate Teachers Association V Manivasagan said in Pudukottai that the available days are not sufficient to train students for the board exams. It is a lie on the part of the state government to say that it has reduced 40% of the syllabus. The syllabus was reduced for the sake of reducing syllabus, which is just 10-20%, he said. He was in Pudukottai on Tuesday as part of the association district general body meeting. He said teachers find it challenging to complete the full syllabus during normal working days in the past. Now that we have less number of days, completing almost a full syllabus is very difficult. Criticizing the school education department, he said that teachers are being used as machines. In these circumstances if classes are reopened for class 11, teachers may not have sufficient classrooms to take classes. This will also add up to their burden, he said. We may not be able to avoid board examinations for class 12 students. Teachers will need at least 15 days to psychologically counsel the students to bring their attention back to studies, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/syllabus-cut-only-by-20-need-more-time-teachers/articleshow/80489059.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Trichy||DMK MLAs among 700 booked for tractor rally||Trichy: Police have registered cases against more than 700 people including four DMK MLAs from Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts for taking out tractor rallies defying the prohibition orders imposed by the police. The rallies were taken out on Republic Day in support of farmers protesting in Delhi. Farmers and labour unions from delta districts including Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvaur and Trichy had taken took out the rallies riding tractors, bullock carts and two-wheelers on Tuesday. A large number of farmers participated in the protest held in Trichy district. In Thanjavur, the protesters including DMK MLAs took out rallies from Melavastha Savadi in Thanjavur to the New bus stand in the city. MLAs Durai Chandrasekaran, M Ramachandran and TKG Neelamegam and opposition party leaders were booked for their participation in the rally. Tiruvarur police booked several protesters, including DMK MLA Poondi Kalaivanan, under various sections of IPC including section 307(attempt to murder) for taking part in a similar rally defying the instructions of police. Police also arrested CPM functionary Thambusamy, DMK member Bharathi and CPI cadre Durairaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-mlas-among-700-booked-for-tractor-rally/articleshow/80489064.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||It was just a drama: Bandi||Hyderabad: BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay on Wednesday described the first PRC as “drama”. Responding to the committee’s report, he said that after taking three years for submitting the report, the committee only recommended very less per cent of fitment for employees. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-was-just-a-drama-bandi/articleshow/80487661.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: PRC calculated expenditure of only 3 family members, say employees||HYDERABAD: Terming the PRC a ‘stingy’ committee for its recommendations, government employees on Wednesday said that instead of calculating the expenditure of four members of an employee’s family, the committee has calculated the expenditure of only three members. Addressing the media after meeting chief secretary Somesh Kumar, the president of Telangana Gazetted Officers Association, Mamta, said that the basic salary of the employees should be Rs 24,000 as against Rs 19,000 recommended by the committee, and the maximum salary should be Rs 2 lakh and not as recommended by the committee. She said that the House Rent Allowance (HRA) also cannot be reduced. The Telangana Non-Gazetted Officers’Association (TNGO) president M Rajender said that they want the state government to consider their requests, including the request for 63% fitment. “We have informed the same to the three-member committee, including the chief secretary. We are open to having discussions, but we will definitely bring the concerns of 9.35 lakh government employees to the notice of the chief minister soon,” he said. Earlier in the day, a few employees burnt copies of the PRC report in front of BRK Bhavan, following which they were taken into custody by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prc-calculated-expenditure-of-only-3-family-members-employees/articleshow/80487659.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Doctors to go ahead with tomorrow’s strike||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Medical college doctors have decided to go ahead with the strike planned on Jan 29 as Kerala Government Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) was not invited for the talks with finance minister T M Thomas Isaac. Isaac had a discussion with Kerala Gazetted Officers Association (KGOA) on rectifying anomalies in the pay revision of college lecturers. At this meeting the minister is learnt to have given assurance that the arrears from Jan 1, 2020 will be paid for the lecturers. However, KGMCTA rejected this proposal. “The association was not invited for discussion and hence we are not sure about what was the agreement they made. We are not ready to accept any proposal other than providing the arrears from Jan 1, 2016,” said Dr S Binoy, state president of KGMCTA. Since the discussion was held without our participation, we cannot accept a proposal which the minister and KGOA representatives have agreed upon. We will go ahead with our strike plan; three-hour OP duty and teaching sessions will be boycotted on Jan 29 from 8am as a mark of protest, said Dr Binoy. KGMCTA called a strike as the government hadn’t given assurance on providing arrears while implementing pay revision. The pay revision, which was due in 2016, was done only in 2020; the government had assured that it will have a retrospective effect from Jan 1, 2016. But, it has not given any commitment on arrears, it was said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/doctors-to-go-ahead-with-tomorrows-strike/articleshow/80486432.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Freedom fighters’ children will be given govt jobs: Goa CM||PORVORIM: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday assured the House that the children of freedom fighters will be given government jobs. Sawant, replying to a Zero Hour mention, said that 23 children of freedom fighters will be given employment immediately. He added that a meeting was held with them before they went on hunger strike and added that he will call a meeting with the freedom fighters association to resolve the issue. The chief minister said that he has asked for the final list of candidates from the association. Those who have not passed SSCE will be accommodated in the Goa State Human Resource Corporation. The chief minister said that earlier, the freedom fighters had been assured that their issue would be resolved by March-end and that the chief secretary is holding talks with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/freedom-fighters-children-will-be-given-govt-jobs-cm/articleshow/80489094.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Animal husbandry department culls around 1,120 birds||NASHIK: A team belonging to the animal husbandry department — camping in Vathoda village of Satana taluka in Nashik district — on Wednesday culled as many as 1,191 birds after the laboratory reports confirmed that the other birds earlier found dead in the region were affected by Avian influenza. “We are carrying out the culling of birds in two padas — Ganesh Nagar and Keroba Nagar — of the village. Around 120 birds at a poultry farm had died on January 21 and the samples sent to the lab tested positive for the infection after which the culling activity is being carried out,” GR Patil, assistant commissioner of animal husbandry department (Nashik), said. District collector Suraj Mandhare had announced culling of birds in 1-km radius of the affected site in Vathoda village after the samples tested positive for bird flu. According to Patil, the villagers in the area near Kelzar Dam belong to the tribal community and are engaged in backyard poultry raring which helps them as food as well in making a living. He added that there was no large organized poultry activity around 5-km radius of the village. The rapid response team (RRT) of the animal husbandry department which is trained for culling of birds is on the site for carrying out the exercise. The owner gets a compensation ranging from Rs 20 to Rs 90 as per the size and age of the bird that has been culled, while Rs 3 is paid towards every egg that is smashed and Rs 12 for per kg of poultry feed by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/animal-husbandry-dept-culls-around-1120-birds/articleshow/80485222.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 28, 2021||Aurangabad||MIDC employee climbs Kilimanjaro on R-Day||Aurangabad: For Ambadas Gaikwad, a Class III employee of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) in Aurangabad, reaching the summit of Mt Kilimanjaro in Tanzania coinciding with the Republic Day, is a dream come true. “All the hard work of more than a year had paid off when I reached on the top of Kilimanjaro. It filled my heart with more joy when I planted the Tricolour,” he said. Gaikwad, 38, had started his expedition on January 19 and he scaled the highest single free-standing mountain in the world at around 11.15 am on January 26. “I have had climbed Stok Kangri in Ladakh in the past. Climbing atop Mt Kilimanjaro, which is at a height of 5,895m above sea level and is the highest mountain in Africa, was one of my dreams. The formal training in mountaineering helped me achieving this dream,” he said. Gaikwad, who had planned his expedition with the help of a professional adventure group called ‘360 Explorer’, is said to be first the MIDC employee to summit the Kilimanjaro. Anand Bansode, the CEO of ‘360 Explorer’, said Mt Kilimanjaro is part of the seven summits that are the highest mountains in each of the seven continents in the world. “Gaikwad had to climb amid snowfall and at temperature of -20 degrees celsius among other tough conditions. Mountaineering enriches trekkers with life skills, self-growth and adventurous experiences. Gaikwad is among those who feel it the most while challenging summits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/midc-employee-climbs-kilimanjaro-on-r-day/articleshow/80485239.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||Long R-Day weekend leaves behind trail of waste in tourists spots like Nainital, Mussoorie||NAINITAL/ MUSSOORIE: Residents of popular hill stations of Uttarakhand like Nainital and Mussoorie have raised concerns over the pile of trash left behind by tourists especially during the extended weekend recently. Arun Sah, Nainital-based veteran photographer, said that spots in the lake town like Himalayan View, Birds Eye View and Cheena Top were now littered with packets of food and alcohol bottles. Echoing similar concerns, Aman Kumar, a resident of Nainital, said, “Forested stretches like the Kilbury- Cheena Peak road are strewn with plastic bottles and other waste material. Once the tourists leave, there is no one to clean this mess. The next day, more tourists come and repeat the same thing.” In Mussoorie, residents said the road from Hathipaon to Everest House has been littered with empty alcohol bottles, wrappers and plastic water bottles. “The littering is worst in secluded areas like Hathipaon, Everest House, Lal Tibba and Tehri Road,” said Jagjeet Kukreja, secretary of Mussoorie Traders’ Association. He added that “strict action is required to be taken to stop the littering menace.” “’No littering’ signboards, constant monitoring, imposition of fines and regular cleaning of slopes are some of the measures that need to be put in place immediately,” he added. Residents also pointed out that roadside eateries contributed to the menace, as the waste generated by them was also being disposed of at the same spot. Sah said some residents of Nainital had written to district officials about the issue but no action had been taken. “We had written to the district administration nearly three weeks ago but no action has been taken. We even asked them to increase patrolling in the area to curb the practice of littering and ask local vendors to urge tourists not to litter. Nothing has been done yet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/long-r-day-weekend-leaves-behind-trail-of-waste-in-tourists-spots-like-nainital-mussoorie/articleshow/80486461.cms||Prashant Jha
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Builder must obtain nod to modify building: HC||HYDERABAD: Will the addition of a fifth floor to an existing four-storey building have any impact on the safety and structure of the existing building? The high court on Wednesday said it wants to examine this issue and directed the GHMC to study the impact of a fifth floor on an existing four-storey building at street number 2, Himayatnagar in Hyderabad. The bench of chief justice Hima Kohli and justice B Vijaysen Reddy sought a status report from the civic authorities on the issue. The bench was hearing a petition filed by Ammula Kamala Deepthi, owner of one of the flats in Kashish Avenue apartment, who contended that the builder, Virendra Tiwari, has now obtained permission from the civic authorities to raise an additional floor without consent from or intimation to any of the flat owners. “This will lay more stress on common amenities besides endangering the safety of the existing structure,” she said. Following a statement from GHMC standing counsel that the builder is proceeding with the work only after obtaining due permission, a single judge earlier dismissed the petition. The petitioner preferred an appeal over the order of the single judge. The division bench observed that the builder has to obtain fresh permission even to modify the existing structure. The bench, however, said that it will first focus on the impact the additional floor will have on the whole structure. The petitioner’s counsel informed the court that the builder has filed a separate civil suit against the residents of the flats and also against GHMC. The bench said that any structure raised hereafter will be subject to the outcome of the petition before the high court. The petitioner contended that when she bought the flat in 2017, the original plan was for stilt plus four floors. Now the builder has applied for a fifth floor without consent from the existing flat owners, she said. “GHMC accorded permission without any basis and its action was contrary to the provisions of Telangana Apartments (Promotion, Construction, and Ownership) Act, 1987. Once the flats are sold, the builder is not entitled to seek any fresh permission for construction,” the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/builder-must-obtain-nod-to-modify-bldg-hc/articleshow/80487686.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Man,25, gets 10-year RI for rape||Trichy: A mahila court in Pudukottai sentenced a 25-year-old man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment on Wednesday for raping a 17-year-old girl. The crime took place in November 2018 when the accused Malayandi took the victim, who was returning after taking her cattle to graze, to an isolated location and raped her. He was arrested after the incident and lodged in jail. The court found Malayandi guilty under sections 376 (1) (rape) and 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. He was sentenced to 10 years and 2 years of imprisonment, which he will serve together. The court has directed the state government to provide cash compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the family of the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man25-gets-10-year-ri-for-rape/articleshow/80489066.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Trichy||Man found hanging and woman dead on roadside||Thanjavur: A 26-year-old woman was found dead on the roadside near Swamimalai in Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a 33-year-old person was found hanging from a tree near the woman’s body. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the victims were in a relationship. According to police, the deceased have been identified Azhagar, a native of Ponpethi village near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district and Pavithra, hailing from the same village. Swamimalai police conducted inquiry and it came to light that they were in a relationship for the last few years and decided to get married. However, their parents were against their marriage. Police said that the couple had gone to Kallur near Swamimalai on a bike on Tuesday night. However, they did not return home. A passerby noticed their bodies and informed the police. Their bodies have been sent to government hospital in Kumbakonam where it came to light that Pavithra had consumed poison. Police informed to their relatives and registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-found-hanging-and-woman-dead-on-roadside/articleshow/80489065.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Pay revision report disappointing: Cong||Hyderabad: The Congress termed the PRC recommendation to give 7.5% fitment to government employees a ‘great disappointment’. All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Vamshi Chand Reddy demanded that the government immediately hold consultations with various employees’ unions and announce a revised salary hike (fitment). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pay-revision-report-disappointing-cong/articleshow/80487665.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in large number head back to Punjab, Haryana||Ambala/Patiala: National Highway-44, which connects several states with the national capital, was on Wednesday thick with thousands of farmers on their tractors-trailers and SUVs heading back to Punjab and Haryana from Delhi’s kisan parade. A police force was deputed by the Ambala district administration at Devi Nagar toll plaza that kept an eye on the movement of tractors on the way to Punjab. The farmers returning to their homes seemed positive to carry forward the protest against the three farm laws. They alleged that, “The government misused the state machinery to divide the farmers’ agitation.” BKU Haryana (Charuni) Ambala district vice-president Gulab Singh, who also returned from Delhi on Wednesday, said, “The incident at the Red Fort was part of a conspiracy supported by the BJP government. Deep Sidhu was planted by the government to break our agitation. But we will foil this conspiracy with a peaceful protest until the black laws are withdrawn.” At Shambhu, farmer Sukhwinder Singh returning to Punjab said, “On Tuesday, we were moving on the route given by the Delhi police, but they barricaded that passage and turned the farmers towards the Red Fort. The farmers moved on and reached Red Fort.” Another farmer Yadwinder Singh at Shambhu said, “Some mischievous elements were behind what happened at the Red Fort. We are returning to Punjab to drop some persons and will return to the agitation site again.” Sub-inspector Anil Kumar, police officer on duty at Shambhu, said, “We have been deputed to ensure smooth flow of traffic on the highway so that the farmers coming from Delhi return to their homes in Punjab safely and with peace.” In Patiala, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann said a number of farmers returned to their home after participating in the parade. “The farmers who returned were those who had come to Delhi only to participate in the parade.” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Punjab general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokari Kalan said, “Around 75% of farmers who had come to participate only in the kisan parade had returned.” Clash in Karnal village Karnal: A few local youths clashed with the returning farmers near Gharaunda village in Karnal. The district administration uprooted the farmers’ dharna and langar stalls. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia also visited the Bastara toll plaza, which had been under siege by the farmers. Yadav said, “After the Delhi incident, some people had given a call not to let farmers hold any other dharna in the district, so we requested the kisan protesters to close the community kitchen and go home. The farmers complied voluntarily. The dharnas and the four langars are off. The Gharaunda clash was minor but duty magistrates are keeping an eye on the law and order situation.” SP Ganga Ram Punia said, “Police are now deployed at the Bastara toll plaza and inside Gharaunda village to catch anyone who tries to disrupt communal harmony. We will keep the traffic smooth.” A farmers’ group vacated its campsite at Masani barrage of Rewari near Dharuhera and went home after the DSP told them that 15 local villages had given it an ultimatum. These farmers had entered the Rewari-Dharuhera road on January 2 after running through barricades and facing police resistance. The road section was closed since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-in-large-number-head-back-to-punjab-haryana/articleshow/80489067.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Farmer violence comes as further blow to interstate bus services||NEW DELHI: The ongoing protest by farmers has had an impact on the number of buses arriving at Delhi’s three Inter-State Bus Terminals (ISBT) for the last two months and the tractor rally on Tuesday has only resulted in a further dip. On Tuesday, the Anand Vihar ISBT remained closed during the day as a precautionary measure, following a request received from Delhi Police. Even though all the buses destined for Anand Vihar ISBT were diverted to Sarai Kale Khan ISBT, only around 400 buses arrived in Delhi. Since reopening of the ISBTs on November 3, total 1,500 to 1,700 buses arrive at the terminals every day, despite a 50% cap on the number of buses allowed to ensure social distancing in view of Covid-19. The number of arrivals on Wednesday witnessed around 60% increase compared with Tuesday, with a total 645 buses arriving at the three ISBTs. Anand Vihar saw the highest number of arrivals – 395 – followed by 192 buses at Kashmere Gate and 58 at Sarai Kale Khan. The Covid-19 testing camps at the ISBTs also saw 2,447 tests being carried out on Wednesday, even though none of the passengers were found to be positive. Highest number of tests were carried out at Anand Vihar (1,650), followed by Kashmere Gate (516) and Sarai Kale Khan (281). The farmers’ protest has impacted arrival of inter-state buses the most in Kashmere Gate, the capital’s oldest ISBT, where most of the buses arrive from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmer-violence-comes-as-further-blow-to-interstate-bus-services/articleshow/80487750.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Maha Covid norms hitting Raj tourism||Jaipur: Covid guidelines of Maharashtra are hitting flow of tourists from the state to Rajasthan. As per the guidelines, any one from Rajasthan travelling to Maharashtra has to carry a Covid-negative report.“Maharashtra is a big source market for Rajasthan tourism. But we are not getting tourists from the state because of the guidelines,” said Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators.He said people have started travelling for quite some time and it is peak season now. “Unless the Maharashtra government changes the rules, we will miss out on a big chunk of tourists,” added Chandela.On Wednesday, the industry body wrote a letter to the chief secretary to intervene and talk to the Maharashtra government for amending the norms “The state is suffering greatly due to the rules,” added Chandela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maha-covid-norms-hitting-raj-tourism/articleshow/80487734.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kanpur||3 scribes booked for report on school event in Kanpur Dehat||Kanpur: Three electronic media journalists have been booked by Kanpur Dehat police for airing a news report wherein it was alleged that children of a government school in Akbarpur area were forced to performyoga in extreme cold conditions without winter clothing. The FIR was lodged by a Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) Sunil Dutt, who also accused the journalists of issuing threats to him. "Following a complaint by BSA, an FIR has been registered on Tuesday against three journalists--Mohit, Amit and Yasin-- at Akbarpur police station under IPC Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation)," SP Kanpur Dehat Keshav Kumar Choudhary said. BSA stated in his complaint that the journalists, who were not even present there, aired the news report which alleged that students "shivered in extreme cold while performing yoga and government officials were busy with an event". The BSA also alleged that the three journalists also threatened him. He further claimed the children were made to take off their winter wear only for the yoga event. The BSA clarified that the children wore woollens after the event and the videos were shared with an intention to defame the district authorities. The video aired by journalists was of a function held to mark the UP foundation day on Sunday and was attended by state minister for technology, Ajit Pal Singh, several MLAs and government officials, including DM Kanpur Dehat Dinesh Chandra. The video also went viral on social media on Tuesday in which students dressed in cotton shirts and knickers were seen performing yoga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-scribes-booked-for-report-on-school-event-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/80487731.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Trailer to tractor parade violence played out on R-Day eve||Jalandhar: Signs of things turning awry and getting out of the hands of Snmyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday morning was evident on the eve of Republic Day. On Monday evening, thousands of youngsters had gathered at Singhu and started raising slogans of “our route ring road” and even captured the stage, which was empty when they reached there as SKM leaders had ended their activities early in the evening and the sound system was also switched off. In fact, the sentiment of sticking to Ring Road was being shared and promoted on social media after SKM leaders had agreed to an alternate route for the tractor march. Even a slogan, ‘Our Route Ring Road’, was coined and placards printed. Sikh writer Sukhpreet Singh Udhoke posted a picture of one such small placard while being flanked by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee president Satnam Singh Pannu and others. MKSC had announced to take the Ring Road route on Monday evening. Drama around the stage continued for a couple of hours till Monday night. Even as the atmosphere was charged, none appeared to be in charge. It is learnt SKM leaders were already apprehending trouble and preferred to close all businesses of the day around 5pm and left the stage. It is learnt that Lakha Sidhana, a former gangster who now claims to be a social worker, also came to Singhu and tried to defuse the tension, He returned after failing and then did a Facebook live in which he said it was everybody’s responsibility that no one was harmed during the march on Tuesday. However, Sidhu also came there and, later, some Sikh activists intervened to defuse the tension. At the time, a five-member committee was formed to talk to SKM leaders. Though the issue was sorted out at night, it had become clear that Tuesday would not be a cakewalk. Box – Exhortations to reach Delhi with tractors panted up sentiments As farmers unions leaders had been exhorting people to reach Delhi with maximum numbers of tractors to take out the parade “inside Delhi” and then they repeatedly referred to Ring Road route, a strong sentiment was there among people for the parade and it was also palpable about going “inside Delhi” on social media. Lakha Sidhana also attacked by farm leaders On Wednesday, Lakha Sidhana was also attacked by farmers unions in their speeches and was called a traitor of the farmers movement. He also had a bitter-sweet relation with union leaders. Slogans were also raised against him on Wednesday and a leader also called him “agent of agencies” “who tried to backstab the movement”. Kirti Kisan Union leader Rajiinder Singh Deep Singh Wala argued that even in normal days, people had difficulty in going there, but agents of agencies of government were given passage to Red Fort. “Our agitation was to be covered by global media. However, BJP enacted the drama at Red Fort through its agents. A narrative was built to make it a Sikh-versus-Hindu issue and some people said Sardars (Sikhs) did not do the right thing,” he said, adding that those who did the drama at Red Fort were “not Sardaars, but gadaars (traitors)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/trailer-to-tractor-parade-violence-played-out-on-r-day-eve/articleshow/80489068.cms||IP Singh
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||PIL in HC seeks removal of protesters||New Delhi: A day after farmers created chaos in the city, a PIL was filed in Delhi high court seeking directions to remove those squatting in the garb of agitation. The plea also sought urgent directions from the court to clear all the roads and public places, strengthening paramilitary forces to protect important monuments and ensuring safety of life and property of citizens in Delhi. In another prayer, the PIL sought immediate removal of Delhi Police chief and exemplary punishment for senior officers, who failed to foresee the violence and take preemptive action. “While the nation was celebrating Republic Day, a large number of agitating farmers came out on tractors and started moving at will… they did not confine to the agreed route and started running to different places. They not only disrupted the normal life, but also tried to attack police personnel,” the plea said. Blaming police brass, it added, “Due to lack of timely decision making by the commissioner and other senior officers, police post at Red Fort was abandoned by the cops. Despite police being chased away by the protesters brandishing swords and other weapons, the senior officers did not wield appropriate force to deter and disperse the mob.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pil-in-hc-seeks-removal-of-protesters/articleshow/80489072.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Two youth booked for stabbing cab driver in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Saidabad police on Wednesday registered an attempt to murder case against private employees, Naveen and Uday Kishore of Singareni Colony, for stabbing a cab driver, Y Venu Gopal, 23, and his brother, Srikanth, due to a personal grudge on Tuesday night. The victims’ condition is stable, police said. While returning home on January 24, Venu Gopal met Naveen and Uday Kishore near Hanuman Temple in Singareni Colony. Naveen was Venu’s junior in school and Venu stopped to say hello to him. While Venu was talking to Naveen, Uday Kishore punched him in the face without any provocation. Venu left the place and told his brother, Srikanth, about the incident. On January 26 night, when the brothers along with their friends were chatting at Block-49 in Singareni Colony, Naveen and Uday Kishore came there. When Srikanth asked them about assaulting his brother, Uday pulled out a knife from his pocket and stabbed Venu. When Srikanth tried to intervene, Uday stabbed him twice in the abdomen. “We filed a case against the duo under Sections 307 and 324 of the IPC,” Saidabad inspector K Srinivas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-youth-booked-for-stabbing-cab-driver/articleshow/80487721.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nashik||5,401 beneficiaries get Covid shots across Nashik division||NASHIK: A total of 5,401 beneficiaries across Nashik division took the Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday with the percentage of vaccination achieved being pegged at 75. The five districts across the division have a target of administering 7,200 vaccines per day, including the target for the three centres in Nashik district being doubled. In Nashik district, 2,173 people got the shots against a target of 2,600 vaccinations — around 84% of the target. Dhule district continued to outperform other districts in the division as 718 people got the vaccination against a set target of 700. Health officials vaccinated 495 people in Nandurbar district against the target of 700, while in Jalgaon district a total of 722 people inoculated. In Ahmednagar, the number of people who got the vaccination stood at 1,293. While the performance of Dhule is on top for the past three days — achieving more than 100% of the target — Jalgaon put up its best performance of 94% on January 23. Nandurbar put up its best performance of 78% on January 20, while Ahmednagar achieved its best of 72.6% on the first day. Meanwhile, Nashik district achieved its of 90% of vaccination on January 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5401-beneficiaries-get-covid-shots-across-nashik-division/articleshow/80485245.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||85 new Covid-19 surface, 6 districts record no new infections||DEHRADUN: The total number of coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 95,826 with 85 new infections recorded in the state on Wednesday. Also, three more fatalities took the toll to 1,639 in the state. According to the health bulletin, the maximum of 44 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 20 from Nainital, 11 from Haridwar, six from Udham Singh Nagar, two from Pithoragarh, and one each from Bageshwar and Champawat districts. “No new cases of Covid-19 were found in Chamoli, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Almora, Pauri, and Uttarkashi districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. On Wednesday, 96 more people recovered from Covid-19 infection. With this, the active coronavirus cases count went down below 1,500 in the Himalyan state. Meanwhile, Pauri was the only district in the state that organised the Covid-19 immunisation session on Wednesday. The district inoculated 144 healthcare workers for Covid-19 in two sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/85-new-covid-19-surface-6-districts-record-no-new-infections/articleshow/80486475.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||2 missing teenaged girls traced in Bihar||Chandrapur: Bhadrawati police have traced two teenaged girls, who were missing since January 2, in Bihar. Investigations revealed that duo had eloped with two youths who promised to marry them. Both the accused are in police custody. The girls, aged 16 and 17, are residents of Bhadrawati and nearby Mohbala village. Following the complaint lodged by their parents, Bhadrawati police had launched a manhunt. The crime branch, with the help of cyber cell, succeeded in zeroing in on their location in Manzave village in Jamui district of Bihar. A team of cops led by PSI Amol Tuljewar sent to the location found the two girls with one of the accused, Dharmendra Kumar Tanti (22). Another accused, identified as Parthamesh Wankhede, was absconding but he surrendered before the Bhadrawati police on Wednesday. Cops claimed that the girls had fallen in love with the accused youths and eloped with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-missing-teenaged-girls-traced-in-bihar/articleshow/80487662.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Flyover hits land acquisition bump||Hyderabad: Residents of Old City lodged a complaint with authorities over the delay in completion of key projects, including the Bahadurpura flyover. The residents said that except for lifting of garbage, patchwork and desilting, long-pending works and key projects, including the completion of Bahadurpura flyover, have been put on the backburner. Commuters said that sudden closure of junctions has added to motorists’ woes. “Certain U-turns have become a headache,’’ said Sheikh Nazim, who frequently takes the route. The GHMC said that the flyover work is facing problems due to land acquisition issues. “The main factor behind the delay in completing the Bahadurpura flyover work is land acquisition. More than half of the work has been completed during the lockdown and if the public cooperates with us, we will surely complete the work shortly,’’ said Dattu Panth, superintendent engineer (projects) GHMC, Charminar zone. —Omer bin Taher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flyover-hits-land-acquisition-bump/articleshow/80487745.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Increase vaccination sites to meet target: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said no serious side effects have been seen so far among the health workers undergoing corona vaccination in the state. He said that there should be no confusion about vaccination and make people aware of the need for it. He directed to increase the number of vaccination sites according to requirement. Gehlot was reviewing the progress of the vaccination campaign through video conference at his residence. He called upon the healthcare workers and the common people to get vaccinated and not to heed rumours. He directed to complete the target of vaccination in the state within the stipulated time. The chief minister said that in view of the second wave of corona in some countries including Europe, we need to be completely alert. “With the vaccination of the healthcare workers, they will be able to face any challenge coming forward with full confidence and will be able to fulfil their responsibility to protect the lives of the people from Corona.” Gehlot said that due to technical constraints in the Co-WIN software, difficulty in achieving the target of vaccination is being experienced. In such a way, technical glitches to upload data should be removed by coordinating with the officials of the Union ministry of health. In the meeting, health minister Raghu Sharma informed that in districts, including Jaipur, Dausa and Ganganagar, the percentage of vaccination is low. He asked the collectors, CMHO and other officials of the department, on the need for speed up the vaccination drive. Secretary (medical and health) Siddharth Mahajan gave a presentation about the progress of the vaccination and the future goals. He said Rajasthan is ahead of the national average in vaccination. Rajasthan has also performed better on all immunisation parameters in a detailed assessment conducted by the World Health Organisation. He informed that till January 25, 1, 61, 116 health workers were vaccinated in the state. The state is third after Karnataka and Odisha. Mahajan informed that wastage of up to 10% of the vaccine is allowed in the guidelines of the Government of India for various reasons. In Rajasthan, 95.72% vaccine is being used so far and the wastage is only 4.28%. He informed that against the vaccination of 22% health care workers across the country, 31.35% vaccination has been done in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-vax-sites-to-meet-target-gehlot/articleshow/80487717.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||TRP scam case: Pre-arrest bail plea adjourned||MUMBAI: The anticipatory bail plea hearing of Sivasubramanian Sundaram, chief financial officer of ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd that owns Republic Media Network, has been adjourned to February 3. The prosecution had earlier informed the sessions court that no coercive action would be taken against him till then. The relief will continue until the next date. Sundaram sought the anticipatory bail in the alleged TRP manipulation case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trp-scam-case-pre-arrest-bail-plea-adjourned/articleshow/80489075.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Complete Tukaramgate RuB by June’||Secunderabad: Deputy speaker of Telangana legislative assembly T Padma Rao directed the civic officials to expedite the road under bridge (RuB) works at Tukaramgate in Secunderabad. Rao inspected the works near Lalaguda station and noticed that the work is being executed at snail’s pace. Upset, he instructed the engineering wing officials of GHMC to complete works by June. “Civil works like retaining walls, service roads and footpaths got delayed due to the lockdown as there was a shortage of workers,” a senior GHMC engineering official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complete-tukaramgate-rub-by-june/articleshow/80487708.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Electric poles damaged in illegal granite blasting||HYDERABAD: Construction activity without any safety measures at Marthandanagar of New Hafeezpet under Serilingampally mandal has sparked resentment on Wednesday, after a couple of electric poles fell down partially. New Hafeezpet is located between Kondapura and Miyapur. In these areas, residents have objected to some construction activities. Angry residents told TOI that a big incident had been averted, as it took place in the wee hours of morning when a digging machine hit a pole placed next to the construction site. Locals also alleged that such construction had been going on illegally and granite blasting were also carried out at many places in Hafeezpet. “A deep excavation is on for the last one month. For this purpose, granite blasting was also carried out, resulting in some widows glasses being broken. Though we have been objecting to the construction without safety measures, no one here is listening to us. A cellar that is deeper than 12 feet is being dug, and neither authorities nor local leaders have taken note of the illegal activities going on in the locality,” Nayeed, one of the residents, told TOI. SM Qadri, assistant engineer, Chandanagar, TSSPDCL said that two poles had been damaged along the construction site and power supply had been disconnected soon after. “Some construction was going on there when the incident took place. The owner has engaged a digging machine to dig or pull out something from the excavated cellar. Digging machine raised and touched a pole that might have dragged the cables and poles with force. Two poles were broken down in this incident,” SM Qadri, assistant engineer, Chandanagar TSSPDCL told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/electric-poles-damaged-in-illegal-granite-blasting/articleshow/80487749.cms||Omar bin Taher
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Three held for murdering watchman near Telangana's Dundigal||HYDERABAD: Three persons have been arrested for allegedly killing a 43-year-old watchman, Shiva Goud, at Gandimaisamma near Dundigal recently. The accused — Dileep Singh Rajput, Bunty and Devender— were neighbours of the victim, Shiva. Dileep and Banti are tile workers, while Devenderis a labourer. The accused and the victim were friends and they used to frequently consume liquor together, Dundigal police said. At 10pm on January 23, Dileep, Banti and Devender went to Shiva’s room on Dileep’s scooter. Shiva was already drunk and all of them indulged in three-card gambling till 4am. In the gambling, Shiva won Rs 15,000 cash of Dileep, Rs 1,500 belonging to Devender and Rs 1,000 belonging to Bunty. After losing money, the trio left Shiva’s room at 4.45am. They hatched a plan to kill him and take their money. As per the plan, they returned to Shiva’s room with a boulder. “Shiva covered himself with a blanket and slept. While Bunty held his hands, Devender held his legs. Dileep slammed on Shiva’s head with the boulder and later Devender hit him on the head with a mini gas cylinder. After Shiva died, the accused took cash from his pocket and left the place,”ACP, Petbasheerabad, VVS Ramalingaraju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-murdering-watchman-near-dundigal/articleshow/80487725.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Schools open for classes III & IV, witness 15% attendance||Ludhiana: As the state government has given a nod for the students of class III and IV to take regular classes in the school, all the government schools and a few private schools were open for classes on Wednesday. Keeping the safety of the students in mind, the schools will be following all guidelines pertaining to the proper sanitization of the students and schools. Sunita Vig, principal of MGM Public School, said, “Only 15% of occupancy of the students was observed in the classes. Some parents are of the opinion that it still is not safe to send such young children to school, as the pandemic is still not under control.” She adds, “Moreover, working hours of the parents is becoming a big hindrance for them. They are requesting transportation, so that students can commute safely. Most probably, from Monday onwards, there will be an increase in the attendance. As far as the attendance of classes V to XII is concerned, it is almost 75 %.” The state government decided to reopen all government, semi-government, and private schools in the state from January 7. The classes will start at 10pm and will continue till 3pm, according to the guidelines issued by the Punjab government. Thin attendance in government schools too Shivani Sharma head of Government Primary School Haibowal Kalan said, “ We have received the consent of only three students out of 99 students in Class IV and nine consents out of 136 students of Class III. The issue of picking and dropping of the school students is yet to be sorted out, parents find it difficult to do it themselves. Also, parents are fearing that students are too young and they might catch the infection.” Sanjeev Thapar, principal of Government Senior Secondary Smart School PAU, said, “There were seven students out of 220 in Class III and 21 out of 150 in Class IV. In the coming week, the attendance might improve. The classes were held between 9am to noon. The midday meal was served too” Classes I and II from Feb 1 Also, the students of classes I and II will be allowed to attend school from February 1. School timings will be the same — from 10am to 3pm and parents are required to provide written consent before sending their children. Authorities had also directed officials and management of schools to ensure proper cleaning of school premises and abide by all Covid-19 safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-open-for-classes-iii-iv-witness-15-attendance/articleshow/80487773.cms||Mehak Jain
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi a fortress, traffic crawls||NEW DELHI: A day after the farmers’ ruckus in parts of Delhi, several roads and entry to some metro stations in Old City remained closed on Wednesday to maintain law and order and ensure security. The key ITO junction, which was closed till Wednesday morning, and Minto Road near Connaught Place have been reopened for traffic and all barricades have been removed, Delhi Traffic Police tweeted in the evening. During the peak hours in the morning, police issued advisories about traffic jams even as Delhiites struggled to reach office. Traffic jams were reported from several parts of the national capital region, including Anand Vihar and Kalindi Kunj, which connects Noida with south Delhi. Two lanes on both Delhi and Noida sides of the Kalindi Kunj road was closed by the authorities, which led to congestion at DND Flyway too. Among the roads that remained closed are those linking Delhi with Ghaziabad, including Ghazipur Mandi Road, NH-9 and NH-24. “People commuting from Delhi to Ghaziabad are advised to go via Shahdara, Karkari Mor and DND Flyway,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. The Ghazipur Phool Mandi road was also shut. In the afternoon, the traffic movement became normal around Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate and Anand Vihar ISBT towards Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-a-fortress-traffic-crawls/articleshow/80487776.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Rewarding squatters with free land only happens in Maharashtra: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: Rewarding encroachers with free land at public cost is something that happens only in Maharashtra, Bombay high court observed on Wednesday. “If they encroach upon forest land, the government will notify another land free of cost. It’s a bonus on illegality. A premium on it. Then they (encroachers) will sell it again. It is peculiar to Maharashtra and nowhere in the country,” said a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. The court heard a 2009 public interest litigation by NGO Janhit Manch on how allottees in various slum rehabilitation schemes illegally sell flats at a premium even though there is a lock-in period of 10 years. It states not only is the object of Slum Rehabilitation Scheme defeated but there is loss to the public exchequer. It cited the case of encroachers in Sanjay Gandhi National Park who were to rehabilitated in 225-square-foot carpet area flats in Chandivali, Andheri, in 30 seven-storey buildings. The Manch’s founder Bhagwanji Raiyani argued the sale should not be regularised. The judges then also observed there are two categories of citizens—those who abide by the law and those who do not. “Those encroaching and doing illegalities are benefited. Those who abide will always be without a roof,” said Justice Kulkarni. The judges noted in October 2015 the state was directed to conduct a survey of all slum rehabilitation schemes to ascertain if there were transfers by allottees within 10 years of allotment date and after expiry of 10 years with Slum Rehabilitation Authority’s permission. HC was told an agency was identified for the survey. “Five years have passed. Nothing is reported to the court,” said the CJ. The judges directed the state to inform about the survey and steps taken pursuant to it on March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/rewarding-squatters-with-free-land-only-happens-in-maha-hc/articleshow/80491366.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Rewarding squatters with free land only happens in Maharashtra: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: Rewarding encroachers with free land at public cost is something that happens only in Maharashtra, Bombay high court observed on Wednesday. “If they encroach upon forest land, the government will notify another land free of cost. It’s a bonus on illegality. A premium on it. Then they (encroachers) will sell it again. It is peculiar to Maharashtra and nowhere in the country,” said a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. The court heard a 2009 public interest litigation by NGO Janhit Manch on how allottees in various slum rehabilitation schemes illegally sell flats at a premium even though there is a lock-in period of 10 years. It states not only is the object of Slum Rehabilitation Scheme defeated but there is loss to the public exchequer. It cited the case of encroachers in Sanjay Gandhi National Park who were to rehabilitated in 225-square-foot carpet area flats in Chandivali, Andheri, in 30 seven-storey buildings. The Manch’s founder Bhagwanji Raiyani argued the sale should not be regularised. The judges then also observed there are two categories of citizens—those who abide by the law and those who do not. “Those encroaching and doing illegalities are benefited. Those who abide will always be without a roof,” said Justice Kulkarni. The judges noted in October 2015 the state was directed to conduct a survey of all slum rehabilitation schemes to ascertain if there were transfers by allottees within 10 years of allotment date and after expiry of 10 years with Slum Rehabilitation Authority’s permission. HC was told an agency was identified for the survey. “Five years have passed. Nothing is reported to the court,” said the CJ. The judges directed the state to inform about the survey and steps taken pursuant to it on March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rewarding-squatters-with-free-land-only-happens-in-maha-hc/articleshow/80488007.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM inspects veggie market in Siddipet||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao made a sudden inspection of a vegetable market in Siddipet on Wednesday. After an interaction with farmers at the Ontimamidi agricultural vegetable market, he said commission agents should not take collect more than 4% as commission from farmers and this has to be regulated by marketing officials. On the request of the farmers, he assured that a cold storage would be constructed for storage of vegetables. The CM enquired from farmers what vegetables they were cultivating and advised them to adopt scientific agricultural practices for better crop yield. In addition to constructing the cold storage, the chief minister asked officials to identify 50 acres of land to provide basic amenities to farmers. He said keeping the future needs in mind, the Ontimamidi agricultural market should be expanded in another 14 acres of land and asked officials to take necessary steps. The CM held a meeting with collector P Venkatram Reddy and officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-inspects-veggie-market-in-siddipet/articleshow/80487778.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||One dead, another hurt as dumper hits bike||Rudrapur: A 30-year-old man died while another sustained serious injuries after their bike was run over by a speeding dumper near Danpur village at Kashipur Road, around five kilometres from Rudrapur, on Tuesday (January 26) night. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Vikas Dhali, a resident of Durgapur village, was heading to his home along with his neighbour, Sukhdev Kumar, when the bike they were riding on was hit by a speeding dumper. The driver fled the spot after the accident. Soon after getting information, city police rushed to the spot and rushed them to the nearest hospital where Dhali was pronounced dead by the doctors while Kumar is currently undergoing treatment. The police also impounded the dumper and have registered a case against the accused driver. A manhunt has been launched to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-another-hurt-as-dumper-hits-bike/articleshow/80486479.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: A2 returns to Asifabad after Maharasthra trip, op to dart big cat||HYDERABAD: Suspected man-eating tiger, A2, has returned to Asifabad forest from Maharasthra. Forest officials have resumed an operation to dart the big cat. “We are waiting for natural cattle kill away from the river,” Kawal Tiger Reserve (KTR) field director CP Vinod Kumar said. On Wednesday, A2 killed a cattle near Pranahita river. But the cattle kill area is near the water body. As per NTCA rules, darting should not be done within two kilometres from the water body. Recently, forest officials couldn’t dart A2 despite setting up a machan in Bejjur area near a cattle kill site and the big cat reportedly went back to Maharasthra. The tiger returned two days ago. Man-eating tiger expert and sharpshooter Shafat Ali Khan found fault with the forest department for lack of expertise in building the machan. “The machan built by forest officials is so obvious and the tiger can easily notice it,” he said. “Straying tigers in human habitations become highly intelligent. Setting up a machan at the proper height and camouflaging it is an art. Man-eater tigers are clever and when it comes back to the kill, it acts cautiously. Once a machan is fabricated, it has to be hidden properly. Vertical bushes have to be set up instead of horizontal one,” he added. “Tiger trackers and vets or shooters should not wear bright coloured clothes. They should not use mobile phone. A mobile phone in vibration mode can cause subsonic sound and with anything unnatural happening, the tiger runs away. Immature vets and trackers should learn a lot of things on darting a man-eater,” he added. KTR field director Vinod Kumar said, “We have built the machan professionally. It was not visible to the tiger. Our men stayed on the machan for four days without taking bath or shaving. We were even hanging cow dung in sacks to avoid the tiger smelling humans. A2 came twice to the cattle kill spot. There is no issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/a2-returns-to-asifabad-after-maha-trip-op-to-dart-big-cat/articleshow/80487761.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Man found dead in front of mall in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: An unknown 45-year-old man was found dead on the footpath near PVR Mall in Malakpet on Wednesday. The mall’s security informed the police of a man lying unconscious on the footpath in front of the mall. Police alerted 108 ambulance service and after examination, ambulance staff declared him dead. The man had a a sky blue shirt and grey trousers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-found-dead-in-front-of-mall/articleshow/80487779.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||Only 129 adverse events reported since Jan 16||Jaipur: The percentage of adverse events following immunization is as low as 0.05% in the state, which is one of the factors encouraging the healthcare workers to opt for Covid-19 vaccine. After initial hiccups, in first three days of inoculation drive, state has reported increasing trend in immunization coverage. The confidence of healthcare workers has been boosted and they are now taking the jab without much apprehension and confusion also the Co-WIN App is now functioning properly which has also pushed up the immunization coverage in the state. Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary, private hospitals and nursing homes society, said that more healthcare workers in private hospitals are opting for vaccine. “At my vaccination site, 89 healthcare workers out of 100, got the jab,” he said. The health department claimed that as they have added more private hosptials, the coverage of vaccination has gone up. “More private hospitals have been added for vaccination. We are getting good response from private hospitals as well, just like we have received good response from the government hospitals. The vaccination coverage over the past few days have gone up significantly,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. Not much cases have been reported of the adverse events following immunization, which has also helped in boosting the confidence of healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-129-adverse-events-reported-since-jan-16/articleshow/80487774.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Jaipur||13 Rajasthan districts report no fresh case||JAIPUR: Covid-19 cases have been dropping steadily in the state as a result of which 13 districts did not report even a single case on Wednesday. Only four districts reported daily Covid-19 count in double digits, while another 16 reported cases in single digit. Districts which did not report even a single case were Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Pratapgarh, Sawai Madhopur, Sikar, Sirohi and Tonk. On Republic Day, 15 districts had not reported any new infection. Currently, the active cases in the state are 2,664. Among those, 571 are in Jaipur, which are highest in the state, followed by Kota (410), Udaipur (307), Jodhpur (232) and Ajmer (112). Apart from these five districts, all the other 28 districts have less than 100 active cases in each district. “Active cases have gone down across the state. The number of beds reserved for Covid-19 have not been occupied more than 5%,” said a senior health department official. Churu is the only district in the state which currently does not have even a single active case of Covid-19. Sawai Madhopur has two, while Tonk has three active cases of Covid-19. One person died, while 134 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday bringing its overall tally to 3,17,104. With one more death, state toll rose to 2,761. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (27), Nagaur (26), Kota (17), Jodhpur (12), Sirganganagar (8), Ajmer (7), Bhilwara (6), Dungarpur (6), Udaipur (5), Pali (4), Bikaner (3), Jhalawar (2), Jhunujhunu (2), Barmer (2), Alwar (2), Banswara (1), Baran (1), Bundi (1), Karauli (1) and Rajsamand (1). Pratapgarh reported its 22nd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-dists-report-no-fresh-case/articleshow/80487754.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Thane||Rewarding squatters with free land only happens in Maharashtra: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: Rewarding encroachers with free land at public cost is something that happens only in Maharashtra, Bombay high court observed on Wednesday. “If they encroach upon forest land, the government will notify another land free of cost. It’s a bonus on illegality. A premium on it. Then they (encroachers) will sell it again. It is peculiar to Maharashtra and nowhere in the country,” said a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. The court heard a 2009 public interest litigation by NGO Janhit Manch on how allottees in various slum rehabilitation schemes illegally sell flats at a premium even though there is a lock-in period of 10 years. It states not only is the object of Slum Rehabilitation Scheme defeated but there is loss to the public exchequer. It cited the case of encroachers in Sanjay Gandhi National Park who were to rehabilitated in 225-square-foot carpet area flats in Chandivali, Andheri, in 30 seven-storey buildings. The Manch’s founder Bhagwanji Raiyani argued the sale should not be regularised. The judges then also observed there are two categories of citizens—those who abide by the law and those who do not. “Those encroaching and doing illegalities are benefited. Those who abide will always be without a roof,” said Justice Kulkarni. The judges noted in October 2015 the state was directed to conduct a survey of all slum rehabilitation schemes to ascertain if there were transfers by allottees within 10 years of allotment date and after expiry of 10 years with Slum Rehabilitation Authority’s permission. HC was told an agency was identified for the survey. “Five years have passed. Nothing is reported to the court,” said the CJ. The judges directed the state to inform about the survey and steps taken pursuant to it on March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/rewarding-squatters-with-free-land-only-happens-in-maha-hc/articleshow/80491364.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay court seeks report from hospital on Varavara Rao||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Wednesday sought a fresh report from Nanavati Hospital on Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao, 81, by 11 am on Thursday, on his complaints that he had severe chest pain and that the doctor had recommended regular monitoring through 2D Echo test. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing Rao’s plea for bail on medical grounds and his wife’s plea for his liberty on grounds of violation of his fundamental rights, including right to life. National Investigation Agency (NIA) counsel, additional solicitor general Anil Singh, on Wednesday opposed his bail plea, but reiterated the state’s submission through public prosecutor Deepak Thakare that Rao could be shifted to JJ Hospital prison ward. Singh said the last report by Nanavati Hospital did not mention dementia as one of his ailments. When the judges pointed to its mention in an earlier report by JJ Hospital, he said the “latest medical report has to be believed”, which stated Rao was fit to be discharged. Rao, alleged to have Maoist links, faces charges under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He has been at Nanavati Hospital since last November. Rao submitted an affidavit stating he had recently faced “two episodes of severe chest pain”. “On January 19, I was taken for an ECG and 2D Echo test. Dr H Limaye, consultant, internal medicine came to my room...he informed us...there is a leakage in the valve into the heart that causes chest pain. He informed though not immediately dangerous, the patient has to undergo regular 2D Echo tests.” Rao said the care recommended is “not available at Taloja prison”. He said a host of family doctors were available if he was sent home to Hyderabad. The HC said, “See the list of medicines you (authorities) are giving him every day. He is sustaining that. It means he is under continuous medical support.” Singh replied most of the pills were for age-related conditions. Senior counsel Anand Grover for Rao objected to him being sent to JJ Hospital. If fit he can be sent back to jail, else his family can take care of him at home, said Grover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-seeks-report-from-hospital-on-varavara/articleshow/80487794.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: One-day rise in Covid cases below 100 for first time in 10 months||NEW DELHI: In view of the falling number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi government on Wednesday ordered resumptions of surgeries, OPDs and other medical services in its state-run hospitals. Delhi recorded 96 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the lowest in over 10 months. “First time less than 100 positive cases in the last 10 months. Lowest 37 hospital admissions including 12 persons of outside Delhi,” health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted. “Wear mask and follow social distancing to keep yourself and your family safe,” the minister added. On Tuesday, a total of 29,855 tests, including 22,426 RT-PCR ones and 7,529 rapid antigen tests, were conducted. The low number of testing may be attributed to January 26 being a national holiday on account of Republic Day. The case positivity rate stood at 0.32%, slightly higher from the corresponding figures on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 10,829 with nine more people succumbing to the disease in a day. The tally of active cases in the city stood at 1,501. This was the sixth time that the number of daily cases stood below the 200-mark in January. “Reduction in daily cases comes as a big relief. We have only 34 patients admitted in the hospital at present,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. OPD services at Lok Nayak Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital had resumed earlier this month. The doctor said now even elective surgeries could resume. “Many patients suffering from non-Covid problems had been suffering. They will benefit from the government decision,” doctors said. From January 15 to 25, the daily figures stood at 295; 299; 246; 161; 231; 228; 227; 266; 197; 185 and 148, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/one-day-rise-in-covid-cases-below-100-for-first-time-in-10-months/articleshow/80487784.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||One dead, three hurt in car accident||UTTARKASHI: A 24-year-old man died and three others sustained critical injuries after the car they were traveling in fell into a deep gorge in the Thalan village of Uttarkashi district on Tuesday (January 26) evening. According to TOI sources, a car with six people on board fell into a nearly 150-metre-deep gorge on Uttarkashi-Lambgaon road. Soon after getting the information, rescue forces reached the spot and sent all the injured persons to the district hospital. Later, 24-year-old Arjun Singh, a Gyansu-resident, died during treatment. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “A local resident died in the accident. The injured — 19-year-old Pravesh Shah, 21-year-old Deepak Singh, and 20-year-old Ankit Panwar — are said to be out of danger. The two other persons on board the vehicle survived the accident with little or no injuries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-three-hurt-in-car-accident/articleshow/80486483.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||MNS complains to police against Maharashtra energy minister||MUMBAI: MNS filed a police complaint against state energy minister Nitin Raut on the power bills issue. A complaint was submitted by the party led by Raj Thackeray against Raut for failing to fulfil his ‘promise’ of providing relief to consumers who got hefty bills during lockdown. The complaint was filed by Yashwant Killedar from MNS at Shivaji Park police station. MNS was angry as MSEDCL told consumers to pay pending bills or face disconnection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mns-complains-to-police-against-energy-minister/articleshow/80489101.cms||---
January 28, 2021||India||NBA decries attacks on journos during farm rally||NEW DELHI: The News Broadcasters’ Association on Wednesday condemned attacks on mediapersons and breaking of their equipment while they were reporting the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital on January 26. NBA said it is of the opinion that both print and electronic media have been covering the farmers’ protests on the outskirts of Delhi in a “fair, balanced and objective manner during the last two months”. “NBA wants to state that mediapersons who were covering Tuesday’s tractor rally were performing their professional duty of collecting information and disseminating them to the public at large, and any use of force and violence against them is tantamount to throttling the voice of democracy and the freedom of media,” an NBA statement said. It demanded that “persons or hooligans” responsible for the attack on journalists must be identified and booked under law since they were obstructing mediapersons from performing their duties and were “trampling upon their rights as enshrined in Constitution||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nba-decries-attacks-on-journos-during-farm-rally/articleshow/80490340.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Developer’s top executives held in Rs 410-crore laundering case||MUMBAI: After a day of intense questioning, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Omkar Group chairman Kamal Kishor Gupta and managing director Babulal Varma on Wednesday in a Rs 410 crore money laundering case linked to a slum redevelopment project at Wadala. ED will produce them before the special court on Thursday. The complainant in the case is Aurangabad-based businessman Mahendra Surana who had invested in the Wadala project. Surana had filed a cheating case against Omkar Group and its senior office bearers in March 2020, on the basis of which ED has registered a money laundering case. ED has been carrying out raids at several premises belonging to Omkar Developers since Monday. ED officials claimed the duo has not been cooperating with the investigation. An Omkar Group representative said, “We are yet to receive any communication from ED. We are emphatic that Omkar Group is not in violation of any lending norms and slum approvals.” Surana owns Aurangabad Gymkhana Club Pvt Ltd whereas his brother Surendra Surana manages Surana Construction at Wadala in Mumbai, which was into redevelopment. Surana Construction got a letter of intent (LoI) to redevelop the Anandnagar slum at Antop Hill under the SRA scheme in 2011. Aurangabad Gymkhana had invested Rs 13.5 crore in the project after signing the MOU. In 2015, Surana Construction signed an agreement with Omkar Group, according to which they decided to transfer 100% shares of all partners to Omkar Group for Rs 165 crore. Subsequently, Omkar Group availed of a Rs 410 crore loan from Yes Bank after mortgaging the properties being redeveloped. The complainant alleged in the FIR that Omkar Group did not return his investment in the project in accordance with the agreement, after which he approached the National Company Law Tribunal in Mumbai. The FIR stated that Omkar Group consented to pay Rs 14.3 crore to the complainant and transferred Rs 1.4 crore in August 2019 and issued four post-dated cheques for the remaining amount. Two of these cheques allegedly bounced because the accounts were frozen. The complainant reportedly tried to follow up on the issue with Omkar Group but in vain, following which he filed a police case against Rajendra Varma, Gaurav Gupta, Babulal Varma, Kamal Kishor Gupta, Rahul Maru, and Mohan Subramaniyan at Aurangabad. In another instance, a petition was filed in Bombay high court alleging that Omkar Group and other companies involved in a similar SRA project at Jogeshwari took loans of Rs 22,000 crore from various banks in the name of the slum plot without an LoI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/developers-top-execs-held-in-rs-410cr-laundering-case/articleshow/80489090.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 28, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand sounds high alert after violence in Delhi during tractor rally on Republic Day||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand police have issued an alert in four districts of Uttarakhand following violence during the tractor rally march by farmers on the Republic Day in New Delhi. Four districts — Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar — which share borders with other states have been put under high alert to ensure that the law and order situation remains under control. “We have issued directions to mainly four districts to remain in alert mode so that there is no ripple effect of the Delhi violence in Uttarakhand. The border checkpoints on the four districts have been put on high alert,” said Ashok Kumar, director general of police (DGP), Uttarakhand. It is worth mentioning that thousands of farmers from Uttarakhand, especially the Terai belt of Udham Singh Nagar, have gone to participate in the farmers’ protest and the high alert has been sounded in view of possible escalation of agitation in the Himalayan state, according to senior police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-sounds-high-alert-after-violence-in-delhi-during-tractor-rally-on-republic-day/articleshow/80486505.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Nominations for Municipal polls to begin from Jan 30||Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the process for filing nominations for elections of municipal councils/nagar panchayats would commence on January 30 and February 3, would be the last date. The nominations would be scrutinised on February 4, while the date of withdrawal of nominations is February 5, which would also be the date of allotting the election symbols to the candidates. He further said general would be held in Khanna, Jagraon, Samrala, Raikot, Doraha and Payal, by election in ward number 8 (general) of Mullanpur Dakha, and by election in ward number 6 of Sahnewal in Ludhiana district would be held and the voters and political parties should adhere to the Covid-19 related protocols issued on December 20, 2020, in the larger interest of public. The election campaigning will end on February 12 at 5pm. The voting would be held on February 14, from 8am to 4pm. Counting of votes would be done on February 17. He further said the expenditure limit for a candidate of municipal corporation has been fixed as Rs 3 lakh, for candidate of municipal council Class-I, Rs 2.70 lakh, Class-II Rs 1.70 lakh, Class-III Rs 1.45 lakh and candidates for nagar panchayats Rs.1.05 lakh. While mentioning that Ludhiana district has topped the state in Covid-19 vaccination, he said 11,845 healthcare workers have been administered the Covid-19 vaccination in Ludhiana. He informed this while interacting with the residents through the weekly Facebook live session on the page of district public relations office Ludhiana. DC Sharma also clarified that this vaccination is purely voluntary and that in the first phase, only healthcare workers of both government and private hospitals are being administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine. He said the vaccination is being done under the supervision of expert doctors and the person is observed for 30 minutes after administering the vaccine. He further said the Covid-19 vaccination is getting a huge response in Ludhiana and till date, no side effects of the vaccine have been reported in the district. The DC assured that the vaccine is totally safe and said the health department officials are getting themselves vaccinated in large numbers. He urged the residents to not believe in any rumours spread on social media. He also urged the parents of students attending schools, to ensure that their children follow all Covid-19 related guidelines to stay safe. He assured that the classes in schools have been started to ensure that studies of students do not suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nominations-for-municipal-polls-to-begin-from-jan-30/articleshow/80487788.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Edu min to discuss implementation of NEP 2020 with CBSE officials||Ludhiana: Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will discuss National Education Policy, 2020 with the presidents and secretaries of CBSE Sahodaya School Complexes virtually on January 28 at 2pm. The changes to be incorporated in the curriculum and the school processes from the academic session 2021-22 will be discussed. More than 1,000 CBSE school heads are expected to participate in the event. CBSE city coordinator Paramjeet Kaur said, “I too would be attending this meeting. The new education policy covers a wider spectrum of school education from pre-primary to senior secondary.” The policy aims at the universalisation of education and making education accessible, equitable, and inclusive. This would be possible only if it is implemented effectively in a phased manner at all levels. Schools will actually need to redefine the teaching and learning process and change the pedagogical structure for proper implementation of NEP 2020 to witness the trajectory of transformation. Beginning from this interaction, CBSE will be steering the orientation programmes through its 250 active Sahodaya School Complexes in the country to create awareness about NEP 2020. Task Force to oversee implementation Punjab government has constituted a seven-member task force to oversee implementation of New Education Policy 2020 in the state under chairmanship of Jagtar Singh, director of State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). Punjab School Education Board vice-chairman Varinder Bhatia is the vice-chairman of the task force. According to the orders released by the state government on Wednesday, five members of the body include Maninder Singh Sarkaria, assistant director, Himmat Singh DEO (SE) Mohali, Prabh Simran Kaur DEO (SE) Fatehgarh Sahib, Buta Singh Principal DIET Mansa and Tanjeet Kaur Principal DIET Roopnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/edu-min-to-discuss-implementation-of-nep-2020-with-cbse-officials/articleshow/80487782.cms||Mehak Jain
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Farmer tries to end life in front of police stn||Kamalapur: A 55-year-old farmer tried to commit suicide consuming pesticide in front of the Kamalapur PS on Wednesday. According to SI J Parameshwar, the farmer, Kunduri Srinivas Reddy, approached the cops two days ago to complain about a land dispute with his aunt Srimathi Devi. They fought on Tuesday. “Our staff went to the village and convinced both parties,” said the SI. He was immediately rushed to MGM hospital, Warangal. His condition is stable. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-tries-to-end-life-in-front-of-police-stn/articleshow/80487785.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Students in Delhi govt schools to get story kits||NEW DELHI: With schools closed and children not being able to use their library, Delhi government has decided to provide story kits for students of classes III to V. Room to Read, which has been working with the schools to set up libraries, has prepared the kit for the students in 99 Sarvodaya Vidyalayas. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, students have not been able to get books issued from their library. It has been felt that some additional support material will benefit them,” said a circular sent to the schools. The story kit for the students will consist of a story worksheet book, pack of 10 pencils, two set of colours and a carry folder. The school heads have been asked to prepare a schedule to facilitate distribution of the kits. They have been instructed that “class-wise time slots spanning over 2-3 days should be framed in such a way that there is no crowding in the school on any day. All students/parents must be informed well in advance about the slots via SMS/WhatsApp.” The schools also have been asked to follow all the Covid-19 norms when the students are called to collect the kits. “Class teachers must distribute story kits to the students of classes III to V with not more than 10 parents being allowed to enter a class at a time,” stated the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-in-delhi-govt-schools-to-get-story-kits/articleshow/80487808.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Indraprastha University postpones end-semester exam due to poor Net service||NEW DELHI: Owing to poor internet services in Delhi, Indraprastha University has decided to postpone its online proctored end-semester exam scheduled for Wednesday. “The new date will be decided soon, and in a way that it does not overlap with any other exam,” said Prodyut Bhattacharya, controller of examination, IP University. Many students appearing for the exam on February 1 complained that they were unable to register due to lack of internet services. The end-semester exams were to begin from Wednesday with an option for students to appear from a test centre in southwest Delhi’s Mahavir Enclave. But the internet services stopped on Tuesday night. “The exam has been postponed due to irregular internet transmission and blocking of internet/mobile facilities for security reasons,” Bhattacharya told TOI. “Many of us tried to register on Tuesday, but failed. The notice for postponement of the exam came on Wednesday, until when we were all worried,” said a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ip-univ-postpones-end-semester-exam-due-to-poor-net-service/articleshow/80487833.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Kin say he was shot, autopsy finds no ‘bullet wound’||RAMPUR: A day after the young farmer from UP’s Rampur died during the Republic Day farmer protests in Delhi, his family said they saw a gunshot wound -- a hole in his jaw and one just above his ear, close to the skull -- though police said the autopsy report found no bullet injury. “Navreet Singh, son of Sahab Singh from Dibdiba village in Bilaspur tehsil of Rampur, has died during farmers’ protest in Delhi. The autopsy report suggested that he sustained antemortem injuries and no bullet wound was found,” Rampur additional SP Sansaar Singh told TOI on Wednesday. On Tuesday, police had released a video in which the tractor that Navreet Singh, 24, rode was seen turning turtle. He was later found dead. Back at Navreet’s village Dibdiba, his family countered the police statement. “We are yet to receive the official report,” his grandfather Hardeep Singh Dibdiba told TOI. “I know he died of a bullet injury. I saw the body. Those who say he died because the tractor turned turtle don’t know what they are saying. For three hours, he lay on the road and no one took him to the hospital … This is murder … I don’t trust the autopsy report.” Navreet’s uncle Inderjeet Singh told TOI they thought the absence of other injuries on the body was also suspicious: “There were no injuries other than the gunshot wound, which pierced his left chin and came out near the right ear. It seems he was already dead when the tractor turned turtle. We will ask for a copy of the autopsy report and fight for justice.” A video of the body, meanwhile, started circulating on social media. “There’s a 99% chance this is a bullet injury. Through and through, which happens in two cases — stabbing and bullet wounds. Stab wounds are not inverted (protruding), like this one is. The bullet seems to have been shot from 15-20 feet away with what could be a .32 revolver, like a katta (country-made arm). Police usually have .38 revolvers, which leave very big wounds. This does not seem to be that,” a UP-based doctor who has conducted autopsies for over 15 years told TOI on condition of anonymity. Police said they would forward any complaint the family had to be taken up for investigation. ADG (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandra told TOI, “The SOP was followed (for the autopsy). If the family suspects something is wrong, they could file a complaint. We will pass it on to the Delhi Police, since that is where the incident took place. Investigation into the complaint can only be done by them. We only did the autopsy because they had sent the body here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kin-say-he-was-shot-autopsy-finds-no-bullet-wound/articleshow/80485330.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 28, 2021||Delhi||A day later, Delhi Metro operation back on track||NEW DELHI: A day after a record 51 Delhi Metro stations across six different corridors had to be shut down due to security reasons after farmers deviated from the proposed routes of their tractor rally, train operations returned to normal on Wednesday. Only two stations—Lal Qila and Jama Masjid—remained closed for security reasons. While passenger traffic was low on Tuesday, the rush was back on Wednesday with the waiting time to enter busy stations like Rajiv Chowk, Chawri Bazar and Saket during the evening peak hour ranging between 22 and 35 minutes. On the occasion of Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, Delhi Metro services at two stations of the Yellow Line—Central Secretariat and Udyog Bhawan—will not be available between 2pm and 6.30pm. However, interchange of passengers from Yellow Line to Violet Line and vice versa will be allowed at Central Secretariat Metro Station during this period, a spokesperson of DMRC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-day-later-metro-ops-back-on-track/articleshow/80487816.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Gussadi artiste & Padma winner Kanaka Raju to get govt help||HYDERABAD: Kanaka Raju, who has been awarded Padma Sri by the government for keeping a dying tribal dance form alive by teaching it to many, may get some much needed help from the government. Tribal welfare minister Sathyavathi Rathod on Wednesday assured that she would represent to the chief minister for sanctioning a house for his family to live in, a five-acre piece of land, a tractor and a borewell. She also said she would try to get a government job for an eligible person in the family. The 70-year-old Kanaka Raju was felicitated at the tribal museum in the city. “Kanaka Raju expected nothing from anyone when he began teaching the Gussadi dance form to tribals. His only interest was keeping the dance form alive,” she explained. Raju said the Padma Sri was an honour for all tribals and not just himself. “I have no reason to take pride in the award that has come my way. While I am thankful for the recognition, it should not just be my happiness but bring cheer to all tribals,” he said on Wednesday. Raju, who hails from Marlavai village in Kumarambheem Asifabad district and has been teaching the Gussadi dance form for decades, recalled how it all began for him during a felicitation programme organised for him. The artist said an IAS officer, Tukaram, encouraged him to teach it to others some decades ago. “He was so enchanted by the dance form that he urged me to hold classes and teach it. I wondered who would come to learn. No one really came forward. But it was a challenge for me to inspire youngsters to join the classes,” he recalled. “I said I would never beat anyone to make them learn the dance. For 15 days, nobody came to learn. Subsequently, there was good response,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gussadi-artiste-padma-winner-kanaka-raju-to-get-govt-help/articleshow/80487813.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Jail authorities can’t refuse to accept books: NIA court||MUMBAI: In an order allowing Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bhardwaj’s plea to have access to 5 books a month from outside prison, a special NIA court has said that while the Byculla jail superintendent is expected to take a wise decision about handing over the books -- after checking if the books contain material that preaches violence or is pornographic or obscene -- he is not supposed to refuse to accept the books. Two other accused in the case, Hany Babu and Gautam Navlakha, had moved similar applications seeking books. However, in a separate order, the court disposed of their pleas stating that their relatives “may approach the prison authority for delivery of books to them.” In Bharadwaj’s case, an affidavit submitted said while in November, jail authorities had accepted kurtas handed over by a man, they had refused to take the novel ‘Empire of Cotton: A Global History,’ by Sven Beckert. Affidavits submitted on Babu and Navlakha’s behalf said parcels containing books, sent in their names to Taloja Central prison, were returned with an endorsement ‘Covid Suraksha.’ The court further said that unless an attempt is made to hand over the books physically to the jail authorities and their acceptance is refused, it would not be just to pass an order on Babu and Navlakha’s pleas. “It would be within the province of the jail authority to accept articles for the undertrial prisoners, if attempted to be delivered by their relatives or near ones,” the court said. With respect to Bharadwaj, the court said the superintendent should carefully examine the books. “If they contain objectionable material, which preaches violence, vulgar, obscene, pornographic or the material propagating the banned organization namely Revolutionary Democratic Front or CPI (Maoist), in that case he shall not allow the applicant (Bharadwaj) to accept such books,” the court said. The order in Bharadwaj’s case also cited a Bombay high court judgment with respect to the late George Fernandes. The HC had said the only grounds on which a book may be withheld from a detenue is on the decision of the superintendent that it is unsuitable. The judgment said the superintendent’s discretion will have to operate within a well- defined field. “The book may be unsuitable considering the material or the contents of the book which may be objectionable, because it preaches violence, it may be vulgar or obscene or it may be pornographic or may have been proscribed, but beyond the compass of this discretion we do not find any power in the superintendent to withhold a book from the detenue,” the HC had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jail-authorities-cant-refuse-to-accept-books-nia-court/articleshow/80487869.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre pat for progress on NH-161||Hyderabad: Union transport secretary A Giridhar praised progress made in land acquisition in connection with four-laning of Sangareddy-Akola-Nanded section of NH-161. Praise for the state came during a video conference by PM with all chief secretaries.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-pat-for-progress-on-nh-161/articleshow/80487851.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kozhikode||Be financially, emotionally free: Rahul to girl students||Kozhikode: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has urged girl students to be independent and achieve financial and psychological independence. "The most important thing for you is independence, that you are not dependent on anyone. You have to be able to strive and survive on your own. That would include financial independence, psychological independence, all different types of independence," said Rahul told students of government girls vocational higher secondary school in Wandoor on Wednesday after inaugurating various development works implemented at the school. The Wayanad MP said society does not like women who are independent and added that so girls have to work slightly harder than boys. "That is why you have a dual responsibility to be independent and to help your sisters who are struggling to become independent," he told the students, adding that it has to be done with humility and respect and never with anger or hatred. Speaking of behavioral changes brought on by the pandemic, he said, in a lighter vein, that wearing a face mask was a big problem for politicians. "I realized that only after I started wearing it. Most of my communication is with smiles. I smile at a person and the person smiles back at me. Suddenly I cannot smile and the person cannot smile back. So I am smiling inside the mask and the other person is smiling inside the mask. He does not know that I am smiling and I do not know that he is smiling," he said, adding that he makes it a point to wear a mask considering the safety of others. Rahul congratulated Mufeeda Afra, a student of the school, who translated his speech. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal MP and Wandoor MLA A P Anil Kumar, among others, spoke at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/be-financially-emotionally-free-rahul-to-girl-students/articleshow/80486562.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||‘Thief’ escapes from lock-up in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old accused escaped from the first floor toilet of Naya Nagar police station on Monday. Police said that Sameer Shaikh from Malwani in Malad (West) was arrested on Monday for a theft and was booked. He was escorted to the toilet at the police station but when he did not come out after 15 minutes, the constable knocked on the door. Getting no response, police broke open the door to find the grille tampered with. Shaikh had climbed down the pipeline and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thief-escapes-from-lock-up/articleshow/80489156.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Will tackle wild animal menace, says Kavlekar||Porvorim: Agriculture minister Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar, on Wednesday, said the government will take necessary precautions to avoid damage to crops due to wild animals and that meetings are being held with the forest department. Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said farmers producing banana, coconut, and arecanut are worried because of loss caused due to wild animals and he also demanded an increase in their support price. Dhavalikar also presented a paper on how other states have tackled this menace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-tackle-wild-animal-menace-says-kavlekar/articleshow/80489153.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bareilly||Hit by cane-laden truck, Class X boy, his friend die, another sustained injuries||BAREILLY: Hit by a sugarcane-laden speeding truck, a Class X student and his friend were killed, while another sustained serious injury on Anchora Kamboh road under Asmoli police station limits in Sambhal on Wednesday morning. According to police, the trio was standing on the roadside when the speeding truck hit them, killing Class X student Iqram on the spot. Iqram’s friend Kamil succumbed to his injuries, while Anshul is undergoing treatment. Asmoli police station SHO Ranvir Singh said, “After receiving information, a police team was rushed to the spot. Police shifted the injured to the district hospital, where doctors proclaimed Kamil dead upon arrival, while Anshul is undergoing treatment.” “The bodies were sent for postmortem. A case was registered against the truck driver under relevant sections based on a complaint lodged by the family of one of the deceased. The truck driver is absconding,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hit-by-cane-laden-truck-class-x-boy-his-friend-die-another-sustained-injuries/articleshow/80484770.cms||Maria Khan
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Praying in Ayodhya mosque wrong: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi said on Wednesday that the place of worship being built in Ayodhya should not be called as a mosque. Addressing a large gathering in Bidar, Karnatka, he said that praying in the mosque which is being built in Ayodhya or donating money for construction of that mosque is wrong, according to Islam. “I ask the people who are taking money to build a mosque by accepting the five acre allotted for masjid, that religious scholars and members of All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) have all said that namaz cannot be offered in that masjid,” said Owaisi. “Offering namaz at that place or giving donations to build a structure in the five-acre land granted after Babri Masjid was shaheed (demolished) is haram and wrong,” he added. “Babasaheb Ambedkar said that the act of worshipping in politics will result in devastation, however today everyone is worshipping Modi, everyone has become a bhakt (devotee) of the PM,” said the MP. He appealed for unity among Dalits and Muslims ahead of Bidar municipal election, likely to be held in February. “Muslims should never compete with Dalits, instead they should take Dalits along with them,” he said. AIMIM is poised to fight state elections in Bengal next, where it has forged an alliance with Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui of Hooghly’s Furfura Sharif.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-praying-in-ayodhya-mosque-wrong/articleshow/80487830.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Bareilly||Bareilly: Cardboard factory gutted, stock worth lakhs destroyed||BAREILLY: A massive fire gutted a cardboard factory in Shivpuri area under Katghar police station in UP’s Moradabad late Tuesday night. However, no loss of life was reported. The incident took place when the factory was shut for January 26. The incident was first reported by one Pravin Kumar, who lives adjacent to the three-storey building, in Shivpuri locality, said officials. Fire department officials said stocks worth lakhs were gutted in the fire caused by a short circuit in the wiring. It took nearly two hours to four fire tenders to put out the fire. Chief fire officer (CFO) Mukesh Kumar said, “After answering a distress call, we rushed four fire brigades to the spot. It took us over an hour to completely douse the fire that had erupted in the three-storey building owned by Ashok Kumar Sharma.” “However, no casualty was reported as the factory was closed for January 26. Further investigation is underway,” added the CFO. Sharma said property and goods worth lakhs were destroyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cardboard-factory-gutted-stock-worth-lakhs-destroyed/articleshow/80484784.cms||Maria Khan
January 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Special drive helps mop up GST collections||AMARAVATI: In spite of the pandemic, Andhra Pradesh stood first in GST collection among the southern states for April to December, 2020. The state is in fact the second-highest in the country for the third quarter of the current fiscal. Deputy chief minister (commercial taxes minister) K Narayana Swamy on Wednesday said GST revenue in the state had witnessed an increase of 2% in the corresponding period last year. “It is near double-digit growth in the third quarter as we reported nearly 9.66% growth,” Narayana Swamy told the media. He explained that the department carried out a special drive to improve tax collections, that helped in mop up good revenues. The state, he said, fetched nearly Rs 1,073 crore from old dues due to the special drive. A target of Rs 942 crore was set to collect old dues during the third quarter but the state achieved Rs 1073 crore. Narayana Swamy added that following discussions with officials in Telangana, he had directed officials to shift the common data centre located in Hyderabad. “VAT revenue from liquor had dipped to Rs 4,091 crore during the current fiscal which was of Rs 8,070 crore during April to December of 2019. However, we have prepared to forego the revenues for the welfare and wellbeing of the people as chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is determined to implement total prohibition in a phased manner,” said Narayana Swamy. The deputy chief minister explained that total revenues of the commercial taxes department reported a fall of Rs 3,843 crore, chiefly due to dip in VAT revenues from liquor sales. He said the department fetched Rs 28,670 crore as against Rs 32,513 crore during the corresponding period in 2019. While tax collections fell due to the Covid-19-induced economic slowdown, the deputy CM exuded confidence that revenue collections would soon pick up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spl-drive-helps-mop-up-gst-collections/articleshow/80486558.cms||Samdani MN
January 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore music composer to release song of hope||Chennai: The word ‘hope’ has become a cliché since lockdown. So music composer-sound engineer Praveen Francis chose the Afro-pop genre, using three languages English, French and Lingala, when he composed a music album on hope. The main hook of the four-minute-long song (Na na na na na...”), however, has no language. Praveen, a native of Coimbatore, has added visuals of people dancing from across the world to the tune of the Afro-pop genre. He is planning to release the song in a week. “The pandemic has restricted the movement of people across the globe. We are all trying to strike the balance in our own ways. My idea to give hope to people in this time of uncertainties. Since the subject has been handled by many, I chose the famous Afro-pop genre to compose the music,” said Francis. “The idea came to me a couple of months ago, when the pandemic wreaked havoc in the south. Many committed suicides due to loss of jobs. It disturbed me a lot. I wanted to bring back hope though a song,” he said. Even though Friancis has finished composing the song, he is in the final process of adding dance bits to the album. “I have been collecting bits of dance from people around the world. The album will be released in a week,” he said. A song that Francis composed dedicated to the Nigerian girls kidnapped by Boko Haram titled "Bring Back Our Girls" had been shortlisted for the nominations at Grammys in 2017 for five categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-music-composer-to-release-song-of-hope/articleshow/80480375.cms||M T Saju
January 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM seeks to delay seat-sharing talks||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an apparent move to buy more time to quell the smouldering discontent within NCP, over the possibility of the party being denied the Pala assembly seat, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday told an LDF meeting that there was no need to rush seat-sharing talks. Speaking to reporters after the meeting at AKG Centre, here, LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan echoed the CM’s position. Discussions on seat sharing would begin only after the election commission notifies the poll schedule, he said. NCP leader and Pala MLA, Mani C Kappan, was conspicuous by his absence at the LDF meeting. While NCP state president T P Peethambaran called for initiating seat-sharing talks, Vijayan held that the discussions can wait. Peethambaran, who attended the meeting along with minister A K Saseendran, told reporters that NCP has not relinquished its claim on Pala, its sitting seat. “There were no seat-sharing discussions today for us to raise the issue of Pala. After all, nobody has ever told us that Pala seat would be taken away from us. The issue of Pala would be raised only when the LDF begins seat-sharing discussions,” Peethambaran said. There are reports that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has instructed the NCP state leadership not to leave the LDF. Meanwhile, Kappan told reporters he would attend the LDF meeting only after he meets Pawar in person. However, Vijayaraghavan feigned ignorance about the open revolt in the NCP. I am not aware of any issues in NCP, he said. “There are opinions, not issues in the party, as far as I know,” the acting CPM state secretary said. Vijayaraghavan said LDF would hold two zonal marches. While one march would start from Kasaragod on February 13, the other march will set off from Ernakulam the next day. Both would conclude on February 26 in Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram, respectively. The LDF convener reiterated that the state government’s decision to refer the allegations of sexual abuse linked to the solar case to CBI was not politically motivated. He said LDF would approach voters with its development plank. Criticizing Congress leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala for calling on Panakkad Hyderali Shihab Thangal at the IUML supremo’s residence, Vijayaraghavan said this reinforces CPM’s stand that IUML has overpowered Congress in the UDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/row-over-pala-cm-seeks-to-delay-seat-sharing-talks/articleshow/80486582.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP should order CBI probe: Congress||HYDERABAD: Komatireddy Venkat Reddy of Congress demanded that BJP state president Bandi Sanjay should prevail upon Central government to order a CBI probe into alleged financial irregularities in execution of irrigation projects in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-should-order-cbi-probe-cong/articleshow/80487871.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court accepts closure report in Rajan case||MUMBAI: A special CBI court on Wednesday accepted the closure report by the agency in a 20-year-old attempt to murder case against gangster Chhota Rajan. Accused Chandrakant Ghogre was “killed in a police encounter”. The investigating officer said as the offence was done two decades back it was not possible to access call details from VSNL. The accused suspected Mohammad Sattar provided information on gangster Srikant Mama, who was later killed. Sattar did not object to the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-accepts-closure-report-in-rajan-case/articleshow/80487994.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Amaravati||Fast track Kadapa to Bengaluru rail project: PM Modi||AMARAVATI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured the state government that forest clearances for the Kadapa-Bengaluru broad gauge railway line will be expedited. The Prime Minister asked chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das to put project works on the fast track for early completion. The Prime Minister reviewed the status of top priority infrastructure and health projects with chief secretaries via video-conference from New Delhi on Wednesday. During an interaction with AP chief secretary Dr Das, the PM enquired about the progress of the 268-km-long Kadapa-Bengaluru new railway line project and asked him to take all possible measures to speed up the work. The chief secretary explained that they have started the process for acquisition of about 815 hecatres of land for the new railway line and compensation has been granted for about 163 hectares. The chief secretary told the Prime Minister that they needed clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forests for acquisition of 56.04 hectares in Kadapa and Chittoor districts. Responding to the chief secretary’s request, the PM promised they would take measures to get clearances issued by the MoEF. The PM asked the chief secretary to provide rent-free space to set up Jan Aushadhi (generic drug stores) outlets under PM Bharatiya Jana-aushadhi Pariyojana (PM BJP) in PHCs and CHCs. He directed the officials to create awareness about generic drugs among the general public. He also asked officials to utilise new technologies, including social media platforms, to create awareness about generic drugs, adding that generic drugs are not only effective but also reduce the burden on the common man. The chief secretary explained that the government is encouraging the use of generic drugs, pointing out that efforts in using generic medicines at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) have yielded good results. Dr Das said they would instruct public healthcare institutions to utilise generic medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/fast-track-kadapa-to-bluru-rail-project-pm/articleshow/80486576.cms||Samdani MN
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Congress says farmers’ rally mishandled by police||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Chaudhary Anil Kumar said that the violence in the farmers’ protest rally on Tuesday was unfortunate, as it cannot be justified, whether it was by the farmers or Delhi Police but also said that the rally was mishandled by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cong-says-farmers-rally-mishandled-by-police/articleshow/80487992.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Rajkot||Custodial death: Two cops arrested in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A police inspector and a gram rakshak dal (GRD) constable were sent to police custody after they were arrested on Monday by Kutch police in connection with Mundra custodial death case. Police inspector J A Padhiyar, who was at Mundra police station when Arjan Gadhvi from Samaghogha village died in the police lock-up, and GRD constable Viral Joshi were nabbed for their involvement. On Tuesday, the duo was presented in a local court which sent them to three-day police custody. Police officials said that the duo will be interrogated about why Gadhvi was brought to police station in the first place. They will also be questioned about who all beat Gadhvi and about the whereabouts of the three police constables - Ashok Kannad, Shaktisinh Gohil and Jaidevsinh Zala who are still on evading arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/custodial-death-two-cops-arrested/articleshow/80485396.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Goa||Verna waste plant: Michael Lobo vows dialogue||PORVORIM: Waste management minister Michael Lobo on Wednesday assured Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa that the state government would take the people, NGOs and public representatives of Nuvem into confidence before going ahead with setting up a solid waste management plant at Verna. D’Sa, in his calling attention motion, said the people of Nuvem feared that setting up of a waste plant at Verna with a capacity to handle 250 tonne of waste per day would destroy the environment and contaminate ground water. He also mentioned that the Verna Industrial Estate has more than 32 springs. Replying to D’Sa’s question on what steps the government intends to take to shift the site, Lobo said setting up of the plant is in the preliminary stage and that he will be taken into confidence before any decision is taken. “We have got possession of 1.2 lakh sqm of land and have not started anything there. We will meet with NGOs and panchayats,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verna-waste-plant-lobo-vows-dialogue/articleshow/80489177.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Rijiju celebrates 2nd edition of Fit India School Week with Kendriya Vidyalaya students||Nagpur: Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday attended a virtual event to celebrate the concluding week of the second edition of Fit India School Week programme. The event started on December 1 and will conclude on January 31. It was conducted with the aim to encourage kids to inculcate physical activity and sports in their daily routine as school is the first place where habits are formed. The event saw engagement from over 3.5 lakh schools across India, who reported participation from thousands of students across the country. Looking at the current pandemic situation, the events of the School Week were conducted both on the virtual and on-ground platforms, wherever permitted by local authorities. The Fit India School Week program was launched in November last year and had seen participation from over 15,000 schools across the country. To participate in the program the schools register themselves on the Fit India website and choose one week during the allotted time to celebrate Fit India School Week. Some fitness activities that were part of this year’s school week programme were — aerobics, painting, quiz/debates, dance, step-up challenge among many others. To celebrate the Fit India School Week program, a live virtual demonstration of the event was given by the students of Kendriya Vidyalaya-2, Naval Base, Kochi who performed surya namaskar, free-hand exercises, aerobics, dance, and extempore performance online. Appreciating their performance, Rijiju said, “While we run The Fit India Mission, it is being driven by the education ministry, the schools and the people of India, especially the children. I am so happy to see that schools across India have adopted Fit India Week celebrations in such a way that fitness has become an integral part of school life and I relish the movement when I join such active and intelligent students. While attending the event in person, one gets a different dimension and practical feeling. I could feel the vibe of the school week celebrations in Kochi, while sitting here in Delhi.” Also present during the virtual event were Sports Authority of India (SAI) director general Mr Sandip Pradhan, joint secretary (development), MYAS Mr Atul Singh, KVS commissioner Ms Nidhi Pandey, joint secretary (DSEL), ministry of education Mr Santosh Kumar Yadav and other dignitaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rijiju-celebrates-2nd-edition-of-fit-india-school-week-with-kendriya-vidyalaya-students/articleshow/80516488.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 28, 2021||Kochi||Sr Sephy challenges conviction at HC||Kochi: Sister Sephy, who was sentenced to life term in Sister Abhaya murder case, has challenged her conviction before high court. Through the appeal, Sister Sephy has raised a five-point challenge against the verdict of CBI special court at Thiruvananthapuram that was delivered last month. The CBI court committed a fundamental mistake of failing to notice whether it is a case of homicide or not, Sister Sephy has contended in the appeal filed through senior advocate P Vijayabhanu and advocate Thomas J Anakkallunkal. There is no evidence to show that Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy had met each other on the night of March 26, 1992, on which the alleged murder took place, the appeal said. Further, there is no evidence to prove that the priest and the nun engaged in any activity on that night, it is contended. Additionally, there is no evidence to show that Sister Abhaya had seen Father Kottoor and Sister Sephy together at any point of time on the night of March 26, the appellant argued. Regarding the injuries found on the body of Sister Abhaya, there is nothing on record to show that they were inflicted on her by any one of the accused or by them jointly. The appeal further said no evidence was adduced by prosecution to prove that it was Father Kottoor and Sister Sephy who dumped the body of the deceased into the well of the convent. Father Kottoor and Sister Sephy were convicted in the murder of Sister Abhaya, who was an inmate of St. Pius X Convent in Kottayam. It was alleged by prosecution that Father Kottoor and Sister Sephy hit Sister Abhaya on the head and dumped her body in the convent’s well as she had witnessed physical relationship between the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sr-sephy-challenges-conviction-at-hc/articleshow/80486653.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks Centre’s response in plea to censor social media content||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the central government on a plea which sought to regulate, control and monitor the content on social media platforms and to form a panel of censor members.A division bench sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Umamaheswaran, an advocate from Tirunelveli district. The petitioner has also impleaded YouTube and Facebook as respondents in the petition. The petitioner stated that recently three people from a YouTube channel team called ‘Chennai Talks’ were arrested in Chennai for asking obscene questions to women. He stated that there are several other similar YouTube channels which are posting obscene and vulgar content. There is no effective control over the social platforms in India as there is not censorship for the content uploaded.He stated that only when a video is reported abusive by the people, the concerned video is removed from the social media platform. Due to the obscene content, there is a necessity to control, monitor and regulate social media platforms by censoring the videos before it is being posted for public view.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-centres-response-in-plea-to-censor-social-media-content/articleshow/80489166.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED takes Rana Kapoor in custody in Viva probe||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) took Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor into custody for three days on Wednesday as part of its probe into a property transaction involving Virar-based Viva Group. The bank had granted loans to a company that owned a building in Andheri where Viva Group had purchased two commercial premises worth Rs 34 crore without making any payment. ED is trying to trace all the transactions related to the Andheri building ‘Kaledonia’ after registering a separate money laundering case. Kapoor was in jail custody in another money laundering case. Meanwhile, a special court extended the custody of the directors of Viva Group, Mehul Thakur (relative of MLA Hitendra Thakur) and chartered accountant Madan Gopal Chaturvedi till January 30. It is alleged HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and son Sarang conspired with others to cheat PMC Bank with the help of its former office bearers. Sources stated Kaledonia was constructed by Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd, controlled by Wadhawans, though they were minority stakeholders. The company spent Rs 1,000 crore in 2008 to construct Kaledonia. Wadhawans took a Rs 200 crore loan from Yes Bank in the name of Kaledonia between 2011 and 2016 without the knowledge of other stakeholders. They used part of the loan money to repay dues of their companies to Yes Bank. — Vijay V Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-takes-rana-kapoor-in-custody-in-viva-probe/articleshow/80486664.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 28, 2021||Madurai||Plea in HC to establish skin bank at Madurai GRH||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to establish a skin bank at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai district, which would benefit people of the southern districts. The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by R Manibharathi, a law graduate from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that he came to know that the proposal for establishing a skin bank at the burns unit at GRH is pending before the government. He stated that GRH receives patients with grievous burn injuries from fireworks and matches units in Virudhunagar district. Seeking to swiftly complete the construction and inaugurate the bone bank which is set up in the burns unit building at the GRH, the petitioner also sought to establish biomaterial centres at government hospitals similar to the centre which is functioning at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital to store skin, bones, cartilages and heart valves among other biomaterials. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought a response from the state government on the steps taken to establish a skin bank at GRH. With regard to establishment of biomaterial centres, the judges observed that it would be appropriate to establish such centres at all districts as accidents occur across the state. The judges also sought a response in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-establish-skin-bank-at-madurai-grh/articleshow/80489151.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Chennai||Gang murders wife & son of Tamil Nadu jeweller, loots 16kg jewellery||TRICHY: A four-member gang of Rajasthani migrants murdered the wife and son of a jewellery shop owner and looted 16kg of gold ornaments from their house at Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai on Wednesday morning. Hours later, police nabbed two of them and shot dead another and recovered the jewellery. The jeweller and his daughter-in-law suffered injuries during the incident and were taken to Sirkazhi Government Hospital. The fourth member of the gang was arrested in the evening. The deceased have been identified as D Asha, 45, wife of jeweller Dhanraj Chowdhry, 51, and their son D Akhil, 24. Dhanraj and Akhil’s wife Nikila Jaleba, 21, are said to be out of danger. Dhanraj’s jewellery-cum-pawn shop is at Dharumakulam near Poompuhar. The incident happened around 6.30am at Dhanraj’s house at Thadalan South Street on Railway Road in Sirkazhi when Akhil and his wife heard someone calling them in Hindi at the door. An unsuspecting Asha opened the door only to find the gang wearing masks barging in and stabbing her. On hearing her cries, Akhil and Nikila rushed out only to be attacked with knives. As Asha and Akhil lay in a pool of blood, Dhanraj came out from the bedroom hearing the cries. As the gang asked him to hand over the locker key, a shell-shocked Dhanraj pleaded with them not to harm his family further and gave them the key. After tying Dhanraj and Nikila to a cot, the four took all the jewellery from the locker and fled in Akhil’s car. The gang also took away the hard disc of a CCTV camera fixed in front of the house. Police said neighbours heard the cries of Dhanraj and Nikila and rushed to help them. However, both Asha and Akhil had, by then, died of critical injuries and blood loss. On being informed, Mayiladuthurai superintendent of police Srinatha, deputy superintendent Yuvapriya, inspector Manimaran and a team arrived at the spot. Within minutes, they alerted all police stations along the district’s boundary. As the gang was approaching Olamputhur village under AK Chathiram police limit, about 10km from the crime scene, the car developed a snag. Subsequently, they abandoned it and started walking across paddy fields. However, their suspicious movements were noted by villagers who informed police. Mayiladuthurai police rushed to Olamputhur and during combing operations, caught hold of two of the men identified as R Manish, 23, and J Ramesh Patil, 20. Police said when they tried to nab the third accused, Mahipal Singh, 25, he whipped out a gun and tried to escape after attacking a reserve armed policeman with a log. In retaliation, the police opened fire killing him. They recovered the gold ornaments and two guns from the robbers. One of the accused, Ramesh Patil, was employed in a two-wheeler spare parts shop at Sirkazhi, while Manish was a labourer at a plywood agency in Jeyankondam in Ariyalur district. Mahipal Singh was working in a shop in Chidambaram. Later in the evening, Kumbakonan West police arrested the fourth accused Karan Ram, 38, who was trying to escape in his car, at Muthupillai Mandapam where police were conducting a vehicle check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-murders-wife-son-of-tn-jeweller-loots-16kg-jewellery/articleshow/80487991.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 28, 2021||Goa||‘Lack of consistent policies making state directionless’||Porvorim: Goa needs a consistent vision for the next 25 years, but today, the state appears directionless due to the lack of consistent policies, said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. Speaking during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address, Kamat, along with a few other legislators, said the government should implement the Goa Vision 2035 document to put the state on the right track. Kamat also said the opposition’s duty is to be the people’s voice and it could not be termed as anti-national for fulfilling its role. “Irrespective of which party is in government, Goa needs a vision for the next 25 years,” said Kamat. “The government has failed to implement the Goa Vision 2035 document prepared by the Goa Golden Jubilee Council under the chairmanship of eminent scientist Raghunath Mashelkar and comprising experts from various fields. It is impossible to take the mission of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat – Swayampurna Goem’ ahead unless the Goa Vision 2035 document is implemented.” To drive home their point that the Pramod Sawant government lacks a consistent policy roadmap, Kamat said the slew of policy reversals is akin to withdrawal symptoms. Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said the chief minister is behaving like the medieval Indian sultan, Muhammad Bin Tughlaq. “This administration I would compare with Muhammad Bin Tughlaq. Today the vision of the government cannot be seen. It is lost somewhere. When you are not strong in governance, this is what happens,” said Khaunte while speaking during the discussion. Highlighting the contradiction between governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s speech and the government’s actions, the opposition also sought certain amendments to be made to Koshyari’s speech. The opposition’s demand was shot down by the House. Illustrating the contradictions between Koshyari’s actions and the government’s actions, Kamat said that while the speech mentioned that non-cultivable land in Surla has been brought under cultivation, the government has moved to exclude agricultural land and cultivable land from eco sensitive zones. The former chief minister also pointed out that contrary to Koshyari’s ‘Nasha Mukht Bharat’ catchphrase, the police does not investigate and crack down on drug kingpins. The opposition said Koshyari ignored the key issues plaguing Goa and under Rule 23 of the procedure of the Goa legislative assembly, moved to amend the motion of thanks moved by Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lack-of-consistent-policies-making-state-directionless/articleshow/80489255.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Vijayawada||90% officials think they are above the law in Andhra Pradesh: HC||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday made serious observations over the functioning of bureaucrats in the state. Hearing a contempt petition filed against the officials for failing to implement its orders, Justice Battu Devanand said that 90 per cent officials in the state are under the impression that they are above the law and do not need to implement the orders of the courts. One R V Papa Rao, working as an attender at Sri Kandukuri Rajyalakshmi college for women, had moved the high court in 2017, seeking directions to implement orders of the Supreme Court on payment of salary as per time scale. The high court had allowed the petition and directed officials concerned to pay the salary as per the apex court’s order. As the high court’s order was not implemented, Papa Rao moved a contempt petition. The HC had earlier issued notices for personal appearance of endowments commissioner Arjun Rao, special commissioner for college education M M Naik, regional joint director of college education David Kumar, and Rammohan Rao, executive officer of SKR college, for failing to implement its order. However, the officials did not appear before the court even after receiving the notices. The counsel for one of the petitioners filed an application to dispense with appearance stating that he was infected with Covid-19. However, the high court expressed displeasure with the application as it was not mentioned when he was affected with the virus and his condition. Justice Devanand said it appears that officials are least concerned with a poor employee who works as an attender. At one stage, Justice Devanand held the respondent officers guilty and issued non-bailable warrants (NBWs) against them. However, after the counsel for one of the respondents requested the NBWs be reconsidered as the officials would appear before the court by afternoon, he allowed the request and heard the matter again. Justice Devanand questioned Arjun Rao and M M Nayak as to why the orders of the court have not been implemented for while directing the NBW against David Kumar be executed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/90-officials-think-they-are-above-the-law-hc/articleshow/80486641.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 28, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks response on Pechiparai water release||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought release of water from the Pechiparai dam to fill up 52 ponds at Radhapuram in Tirunelveli district. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Appavu, former DMK MLA of Radhapuram constituency in Tirunelveli district. The petitioner stated that in order to ensure water for irrigation purposes for the people of Radhapuram constituency, a scheme called Sittary Pattinakal was introduced by the government wherein water would be released through the Thovalai and Radhapuram channels to fill up 52 ponds in Radhapuram. He noted that nearly thousands of acres of agricultural lands are dependent on this water for irrigation. Since surplus water is available at the Pechiparai dam, the authorities should take steps to release water from the dam to fill up the 52 ponds for the benefit of the farmers. Similarly, the court also sought a response from the state government in another plea moved by the same petitioner who sought to release of water from Manimutharu dam under special supply scheme to fill the ponds at Nanguneri, Radhapuram and Thisayanvilai taluks in Tirunelveli district and Sathankulam and Udankudi taluks in Tuticorin district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-pechiparai-water-release/articleshow/80489171.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Agra||Time capsule spanning over a century buried in AMU on R-Day||Agra: To mark the celebrations of the 72nd Republic Day and the varsity’s centenary, a 1.5 tonne 'time capsule', encapsulating the history of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) spanning over a century, was buried in a 30 feet deep pit at a park opposite the Victoria Gate on Tuesday.The historic cache of information built with high-tempered steel for communication with future generations, contains a copy of Sir Syed album; essays and speeches relating to the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh from 1875 to 1919; history of MAO College, the Life and Work of Syed Ahmad Khan Glimpses of Muslim Education in India, Vol. 1 and 2, convocation address by Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, and convocations at a glance (1922-2018).Besides, postal stamps, speech of Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered at the centenary celebrations on December 22, 2020, and contents and progress work of the time capsule along with chronological history of AMU by Dr Rahat Abrar (1920-2020), Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College calendar (1911-1912), AMU calendar (1932), AMU diary-2020, single colour print out of the campus, satellite image captured by Cartosat-2 on October 28, 2018, and list of chancellors and VCs of AMU have been stored in the capsule."This time capsule is for the benefit of future generations. It includes the salient features of the glorious history of AMU," said AMU Vice Chancellor, Professor Tariq Mansoor, while presiding over the online function. He added that the most modern methods of preservation of documents have been used. The papers in the capsule are preserved by making them acid-free with the addition of some chemicals.Prof Mansoor pointed out that the line of demarcation between prehistoric and historical times is crossed when people cease to live only in the present, and become consciously interested both in their past and future."History begins with the handing down of tradition and tradition means the carrying of the habits and lessons of the past into the future," said the Vice Chancellor emphasising the need of keeping the records of the past for future.Meanwhile, he also informed that a committee has been constituted to sort out the modalities for excavating a capsule buried on January 8, 1877, by Lord Lytton [the then Viceroy and Governor General of India] during the foundation stone ceremony of the MAO College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/time-capsule-spanning-over-a-century-buried-in-amu-on-r-day/articleshow/80484805.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Abhay resigns over agri laws||Chandigarh: Abhay Singh Chautala of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) resigned as Haryana legislator on Wednesday in solidarity with the protesting farmers, becoming the first politician to do so. The MLA from Sirsa district’s Ellenabad seat and younger son of former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala gave his papers to assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who confirmed accepting those after finding the format correct. This will force yet another by-election after Baroda of last November. Asked if he’ll re-contest, Abhay said he’ll consult the people of Ellenabad but this resignation was against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws and the BJP’s registering “false cases” against the protesting farmers. He also blamed the BJP for the violence during farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. He had pre-announced the resignation in case the Centre failed to end the standoff with the farmers till January 26. Abhay was the only INLD MLA in the 90-member Haryana assembly. On Wednesday morning, he addressed the party’s state executive body in Chandigarh before reaching the speaker’s office in the Vidhan Sabha on a tractor to submit his resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/abhay-resigns-over-agri-laws/articleshow/80489184.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Rajkot||Fake call centre busted near Rajkot||Rajkot: Acting on a tip-off, the special operation group (SOG) of Rajkot city police busted a fake call centre running from a house in Haripar village on the city’s outskirts on Wednesday. Four persons who were running the centre and fleecing US citizens with cheap loans were arrested from the spot. Those arrested were Sahil Od (21), a native of Ahmedabad, Manoj Sharma, a native of Uttar Pradesh, Ratan Karan (20) and Viki Sanjay (20). “Sahil is the kingpin and they deliberately rented a house far from the city. They used to call up American citizens, offer them easy loans and later transfer money into their own accounts. They switched off their phones once the victim was fleeced,” said a police official. Two laptops, a router and four mobile phones were also seized from them. This is the second fake call centre busted in Rajkot city in the last two weeks. Earlier on January 14, police had booked seven people who were running a call centre in Star Plaza in the city. “Since police started cracking down on such con call centres, operators have shifted their base from cities to villages to keep themselves away from the police radar,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fake-call-centre-busted-near-rajkot/articleshow/80485443.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Shiv Sena MP Gawali, BJP MLA Patni spar in public in Washim||Nagpur: BJP’s Washim district bandh, called to protest alleged insult of Karanja MLA Rajendra Patni by Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali, evoked mixed response on Wednesday.Washim collector had convened a meeting of district planning committee (DPC) on January 26 in which Gawali was invited. Patni was also invited by mistake.On reaching Zilla Niyojan Bhavan, Patni was told by officials that he was invited by mistake. Patni was leaving for home when Gawali accosted him and accused him of creating obstacles in works sanctioned due to her effort. This led to a heated exchange of words between the two public representatives and police personnel present there had to intervene.Patni lodged a police complaint against Gawali at Washim police station. In his complaint, the MLA stated that Gawali and Sena MLC Gopikishan Bajoria were present in the passage of Niyojan Bhavan. The MP called him and then allegedly threatened and abused him.The Sena MP also lodged a complaint against the BJP MLA on Tuesday evening. In her complaint, Gawali stated that she and Bajoria were discussing Gunthewari rules when Patni came into the passage along with his supporters. He allegedly told the two that he would not allow any change in Gunthewari rules no matter how hard they tried. He then allegedly used foul language against her, claimed Gawali.Washim police said the matter was still under investigation and offence had been registered.Both the leaders convened press conferences on Wednesday in Washim and accused each other of using foul language. Both claimed they had not used any unparliamentary words during the altercation.Gawali told TOI on Wednesday evening that the fault entirely lied with Patni and claimed that the bandh had flopped miserably. Patni on the other hand claimed the bandh was completely successful and shopkeepers had voluntarily downed their shutters. Patni also sent a video clip to TOI on WhatsApp in which Gawali is heard screaming at him. The situation was tense in Washim district on Wednesday as BJP workers were trying to enforce the bandh, while Sena workers were asking shopkeepers to keep their establishments open. Washim police did a commendable job of preventing any clash between the two sides.The response to the bandh depended on the strength of BJP and Sena in various pockets of the district. While Malegaon and Karanja towns were completely shut, the bandh failed in Risod, where Sena has stronger presence.Meanwhile, Sena leaders in Karanja lodged police complaint against BJP leaders for allegedly threatening shopkeepers to down the shutters and hitting an effigy of Gawali with footwear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shiv-sena-mp-gawali-bjp-mla-patni-spar-in-public-in-washim/articleshow/80487998.cms||Ashish Roy
January 28, 2021||Madurai||AIADMK functionary praises Sasi, expelled||Madurai: The AIADMK has expelled Subramania Raja, joint secretary of MGR Mandram in Tirunelveli who put out posters welcoming V K Sasikala calling her the general secretary of AIADMK, from the party. Posters calling V K Sasikala the general secretary of AIADMK and inviting her to guide the party were found in many parts of Tirunelveli district. This created a flutter and the matter was taken to the notice of the AIADMK high command. According to a joint statement issued by AIADMK coordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Subramania Raja has been expelled from the party. He has been relieved of all party positions with immediate effect and AIADMK functionaries have been asked to refrain from maintaining any contact with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-functionary-praises-sasi-expelled/articleshow/80489178.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala visit Thangal||KOZHIKODE: Congress leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala met IUML state president Panakkad Hyderali Shihab Thangal at his residence on Wednesday for around 30 minutes. They later proceeded to Calicut airport to receive Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is on a two-day visit in state. Thangal termed the meeting as a courtesy visit while IUML national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty, who was present at the meeting, said they discussed in detail the political situation in state. Replying to a question whether UDF will be able to finalize seat sharing before Chennithala’s Aishwarya Kerala Yatra, Kunhalikutty said unofficial seat sharing talks were continuing and seat-sharing will be finalized after a formal sitting in Thiruvananthapuram. “During friendly talks, Congress leaders discussed matters that ought to be discussed with Thangal. But it was not seat sharing,” he added. Though IUML district committees are learnt to have expressed their interest in contesting in six additional seats, both Congress and IUML want the seat-sharing talks to be wrapped up in a cordial manner. The parties don’t want to lend credence to the allegations raised by LDF and BJP that IUML, which is the second largest constituent in UDF, was dictating the terms. The party that contested in 24 seats in previous assembly elections expects to get more seats as seats have fallen vacant in the wake of the departure of KC (M) led by Jose K Mani and Loktantrik Janata Dal from UDF.Congress leaders , along with KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran and UDF convener MM Hassan, also met leaders of Samastha in Kozhikode and later visited Kozhikode bishop Varghese Chakkalakal and Thamarassery bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/chandy-chennithala-visit-thangal/articleshow/80486690.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara district adds 24 Covid cases; Solapur city reports 8||KOLHAPUR: Satara district reported 70 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday and 24 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 56,143. Meanwhile, Satara tehsil added 46 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past two days. On Wednesday, Satara tehsil added 11 cases, As per recent data, more than one-fourth cases in Satara district are from Satara tehsil. A 65-year-old woman from Satara district succumbed to Covid On Wednesday taking the death toll to 1,812. As many as 53,579 patients have recovered so far while s752 patients are undergoing treatment. Solapur city recorded eight new cases of Covid-19, while 15 people got discharged on Wednesday along with one death — an 83-year-old man from Sadar Bazar. The city has so far reported 11,683 cases out of which 6,943 are men and 4740 women. The death toll stands at 631. Currently, 319 patients are being treated in Solapur city and as many as 10,733 patients have been discharged. Solapur rural on Wednesday added 60 new patients. According to an official communication, 32 patients were discharged from hospitals across the rural areas. Also, an 81-year-old woman from Barshi tehsil died due to the contagion. Till date, Solapur rural has reported 39,418 cases and 1,156 deaths. The rural areas has 378 active cases and a total of 37,884 patients have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-adds-24-cases-solapur-city-reports-8/articleshow/80485426.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Agra||Two charred to death as hut catches fire in Etah||Agra: Two people were burnt alive after a hut caught fire in village Piphaara under Jaithara police station of Etah district. The incident occurred on Tuesday night. Villagers came to know about it on Wednesday morning. Later, the completely burnt bodies were sent for postmortem by the police. The two men who died in the fire were identified as 40-year-old farmer Kalicharan and his 35-year-old friend Radhey Shyam. According to Shivpal, elder brother of Kalicharan, the hut got fire from brazier which the two men had set up to get relief from cold. Additional superintendent of police OP Singh said, “The remains of the two men have been sent for postmortem. Family members and villagers suggest that the hut caught fire from a brazier set up by the men. The matter is being investigated. So far, no formal complaint has been received.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-charred-to-death-as-hut-catches-fire-in-etah/articleshow/80485457.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Sikhs persuaded youths to come out’||Jalandhar: Ferozepur farmer unionist Devinder Singh Sekhon, who reached the Red Fort to evacuate Sikh youths on unconfirmed reports of firing, said quite a few senior Sikhs had urged them to leave the monument on Tuesday evening. A middle-aged Sikh was caught on tape, asking young men to come down from the ramparts. Sekhon said: “There was no resistance from the security forces when I got there around 4pm on Tuesday. An official there helped me take the youths out. I was on the Ring Road, with no intention to going to the Red Fort, when a friend called over to say there had been trouble and I should go over to evacuate the boys. Things had normalised by the time I got there and joined a few other Sikhs and locals in persuading the young farmers to come out. But far more people stood outside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikhs-persuaded-youths-to-come-out/articleshow/80489196.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Eyewitness recalls flag incident||Patiala: Ambala villager Jagtar Singh recalls how a swelling crowd of farmers breached the Singhu barricades to reach Delhi’s off-limits Outer Ring Road for the Republic Day tractor march. He said: “The cops had opened a small window for single tractors but the farmers widened that gap in the barricades by dragging their trailers through as well.”  On the Outer Ring Road pushed aside a police barricade of 15 buses and 10 tipper trucks, and smashed their windowpanes. They drove away two tippers to ferry the protesters. The farmers ahead of us diverted to the Red Fort, where a big crowd had hoisted the Kesri flag already.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/eyewitness-recalls-flag-incident/articleshow/80489218.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Mumbai||Twins conjoined at chest separated in 6-hour operation in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In a rare surgery, 14-day-old conjoined twin girls, who shared a liver, chest bone and abdominal cavity were successfully separated by a team of specialist surgeons at Bai Jerbai Wadia Hospital, Parel. The operation, which lasted for six hours, was performed on January 3 and the girls – who are now five-week-old -- will be discharged today. The mother, who didn't want to be identified, found about her conjoined twins in July during a routine ultrasound scan and was directed to Wadia Hospital by her family. “The last few months haven’t been easy, but, thanks to my family and doctors, it hasn't been as bad as we had feared,” she said. Pediatric surgeon Dr Pradnya Bhendre, who led the surgery said, the twins were ‘omphalopagus’ as they shared a bit of the gastrointestinal system and abdominal wall. The incidence of conjoined twins is 1:50000 to 1:200000 of all live births; omphalopagus twins account for 10% to 18% of all conjoined twins. “During the pregnancy, we counseled the young parents regularly on every aspect of treatment,” said Dr Bhendre. When the pregnancy reached full term, the mother underwent a planned cesarean-section at Wadia Hospital itself on December 21. The babies together weighed 4.2kg and were kept in NICU after birth. A CT scan showed that the twins shared a liver, lower chest bone and possibly intestines. The main concern was the fact that one of the babies was pink and the other was pale. “The CT scan showed one major vessel going from one baby to another, resulting in differential circulation. This is known in omphalopagus twins, but could lead to overloading one baby who could suffer cardiac failure,” said Dr Bhendre. Hence, we decided to carry out the separation surgery at the earliest. “We took a few days to put together the instruments that we would need for the surgery,” said the doctor. “We have been taking care of the mother since July 2020 and haven't charged money for any of the treatment or surgeries,” said Wadia Hospital CEO Dr Minnie Bodhanwala. This is the fourth conjoined twins who were separated at the Parel hospital since 1993. “It is the third since 2013 when twins Riddhi and Siddhi (who were abandoned by their parents and have been living in the hospital since) were separated,” she added. Post-surgery, the babies were on ventilator support for two days. They now take full feeds and have gained weight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/twins-conjoined-at-chest-separated-in-6-hr-operation/articleshow/80488011.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Vijayawada||‘DGP in court due to subordinates’ errors’||Vijayawada: The high court had some kind words for DGP D Gautam Sawang on Wednesday, stating he has to stand before the court because of mistakes committed by subordinate officers. The court had summoned Sawang and other officials for personal appearance in connection with a contempt petition filed by a sub-inspector rank officer. Taking note of the application filed by the DGP on Monday, in which he said he could not attend the court because of election-related work, Justice Battu Devanand directed the DGP to appear before the court on Wednesday. The judge said he has heard the DGP is an honest officer, but has to stand before the court due to mistakes of others. He asked Sawang whether he’s aware of the orders passed by the high court with regard to the promotion of U Rama Rao, the petitioner. Sawang said he gave directions as soon as he came to know about the matter. The DGP may be an honest officer but should know what is happening in his office, the judge observed, and asked him and other officials to file counter affidavits in the petition. — Srikanth Aluri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-in-court-due-to-subordinates-errors/articleshow/80486685.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Madurai||CPM cadres hold protest in solidarity with Delhi farmers||Madurai: Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged protests at two places in Madurai on Wednesday to condemn the use of force against farmers, who took part in the tractor rally in New Delhi on Tuesday.The protests were organised at Avaniyapuram and Thiruparankundram by the party’s respective taluk secretaries. They raised slogans against the central government and the Delhi police for resorting to lathi charge against farmers, who carried out a peaceful rally.Protesters said that force was used by the police at the behest of the central government in order to disturb the peaceful protest. They urged the government to abolish the farm laws.The party also organized similar protests in rural Madurai. Bike rallies were conducted on behalf of Tamil Nadu farmers’ association in Y Othakadai and Thirumangalam. S P Ilangovan, the association’s Madurai district president took part in the protest in Y Othakadai. More than 70 farmers took part in the protest. District secretary of the association K Rajendran led the protest in Thirumangalam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cpm-cadres-hold-protest-in-solidarity-with-delhi-farmers/articleshow/80489180.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||Petrol, diesel prices hit all-time high in Kolkata; transport may be costlier||KOLKATA: The diesel price on Wednesday touched Rs 80.06 per litre in the city. The petrol price also inched towards Rs 90 per litre. Since both passenger and goods transportation is fuelled by diesel, the rise of its price will inevitably lead to revision of fare that will in turn pave the way for a spike in the prices of essential commodities. Diesel price in Kolkata on January 6 broke its past record price of Rs 77.59 per litre, which was recorded on October 16, 2018. The successive rise of diesel price has left the passenger transport segments like buses and cabs in the lurch. Private bus operators have already demanded a rollback of diesel price and introduction of GST, instead of multiple taxation. Both state transport undertaking (STU) and private bus operators have scaled down their operation to a great extent for non-viability of operations. “Unless the taxes on diesel are rolled back and the fare is revised immediately, the entire bus transit system will become moribund. After a point it will be next to impossible to revive the system,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, joint council of bus syndicates. “Kolkata has had a robust bus transit system. This was the reason why the number of private vehicles plying in the city is low in the city. But the absence of buses underlines a great danger. It will force passengers to use private vehicles. More private vehicles mean more traffic snarls, more choking of road intersections and more pollution,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director and transportation expert. The impact on the goods transportation is higher. “A spike in diesel price will increase the transportation cost of every commodity. The entire transport system in the country runs on diesel. If the government keeps adding taxes on diesel, the crucial balance will be lost,” said Subhas Chandra Bose, president, West Bengal Federation of Truck Operators' Associations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/petrol-diesel-prices-hit-all-time-high-transport-may-be-costlier/articleshow/80486696.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: A day after Republic Day mayhem, Covid-Vax turnout slips to 80%||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Covid vaccination turnout slipped to 80.8% on Wednesday, two days after it touched 91.5% amid growing acceptance of vaccine among healthcare workers. A total of 6,545 out of 8,100 people got the jab, and only 12 minor adverse events were reported across 11 districts. The turnout, however, is showing a steady growth since vaccination began. It was only 53% on the first day, while it was 73% on Thursday and 86% on Saturday. Authorities blamed the dip in the turnout on Wednesday to the chaos reported at various places in the capital during farmers’ tractor parade a day earlier. “Many people who were listed to get the jab avoided travel due to the violence reported on Tuesday. Even the attendance in some of the hospitals and the number of walk-ins were low,” said an official. Lok Nayak Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital reported 100% turnout while many hospitals, which had reported 100% turnout on Monday, could not repeat the feat. “The dip is not related to hesitation among the healthcare workers. The demand for vaccines has gone up and healthcare workers are eager to get the shots,” said a health department official, hoping that the turnout may increase to its highest point in the days to come. Dr Seema Roy, consultant gynaecologist at a private hospital in west Delhi, received the shot. “I am fine and feeling more confident after vaccination. I do not have any adverse effect post vaccination and I am back to my usual work. I would request medical fraternity and other healthcare workers to come forward and get themselves vaccinated,” Roy said. A number of measures taken by Delhi government, including allowing walk-ins, counselling and mobilising healthcare workers and promoting feedback of vaccinated individuals, are also among the reasons for growing turnout. Across all the hospitals, many healthcare workers not included in the list of persons to be vaccinated, walked in to get the jab. Out of 100 people vaccinated at Lok Nayak Hospital, 55 were walk-ins. Despite the overall dip, the turnout was higher in North East district, which reported 220 vaccinations compared with 197 during the last session. North district also reported higher turnout at 322 compared with 285 during the last session. The dip was witnessed in the remaining nine districts. At Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where only 48 people turned up for vaccination, an official said that travel restrictions led to a low turnout. “We are centrally located. The restrictions on travel by road imposed after clashes between farmers and Delhi Police happened on Tuesday brought down our vaccination count. Many workers did not even report to work,” added the official. According to a government report, one of 294 persons administered ‘Covaxin’ and 11 out of 6,251 people given ‘Covishield’ reported minor adverse events. Minor issues in some people post inoculation is common for almost all vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-day-after-r-day-mayhem-c-vax-turnout-slips-to-80/articleshow/80488028.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 28, 2021||Madurai||Lockdown helps cops curb road deaths in south dists||Madurai: Road fatalities in southern Tamil Nadu have witnessed a decrease with 1,883 people having died in accidents in 2020, against the 2,487 deaths recorded in 2019. This is 24% less when compared to its previous year, according to data available with the police department.Various efforts taken by the police and the stringent lockdown imposed last year due to Covid-19 played a role in bringing down the accident deaths. However, the numbers shot up abnormally after the travel norms were eased, police officials said.The number of accidents too has come down with 10,151 cases reported in 2020, which is lesser by 15% compared to 2019, which saw 11,932 accidents. All the southern districts witnessed a drop in the number of accidents, except for Ramanathapuram district, which saw a marginal increase. Against 1,010 accidents in 2019, there were 1,014 accidents in 2020.Similarly, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts recorded more deaths in 2020 than in 2019. In Virudhunagar, against 186 deaths in 2019, 219 were reported in 2020. In Ramanathapuram, 209 deaths were reported in 2020, compared to 206 deaths in 2019.“Due to fear of Covid-19 spread in policemen, we could not focus on drunk and drive cases, which was a major reason behind the increase in road deaths. We will bring down deaths this year. Various efforts have been taken this year and the results have been good so far,” superintendent of police, Virudhunagar district P Perumal said.In Madurai rural police limit, 236 people died in 1,436 accidents, which is lesser compared to 2019, where 282 people died in 1,692 accidents.An official said that measures are in place to bring down accident deaths further this year. All the districts have been asked to identify vulnerable areas and improve safety measures. There will be more traffic violation cases registered this year, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-helps-cops-curb-road-deaths-in-south-dists/articleshow/80489186.cms||V Devanathan
January 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Before Andhra Pradesh twin murders, girls told parents they’d die soon||TIRUPATI: The investigation into the twin murders in Madanapalli town, where a teacher couple killed their two college-going daughters to usher in ‘Satya Yug’, is bringing out strange details. The killer couple told the police on Wednesday that the two women feared they would die soon even as the family was performing tantric pujas. The parents then went ahead and killed them. This was stated in the remand report filed by the police on Wednesday. TOI had reported on Tuesday that the parents, V Purshottam Naidu and Padmaja, killed the two women on Sunday because they wanted their children to be reborn in a purer form after ‘Kali Yug’ ends. Read AlsoTantrik saw stranger in room day before Andhra Pradesh twin murdersThe tantrik, who tied talismans to two sisters a day before they were killed by their parents in Madanapalli town of Chittoor district on January 24, said he had seen a man in the house continuously blowing a conch into the ears of the elder sibling. He also said he saw the parents in a sound stateThe remand report, however, is silent on how the parents could kill their daughters, when they were already in a state of trance fearing death. It is also silent on the occult rituals performed a day before the twin murders. Madanapalli DSP Ravi Manoharachari told TOI the report was based on the confessions of the accused and further investigation would bring out the truth. The report reveals that just before the murders, the sisters went into a trance undressing themselves and shouting that they would die. Their parents attempted to pacify them. When their pacification failed, they killed them one after another using dumbbells and a knife. Police officials told TOI that Naidu and Padmaja continued to remain in trance in the jail. They are being referred to the psychiatric ward in a Tirupati hospital before the police question them. The remand report is based on the complaint by G P Raju, a friend of Naidu. According to Madanapalli Taluq police, Naidu and Padmaja in their confessions, said Divya (22), who went out for a stroll with a pet dog a week ago, had stepped on something accidentally and fallen sick. After that, she developed the phobia that she would die. When Divya’s fear drove her towards making attempts to end life, Purushotham approached a tantrik through Raju. The tantrik performed some pujas at their residence and tied amulets to the family members on January 23. The murders took place the next day. In the evening, Naidu called one of his friends, identified as Gowri Shankar, and told him that both his daughters were dead. Shankar in turn called Raju and asked him to visit Naidu’s house. Raju who was shocked after walking through the crime scene lodged a complaint at Madanapalli Taluq police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/before-ap-twin-murders-victims-said-they-would-die-soon-remand-report/articleshow/80486713.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 28, 2021||Agra||Cops bust fake website racket, 4 from Delhi & Faridabad held||Agra: Four members of a notorious gang who had in their possession details of at least 6,000 credit cards were on Wednesday arrested in Agra, with UP Police claiming that the accused have duped scores of people worth around Rs 1crore in the last few months. Special Task Force (STF) with the help of Agra police busted the online fake merchandise site racket. They recovered an Apple laptop, 14 mobile phones, a car, an SUV, along with Rs 6lakh cash and 61-page documents carrying details of 6,000 credit card customers. Those arrested are Saurabh Bhardwaj and Aaas Mohammad from Faridabad, and Lakhan Gupta and Shivam Gupta from Delhi. Mastermind of the racket, Bhardwaj and his associate Ashu were working at a call centre which provided credit card services to banks, said police, adding that they purchased credit card details from the staff. During the interrogation, they told police that they used to call credit card customers and take their card numbers, OTP and secret PIN number for verification. Later they would shop from the fake website named, Pratap Enterprises, created by them, and the money was deducted from the credit card holder’s account. Saurabh has bought a house in Faridabad worth Rs 40lakh from this amount. Police have initiated a recovery process. One of their accomplices, Monika Bhardwaj, who sold credit card data to this gang for Rs 35 each, will also be arrested soon, said SSP Babloo Kumar. Kheragarh’s station house officer Hansraj Bhadauria said, “One Gajendra Singh had applied for a credit card in November last year. The card was delivered at his home when he was not present there. He received a call in between and the person took all his details in name of verification. When he approached the bank to make the credit card operational, he was told that his card is working and shopping worth Rs 20,000 had already been done. He immediately lodged a police complaint into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-bust-fake-website-racket-4-from-delhi-faridabad-held/articleshow/80485476.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Vijayawada||DGP calls for upgrading security at temples||Vijayawada: DGP D Gautam Sawang on Wednesday sought the cooperation of temple administrations to improve security on their premises. The DGP was attending a meeting conducted by the State Institute for Temple Administration in Vijayawada. Speaking on the occasion, he said, “Everybody knows what’s happening in the state. Everyone holds the responsibility of protecting the religious places,” Sawang said, while addressing a large gathering of temple officials from 13 districts. The DGP said there is a need to upgrade security standards at temples. He emphasised that temples are the source of culture and traditions across the country and especially in Andhra Pradesh, which has many temples of historical significance. The DGP was briefed about the case of the three missing silver lions. Sawang also said 47,734 temples now have round-the-clock CCTV surveillance and 59,443 religious places have been geo-tagged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-calls-for-upgrading-security-at-temples/articleshow/80486727.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Rajkot||New lion safari route started in Girnar wildlife sanctuary||Rajkot: Plan your lion safari tour inside Girnar wildlife sanctuary which rolled off on Tuesday as part of Republic Day celebration. The safari will take you 13km inside the jungles till Paturan on the route that will start from Indreshwar, which is adjoining Junagadh city.The safari destination will be well connected by rail and road and it also will ease the burden of tourists on Sasan, said authorities. The Girnar region that is home to 300 species of birds besides lions and other wild animals was declared wildlife sanctuary in 2008. Talking to TOI, Sunil Berwal, deputy conservator of forest, Junagadh said, “It’s a completely new place for lion sightings. There will be four trips in the morning and four in the evening. Very soon, tickets for this safari will be made available online.” Currently, the bookings are available at Indreshwar. The forest department, which had been toying with the idea of opening this route for safari for the last few years, has selected guides from the villages that fall under the eco-sensitive zones en route the sanctuary. According to the forest department the safari will remained closed during Girnar Parikrama and Shivratri fair as lakhs of pilgrims visit Junagadh during these two festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/new-lion-safari-route-started-in-girnar-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/80485473.cms||---
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||City Punjabis slam Delhi clashes, lend support to farmers||Kolkata: The Punjabi community in Kolkata, who had supported the farmers’ protest, on Wednesday condemned the violence during the Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi. Olympian Gurbux Singh and social worker Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, along with other prominent members of the community, believed that the central government ought to have been “less adamant” and “more considerate” about the farmers’ demands to avoid Tuesday’s turn of events.According to the captain of the gold medal-winning hockey team at the 1964 Summer Olympics, “some wrong people” had taken the “wrong decision”. “I am not blaming the police. But when open permission is given, certain people in the mob will take advantage and show their strength,” he said, adding that the farmers’ body — Samyukt Kisan Morcha — managed the “situation well”. “The situation was contained. Things could have been worse,” Singh said. Referring to actor Deep Sidhu, who defended hoisting the Nishan Sahib flag at Red Fort, Singh said, “He should be taken to task. It is not right to go to the Red Fort and hoist any other flag,” he said.Last week, Ahluwalia, general secretary of the Gurdwara Behala, was at the Singhu border for ‘seva’ and to express solidarity. “While I condemn the violence, I have full respect for the farmers who are fighting for their rights.” Calling it a national issue, theatre personality Ramanjit Kaur said, capitalism will ensure that farmers lose their land. “The incident was unfortunate. But we must understand that this has just been done to derail the movement.” she said.Designer Enna Ahluwalia pointed out that the Indian flag was way above the other two flags. “It is bizarre that the Centre created these laws without consulting farmers,” she said.Manjit Singh Jetta, president of the Netaji Bhagat Singh United Forum, who had sent delegations to Singhu border said, “It was a deliberate attempt to malign the movement. The real protesters controlled the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-punjabis-slam-delhi-clashes-lend-support-to-farmers/articleshow/80486728.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 28, 2021||Nagpur||Bid to extort money from RTO fails, neta caught||Chandrapur: Local Ramnagar police have arrested a politician, supposedly close to an MP and MLA, on charges of extortion. The accused Ashok Matte had demanded Rs40,000 from an RTO inspector threatening him of anti-corruption inquiry.Police sources informed that Matte had called RTO inspector Jillawar several times and threatened him of dire consequences, if he did not pay Rs40,000 a month as “protection money”. Being considered close to top political leaders like MP and MLA from the district, Matte’s word had clout over officers. However, fed up of repeated threats from Matte, Jillawar lodged a complaint with superintendent of police Arvind Salve, who laid a trap on Monday evening. Matte was told to come near district stadium in the city to collect the extortion sum. A team led by API Chavan arrested him red-handed. PI, Ramnagar police station, Prakash Hake, ratified of the arrest of Matte. He informed that the accused was produced before a court on Wednesday and was sent in magisterial custody remand, but was subsequently bailed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bid-to-extort-money-from-rto-fails-neta-caught/articleshow/80488004.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||Relief at Bow Barracks: Stand-off ends, repairs start||KOLKATA: Bow Barracks, a century-old neighbourhood in the heart of the city that transforms into a giant dance floor during Christmas and hosts the most famous party in town, is getting restored and repaired after almost five decades. This lifts the uncertainty over the future of the residents—mostly Anglo-Indians with British Indian parentage—who were directed by the Kolkata Improvement Trust in 1980 to vacate the place because the “buildings were dilapidated and unsafe for human use”. The residents, however, refused to move out, following which KIT stopped accepting rent from the occupants. Neglect and lack of repair started to show on the façade of the red buildings designed with exposed brick work. The repair and restoration, which finally began late last month, will be carried out in two phases. One phase will include repairs of the exteriors of the buildings and overhaul of sewerage and plumbing. In the second phase, work will start on the interiors, including the electrical wiring and lighting. The enclave, originally built for World War 1 soldiers, is home to the Anglo-Indian community but also boasts of strong cross-cultural roots with Muslims, Chinese and Bengali families, too, living there. “We are relived the stand-off has finally ended. There was an uncertainty over the future of residents here. This is the only locality with such high concentration of Anglo Indians in the city and the culture and the legacy must be preserved,” said Angela Govindraj, secretary of Bow Barracks Residents’ Welfare Association. Bow Barracks has the longest Christmas celebrations in the city, stretching from December 23 to January 1, followed by hockey and basketball tournaments. “We are grateful to our local MLA, Nayna Bandyopadhyay, former councillor Bimal Singh, current councillor Suman Sing, Derek O Brien and MLA Shane Calvert for helping us resolve the issue,” said Govindraj. Bow Barracks has 132 flats. The layout is influenced by or has similarity with old historic Spanish Colonial town plan, with a compact layout having a main square and a city grid layout forming the basic aspects of physical planning. “There will be no structural change in any of the buildings. We are repairing the damage on the exterior of the buildings and overhauling the sewerage and plumbing lines. Underground water reservoir has been completely repaired,” said a KMDA engineer . “Restoration and repair work on this scale have not been taken up in Bow Barracks in the past five decades,” said Bandyopadhyay, MLA of Chowringhee Assembly segment. Bow Barracks is located in Ward 47 . Last year, Shivashsih Bose, a professor of architecture at Jadavpur University, and Kanupriya Goel, a researcher at JU, had published a paper, ‘Bow Barracks—The Identity of Anglo Indian in Kolkata’, where they pointed out why the settlement inhabited by a “very special community” and the buildings should be conserved rather than bulldozing them and constructing high-rises. “The demolition of the old, existing structures would mean loss of history, cultural patina and socio-cultural and traditional functional setting. It will change the urban traditional character of a portion of the central business district in Kolkata. No perceived financial gain can compensate for such a loss incurred from demolition of the existing edifice,” said Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relief-at-bow-barracks-stand-off-ends-repairs-start/articleshow/80488026.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 28, 2021||Agra||No toll if Ghaziabad-Aligarh road stretch not repaired in 5 days, warns BJP MP Satish Gautam||Agra: Aligarh BJP MP Satish Gautam has warned the district administration that he would make the Gabhana toll plaza free if the section of road between Ghaziabad and Aligarh on NH-91 is not repaired by February 2. The warning was issued by the MP on Wednesday during a meeting organised by the road safety department on reduction of fatalities, easing of traffic and congestion and implementing road safety rules. Talking to media persons, Gautam said commuters would not have to pay toll on Gabhana toll plaza if the stretch of road between Ghaziabad and Aligarh is not repaired by February 2. “Everyone expects a smooth road for which he/she pays toll for using it,” he said, adding that the contractor has apparently not done the work properly. District magistrate CB Singh, who was also present in the meeting, admitted that potholes exist on this particular stretch and that officials concerned have been directed to repair the road at the earliest. During the meeting, the MP also directed the superintendent of police (traffic) to remove black films and hooters from vehicles. He said, “I have asked the SP to challan or seize vehicles violating traffic rules, even those belonging to politicians.” He also directed officials to take strict action and blacklist the contractor who had undertaken the work of painting “zebra crossings”. He said the zebra crossings had “vanished” within three months of painting and are proving to be hazardous to pedestrians and motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-toll-if-ghaziabad-aligarh-road-stretch-not-repaired-in-5-days-warns-bjp-mp-satish-gautam/articleshow/80485483.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 28, 2021||Kolkata||Bypass bridge load test likely on Sat||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has completed the load test of the Durgapur bridge. The bridge was reopened to traffic from Tuesday evening. The authorities are now preparing to conduct load test on Ambedkar Bridge on EM Bypass, which is likely to be shut this weekend.Lalbazar said that they had agreed to the KMDA load test proposal on Ambedkar Bridge from this weekend.“We shall shut the bridge from Friday night. It should be operational by Monday morning. If required, we may ask for a partial blockade from Thursday,” an officer said. In the first phase, the test will be carried out on the new bridge. Police said that though no major traffic diversion has been planned, some private vehicles could be diverted via Anandapur. KMDA is also selecting agencies for major repairs on Baghajatin ROB, Kalighat Setu and Ultadanga flyover. The dates for bid submission have been extended for another week. The repairs are expected to start mid-February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bypass-bridge-load-test-likely-on-sat/articleshow/80486739.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 28, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Gangster’s hitman on the run nabbed||RAJKOT: Amreli police arrested a history sheeter and a sharp shooter in Sonu Dangar gang who was wanted in 32 offences including GUJCTOC (Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act) and had been evading arrest for the past two years was arrested on Tuesday. According to police, accused Ashok Boricha (31) had also fired two rounds from his gun at the police to avoid arrest. He was nabbed from his farm in Luvara village of Savarkundla taluka. A joint team of local crime branch, special operation group and Savarkundla rural police raided his farm based on the specific information. The police seized lethal weapons including one pistol, country-made firearms, live cartridges as well as his SUV valued at Rs 10 lakh. Wanted in 18 offences of Amreli district only, Boricha was a listed bootlegger and had been declared absconder by Savarkundla court. Superintendent of police, Amreli, Nirlpt Rai said, “Boricha was wanted in serious offences including murder, attempt to murder, arms Act, GUJCTOC, communal instigation, land grabbing, violation of police notification and also violation of epidemic disease Act.” Boricha has been handed over to Savarkundla rural police station for further course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gangsters-hitman-on-the-run-nabbed/articleshow/80485496.cms||---
