January 29, 2021||Mangaluru||Beach clean up drives pick up steam in Mangaluru||Mangaluru is known for its beaches. But of late, the coastline has also witnessed increased garbage disposal and littering. This has made way for renewed beach clean-up efforts in the city. "Although beach cleaning activities have happened earlier too, lockdown has made people a little more aware of the extent of the damage that has been inflicted on the environment. So the past few months have seen an increasing number of beach cleaning drives," shares Shilpa Bengre, who along with her friends has formed a non-profit group called Boskyorb. They have been cleaning local beaches every day, for the past four months. "It was during lockdown that my friends and I first noticed the trash that had collected on the beaches. We live by the sea, so we voluntarily began cleaning up the stretch in front of our homes, dedicating three hours every day. Word spread and more people joined in,” says Shilpa. They began with Bengre delta point, where the river Nethravathi meets the sea and all of the city’s garbage gets piled on the shore as the sea regularly flushes it on the sandbanks. “Then there is the littering on the beach, more so by tourists and the shops that cater to them. So that’s another aspect we deal with,” points out Mithun Bhat Kakunje, president of Mangalore Surf Club, another non-profit outfit that also regularly joins hands with Boskyorb and other groups for beach cleaning initiatives. “We have lifted nearly 20 tons of waste in the Bengre stretch alone. We dedicate three hours everyday for the clean up. The goal is to keep moving up the coastline with our cleaning. Even when we visit neighbouring beaches like Sasihitlu and Thanneerbhavi to relax, we clean up there too. It’s sad because that’s when we discovered that some agents bring dumpsters and empty the garbage into the sea,” points out another volunteer, Sanket Bengre. Cleaning beaches has been an ongoing passion with others like the Beach Rejuvenation Army, local volunteer groups and Gopal Baliga, a septuagenarian who single-handedly cleans Chitrapur beach every day. “But we should learn to adopt sustainable lifestyles. Local fishermen rue that marine life has been vastly affected. We used to see turtles and sea snakes and now we don’t. Clams used to be such a major part of the ecosystem. We hardly see them now. What more proof do we need to become sensitive to nature?” Shilpa asks. For the past 101 days, Shilpa and her group of friends - all girls - have been cleaning, transporting and segregating trash thus making it easier for the city corporation to lift the garbage from the area. — Madhu Daithota||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/beach-clean-up-drives-pick-up-steam-in-mangaluru/articleshow/80496186.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||GameStop, AMC stocks drop as Reddit trade runs into restrictions||GameStop and AMC Entertainment shares sank on Thursday as online brokerages Robinhood Markets Inc and Interactive Brokers restricted trading in several social-media driven stocks that had soared this week. The trading frenzy shook stock markets in the United States and elsewhere as heavily-shorted stocks rallied, then sold off. The tug-of-war has pitted hedge funds and other short sellers against retail buyers, many motivated by commentary on sites such as Reddit. AMC stock dropped 60%. GameStop lost 23%. Wall Street's main indexes rose. GameStop, the video game retailer whose 1,700% rally has been at the heart of the slugfest in the past week, initially rallied to more than $480 a share, Refinitiv data showed. It was last at $265. "The Robinhood ban on those stocks have put a pretty good end to (the rally)," said Dennis Dick, proprietary trader at Bright Trading LLC in Las Vegas. "Everybody's trying to hit the exit button at the same time. When you start spooking all the short-sellers, there's nobody that keeps prices in check anymore." Robinhood also restricted trading in BlackBerry, Koss and Express, citing "recent volatility." It faced a barrage of criticism from retail investors, celebrities and policymakers. Interactive Brokers, another online trading platform, also restricted trading in those stocks. "We do not believe this situation will subside until the exchanges and regulators halt or put certain symbols into liquidation only," it said. On Twitter, many observers argued trading platforms were trying to protect Wall Street interests at the expense of retail investors. "Robin Hood: a parable about stealing from the rich to give to the poor. Robinhood: an app about protecting the rich from being short squeezed by the poor,” Tweeted Jake Chervinsky, a lawyer for fintech company Compound. Robinhood has seen business boom during the coronavirus pandemic as more home-bound consumers took to trading stocks online. The app now counts more than 13 million users. Social media chatrooms are beginning to resemble the squawk boxes on trading floors as a new generation of retail traders gains influence. American airlines jumpsAmerican Airlines joined the list of stocks making gains as small-time traders broadened their battle with major Wall Street institutions, but it, too, was well off earlier highs as Robinhood restricted trading. Shares in American Airlines jumped 8%. It reported earnings but investors said those were not enough to explain its stock move. "It’s irrational day-trading, nothing fundamental. Same as GameStop, Tootsie Roll, Virgin Galactic, etc," said Darryl Genovesi, Vertical Research analyst. As the "Reddit crowd" has roiled the market, a basket of stocks traded mostly by hedge funds has fallen 2.5% so far this year while a basket tracking retail favorites jumped 13.5%, data from Goldman Sachs showed. Before its retreat, GameStop briefly became the biggest stock on the Russell 2000 index of small caps, according to Zerohedge. Dramatic jumps in GameStop, BlackBerry Ltd and AMC drew some to call for regulatory scrutiny. "In terms of short interest being monitored, the U.S. markets are probably the most transparent, but there's always room for improvement," former SEC chairman Jay Clayton told CNBC. Silver industry shares also caught traders' attention. Canada's First Majestic Silver was halted briefly in New York after shares rose more than 30%. Heavily-shorted stocks were also active in Australia and Europe. Short squeezeU.S. equity markets rebounded more than 1% early. On Wednesday, the short squeeze - where a rising stock price forces traders to abandon loss-making "short" bets that it will decline - fueled a 2% slide in New York's S&P 500 as investors sold other assets to cover their losses. Short-sellers are sitting on estimated losses of $71 billion from positions in U.S. companies this year, data from analytics firm Ortex showed. In one Reddit discussion, thousands of participants responded "We love this stock" to a post that called for more buying of GameStop. The war began last week when hedge fund short-seller Andrew Left of Citron Capital bet against GameStop and was met with a barrage of retail traders betting the other way. He said on Wednesday he had abandoned the bet. Long derided by market professionals as "dumb money," the pack of traders, some of them former bankers working for themselves, has become an increasingly powerful force worth 20% of equity orders last year, UBS data showed. The constant march upward of stock markets over the past decade, fueled by a constant flow of newly created money from major central banks, has made it less risky to bet on shares rising. The U.S. Federal Reserve kept those taps firmly open at this week's meeting. The market turmoil caught the attention of the White House, with President Joe Biden's economic team - including Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen - "monitoring the situation." Massachusetts state regulator William Galvin called on NYSE to suspend trading in GameStop for 30 days to allow a cooling-off period. "The prospect of intervention here is clearly high, but this will just galvanize the (WallStreetBets) community as it just brings home the feeling of inequality in financial markets," said Chris Weston, head of research at broker Pepperstone in Melbourne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/gamestop-amc-stocks-drop-as-reddit-trade-runs-into-restrictions/articleshow/80517264.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||Hyderabad snatch a point with two late goals against Bengaluru||With five minutes left to be played, it all seemed according to plan for Bengaluru FC. Bruised and battered, they now had a two-goal advantage against Hyderabad FC. A first win in eight matches was within sniffing distance. A beaming coach, Naushad Moosa, pulled out both his main attacking threats, Sunil Chhetri and Cleiton Silva. With victory in sight, it was, like they say, time to shut shop. Problem for Bengaluru is that the floodgates opened as Hyderabad launched an incredible comeback, scoring twice in the last four minutes for a 2-2 result at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Thursday. Goals from Sunil Chhetri (ninth minute) and Leon Augustine (61st) had provided Bengaluru with a two-goal cushion. But Hyderabad turned the tables with late goals from Spanish strikers, Aridane Santana (86th) and Fran Sandaza (90th). It was Hyderabad’s fourth successive draw in the Indian Super League. They’ll take it though, given how they plucked a point from nowhere. For Bengaluru, this was the second time they dropped a two-goal lead. Against FC Goa in their opening game, they were cruising along nicely, until Igor Angulo snatched a draw from right under their nose. This one will hurt more. Bengaluru were determined to script a turnaround, and not even an early injury to Juanan could slow them down. In fact, just two minutes after their star defender was forced to leave the field, they surged ahead. It was a well-worked training ground set-piece routine. Cleiton whipped the ball from a free-kick on the left and, before anyone realised, Chhetri glanced his header past goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani. It was his fifth goal of the league, and the third from a header. Hyderabad took time to get into the groove. Once they settled down, there were chances a plenty. Aridane missed a one-on-one with goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, Joao Victor headed wide from close and Halicharan Narzary could not keep his attempt on target from handshaking distance. All these misses came back to haunt Hyderabad as Bengaluru inflated their lead just after the hour mark. It took a wonderful finish from young Augustine, using the outside of his right foot. Truth to tell, Hyderabad had themselves to blame as it was midfielder Hitesh Sharma’s pass that was intercepted. With Bengaluru defending their lead and Hyderabad making all the attacking changes, the game took a dramatic turn in the last five minutes. A cross from substitute Rohit Danu was first turned home by Aridane from inside a crowded goalmouth and then Sandaza beat the offside trap to give the finishing touches to a miscued attempt from Roland Alberg, another substitute. Even with a point, Hyderabad were naturally delighted. As for Bengaluru, nothing seems to go right.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hyderabad-snatch-a-point-with-two-late-goals-against-bengaluru/articleshow/80518183.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 29, 2021||Goa||FC Goa turn focus on East Bengal||The AFC Champions League 2021 draw created quite a buzz at FC Goa as they prepare for their debut in Asia’s premier club competition. When that happens, it will be a first for an Indian club, but for now, the club’s focus is firmly on the Indian Super League where they face SC East Bengal at the Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Friday. Goa are enjoying a good run at the moment, unbeaten in six games, winning three of them. The league champions are third with 20 points from 13 games and a win will take them within a point of second-placed ATK Mohun Bagan. “The most important thing in this team is the adaptation to the new coach. From ones (that were there) to the players that he got, it's never easy. “Step by step we are moving towards our objective, we are moving towards the way how the coach wants the team to play and I believe it is in the right direction,” FC Goa assistant coach Clifford Miranda told TOI in an online interaction on Thursday. Miranda was deputising for coach Juan Ferrando, who is suspended for the clash against East Bengal. Spanish defender Ivan Gonzalez will join him in the stands after picking up a red card against Kerala Blasters. There’s more trouble for Goa as Brandon Fernandes is injured and James Donachie remains a doubtful starter. Ishan Pandita is likely to make a return, while Gonzalez’s suspension means defender Adil Khan, on loan from Hyderabad FC, is set for his Goa debut. When the teams met in the first leg, Goa were left stunned by Bright Enobakhare. The Nigerian striker danced his way past four players and scored a wonder goal, despite having captain Danny Fox sent off. It took a Devendra Murgaonkar header for Goa to save face, and a point. Enobakhare has been a revelation since joining Robbie Fowler’s side, but they still find themselves just above bottom-placed Odisha FC with 12 points. Despite his obvious talent and what he did in the first leg, Goa will not have any special plans for the Nigerian. “This game is as important as any other game. For us, we play the same way how we have up to the 13th game and for us it does not make a difference. Yes, it is a very important game just like any other game. It is one more step towards achieving our objective,” said Miranda. East Bengal will be keen to bounce back after seeing their seven-match unbeaten streak end at the hands of league leaders Mumbai City FC. Assistant coach Tony Grant believes they are getting to know the team better in the second leg of the league. “We go all out to win every game. This season we had three games with 10 men. We get to know the players in ISL games. So, the first 10 games were almost trial games because we don’t know the players. We got to know them, so we go all out to win every game,” said Grant. Enobakhare started the last game on the bench and moved positions, depending on the opposition. Grant believes he will be used effectively against Goa. “We will use our experience and figure out where to play Bright. He’s been fouled more times than he touches the ball, he needs some protection, so we will see where we play him,” said Grant. Wherever Bright stands, Goa’s eyes will be focused on him. Nobody has really forgotten what he did when the teams last met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-turn-focus-to-east-bengal/articleshow/80518363.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 29, 2021||Business||India could unveil plan to boost oilseeds output, cut vegetable oil imports: Sources||NEW DELHI: India is likely to announce a five-year plan to cut expensive vegetable oil imports worth $10 billion a year in next week's Budget by providing farmers with financial incentives to switch to oilseeds from grains, said three senior government officials. Higher oilseed production in India, the world's biggest buyer of cooking oils, will cut palm oil imports from Malaysia and Indonesia and trim soyoil and sunflower oil purchases from Brazil, Argentina, Russia and Ukraine. The officials, who asked not to be named as the discussions are still private, said the plan could dramatically cut India's import bills. "A country of India's size cannot afford to be so heavily dependent on edible oil imports, and that's why in the upcoming budget you will likely see a new push to raise domestic oilseed production," said one of the officials. The government has already mapped out an ambitious five-year programme aiming to boost the country's oilseed production to more than 47 million tonnes from over 30 million tonnes now, said the official. "It is likely to have a budgetary allocation of Rs 18,000 crore to Rs 20,000," he said. A finance ministry spokesman was not immediately available for comment. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is set to present the fiscal 2021-22 budget on February 1. Cut subsidy spend A switch toward oilseeds would also bring down India's surplus output of wheat and rice and effectively slash subsidies of billions of dollars on a food grain procurement programme that farmers fear New Delhi may want to discontinue after the rollout of the government's new farm laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting on the outskirts of New Delhi for months against the new laws they say help large private buyers at the expense of producers. India's vegetable oil imports, the third biggest import item after crude oil and gold, have surged to 15 million tonnes from 4 million two decades ago. Trade estimates suggest vegetable oil imports could reach 20 million tonnes by 2030, boosted by a growing populace with higher incomes and appetite for curries and deep-fried food. The government would encourage farmers, especially from states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to switch to sunflower and rapeseed from rice and wheat, said a second official. "Farmers won't switch to oilseeds unless they're compensated for any possible losses, and that's why the government plans to provide a per hectare subsidy for the switch," he said. Oilseeds are now mainly grown in rain-fed areas impacting crop yields, but states like Punjab and Haryana, with efficient irrigation can expect higher yields, farming experts say. If implemented successfully, the new programme would help India raise its edible oil volumes to 18 million tonnes from a little over 10 million tonnes now, both officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-could-unveil-plan-to-boost-oilseeds-output-cut-vegetable-oil-imports-sources/articleshow/80518550.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Srinagar||India’s first igloo café is Gulmarg’s new tourism treat||SRINAGAR: The warmth of a cup of Kashmiri kahwa never felt more inviting than inside Syed Waseem Shah's igloo café in the middle of a Gulmarg meadow blanketed in snow. As the Covid-induced gloom lifts on leisure travel, this 22ft wide and 13ft tall igloo standing adjacent to the Kolahoi Green Heights resort in Kashmir's trekking and skiing hub has been a crowd-puller in tourism's comeback season. Shah's igloo café is inspired by similar attractions in the icier parts of Europe such as Switzerland and Austria. What's different is that it is the only one of its kind in the country, although places like Manali in Himachal Pradesh do offer igloo stays. "We weren't quite expecting the response that the café has received so far. The idea seems to have gone down well with domestic tourists because it's a novelty for them. Guests can sip a cup of kahwa seated on snow benches inside the café while waiting for the food to arrive. Each of the benches is covered in animal hide," Shah, who owns the Kolahoi chain, said. While an average peak-winter temperature of minus 11 degrees Celsius at 15,000ft above sea level is perfect for an igloo designed to melt hearts, it will probably survive only until the end of February. "It took us 15 days to create this 16-cover igloo café in the meadows. Unfortunately, like all good things, it will be there only for a short time," Shah said. Almost all hotels and resorts in Gulmarg are fully booked till end-February, bringing a smile to the faces of tourism stakeholders who haven't had a good season in years. "It's heartening to see the inflow of tourists increasing, especially in Gulmarg," said Mudasir Mir of Hotel Pine Palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/indias-first-igloo-caf-is-gulmargs-new-tourism-treat/articleshow/80518661.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 29, 2021||Jammu||India’s first igloo café is Gulmarg’s new tourism treat||SRINAGAR: The warmth of a cup of Kashmiri kahwa never felt more inviting than inside Syed Waseem Shah's igloo café in the middle of a Gulmarg meadow blanketed in snow. As the Covid-induced gloom lifts on leisure travel, this 22ft wide and 13ft tall igloo standing adjacent to the Kolahoi Green Heights resort in Kashmir's trekking and skiing hub has been a crowd-puller in tourism's comeback season. Shah's igloo café is inspired by similar attractions in the icier parts of Europe such as Switzerland and Austria. What's different is that it is the only one of its kind in the country, although places like Manali in Himachal Pradesh do offer igloo stays. "We weren't quite expecting the response that the café has received so far. The idea seems to have gone down well with domestic tourists because it's a novelty for them. Guests can sip a cup of kahwa seated on snow benches inside the café while waiting for the food to arrive. Each of the benches is covered in animal hide," Shah, who owns the Kolahoi chain, said. While an average peak-winter temperature of minus 11 degrees Celsius at 15,000ft above sea level is perfect for an igloo designed to melt hearts, it will probably survive only until the end of February. "It took us 15 days to create this 16-cover igloo café in the meadows. Unfortunately, like all good things, it will be there only for a short time," Shah said. Almost all hotels and resorts in Gulmarg are fully booked till end-February, bringing a smile to the faces of tourism stakeholders who haven't had a good season in years. "It's heartening to see the inflow of tourists increasing, especially in Gulmarg," said Mudasir Mir of Hotel Pine Palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/indias-first-igloo-caf-is-gulmargs-new-tourism-treat/articleshow/80551436.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 29, 2021||India||Last surviving member of J&K Constituent Assembly dies at 93||JAMMU: Krishan Dev Sethi, 93, the last surviving member of the Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, passed away at his residence on Thursday. The Constituent Assembly, which comprised of a body of representatives elected in 1951 (later dissolved in 1953), had framed the constitution of the erstwhile state of J&K. Born in Mirpur, now in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, on January 1, 1928, Sethi was a popular leader. He migrated to Jammu in 1946 and later also represented the Nowshera assembly segment of Rajouri district. J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha expressed grief over the demise of Sethi. “Saddened by the passing away of Krishan Dev Sethi, ex-MLA #Nowshera and father of J&K law secretary Achal Sethi. He was also the last surviving member of J&K Constituent Assembly,” Sinha said in a tweet. PDP president and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti also remembered Sethi as a fatherly figure. She tweeted: “Deeply saddened to know of Sethi Sahab’s demise. I was hoping to see him in Jammu. He treated me like a daughter & will always be an integral part of my childhood. Will miss his wisdom & guidance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/last-surviving-member-of-jk-constituent-assembly-dies-at-93/articleshow/80518745.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 29, 2021||India||Pak returns Poonch woman after 4 months||JAMMU: A woman from Poonch, who had inadvertently crossed over to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) around four months ago, was on Thursday handed over to the Indian authorities. Confirming repatriation of the woman, Poonch SSP Romesh Angral said, “A woman, Zareena Bi (36), resident of Chela Dangri of Mandi in Poonch district, who had crossed over to the other side, has been handed back the by PoK authorities.” The SSP said the woman was received on this side at Chakkan-Da-Bagh in Poonch after four months of her crossing over. Legal formalities are going on, he added. Earlier, as a goodwill gesture, the Indian and Pakistani sides had repatriated two youths who had inadvertently crossed the Line of Control (LoC) in December 2020 in Poonch sector to their respective territories on January 8. With the support of Jammu and Kashmir Police and the civil administration, Ali Haider, a 14-year old boy from PoK’s Mirpur, was repatriated via the Poonch-Rawalakot crossing point, while the Pakistani authorities also handed over Mohammed Bashir, who had been in their custody since December 24. Prior to this, two minor girls from Kahuta area of PoK, who had inadvertently crossed over to this side of the LoC on December 6, 2020, were handed over to the Pakistani authorities at Chakkan-da-Bagh in Poonch on December 7. Identified as Laiba Zabair, 17, and Sana Zabair, 13, residents of Abbasspur village in Kahuta tehsil of PoK, these sisters had strayed to the Indian side from Mendhar sector in Poonch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-returns-poonch-woman-after-4-months/articleshow/80518819.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 29, 2021||World||Pak receives GI tag for its Basmati rice||ISLAMABAD: Despite India’s opposition, Pakistan has received the geographical indicator (GI) tag for its Basmati rice, paving the way for creating a local registry for this particular strain of rice and making a case in the world markets for its protection as a Pakistani product, the Rice Exporters’ Association of Pakistan (REAP) said on Thursday, adding that they received the tag on January 26, 2021. India has applied for an exclusive GI tag to Indian-origin Basmati rice with the European Union’s Council on Quality Schemes for Agricultural and Foodstuffs. The application was published in an official EU journal on September 11, 2020, after clearing internal evaluations. Confirming the development, Abdul Razak Dawood, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s adviser on commerce and investment, tweeted: “I am glad to inform that Pakistan has registered Basmati rice as GI under the GI Act 2020. Under this Act, a GI registry has been formed, which will register the GI and maintain basic record of properties and authorised users.” Dawood added: “This will provide protection to our products against misuse or imitation, hence, will guarantee that their share in the international market is protected.” Since Basmati rice fetches higher prices in the international markets, India had attempted to block Pakistan’s trade in the EU by declaring that its Basmati was the geographically original one. Pakistan had challenged the claim and, by registering its own GI for Basmati, it would now claim the same protection for its Basmati in the EU as India. According to Pakistan’s rice exporters, India currently has a larger Basmati rice share of around 65% in the EU whereas Pakistan has a 35% share. Pakistan’s total rice exports in 2020 stood at $2.2 billion. GI Committee convener Samiullah Naeem said that the fresh development would open new avenues for Pakistan’s Basmati rice in other markets as well. “This is the first Pakistani product which has been registered under the GI tag and we can now claim and market our products in global markets,” he said. “We are now hopeful that we can increase the reach of local Basmati in export markets and believe that the government will create more opportunities to enhance our export revenue from rice,” Naeem added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-receives-gi-tag-for-its-basmati-rice/articleshow/80518925.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 29, 2021||World||Pak defence ministry opposes request for removal of ex-ISI chief’s name from no-fly list||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s defence ministry has opposed a request seeking removal of the name of former Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief Lt Gen (retired) Asad Durrani from the Exit Control List (ECL), or no-fly list, stating that he had been “interacting with hostile elements”, including Indian spy agency Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), since 2008 and was likely to be involved in future activities against the interest of the country. Durrani had put himself in a difficult situation after co-authoring a book — The Spy Chronicles: RAW, ISI and the Illusion of Peace — with ex-RAW chief Amarjit Singh Dulat in 2018. Following the book’s publication, the interior ministry had placed Durrani’s name on ECL after being asked by the Military Intelligence (MI) to prevent him from leaving Pakistan. It had prompted Durrani to challenge the move in the Islamabad high court in 2019. The federation of Pakistan, defence and interior ministers were made respondents in the case. In a written reply submitted in the HC on Wednesday in response to Durrani’s petition, the defence ministry said the former ISI chief’s name was placed on the no-fly list for “his involvement in anti-state activities”. The Spy Chronicles, according to the ministry’s statement, contained “certain contents concerning the national security of Pakistan, being in contravention of the provisions of the Official Secrets Acts, 1923”. “It is further highlighted that there are a number of such publications on the way, supported by hostile elements, which contain content to create misperceptions, confusions, question marks against the top leadership circles at country level and to target the common people (sic),” read the ministry’s reply. According to the document, Durrani had been “affiliated/interacting with hostile elements, especially Indian RAW, since 2008”. It further stated that although he had submitted an affidavit committing to the government to refrain from such activities but the same had still not been seen “in tangible terms”. It said Durrani’s name could not be removed from ECL “at this stage”. “The former ISI chief wanted to travel abroad with the intention of participating in international conferences, forums and talks, which will have serious national security implications as evident from the recently published book ‘Honour Among Spies’, which was also authored by Durrani and published through Indian publishers/RAW supported elements,” the defence ministry said. Moreover, the ministry stated, the petitioner also appeared on social media on October 12 and 13, 2020, and expressed his views which cannot be well received by any patriotic citizen. While noting that Durrani had remained part of the army for 32 years and served on important and sensitive positions, the ministry said: “It was inappropriate of his stature to co-author a book, that too with an ex-Indian RAW chief and Indian journalist, on matters concerning the national security of the country… Hence, a sufficient cause for placing the petitioner’s name on ECL exists.” The ministry said after Durrani’s book was evaluated from a “security perspective”, it was confirmed by the Court of Inquiry that it contained contents “which were against the interests of Pakistan”. It asserted that no fundamental right of the petitioner had been infringed upon by the placement of his name on the no-fly list, saying: “If a citizen, which includes a person performing function[s] in connection with the affairs of the state, does not obey the constitutional commands, then he is not performing his obligation imposed by the Constitution.” Durrani’s petition will be taken up again by the HC on February 12. In February 2019, the Pakistan Army had announced that Durrani had been found guilty of violating the military’s code of conduct and a Court of Inquiry was ordered against him for writing the book. A military court subsequently stripped him of his pension and other post-retirement benefits. Durrani then challenged that order before the Lahore HC. In October 2020, Durrani informed the HC that the government had restored his pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-defence-ministry-opposes-request-for-removal-of-ex-isi-chiefs-name-from-no-fly-list/articleshow/80519053.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 29, 2021||World||Pak pilot spots strange object in the sky||ISLAMABAD: The cockpit crew of a Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) aircraft confirmed to have spotted an extraordinary object hovering in the sky in the airspace between Multan and Sahiwal on January 23. A short video clip shot by the crew from a window of the PIA’s Lahore-bound flight, PK304, showed a strange-looking phenomenon in the skies, which immediately went viral on social media. A bright white circular object can be seen in the video as the cabin crew speculated about it, with one crew member saying it could not be a weather balloon. Captain Faisal Qureshi, the pilot, said the object was surrounded by a metal ring and it released brilliant light from its centre. The object, as seen in the video, has very little or no movement at all. Local TV stations reported that the unidentified flying object (UFO) spotted at 4.30pm was “extremely bright” despite the presence of sunlight. PIA spokesperson Abdullah Khan said the object was spotted by the pilot. “It was necessary to inform the public and the media about the phenomenon,” he said in a video message, but refused to comment on the nature of the mysterious object. It is not the first sighting of an UFO in Pakistan. A similar incident was also reported by PIA pilots in Karachi in January 2019. According to Scott C Wang, a blogger who posts about UFO sightings, the recorded video of the unidentified object is the most focused and accurate image of a “foo fighter” in UFO’s research history. “Aliens follow human movements and activities by following their planes,” claimed Scott.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-pilot-spots-strange-object-in-the-sky/articleshow/80519145.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 29, 2021||World||Pak SC frees key accused of beheading Daniel Pearl||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the release of Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, the principal accused in the 2002 beheading of American journalist Daniel Pearl, dismissing the appeal of the government of Sindh province against a high court order for his immediate release. Pearl’s family, in a statement released by their lawyer, said, “Today’s decision is a complete travesty of justice and the release of these killers puts in danger journalists everywhere and the people of Pakistan.” The short order was issued by a three-judge SC bench headed by Justice Mushir Alam. One member of the bench opposed the decision. Sheikh’s lawyer, Mahmud Sheikh said that according to the SC, there wasn’t sufficient evidence to prove that Sheikh had committed the offence. Provincial attorney Salman Talibuddin said that the court also ordered that three others, who had been sentenced to life in prison for their part in Pearl’s kidnapping and death, be freed. Faisal Siddiqi, the Pearl family lawyer, said the only legal avenue following the court’s decision upholding Sheikh’s acquittal would be to ask for a review. He, however, said the review would be conducted by the same court that upheld the appeal. “In practical terms, there are no further legal avenues to pursue the case in Pakistan.” In April last year, the Sindh HC had overturned the death sentence of Sheikh, who had been convicted of the 2002 kidnapping and killing of the American journalist by an anti-terrorism court, into seven years’ imprisonment and acquitted the three others. Apart from Sheikh, the others accused in the case were Fahad Naseem, Syed Suleman Saqib and Sheikh Muhammad Adil. Sheikh, who had already spent 18 years in prison on death row after his death sentence by an anti-terrorism court, was expected to be released after the high court verdict since his seven-year sentence was to be counted as time already served. The accused, however, were not released as the Sindh government kept them behind bars under the Maintenance of Public Order (MPO) law. The government can detain any suspect under the MPO for 90 days. On July 1, a fresh notification was issued by the provincial government to extend their detention by three months and later their confinement was extended for yet another 90 days. In December last year, the high court accepted a petition by the men against their continued detention and ordered their immediate release, declaring all notifications of the Sindh government related to their detention “null and void”. Following the HC order, the Sindh government had filed an appeal with the SC against Sheikh’s release. The Sindh government and Pearl’s parents had also filed appeals against Sheikh’s acquittal, a decision on which has not yet been announced by the top court. Daniel Pearl, 38, was the South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal when he was kidnapped in Karachi in January 2002. Pearl’s wife, Marianne Pearl, a US national who was living in Karachi, wrote a letter to police on February 2, 2002, stating that her husband had disappeared on January 23, 2002. Later, a graphic video showing Pearl’s decapitation was delivered to the US consulate in Karachi nearly a month after his abduction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-sc-frees-key-accused-of-beheading-daniel-pearl/articleshow/80519233.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 29, 2021||India||Shashi Tharoor, six journalists booked for sedition in UP over January 26 violence in Delhi||NOIDA: Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists have been booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials said on Thursday. The FIR was lodged at the Sector 20 police station here following a complaint by a resident who alleged that "digital broadcast" and "social media posts" by these people were responsible for the violence during a tractor rally by farmers in the national capital. The journalists named in the FIR are Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath. An unidentified person has also been named in the FIR. "Yes, the FIR has been lodged," a senior Noida Police officer confirmed to PTI. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 124A (sedition), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 120B (criminal conspiracy), among others. They have also been booked under relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act. The Noida Police have begun investigation into the matter, according to officials. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shashi-tharoor-six-journalists-booked-for-sedition-in-up-over-january-26-violence-in-delhi/articleshow/80519642.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Two years on, man held for abetting woman’s suicide in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: More than two years after a 29-year-old homemaker ended her life, a 27-year-old man who had an affair with her has been arrested for allegedly abetting the suicide. Bommanahalli police traced Venkatesh S, to his village of Kotai Ulimangalam in Krishnagiri district, Tamil Nadu and picked him up on Tuesday. He was housekeeping in-charge in an apartment complex in Bengaluru. According to police, Venkatesh was on the run since the woman, Kusuma (name changed), hanged herself at her house in Hongasandra in November 2018. Police said he was her neighbour. Kusuma used to live with her husband, a bar cashier, and her two children. Venkatesh became friends with her and they got into a relationship. She trusted him and gave him her gold ornaments worth Rs 2 lakh when he asked for them citing some requirement. “She later demanded he return the gold and also marry her. Venkatesh started avoiding her and shifted his residence to Panathur. She wrote a suicide note, in which she talked about her affair with Venkatesh and how he had taken away her gold. Kusuma held him responsible for the extreme step. Based on the note and complaint by her husband, we took up a case of abetment against Venkatesh on November 10, 2018,” a police officer said. Gave police the slipBommanahalli police had rushed to Venkatesh’s Panathur house to arrest him soon after the abetment case was registered. But they learnt he had attempted suicide by consuming poison. Police waited for him to recover, but Venkatesh, in the meantime, went absconding. Cops were making efforts to nab him and recently learnt Venkatesh had returned to his village. A team headed by sub-inspector Shivappa rushed to the village and arrested him. Police seized gold worth Rs 2 lakh belonging to Kusuma from him. Venkatesh was produced before a city court, which remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-years-on-man-held-for-abetting-womans-suicide/articleshow/80520295.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Namma Metro services to be hit for 2 hours on Sunday||BENGALURU: There will be no Metro services between Byappanahalli and MG Road stations from 7am to 9am on Sunday due to maintenance work to be taken up on Purple Line between Trinity and Halasuru stations. “Trains will run only between MG Road and Mysuru Road. Normal services will be restored after 9am,” said BMRCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/metro-services-to-be-hit-for-2-hours-on-sunday/articleshow/80520301.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Smart City work on Bengaluru's Brigade Road begins, 50m of sidewalk dug up||BENGALURU: Shopping is unlikely to be a seamless experience on Brigade Road for the next few months as it’s being redeveloped under the Smart City project. According to the authorities, a 50-50 model will be adopted for executing the work — while 50 metres of the pavement on one side will be out of bounds for pedestrians, the footpath on the other side will be open. Pedestrian walkways will be developed first, followed by relaying of the road. The project is expected to be completed by June. Brigade Road is among the nine streets being revamped by Bengaluru Smart City Limited (BSCL) at a cost of Rs 32.3 crore. “People are hardly able to walk on Brigade Road as the pavements on either side are either occupied by hawkers or are in bad shape. This needs to change,” said Rajendra Cholan, managing director, BSCL. To ensure minimum inconvenience is caused to walkers, Cholan has drawn up what he calls the ‘50-50 plan.’ “The first 50 metres of the pavement on one side of Brigade Road (from MG Road) is blocked for pedestrians and work is being taken up there. Pedestrian movement is allowed on the other side,” he explained. Bills for the contractors will be withheld if work on the first 50-metre stretch is not over before the next portion is taken up. “Many utilities need to be shifted before work begins in a full-fledged manner. This will take time. Once the pavements are ready, we will fix the roads, which will hardly take a week,” said a official from BSCL. Traders worriedSohail Yusuf, secretary of Brigade Shops and Establishment Association, says the developmental work is causing more loss than gain. “The project was to begin in November but due to festivities, we requested it be pushed to a later date. They have begun the work now,” he said. Naresh Nagpal, owner of Fifth Avenue on Brigade Road, said with business already being hit by the pandemic, the redevelopment work is worrisome. “There are hardly any customers and the rents are very high. We are doomed,” Nagpal said, adding: “We are supporting the Smart City work but there should be coordination between agencies.” “The contractors are coordinating with the traders and we have requested them to commence the work as soon as possible,” added Cholan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/smart-city-work-on-brigade-rd-begins-50m-of-sidewalk-dug-up/articleshow/80520306.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Stay on inquiry proceedings against ex-VC||BENGALURU: The high court has granted interim stay on the inquiry proceedings initiated against S Japhet, former vice-chancellor of the newly founded Bengaluru City University. Justice M Nagaprasanna noted that prima facie, under section 28 of the Karnataka State Universities Act, 2000, the syndicate does not have the power to constitute a one-man committee to conduct an inquiry against a former vice-chancellor. Japhet had challenged the December 28, 2020 notification and the inquiry notice issued on January 18, 2021. The next hearing is on February 15. Japhet was appointed VC in 2017 and demitted office in November 2020. Thereafter, the syndicate resolved to set up the committee to look into various works entrusted to contractors during his tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stay-on-inquiry-proceedings-against-ex-vc/articleshow/80520310.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: CA student nabbed for selling hashish oil, ganja||BENGALURU: Tilak Nagar police recently apprehended a 27-year-old student, who was doing his chartered accountancy articleship training, on drug-peddling charges and seized hashish oil and ganja worth Rs 35 lakh from him. Police said Vishruth N Raj, a resident of Dwarakanagar, Channasandra, had completed BCom and was doing articleship training for CA at an auditor’s office. Raj started peddling drugs to earn money illegally. He developed contact with Praveen alias Mummy in Guntur, Andhra Pradesh and procured hashish oil and ganja from him. Police said they received credible information about Raj being at Jayanagar 9th Block on January 20, where he came to sell hashish oil. Sudhir M Hegde, assistant commissioner of police (Mico Layout sub-division), formed a team headed by Anil Kumar GS to nab the suspect. Cops arrested Raj and seized 3kg of hashish oil and 1.2 kg of ganja worth Rs 35 lakh from him. Raj and Praveen met while attending a CA coaching camp in Hyderabad, became friends and began their drug dealings. Police said Raj had been purchasing hashish oil from Praveen for Rs 6 lakh a kg. Later, he’d sell the same for more than Rs 12 lakh per kg. Raj used to sell narcotics to his customers, including students, in SG Palya, Koramangala, HSR Layout, Jayanagar and JP Nagar. Police produced the accused before court, which remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ca-student-nabbed-for-selling-hashish-oil-ganja/articleshow/80520312.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||School on wheels: Old buses in Bengaluru converted into mobile classrooms||BENGALURU: To educate underprivileged children, BMTC converted 10 old buses into mobile schools which will be purchased by BBMP at a cost of Rs 4 lakh each. These buses will be sent to areas where the number of out-of-school children is high. BBMP school teachers will be deputed to teach them.  “BBMP will conduct bridge courses to attract underprivileged children into mainstream schools,” read a BMTC note.  The converted buses have a vinyl flooring mat, white board for teachers and chairs for staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmtc-turns-old-buses-into-mobile-schools/articleshow/80520347.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cages with goats placed as bait for elusive leopard||BENGALURU: Forest officials are still looking for the leopard which had sneaked twice into a private apartment on Begur Road last week. Though there is no visual evidence to prove the big cat visited the apartment premises again, unconfirmed reports mentioned about it being spotted on Sunday too. This prompted forest officials to place cages with goats as bait in them. The leopard was seen around 5.30am on Saturday by security personnel and a few morning walkers inside Prestige Song of the South apartment on Begur Main Road in Yelenahalli. By 6.15am, a posse of forest officials and police arrived at the spot. After a day-long search operation, officials said the leopard had returned to the forests of Bannerghatta, from where it had come. However, by 8.30pm, an apartment occupant alerted police and forest officials about the leopard showing up again. A close look at CCTV footage showed the predator had indeed sneaked into the apartment and quickly scaled its compound wall before vanishing into the darkness. Next day, forest officials found pug marks at an open field behind the apartment. Immediately, cages were placed in four different places. “Residents say they heard about the leopard revisiting the area post-Sunday. However, we think these were just rumours. To be on the safer side, forest officials are camping in the locality. We are equipped with tranquilisers, nets and cages,” a forest official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cages-with-goats-placed-as-bait-for-elusive-leopard/articleshow/80520367.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||Was little concerned about national team spot: Adil||When Adil Khan knocked on the hotel door of Manolo Marquez, the Hyderabad FC coach knew what to expect. Adil, India’s number one choice for the central defensive pairing alongside Sandesh Jhingan, wasn’t playing in the Indian Super League (ISL) and there were growing concerns over his place in the national team. Marquez listened to what the defender had to say. He understood his concerns. But with Chinglensana Singh now the first-choice domestic central defender for Hyderabad, there was no place for Adil in his starting eleven. “Adil needs to play and he wanted to leave the club. I understand perfectly that he needs to play, if he wants to be part of the national team. With young talented Indian players, at this moment, it’s difficult to change,” said Marquez. Hyderabad’s most-expensive domestic signing is now on loan at FC Goa till end of season. That should work well for both sides; Adil finds a team where he can be a guaranteed starter and coach Juan Ferrando now has a domestic defender who he can trust, should he feel the need to load his attack with foreign players. “I was out due to injury for two weeks (during pre-season) so couldn’t match the fitness levels of the other players. I could not start games when the season kicked off. “When someone else takes the place, it’s natural for the coach to think about that player and not the one on the bench. I didn’t even play a single training game, so the coach didn’t know much about me. It was difficult,” said Adil. At Hyderabad, Adil revealed, there were talks of a change in formation; playing three at the back to accommodate him in the starting 11. However, with Hyderabad doing well and little time to experiment, Marquez not surprisingly stuck to the tried and tested. With each passing game, Adil, 32, knew his chances were limited. Did he think that would influence national coach Igor Stimac and jeopardise his place? “It was not a worry, but a little bit of concern. Of course, if you don’t play, if you don’t show your game in the current season, then it’s difficult for the coach to believe and trust in you again. “But I think I would have got a chance, at least for the camp. I could have proved myself there. I was not scared, honestly, but there was a concern,” said Adil, who played just 34 minutes across five matches this season. The India defender is expected to make his debut for Goa against SC East Bengal on Friday. With Ivan Gonzalez suspended and James Donachie doubtful, he’s the first name at the back, with or without a foreigner to play by his side. Adil is ready for that challenge. “We have to believe in ourselves. We cannot always rely on foreign players. Goa have a good squad and there are others who can step into someone’s boots. We will do well,” said Adil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/was-little-concerned-about-national-team-spot-adil/articleshow/80517970.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Decision to not reopen all classes is unfair to marginalised kids: Experts||BENGALURU: The decision to allow only grades 9 and 11 to reopen fully in the next stage has come as a complete disappointment for experts batting for total reopening of schools. After multiple requests, 18 experts had again written to the government on Wednesday seeking opening of schools. Experts from various fields, who have been in favour of reopening all classes, slammed the government for the decision, expressing anguish and despair. “It is an unfortunate and unfair blow to children from marginalised groups of society, who have no possibility of getting support for structured learning. Every economic activity is allowed today — malls, swimming pools, theatres, everything. By keeping only schools closed, we are saying the lives of these children are not important for us. They are paying a completely unnecessary price for the indifference of those in power,” said Gurumurthy Kasinathan, IT for Change. “Are they trying to tell us that India’s children are the biggest threat to the Covid issue? Let the government reveal what the Technical Advisory Committee has proposed ... Also, is the state government planning to reopen each class every month? In that case, by the time it reopens kindergarten, it would be the year-end. Instead, let the government give an explanation on what it plans for its students,” said Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, physician and activist. According to these experts, there has been no spike in Covid cases after schools were partially opened. Cases and deaths continue to decline. Vaccination has commenced across the state. Younger children are less vulnerable to the virus, they pointed out. “While the Supreme Court directed to open anganwadis before January 31, the state government is hesitating to open classes 1 to 9 based on unscientific reasoning and advice. As part of the Vidyarthigala Nade Shaleya Kade, we will go ahead with the protest and leave kids on campus from February 1. We will explore all other options to open schools at community level,” said Niranjanaradhya VP, senior fellow at Centre for Child and Law. ‘Taking things too far’“That even Vidyagama is not allowed for primary classes is taking things too far,” said D Shashi Kumar, secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools of Karnataka. “While some other schools have started functioning, it’s unfair on others who follow the rulebook,” he added, seeking action against rural private schools that have started functioning. Many institutions under Recognised Unaided Private Schools Association that had reopened for primary classes said they will continue to remain open. “...Parents have been asking us to open schools,” said Lokesh T, president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/decision-to-not-reopen-all-classes-is-unfair-to-marginalised-kids-experts/articleshow/80520922.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||27 of 91 stolen cattle heads found in 3 years||BENGALURU: On January 25, K Chennakeshava, a milk vendor from Ullal near Kengeri, filed a police complaint saying unidentified miscreants had stolen two of his cows. They were his source of income and he described them to cops in these words: “Black cattle with white patches on body.” Police are now taking Chennakeshava, 41, with them while patrolling in Kengeri, Ullal and Jnanabharathi, with the hope of spotting the stolen animals. But they’ve had no success so far. Police say it will take time to trace the cows if miscreants have taken them out of the city. “Unless we have some definite clue, it’s difficult to trace such stolen cattle. Sometimes, people known to the complainant would have stolen them due to rivalry. In such cases, recovery is easy. But if the miscreants come from places like Tumakuru and Mandya and take the cattle back with them, tracking is tough,” police said. In 2018, the city witnessed 24 cases of cattle theft; nine of the stolen cattle heads were recovered. In 2019, 42 cattle heads were stolen and 13 were recovered. The figures for last year were 25 and five, respectively. Among the five cattle heads recovered in 2020, four were rescued by Nandini Layout police. They had been stolen from Krishnanandanagar in early February. A team led by inspector BN Lohit scanned CCTV footage and found four men had taken away the cows in a mini goods truck. According to Lohit, there are two categories of cattle lifters. Largely, they are stolen for reselling. The second type steals for personal use. In the Krishnanandanagar case, Lohit and his team thought the miscreants were habitual offenders due to the manner in which they bundled the cows into the truck. Cops noted down the licence plate number and started looking for the vehicle owner. “The truck had visited a fuel station near Kengeri. Further scanning of CCTV footage showed it had passed Bidadi, Ramanagara, Channapatna and Mandya. The team reached Mandya and started looking for the truck,” he said. By then, the suspects had sold the cows to different farmers in and around Mandya. The team returned without much success. “A week later, we detained the truck driver and he took us to a village between Mandya and Nagamangala. There, we recovered one cow and traced the other three in nearby villages,” Lohit said, adding “Had they sold them to a slaughter house, recovery of the animals would have been impossible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/27-of-91-stolen-cattle-heads-found-in-3-yrs/articleshow/80520979.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||First collegegoer in family among BU gold medallists||BENGALURU: Rahmathunnisa, a resident of Nagawara and currently an MCom student at Bengaluru City University, is the first from her family to attend college. On Saturday, she will walk away with eight awards — five gold medals and three cash prizes — for BCom at the Bangalore University convocation. Rahmathunnisa was a student of BBMP First Grade College, Fraser Town. “I was always a government or an aided school student. I am like any other pupil. I listen well in class, which takes care of 75%-80% of the studies. Rest, I work hard at home,” she said. Rahmathunnisa was a BBMP school topper in II PU. While her father passed away when she was three years old, Rahmathunnisa grew up with her mother, a homemaker, and three elder sisters and an elder brother. The brother is now into aluminium fabrication, while the elder sisters are married. Rahmathunnisa plans to crack competitive exams. “My family has told me I can study as much I want. They are very supportive,” she added. Apart from Rahmathunnisa, 81 other students will get gold medals at the convocation. The highest number of gold medals is being bagged by a BE civil engineering student of University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering. A native of Kerala, Kashyap Vasudevan, is now pursuing MTech at NIT-K. For some students, the pandemic has affected their career and academic plans. “I wanted to pursue PhD abroad but was unable to get transcripts for my UG and PG programmes. I attended lots of workshops, courses and internships in the meanwhile,” said Aratrika Ray, a student of MSc in zoology, BGS Science Academy, Chikkaballapura. In all, 319 gold medals and 90 cash prizes are being awarded to 19 meritorious students. A total of 184 PhD degrees will be given in different disciplines. Due to the Covid-19 situation, only gold medallists, prize winners and PhD awardees have been invited in person for the convocation ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/first-collegegoer-in-family-among-bu-gold-medallists/articleshow/80521064.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Register on portal and watch Aero India virtually for free||BENGALURU: Owing to an overwhelming response and requests, the ministry of defence (MoD) has done away with the Rs 1,000 fee the public needed to pay to virtually watch the 13th edition of Aero India, scheduled between February 3 and 5, the organisers said in a webinar on Thursday. Now, the general public can watch the show for free. “Once people register on the portal, they will have access to various virtual exhibitions, inauguration and other aspects of the show online,” an official said. Exhibitors, companies and other businesses can also participate remotely. However, exhibitors are required to pay a stipulated fee to the organisers — Rs 20,000 for MSMEs and Rs 40,000 for others. “There are a lot of options for participants. Companies can showcase capabilities through banners, virtual pop-ups and videos, products and services offered by the firms, brochures, images, etc,” the official said. He added exhibitors can interact with virtual visitors through video/chat/SMS or email. “There will be facilities to track details of virtual visitors who visited your stall, schedule online B2B meetings with them and also participate in conferences,” he added. There will also be a QR code to exchange business cards, report cleanliness issues or give feedback. “Exhibitors and visitors will be able to experience everything that a person present at the venue does. They’ll even have access to show dailies and other digital repositories,” the official added. As on January 28, there are 171 virtual exhibitors, up 17% from the 146 as of January 22. As reported by TOI earlier, the pandemic has forced the organisers to restrict visitors at the venue: Only 15,000 will be allowed in the exhibition area while those at the air display viewing area will be limited to 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/register-on-portal-and-watch-aero-india-virtually-for-free/articleshow/80521097.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Only one-fourth of 17km cycle lane complete||BENGALURU: The much-hyped pop-up bicycle lane project of the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) on Outer Ring Road (ORR) has been delayed. In May 2020, DULT commissioner V Manjula and other officials visited the ORR to create a lane for cyclists on the service road. The move came after several global cities set up temporary lanes to help cyclists during the pandemic. Of the 17km proposed pop-up lane on the service road, just 4km has been completed so far. This despite many tech parks slowly opening up after the work-from-home phase. Completion of the lane would have encouraged many to cycle to work, especially on the tech corridor. DULT has been facing severe criticism for focusing only on CBD areas and ignoring the city outskirts. A DULT spokesperson said they have provided designs to BBMP for implementation of pop-up cycle lanes on ORR. “BBMP has begun work and completed laying cycle lanes from KR Puram to Mahadevapura, a length of 4km. On the remaining stretches, milling has already been done for another 13km,” said a DULT spokesperson in a statement. DULT, meanwhile, blamed BWSSB for the delay. “BWSSB has taken up laying of pipeline/underground drainage on certain stretches. Once BWSSB completes this work, further work will be taken up by BBMP. DULT has been regularly reviewing work progress with all agencies concerned,” it said. The statement further said BBMP is expected to complete a significant portion of the lane work on ORR by March and the entire expenditure towards the pop-up cycle lane is being met by the civic body. Bollards being placedThe government agencies planned a cycle lane of two-metre width. Bollards are also being installed at every metre to demarcate the lane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-one-fourth-of-17km-cycle-lane-complete/articleshow/80521099.cms||Christian Mathew Philip
January 29, 2021||World||Poland: Near-total abortion ban takes effect amid protests||WARSAW: A near-total ban on abortion has taken effect in Poland and triggered a new round of nationwide protests three months after a top court ruled that the abortion of congenitally damaged fetuses is unconstitutional. Led by a women's rights group, Women's Strike, people poured onto the streets of Warsaw and other cities and towns on Thursday for the second evening in a row. "I wanted to have more children, you killed this desire,'' read a banner held by one woman among the demonstrators in Warsaw. Some Polish women said that if they are denied the right to terminate pregnancies in cases of badly deformed fetuses, they would not try to have children at all. Poland's top human rights official denounced the further restriction of what was already one of the most restrictive abortion laws in Europe, calling it a tragedy for women. "The state wants to further limit their rights, risk their lives, and condemn them to torture,'' said Adam Bodnar, the human rights commissioner, or ombudsman, whose role is independent from the Polish government. "This offensive is opposed by civil society.'' The only remaining legal justifications for abortion under Polish law are if the woman's life or health is at risk or if a pregnancy results from rape or incest. To date, about 98% of all legal abortions in the country - of which there were 1,110 in 2019 - were performed on the grounds of fetal malformations. The restriction of abortion comes amid a broader erosion of civil liberties under right-wing populist authorities in Poland, as well as Hungary. The erosion of democratic rights in the two nations also is spreading to other parts of ex-communist central Europe, presenting a challenge for the European Union and US President Joe Biden as he seeks to restore democratic norms at home and abroad. Poland's constitutional court on Wednesday issued a justification of a controversial October ruling that bans abortions in cases of fetuses with congenital defects, even ones so severe that there is no chance of survival upon birth. The government then published the court's ruling in a government Journal of Laws. Those steps were the formal prerequisites required for the new law to enter into force. Members of Poland's ruling Law and Justice party, which is aligned with the Roman Catholic Church, had sought the new restriction. They argued that it was a way to prevent the abortion of fetuses with Down syndrome, which have made up a significant share of the legal abortions in Poland. Women's rights activists consider the new law to be draconian. The protesters are demanding a full liberalization of the abortion law and the resignation of the government, neither of which seem likely in the short term. In the meantime, women's rights groups are seeking new strategies to help women. The Federation for Women and Family planning says it will seek redress in international courts, arguing that the new law violates prohibitions of cruel treatment and torture. It is also assisting women who want to obtain abortion pills or travel abroad for the procedure. Some protesters Wednesday covered their faces with green handkerchiefs, which are the symbol of the abortion rights movement in Argentina. The South American country recently legalized abortion, a historic change in deeply Catholic Latin America. Amnesty International, calling Poland's law taking effect "a terrible day for women and girls in Poland," said bans never prevent abortions. "Instead, they serve only to damage women's health by pushing abortions underground or forcing women to travel to foreign countries to access abortion care they need and to which they have a right,'' Amnesty senior research adviser Esther Major said. In a more than 200-page ruling, the constitutional court argued that allowing abortion when there are congenital defects is unconstitutional because the Polish Constitution protects human life. The constitutional court is made up mostly of Law and Justice appointees who ruled on a motion brought by lawmakers from the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/poland-near-total-abortion-ban-takes-effect-amid-protests/articleshow/80522343.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Crackdown on farm protests, Rakesh Tikait in stand-off at UP Gate||NEW DELHI: A standoff built up through Thursday between police and protesters at UP Gate on Delhi’s Ghazipur border after the UP government ordered farmers camping there to be vacated and Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, the outfit leading the sit-in agitation at the site, dug in its heels and announced it would move the Supreme Court on Friday against the attempt to evict the protesters. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who held fort at UP Gate as tension rose after the protesters were served a notice by the Ghaziabad administration to leave and a heavy police contingent moved in, said, “The Supreme Court has not raised any objections to peaceful protest. No violence has taken place here (at UP Gate). I will challenge the order in the Supreme Court on Friday.” The local administration snapped power supply to the camps on the highway that have housed thousands of protesters since the agitation began in the last week of November at UP Gate, which formed the troika, alongside Singhu and Tikri, that became the main protest centres against the new farming laws. The water tanker service was discontinued as well. Most mobile toilets were removed, too. But even as the BKU held out, other protests folded up – primary among them the agitation at Atoha in Palwal on the Delhi-Agra highway – as the tide continued to turn after the Republic Day violence in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally. “The Red Fort incident changed everything overnight,” admitted Shiv Kumar Kakka, who was leading the Atoha protest as he decided to wrap up the agitation, a day after more than 2,000 protesters were booked for a clash in Faridabad during a Republic Day tractor rally. Kakka said the protest had also lost the support of locals. The previous night, in UP’s Baghpat, police evicted protesters camping on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway. An FIR was also filed against the farmers under IPC sections 283 (obstruction in public way), 341 (wrongful restraint), 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant), 269 (spreading infection) and sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act. At Singhu border, Delhi Police installed new barricades near the passage to the protest site, leaving visitors with no option but to take long detours passing through residential areas. Police also began stopping private vehicles a few kilometres before from the protest site, allowing only government vehicles to go forward. There are more boots on the ground as well. The crowd at the protest site too had conspicuously thinned. Farmers said they will stay put and only those who had come to participate in the tractor parade had returned. The Burari grounds, meanwhile, were cleared of protesters. Around 30 of them moved to Singhu and 15 were detained for their possible involvement in the violence on January 26. “By 8pm, the Burari grounds were vacated,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crackdown-on-farm-protests-tikait-holds-out-in-up-gate-standoff/articleshow/80528141.cms||Aditya Dev
January 29, 2021||India||Congress, 15 other opposition parties to boycott President’s address||NEW DELHI: With the government seizing on the violence during the tractor rally to corner protesting farm unions, 16 opposition parties on Thursday announced a boycott of the President’s address to Parliament scheduled for Friday, and accused the Centre of “orchestrating” the mayhem in the Capital to discredit farmers. The opposition reiterated its demand for repeal of the three farm laws which it said were an encroachment on the states’ rights, were passed without scrutiny and were a threat to food security of the country and farming that sustains 60% of the population. Among the non-NDA parties, BJD said it would not be part of the boycott. The boycott declaration, signed by Congress and regional parties like DMK, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, Left parties, NCP, Shiv Sena, RJD, National Conference and PDP, covers a significant section of the opposition — a big show of solidarity with farmers who are facing police action and are seen as being on the defensive. With former BJP ally Akali Dal and AAP of Arvind Kejriwal separately announcing a boycott, the supposedly bipartisan customary practice during the first Parliament session every year in Central Hall may have BJP and regional parties like YSRCP, TRS, BJD, AIADMK and BSP in attendance. These parties have on occasion supported the government on bills and kept away from the UPA. The statement — signed by Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mallikarjun Kharge, Jairam Ramesh, Sharad Pawar, Farooq Abdullah and T R Baalu among others — said lakhs of farmers had braved odds for over two months to protest peacefully at the Delhi borders, during which 155 farmers had lost their lives. Claiming that “government-sponsored disinformation campaign” tried its best to “discredit a legitimate mass movement”, the statement said, “The protest and the agitation have been largely peaceful. Unfortunately, there were a few acts of violence on January 26 which were condemned unequivocally. We also express our sadness over the injuries sustained by Delhi Police personnel while handling the difficult situation. But we believe that an impartial investigation will reveal the central government’s nefarious role in orchestrating those events.” The opposition said the controversial farm laws were an “assault on rights of the states” and “will effectively dismantle the edifice of national food security that rests upon MSP, government procurement and distribution system”. It said the bills were brought without consultations with states or farmers’ unions and passed without parliamentary scrutiny by muzzling the opposition. “The very constitutional validity of these laws remains in question,” it added. CPM chief Sitaram Yechury slammed the government for “orchestrating violence” to disrupt peaceful protests by farmers and alleged the government had used similar tactics during protests at JNU, at Jamia Milia University and Shaheen Bagh, during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Yechury said what happened in Delhi on January 26 was “straight out of the BJP playbook”. “That is distraction, destruction and disinformation. It is on the basis of this that they have orchestrated the violence. They now want to use this to distract people from the main issue,” he added. Yechury also said while lakhs of farmers were plying their tractors on pre-decided routes, only one splinter group “was allowed to deviate”. “How did they deviate without police connivance? How did they reach ITO? They were even allowed to reach the Red Fort and climb up to the ramparts. Anyone who is familiar with the security at Red Fort knows that it is impossible to reach the ramparts without the gates being opened. These gates are usually under lock and key. Who opened the gates and who allowed them to climb the ramparts? This smacks of very clear connivance,” Yechury said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-15-other-opposition-parties-to-boycott-presidents-address/articleshow/80529578.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
January 29, 2021||India||Jaishankar outlines 8-point framework for repairing India-China ties||NEW DELHI: Even as the Indian and Chinese armies face off in eastern Ladakh, foreign minister S Jaishankar on Thursday set out an eight-point framework for steps China needs to take to repair bilateral ties with India, which, he said, cannot carry on “undisturbed” despite the situation at the border. Delivering the keynote address at the All India Conference of China Studies, Jaishankar said the fundamental principles governing India-China ties, he said, should be “mutuality.” “Indeed, the three mutuals – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests – are its determining factors. Any expectation that they can be brushed aside, and that life can carry on undisturbed despite the situation at the border, that is simply not realistic.” Offering a way forward to repairing bilateral ties, Jaishankar proposed an eight-point set of markers that should be followed by both countries, but more specifically, China. Existing agreements, he said, “must be adhered to in their entirety, both in letter and spirit”. Unilateral change of status quo at the LAC should be unacceptable and “the LAC must be strictly observed and respected”. Also, an understanding that disturbing peace and tranquillity on the border would upset the rest of the relationship between the two countries. Jaishankar confirmed that India and China were engaged in talks to work out a disengagement mechanism in the border areas. Going back to the recent past, he said, “It was explicitly agreed that the two countries would refrain from massing troops on their common border.” The acceptance of a “multipolar Asia”; sensitivities to each other’s interests; making space for the other’s aspirations; management of differences and as civilisationals states, “taking the long view.” On the night of June 15 last year, 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers died in clashes in the Galwan Valley. This was the first loss of life after 1975. Jaishankar said, “That is why the events in Eastern Ladakh last year have so profoundly disturbed the relationship. Because they not only signalled a disregard for commitments about minimising troop levels, but also showed a willingness to breach peace and tranquillity.” The minister placed the onus clearly on the Chinese side for changing the status quo. As he has said earlier, the minister said India has not yet received a “credible explanation for the change in China’s stance or reasons for massing of troops in the border areas. It is a different matter that our own forces have responded appropriately and held their own in very challenging circumstances. The issue before us is what the Chinese posture signals, how it evolves, and what implications it may have for the future of our ties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-outlines-8-point-framework-for-repairing-india-china-ties/articleshow/80530130.cms||---
January 29, 2021||World||Novavax says its vaccine is 89.3% effective in UK trial||CHICAGO: Novavax Inc said on Thursday its coronavirus vaccine was 89.3% effective in preventing COVID-19 in a trial conducted in the United Kingdom, and was nearly as effective in protecting against the more highly contagious variant first discovered in the UK, according to a preliminary analysis. Novavax said the trial, which enrolled 15,000 people aged 18 to 84, is expected to be used to apply for regulatory review in Britain, the European Union and other countries. Some 27% of people in the trial are over 65. The study took place as the more easily transmissible UK variant was circulating, and the preliminary analysis suggests the vaccine was 85.6% effective against this mutation, the U.S. company announced in a news release. It did not provide the study data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/novavax-says-its-vaccine-is-89-3-effective-in-uk-trial/articleshow/80531097.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||Ahead of Budget, PM signals push to infrastructure, manufacturing, technology||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the Union budget, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday signalled a major push to infrastructure, manufacturing, mobility, technology and urbanisation and urged global investors to take advantage of the opportunities available in a “vibrant democracy with a business-friendly environment and a huge market”. “I am inviting you personally, come and take advantage of the opportunities and link it with your future prospects. India is ready for any assistance that you may need,” the PM told a high-profile panel of global CEOs from ABB, Siemens, IBM, Mastercard, NEC Corporation, Ontario Teachers Pension Plan and others at the World Economic Forum’s virtual summit. As evidence of India’s resolve and capabilities, the PM spoke of how the country had dealt with Covid-19 and that it was in the process of manufacturing several vaccines against the disease that would help the rest of the world as well. “Many around the world thought India would be the worst-affected country by Covid-19 and face a tsunami of corona infections. Some talked of 70-80 crore infections, over 20 lakh deaths; but India did not let disappointment get the better of it. We transformed the fight against coronavirus into a people's movement, today India is among the most successful in saving lives,” Modi said. The NDA government will unveil the country’s annual budget on February 1 and expectations are that major steps will be announced to give a big push to the economy and help it return to a high growth trajectory. “I want to assure the business world that the situation will now change rapidly on the economic front also,” Modi said as he detailed the country’s fight against the pandemic and how the focus was now on reviving growth and making various sectors of the economy competitive. He added that from tax regime to FDI norms, India had a predictable and friendly environment and pointed to the continuous improvement in global ease of doing business rankings. The PM also urged global investors to take advantage of the production-linked incentive scheme and said the country’s ‘Atmanirbhar’ campaign was committed to the global good and the global supply chain. “India has the capability, capacity and reliability to strengthen the global supply chain,” he said, adding that the country had a huge consumer base and its expansion would also benefit the global economy. He said the ‘Atmanirbhar’ campaign was launched to accelerate the capacity and resilience of the economy and make the country an export hub. Modi said the government had undertaken a series of reforms across sectors to ensure that the economy was placed on a higher growth trajectory. The PM also highlighted the steps taken to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and the country’s success in rolling out the vaccination programme. He said two India-made vaccines had been introduced to the world and many more would be made available from India. He said India was also ensuring a global responsibility by sending essential drugs to over 150 countries, and was now sending vaccines abroad. Modi said India was working on all the four factors of Industry 4.0 — connectivity, automation, artificial intelligence or machine learning and real-time data. India was among the countries where data charges were the cheapest and mobile connectivity and smart phones had reached far and wide, he said. India’s automation design expert pool was vast and the country had made a mark in the field of AI and machine learning, he added. Watch We introduced several reforms to provide a high growth trajectory to economy: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ahead-of-budget-pm-signals-push-to-infrastructure-manufacturing-technology/articleshow/80531423.cms||---
January 29, 2021||India||Harsh Vardhan: No new cases in 146 dists in 7 days||NEW DELHI: Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday that India has flattened its Covid-19 graph as new cases are declining and are mostly limited to certain areas. While 146 districts have reported no new case in the last seven days, 18 districts have not reported any case in 14 days, six in 21 days and 21 districts in the last 28 days. “With the ‘whole-of-government’ and ‘whole-of-society’ approach envisaged by PM Modi, India has successfully contained the pandemic. Less than 12,000 cases were reported in the last 24 hours and the active caseload has reduced to 1.73 lakh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/harsh-vardhan-no-new-cases-in-146-dists-in-7-days/articleshow/80532649.cms||---
January 29, 2021||India||Those on blood thinners can receive vaccine, says ICMR||NEW DELHI: Fact-sheets of both Covaxin and Covishield will be revised soon so that people on blood thinners like aspirin and clopidogrel can receive the vaccines, while those on anticoagulants may also take the shots with certain precautions, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava said on Thursday. Currently, fact-sheets of the vaccines mention use of blood thinner as contraindication. Though vaccination of people above 50 years is still some way off, questions were raised whether the blood thinner caveat will rule out many of these beneficiaries. Dr Bhargava also said the indigenous Covaxin's response to the UK strain, seen to be more infectious, was as effective as against the virus circulating in India — a relief for health planners overseeing the vaccine drive. Both Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, and Bharat Biotech — the developer and manufacturer of Covaxin — have approached the Drug Controller General of India seeking a rectification, Bhargava said. Those on blood thinners may experience a swelling at the injection site but not much more. "Anti-platelets such as aspirin or clopidogrel are not a problem at all. For anticoagulants like heparin, those patients may have a tendency to bleed. There may be a risk of developing a local hematoma (swelling post-inoculation). It is a relative contraindication," he added, while specifying that even anticoagulants "can be stopped for one or two days". According to the Covaxin fact-sheet, those who are on blood thinners — drugs that impede blood coagulation, both within blood vessels and in case of a bleed — or have bleeding disorders cannot get the shot. For Covishield, the fact-sheet asks potential recipients to inform their physicians in advance if they are on blood thinners, even though it is not directly contraindicated for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/those-on-blood-thinners-can-receive-vaccine-says-icmr/articleshow/80532905.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 29, 2021||India||India slips 6 spots to 86th rank on corruption index||MUMBAI: India’s ranking on the Corruption Perception Index– 2020 slipped from 80 to 86 even as its score decreased only by one point to 40 from 41 in 2019. The index released annually by Transparency International ranks 180 countries by their perceived levels of public sector corruption according to experts and business people. It uses a scale of zero to 100, where zero signifies the highest level of corruption and 100 is very clean. Times ViewIn India, anti-corruption drives tend to focus on big ticket graft and malfeasance. But it is petty corruption that hurts common people more. Attention should be paid to ensure both are weeded out. As former World Bank president Robert Zoellick once said, “Corruption is a cancer that steals from the poor, eats away at governance and moral fibre, and destroys trust.”Denmark and New Zealand topped the list with scores of 88, followed by Finland, Singapore, Sweden and Switzerland (85 each). Like in previous years, more than two-thirds of countries scored below 50, with a global average score of just 43. The data shows that despite some progress, most countries still fail to tackle corruption effectively, states Transparency International, a global civil society. Syria with a score of 14, Somalia and South Sudan with scores of 12 each occupy the bottom slots on the CPI-2020. The average score in the Asia-Pacific region, which encapsulates 31 countries, is 45. India’s score of 40 is below both the global average and the Asia-Pacific average. India’s score is also lower than that of China, which scored 42 with a rank of 78. However, Pakistan fared poorly with a score of 31 and a rank of 124. In the Asia Pacific region, New Zealand was the top performer. Other top-scoring nations were Singapore (85), Australia (77) and Hong Kong (77). In Asia, key economies such as India, Indonesia and Bangladesh with scores of 40, 37 and 36 respectively, experienced slow progress in anticorruption efforts, with several government commitments to reform not yet materialising, states the CPI-2020 report. According to Transparency International, CPI-2020 shows that corruption is more pervasive in countries least equipped to handle Covid-19 and other crises. “Covid-19 is not just a health and economic crisis. It is a corruption crisis. And one that we are currently failing to manage,” Delia Ferreira Rubio, chair of Transparency International said. “The past year has tested governments like no other in memory, and those with higher levels of corruption have been less able to meet the challenge. But even those at the top of the CPI must urgently address their role in perpetuating corruption,” she added. Watch India ranks 86 on global corruption index for 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slips-6-spots-to-86th-rank-on-corruption-index/articleshow/80533471.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Varanasi||PM to virtually address Chauri Chaura fest opening on Feb 4||Gorakhpur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the inaugural function of the year-long Shatabdi Mahotsav (centenary festival) of Chauri Chaura incident to be held at the martyrs’ memorial in Gorakhpur on February 4, said divisional commissioner Jayant Nalirka on Friday. The programme will be broadcast live on social media, he added. The Chauri Chaura incident took place on February 4, 1922. Moreover, the NER has decided to attach LHB coaches with Chauri Chaura Express between Gorakhpur and Kanpur’s Anwarganj via Bhatni, Varanasi and Prayagraj from February 4 to mark the Chauri Chaura incident. “Chauri Chaura incident is an important chapter of freedom struggle in which many Indians were martyred and to mark the day NER, has decided to run Chauri Chaura Express with LHB coaches from February 4,” said NER CPRO Pankaj Kumar Singh. The commissioner took stock of the preparations with the officials through the zoom app and responsibilities regarding the Mahotsav were decided. While Mundera Bazar has invited sand artists to make the venue of Mahotsav attractive with their art, the district magistrate is finalising a place to make a helipad near the Mahotsav venue on the instructions of the Chief Minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-to-virtually-address-chauri-chaura-fest-opening-on-feb-4/articleshow/80590580.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Patna||No respite from cold, fog in Bihar till tomorrow: Met||PATNA: People in state are unlikely to get any respite from chill as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday forecast cold day to severe cold day conditions at isolated places in Bihar over the next two to three days. As per IMD, cold day condition is declared when minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature on two consecutive days. Severe cold condition, on the other hand, is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 6.4 degrees C lower than the normal. In its weather bulletin issued on Thursday, the Patna Meteorological Centre said cold to severe cold day conditions were observed in some pockets of Bihar during the last 24 hours. S K Mandal, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said cold day conditions were observed in Purnia, Supaul and Forbesganj on Thursday. Moreover, severe cold day conditions were observed in Patna, Gaya, Chhapra, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga. Mandal said the minimum readings remained lower than 10 degrees C at most places in the state, which were two to three notches lower than normal. The minimum temperature in Patna was recorded at 7.1 degrees C, three notches lower than normal while the maximum temperature, at 19.2 degrees C, remained five notches lower than the normal in the city. Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted that the maximum temperature in the state capital would remain under 20 degrees C and minimum under 10 degrees C at least till February 1. It also predicted moderate to dense fog at one or two places in the state over the next 2-3 days. Dense fog was observed at majority places in the night and early morning hours. The weathermen have attributed the prevailing cold conditions in the state to dry north-westerly winds blowing over north and adjoining parts of central India. The chilly winds are likely to continue to blow in the region over the next three to four days, they said. Mandal, however, said slight respite from winter conditions was expected over the next couple of days owing to moist and comparatively warm easterly winds coming from Bay of Bengal. “The moisture feeding will, however, lead to moderate to dense fog in the morning, but sunny skies are expected later in the day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-no-respite-from-cold-fog-till-tomorrow/articleshow/80515560.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ekbalpore gets maternity home||Kolkata: The newly constructed seven-storeyed building adjacent to Ekbalpore Maternity Home owned by the KMC will be handed over to IPGMER (SSKM hospital) to function as a maternity and paediatric care unit. According to a KMC official, the new unit has been built over 52,000sqft is ready to house the maternity and neonatal unit. An IPGMER source said the new building will have 100 beds with OPD and IPD services along with a gynaecology emergency unit. IPGMER will depute two teams — from the gynaecology and the obstetrics departments — and another from the neonatology wing. “We shall start deputing nurses very soon. While the gynaecology unit will have a team working on monthly rotational basis, a neonatology doctor will be available 24×7 as this annexe will have delivery cases where the newborns will need specialist service,” said Raghunath Misra, medical superintendent and vice-principal at IPGMER. “The emergency, OPD and all other services will be reserved only for antenatal mothers and not for general patients,” added Misra. This is the fifth annexe medical unit to function under IPGMER after Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, Sambhunath Pandit Hospital, Ramrik Hospital and PG Polyclinic. During the pandemic SSKM Hospital had designated this unit in Kidderpore for Covid positive pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ekbalpore-gets-maternity-home/articleshow/80517615.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 29, 2021||Business||Test win in Australia shows merit, effort will ensure success||By S Ramesh Shankar I am a fan of cricket, but do not claim much knowledge about the game. I have been in the corporate world for almost four decades and believe that we have lessons to learn from any sport. I was fortunate to witness on TV this historic victory in Brisbane, where India defeated Australia after more than three decades on that ground. I have tried to summarise the lessons organisations and individuals can learn from this fabulous victory. This can enable ordinary individuals like us and organisations to turn around from any crisis situation: * Failures teach you more than success: After India were bundled out for 36 in Adelaide and lost to Australia, many critics had written the team off. This happens to us in real life too. A big failure can lead many of our well-wishers to lose faith in our abilities. It may also lead to demoralisation. This incident reinforces that failure can teach you more lessons than success. The lowest score by any Indian team in an innings was enough to wake them up and resolve to look forward and excel in the next three tests. * Leaders lead from the front: After our captain returned to India due to personal reasons, we were led by a young, unassuming leader. He not only led from the front by hitting a century in the next test, but also gave space and encouragement to his team members to give their best to the team. * Every crisis can bring out the best in you: The humiliating defeat in Adelaide was a great wake-up call for all team members. They literally rose from the ashes and conquered. The resolve to win and give their best was seen in every movement of the players. Every individual was not only giving his best but also was enabling each other to excel. * Teamwork produces greater results then individual brilliance: While every team has individual players who are excellent, it is established through this win that teamwork provides better results than individual brilliance. A leader needs to work like a conductor in a symphony orchestra so that he is able to get the best out of every team member. * Focus & commitment enables you to get over adversaries: We had some players being abused racially. This is not only deplorable but unacceptable. However, these players not only gave their best but responded to the abuses by speaking through their ball and the bat rather than giving it back to the irresponsible spectators. * Nobody is indispensable in any organisation: There were only two or three players who played all the four test matches. This happened more by default due to injuries rather than by design. This, however, re-established the fact the nobody is indispensable in any organisation, leave alone a cricket team. * Merit alone leads you to success: Many people still believe that success eludes those who do not have resources or necessary connections in life. But at least four players in this team, who hail from humble backgrounds, have proved that merit alone determines your success in life. Hard work can take you wherever you want to reach in life. * Resources are only means to an end, and not an end in itself: The limited resources of some of the players in the team before they played for the country did not deter them from excelling. This means that resources are only a means to an end and not an end in itself. We can succeed even with limited resources if we are determined to do so. * Critics can demoralise you, but cannot prevent you from winning: Almost the whole cricketing world — including the so-called pundits — had written the team off after the Adelaide loss. They just proved that critics can only make you more determined to win. This is equally true in organisations: If we take the criticism in our stride, learn from the mistakes of the past and move on, we can give our best in the future. * Humility gains more respect: A leader who leads from the front and is calm and humble gets you great results. This victory has proved that humility is still a great virtue for a leader to possess, especially to tide over a crisis and lead the team to victory, literally from the ashes. I learnt a lot from this episode as an individual and I hope organisations, teams and individuals do the same as we reflect and rejoice the Indian team’s historic victory Down Under. Failures can lead you to greater success if we convert a crisis into an opportunity. (The writer is chief joy officer, Hrishti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/test-win-in-australia-shows-merit-effort-will-ensure-success/articleshow/80521340.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||Sundaram AMC to acquire Principal MF for Rs 338 crore||Chennai: Sundaram Asset Management (AMC), a 100% subsidiary of Sundaram Finance, has acquired the asset management businesses of Principal for around Rs 338 crore in an all cash transaction. Sundaram said it will acquire 100% of the share capital of Principal Asset Management, Principal TrusteeCompany, and Principal Retirement Advisors. Principal Asset Management, the investment manager of Principal Mutual Fund (MF), had around Rs 7,447 crore of assets under management as on December 31 with about 90% of it in equity oriented schemes. The transaction is subject to approvals from Sebi and other regulators. Both fund houses said they will ensure that there is no disruption of service to their partners and investors in the interim period. Sundaram AMC has a 25-year record in the asset management business. It has over Rs 40,000 crore in assets under management, the majority of which is in equity oriented schemes. “This transaction will strengthen our presence in the marketplace with the addition of a range of schemes with a good long-term performance track record across the large- and mid-cap segments. This will complement our business, which has traditionally been weighted towards the mid- and small-cap segment,” Sundaram AMC managing director Sunil Subramaniam said. Sundaram Finance managing director T T Srinivasaraghavan noted that the acquisition was “a natural step” in their aspiration to become a key player in the asset management industry. “We will be able to leverage the combined platform to derive significant synergies. The focus for us will be on delivering a better experience to our investors and distribution partners,” he said. Principal said it will ensure the continued operation of Principal Global Services in Pune and Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sundaram-amc-to-acquire-principal-mf-for-rs-338-crore/articleshow/80519909.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 29, 2021||Patna||Rape case: Juvenile court completes trial in 9 days||BIHARSHARIF: Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) principal judge Manvendra Mishra on Thursday completed trial in a rape case in record nine days and awarded three-year punishment under section 376 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and three-year each under sections 4 and 6 of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), Act 2013 to a 16-year-old boy who had raped a six-year-old- girl in a Nalanda village on July 26 last year. The punishment will go concurrently. Additional public prosecutor (APP) Rajesh Pathak said the minor boy was found guilty of raping the daughter of his cousin. He said the trial in the case had started on January 18 and if the two holidays are excluded, the JJB principal judge completed trial in just days on Thursday and awarded punishment to the guilty as well. APP Pathak said the survivor’s mother had accused the minor girl of taking her daughter to his house and raping her. “The survivor returned home crying and bleeding. Medical examination confirmed that the boy had an unnatural sex with the minor girl,” he added. Pathak said the juvenile convict, who had been lodged at Nalanda Observation Centre since his arrest on July 27 last year, would be shifted to Patna Special House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rape-case-juvenile-court-completes-trial-in-9-days/articleshow/80515267.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 29, 2021||Patna||Gas leak creates panic, hits traffic on Bailey Road||PATNA: Vehicular traffic on the busy Bailey Road in the city came to a halt for nearly half-an-hour on Thursday after an underground pipeline of Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) leaked following damages caused to it by an earthmoving machine near Jagdeopath under the Rupaspur police station area. There was, however, no report of any casualty. People ran helter-skelter for safety soon after it was detected that the gas was leaking from the supply pipeline. Police personnel and GAIL officials rushed to the spot and barricaded the road, leading to traffic congestion. Viahal, a senior GAIL official, said the gas pipeline was damaged by an earthmoving machine. “The damage to the pipeline led to leakage of gas. The road was barricaded as a precautionary measure,” he told this newspaper over the phone. Vishal said the damaged portion of the supply line was being repaired. “The traffic on the road was restored after half-an-hour,” the GAIL official said, adding the driver of the earthmoving machine ignored the locals’ suggestion not to dig the land in the vicinity. Station house officer (SHO) of Rupaspur police station said no police complaint had been lodged in connection with the incident. “The pipeline was not damaged intentionally,” the SHO added. Rajesh Kumar, a local, said there was a commotion-like situation in the locality following the incident. “A major tragedy was averted due to timely intervention of the GAIL personnel and the police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gas-leak-creates-panic-hits-traffic-on-bailey-road/articleshow/80515279.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||Grinntech opens new factory at Ambattur Industrial Estate||Chennai: Lithium Ion battery maker Grinntech, announced the inauguration of a larger manufacturing plant to be constructed on a one-acre plot located in Ambattur Industrial Estate. This facility will have the capacity to produce 400 MWh per year of Lithium-Ion batteries suitable for 2-wheelers, 3-wheelers, farm tractors and light vehicles. In October 2020, Grinntech had executed a MoU with the Government of Tamil Nadu involving an investment of Rs 100 crore. In addition to a wide range of batteries, the facility will also manufacture Battery Management Systems for electric vehicles. “We have had many enquiries and are engaged in a number of projects across our target segments. from start-ups, established OEMs and also overseas customers. This new facility will also include a modern R&D wing,” said Nikhilesh Mishra, co-founder of Grinntech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/grinntech-opens-new-factory-at-ambattur-industrial-estate/articleshow/80519455.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Liquor leaks in from Arunachal, Jharkhand after price surge in Bengal||KOLKATA: The excise department has seized huge quantities of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) across the state in the last few weeks. There has been seizure of both liquor meant for other states as well as spurious liquor. The differences in price is a reason for smuggling, along with proliferation of spurious liquor, felt experts. According to excise sources, the total amount of seizure could be worth over Rs 30 crore. “Over a period of about four months, as many as 25 cases of liquor meant for inter-state smuggling have been detected in the border districts of North Bengal — mostly meant for sale in Arunachal Pradesh,” said Subrata Biswas, special excise commissioner (enforcement). He pointed out it is mostly coming from Papum Pare district in Arunachal Pradesh. “This is close to Assam. From Papum Pare in Arunachal, liquor is coming to Alipurduar — a stretch of about 600km,” Biswas added. During the pandemic, liquor price in Bengal was revised on April 9 and in November. The increase in IMFL price was to the tune of 50%-60% from the March level. But the price of beer reduced in November by 20%-25%, which lead to lower price compared to March 20. According to sources, AP has a significantly low rate of excise duty and MRPs are much lower than in Bengal. “The interceptions have been in the form of truckloads of liquor, some probably intended for Bihar as well. The brands are mostly leading companies,” added a source. The price differential in some cases is three times. “A 750ml standard rum is priced at Rs 155 in AP, which is Rs 680 here. A standard deluxe whiskey costs Rs 1,000 here, but goes for Rs 300 in AP,” added the source. A huge cache of raw spirits was detected and a couple of persons arrested a couple of days ago near Barakar in West Burdwan. “A huge quantity of fake liquor, ready with labels, meant for sale in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, was also seized there,” the source said. A godown was unearthed in Kolkata a week ago and tens of thousands of labels and corks for fake brands of liquor were recovered. A huge stock was also unearthed a couple of days ago in Howrah. “This seizure is important not from the economic point of view, but the enormous scale in which the spurious fake foreign liquor trade is taking shape here,” said a source. Bengal excise is tightening its grip on illegal sales ahead of the polls and the excise department is setting up a control room with toll-free numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-leaks-in-from-arunachal-jkhand-after-price-surge-in-bengal/articleshow/80517621.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Patna||Patna: Easing of coronavirus curbs raises hopes of many||PATNA: The Union home ministry’s decision to further relax the Covid-19 regulations, has come as a ray of hope for those dependent on hotels and entertainment business for their livelihood. The MHA on Wednesday allowed theatres to increase their sitting capacity from the current 50% and directed the ministry of information and broadcasting to prepare the standard operating procedure for it. Even the use of swimming pools, which was limited to sportspersons, can be used by all. These will be effective from February 1. Welcoming the easing of the curbs, Navneet Kumar, the unit head of a multiplex in Pataliputra, said, “We are waiting for the new SOP. We are positive and expect better business with the new relaxations now.” Ashafque Khan, the owner of a small hotel and a lodge near Patna Junction, said after re-opening his hotel post lockdown, all he could do was to provide food to his family and staff working with him. “During the complete lockdown, when the hotels and lodges were shut, we all had become penniless. Even now, after the opening of the hotels, we are doing 20% business because there is still less movement of people. Many of the local trains are still not running and colleges and schools are yet to start,” Khan added. Even posh hotels are apprehensive despite the relaxations. “It depends on the corporate movement. Now many corporate meetings are being done online and we are afraid if this trend continues. Our banquets are being booked only for wedding and engagement ceremonies, and that too with 200 caps at present. In case there are 300 guests, we have to give two banquets at our loss,” said Nishit Kumar Sinha, food and beverages manager of an upscale hotel near Gandhi Maidan. Not only hoteliers but other businessmen are also bearing the brunt of the epidemic and the worst affected are the vendors who sit on the sidewalks. The footpath union town level federation secretary Shahzade Alam said, “We have a hand-to-mouth existence in normal times and during the complete lockdown, even that got snatched. Many of us had taken loans to meet the basic needs of our family. Even though we are putting up stalls now, all we can manage is one-time food and nothing more. But we hope and pray that slowly we all will get back to our original lifestyle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/easing-of-coronavirus-curbs-raises-hopes-of-many/articleshow/80515325.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 29, 2021||Chennai||‘Hospitals, pharmacies in Tamil Nadu warned over dumping of biomedical waste’||CHENNAI: Hospitals and other agencies such as pharmacies were issued a strict warning against illegal dumping of expired medicines and other biomedical waste on roads and near waterbodies, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) said in a letter to Central Pollution Control Board. The letter, sent around two weeks ago, was based on repeated complaints raised by city-based activist Pugalventhan Venkatesan, who found biomedical waste off highways on the city’s outskirts. However, the letter cites only a December 9, 2020, complaint by Pugalventhan about waste at Meppur village near Chembarambakkam and ignores other instances of which he had informed TNPCB. In the letter, TNPCB said it instructed the Director of Drugs Control in October 2019 to monitor drug dealers and medical shops with regard to disposal of expired medicines. In December 2019, TNPCB wrote to the Muncipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department to instruct all local bodies to check unauthorised disposal of expired medicines and install CCTV cameras. A letter was issued to chairman of Indian Drug Manufacturer’s Association in March 2020 and a meeting was held with pharma manufacturers warning them of stern action. In July 2020, TNPCB instructed biomedical waste treatment facilities to properly dispose waste. All healthcare facilities were being monitored, TNPCB said. However, Pugalventhan told TOI that despite such instructions, biomedical waste and expired medicines were still being illegally dumped and that TNPCB failed to take any action based on his evidence of recent incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hospitals-pharmacies-warned-over-dumping-of-biomedical-waste/articleshow/80517595.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||UP budgetary push to catapult Sankisa into Buddhist circuit||LUCKNOW: The state government has given the first budgetary push to develop Sankisa on the outskirts of Farrukhabad, just a fortnight after chief minister Yogi Adityanath pitched for development of the Buddhist site along lines of Sarnath and Kapilavastu. The public works department (PWD) has drawn up an estimate of Rs 8.75 crore for development and strengthening the Mohammadabad-Sansika stretch as a link route to connect the Buddhist tourist hotspot. In fact, the department has decided to release the first tranche of Rs 2 crore to kick off the project. “UP is home several locations which carry the legacy and footprints of Buddha. The state government is working on developing a Buddhist circuit and Sankisa deserves to be part of it,” the CM had told officials during his visit to Farrukhabad to re-initiate the Aarogya Mela on January 10. The state government has set a deadline for completing the project by the June-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-budgetary-push-to-catapult-sankisa-into-buddhist-circuit/articleshow/80524003.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 29, 2021||Allahabad||2.7 lakh devotees brave intense cold to take holy dip on Paush Purnima||PRAYAGRAJ: Braving bone-chilling cold and Covid-19 fears, 2.7 lakh devotees, including saints and ‘kalpwasis’, took a dip in Sangam — the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati rivers here on Thursday on the occasion of Paush Purnima, the second auspicious ‘snan’ of Magh Mela. The devotees started trickling in since the crack of dawn amid heavy police bandobast. In fact, the Sangam noze had been buzzing with activities since Wednesday. Mela police, however, said the footfall was less as compared to Makar Sankranti. Ghats witnessed a major rush during wee hours, but the strength declined as the day progressed. The ‘snan’ marked the beginning of the month-long austerity period for ‘kalpwasis’, who would stay on the banks of Ganga till Maghi Purnima. ‘Kalpwasis’ will spend the entire month in small tents, pay obeisance to Ganga daily, take a spiritual dip, give alms, and eat only one meal a day to free themselves from the cycle of birth, death and rebirth. IG ( Prayagraj range) K P Singh said: “With no untoward incident reported, Paush Purnima ‘snan’ passed off peacefully.” He said, police kept on patrolling on ghats and mela streets appealing visitors to wear masks and maintain social distancing. In order to prevent chaos on ghats, police did not allow the devotees to stay in water for long. All routes leading to Sangam were diverted to prevent clogging on roads. Meanwhile, a Shobha yatra of lord Veni Madhav was also carried out with pomp and show in Daraganj. Locals welcomed the yarta by showering rose petals. Patron of Juna Akhara and general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) Mahant Harigiri, chief priest of lord Veni Madhav temple Bhaibhav Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Dandi Sanyasi Parishad Swami Brahmashram Maharaj, and head of Kinnar Akhara Acharya Mahamandleshwar Laxmi Narayan Tripathi were among the prominent people who attended the yatra and performed aarti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-7l-devotees-brave-intense-cold-to-take-holy-dip-on-paush-purnima/articleshow/80515368.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar extends deadline for paddy procurement till February 21||PATNA: In a relief to farmers, CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday extended the deadline for paddy procurement for Kharif season 2020-21 till February 21. The deadline, according to sources, was set to end on January 31 and the procurement limit set by the agriculture department was 45 lakh metric tonnes. “The demand for extending the timeframe for paddy procurement was being raised by farmers from different areas. Accordingly, the timeframe for paddy procurement has been extended up to February 21, so that no willing farmer is devoid of paddy procurement,” Nitish announced at a review meeting at Nek Samvad Hall at his 1 Aney Marg residence. Earlier in the meeting, the co-operative department secretary Bandana Preyashi briefed the CM and other officials about the status of paddy procurement. She informed the CM and other officials about district- wise status of paddy procurement, their corresponding targets, number of farmers selling their yield to Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) and other components of paddy procurement. All DMs were present at the meeting through video-conferencing. The DMs of Aurangabad, Gaya, Bhojpur, Buxar, Nalanda, Patna, Kaimur, Rohtas Banka, Supaul, Nalanda, Supaul, Nawada, Arwal, Jehanabad East Champaran, West Champaran and Lakhisarai gave details about the status of paddy procurement in their respective districts. Later, the CM issued instructions that all DMs should make field visits and take feedback of ground status by interacting with the farmers. He also asked officials to assess farmers, who have not been covered under paddy procurement scheme along with the availability of paddy in different districts. “We are working for the benefit of farmers. Officials should be alert for better coordination between farmers and PACS. Assessment should be done of the storage capacity of PACS and rice mills and steps should be taken for increasing it,” Nitish said. He added, “Reasons should be found out of the areas, where paddy procurement has been less and steps should be taken to ensure that paddy is procured from more and more farmers. Also, timely payments to farmers against paddy procurement should be ensured.” The meeting was attended by food and consumers affairs minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, chief secretary Deepak Kumar, secretary (food and consumer affairs) Vinay Kumar and principal secretary to CM Chanchal Kumar among several other senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-extends-deadline-for-paddy-procurement-till-feb-21/articleshow/80515881.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 29, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Cops rescue five-year-old kidnapped boy, nab three||PATNA: A five-year-old boy, who was kidnapped from Madhubani on January 26, was recovered from a village in Supaul district on Thursday. The police arrested three kidnappers, who had demanded Rs 30 lakh for the victim’s safe release. Acting on a tip-off, a police team conducted a raid at Kateya village under Bhim Nagar police outpost on Thursday and found Ayush from the house of one of the kidnappers, Dinesh Kumar Sah, who was arrested and brought to Madhubani. According to the state police headquarters, two suspects identified as Lallan Kumar Mukhiya and Amit Kumar Chaupal were earlier arrested from Chhajna village under Laukahi police station in Madhubani district. “During interrogation, both Mukhiya and Chaupal revealed the name of Sah, whose arrest led to the safe recovery of the boy,” a senior police officer posted at the DGP control room at the police headquarters told this newspaper. A sport utility vehicle, a sim card and a mobile phone from Nepal were recovered during the police operation in Madhubani and Supaul districts. Police sources said the Nepal sim card was used to make the ransom calls to the boy’s grandfather. On Wednesday, a case was lodged with Laukahi police station against five suspects by the victim’s father Saroj Kumar Ram. The boy was kidnapped when he was playing near his house at Chhajna on Tuesday evening. The three arrested accused—Lallan, Amit and Dinesh—were produced before a court in Madhubani, which remanded them in 14-day judicial custody. “The case will be listed for a speedy trial,” Phulparas SDPO PK Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-rescue-5-year-old-kidnapped-boy-nab-3/articleshow/80515920.cms||Ramashankar
January 29, 2021||Patna||JD (U) to contest panchayat election in Uttar Pradesh: KC Tyagi||PATNA: In a fresh twist to the rumblings within the NDA in Bihar, ally JD (U) is going to contest separately in the Panchayat election in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, which has a BJP government led by CM Yogi Adityanath. JD(U) has identified several pockets dominated by Kurmi and extremely backward castes (EBCs) communities in eastern UP, where it will field a majority of its candidates in the rural polls slated to be held later this year. “Several districts in eastern Uttar Pradesh, especially those sharing borders with Bihar, have a sizeable backward population. The JD (U) had few MLAs and even MPs in UP in the past and the public meets of our former national president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar Ji used to evoke a good response,” JD (U)’s national secretary general KC Tyagi told TOI on Thursday. He added, “We did not contest in the assembly election in 2017 but it was decided in our recent national executive meet held in Patna that the party will separately contest in the upcoming Panchayat election to start with, and then the UP assembly election in 2022 as well.” On being asked whether it would lead to a tussle with ally BJP, Tyagi said, “It is just for our expansion. We support the Narendra Modi government at the Centre but also want the party to grow in other states. Hence we are going to contest in upcoming panchayat election in UP.” Incidentally, D (U) had openly criticised BJP after six of seven MLAs of JD (U) in Arunachal Pradesh joined BJP in the last week of December. BJP and JD (U) contested the assembly election in Arunachal separately held on April 11, 2019. While BJP won 41 seats and formed the government, JD (U) won seven out of 15 seats but six of its MLAs joined the saffron party on December 25. Tyagi had said in a press briefing during the national executive meet of JD (U) on December 26 and 27 that JD (U)’s MLAs joining BJP was “uncalled for” and “not good for alliance politics”. Reacting to the JD (U) move, BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said, “There is nothing much to be read in this. Both JD (U) and BJP are separate parties with separate constitution and structure but we have come together for a clean and corruption-free government in Bihar. Nevertheless, JD (U) has separately contested assembly election in several other states as well in the past and media reports have stated that they are going to contest in upcoming West Bengal election as well,” he said. Meanwhile, Tyagi said a two-day meeting of the state committee of JD (U)’s UP unit was held a few days ago. “More such meetings are slated to be held in the coming weeks at Varanasi, Deoaria, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Mirzapur among others, which are our focus districts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jd-u-to-contest-panchayat-election-in-up-tyagi/articleshow/80515156.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 29, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Cop arrested for accepting Rs 30,000 as bribe||AURANGABAD: A vigilance department team on Thursday arrested a police sub-inspector (SI), Manoj Kumar, on charges of accepting Rs 30,000 as bribe to release a stone chip-laden truck. The SI was posted at Goh police station in the district as officer incharge. According to sources, the police officer had seized a stone chip-laden truck and released it after accepting Rs 30,000 as bribe. Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika said the arrested police officer would be suspended if the charges against him are proved true. This is the second big vigilance department raid in Aurangabad district within months. Recently, the block cooperative extension Officer of Obra was arrested by the vigilance sleuths on bribery charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cop-arrested-for-accepting-rs-30k-as-bribe/articleshow/80515172.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis takes a Delhi metro trip, recalls Mumbai fiasco||MUMBAI: Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis took to Twitter on Thursday to take on his political rival, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, over the delay in completion of the Metro car shed project. Fadnavis, who was in Delhi to attend a meeting convened by union minister Nitin Gadkari for revival of the Rs 1,000 crore Nagpur Nag river project, travelled to the airport by Metro. “I travelled in Delhi Metro to return back to the airport and reached in a very short span compared to travel by road. Don’t know when will I be able to travel in Mumbai metro-3 to the airport, looking at the things messed up by the MVA government on car shed issues,” Fadnavis tweeted. TimesViewThe sooner this spat over the crucial car shed for Metro 3 ends, the better it would be. While partisan divisions on the issue are sharp and still unresolved, the project faces the prospect of unnecessary delays. Mumbai needs the Metro network urgently to make life easier for its lakhs of commuters.Reacting to the tweet, revenue minister and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said, “If Fadnavis does not create hurdles and cooperates with the state government, then he too can reach the airport on schedule and catch a flight for Nagpur, his hometown.” Ever since Thackeray had scrapped the Aarey car shed project on the grounds that it would destroy the forest, Fadnavis has been taking on the CM, alleging he had shifted the project to Kanjurmarg despite knowing well that the land was under litigation and it will not only delay the project but also lead to huge cost escalation. Thackeray had appointed a committee headed by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar to examine the project’s feasibility at Kanjurmarg. Even before the committee could submit its report to the government, Fadnavis had come out with its likely conclusions. Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant reacted sharply to Fadnavis’s tweet. “I am glad that you appreciate Delhi Metro developed by INC-Delhi. The only Metro completed in Mumbai was also by the Aghadi government. Your government did not meet the 2019 deadline. MVA, with its vast experience in governance, will surely do what your government did not if the Modi government removes its own hurdles,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fadnavis-takes-a-delhi-metro-trip-recalls-mum-fiasco/articleshow/80517638.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 29, 2021||Patna||Covid-19 jabs can be given 7 days a week now in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 vaccination can now be carried out in the state on all seven days in a week, depending on the requirement of each district. Also, the number of session sites will be increased to nearly 500 from the existing 300 per day. The health department has now targeted to vaccinate 50,000 healthcare and frontline workers daily, up 23,000 from 27,000 earlier, and complete the first phase of the drive by February 10. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said, “So far, vaccination was being done in each district twice a week, but now it can be done on all seven days as per the requirement. DMs and civil surgeons can take the call. Also, 100 people were being given the vaccine at one site. The number has now been increased to 200. Those registered for another day can be vaccinated on any day. The measures have been taken to increase the rate of vaccination in the state.” As per the State Health Society, 16,943 healthcare workers were vaccinated in the state on Thursday and the number of beneficiaries has crossed 1-lakh mark in the state. At 54.3%, the state witnessed 2.4% increase in the number beneficiaries turning up at the session sites for vaccination on Thursday when compared the Monday’s figure of 51.9%. The data suggests vaccination is yet to pick up pace in the state. While it hovers around 50% in Bihar, other states are vaccinating 65% beneficiaries per day. “Many pregnant angwanwadi workers are not taking vaccine jabs. It is one of the reasons why Bihar is lagging behind others states in terms of vaccination,” Manoj said. Of 3,12,23 registered beneficiaries, only 16,943 had turned up at the designated session sites in the state on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-jabs-can-be-given-7-days-a-week-now/articleshow/80515491.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 29, 2021||Patna||Cinephiles in Patna hail govt’s decision||PATNA: Cinema hall owners and movie buffs have hailed the decision of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to allow theatres and multiplexes to operate at a higher seating capacity from February 1. The manager of a multiplex in Phulwarisharif, Manoj Kumar, says the much-awaited step will give a boost to business. “Due to the restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, only a few films were being released on the big screen and the footfall of viewers was staggeringly low,” he adds. Sharad Gupta, the manager of a theatre near Gandhi Maidan, points out, “Since no big-budget, multi-starrer film has been released for the last 10 months, we have nothing to display.” Unit head of a theatre on Patliputra Kurji Road, Navneet Kumar, is looking forward to “more occupied cinema halls”. According to the MHA order issued on Wednesday, the ministry of information and broadcasting will issue a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) soon. Cinephiles are also excited to visit theatres again. Rupesh Shrivastav, a resident of Kankarbagh, says, “Before Covid hit the world, I would go to cinema halls every Sunday for watching the latest films.” Apart from cinema halls, swimming pools, where only sportspersons are allowed at present, will be opened to all. Hailing the decision, Rahul Singh, an engineer, says, “My family and I will finally be able to use our swimming membership at a club.” B D Singh, the general manager of a five-star hotel with a swimming pool, however, points out, “We will provide our pool services from April onwards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cinephiles-hail-govts-decision/articleshow/80515417.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: Errors in names, mobile numbers bring down Lucknow's turnout||LUCKNOW: Errors in the list of beneficiaries was one of the major factors for low turnout on Thursday, followed by health issues and hesitancy. The anomalies included repetition of names, incorrect phone numbers of beneficiaries, inclusion of retired health workers and delay in SMSes communication. At SPM Civil hospital, the list of 125 had the name of a nurse 23 times. “Actual beneficiaries at our centre were only 103. Of these, 57 got the jab. The remaining who could not be vaccinated included those with health problems like allergies and fever. Some were away on official assignments,” said chief medical superintendent Dr SK Nanda. Similarly, 15 names were repeated twice at Rani Laxmi Bai Hospital and 20 at Lokbandhu Hospital. At the Integral Institute of Medical Sciences, only 138 could be inoculated out of 650. Institute director Dr Zafar Idris said, “It seems that the phone numbers against the names got jumbled up. As a result, SMSes communicating vaccine schedule were sent to the employees who were not on Thursday’s list. Many beneficiaries ignored the messages leading to about 25% shortfall in the turnout.” At TS Mishra Medical College, where only 118 out of 360 were vaccinated, it was found that the list contained names of 90 first-year MBBS students whose classes are yet to begin. “The session of these students will start from Monday and they will be reporting to college on Friday and Saturday. Besides, the list also had names of several employees who have retired,” said nodal officer Dr Sudhanshu Tripathi. At RMLIMS, medical superintendent Prof Srikesh Singh said, “SMSs regarding vaccination were delivered late on Wednesday to many. As a result, some grade IV employees could not report on time.” Here, 294 out 600 beneficiaries were vaccinated Health issues and hesitation were said to be the reasons behind low (47%) turnout at KGMU. Nodal officer for vaccination, Dr Nishant Verma, said, “Many beneficiaries were in exempted categories such as lactating mothers, allergic and other health issues. Some employees were also reluctant to go for vaccination.”. Chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar admitted that anomalies in the lists was a major reason for the low turnout. However, he said, the health department prepared the list from the data given by the centres. “We had also asked them to update the data, but they have not done it so far,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/errors-in-names-mobile-nos-bring-down-turnout/articleshow/80524140.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Turf war near minister’s Kasba home, 6 held||KOLKATA: A few bikers left residents of a Kasba neighbourhood — where minister of state for information and cultural affairs Indranil Sen lives — shocked and afraid after they hurled a country-made bomb in the locality on Wednesday evening. The explosive landed close to the singer-turned-politician’s house in Rajdanga, near an English medium school, around 8pm. Sen, though, was not at home and heard about the incident while returning from a programme at Chandernagore. An initial probe linked the attack to another bombing hours earlier, on Republic Day, at the nearby Naskarhat. “It seems this was the result of a turf war between a gang led by Dinu Yadav and another group that reportedly bombed the area on Republic Day,” said an officer. Night-long raids at Kasba, Jadavpur, Purba Jadavpur and Parnasree have led to six arrests — Ashok Baidya, Goutam Mondal, Sonu Shaw, Rahul Roy, Bhola Paswan and Rahul Ray. Three bikes and explosives have also been recovered. “Some incriminating articles used to manufacture crude bombs were seized,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. He said a probe is on and efforts are being made to arrest the remaining miscreants. Thursday’s incident came days after multiple rounds were fired in adjoining Anandapur over control of a local promoting syndicate. “Rajdanga has always been a peaceful area. The blast shocked us. There were at least six bikes and a car that was used in the attack. They stationed themselves near a grocery store near the public school before hurling the bomb and fleeing. Though arrests have been made, we want greater cop presence in our area,” said Sanjay Jha, a local resident. Tamal Talukdar, a banker, said this was the first reported incident of bombing in the area. “Even though other areas of Kasba had reported skirmishes, this is the first time that we have been affected. That is the worrying part,” he said. Police said CCTV footage is being used to identify the accused. “We have multiple grabs as the accused fled towards Kasba Bypass Connector,” said police. The case has been drawn up under both IPC and Explosive Substances Act. An arrest has also been made in the Republic Day bombing incident. Sen, who was returning from Chandernagore when news of the incident reached him, said it was a “cowardly act”. He later stated that cops have made crucial arrests and probed the case and that the administration would take all corrective steps. BJP president Dilip Ghosh attacked the ruling party alleging this was another example of crude bombs being stockpiled in Bengal. He made the allegations after a section of the locals, as well as the BJP state leadership, alleged that both warring groups are allegedly close to a few local leaders of the ruling party. Trinamool Congress, though, has denied the claims at the block level and said a police probe will establish the party had nothing to do with the incident. “The swift police action should set the records straight,” said a ward coordinator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/turf-war-near-mins-kasba-home-6-held/articleshow/80517539.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 29, 2021||Vadodara||Lawyers want judges, staff vaccinated||Vadodara: The Baroda Bar Association has demanded that the judges and court staff be also administered Covid-19 vaccines like the health workers so that physical hearings of cases in courts start. The lawyers’ body stated that the high court chief justice’s position is equal to that of the governor of a state, so he should ask the government that all judges in the state and the entire staff be vaccinated. “When places like schools, colleges and cinema halls where footfalls are high can be opened, the high court should order opening of district courts,” a release by the association stated. Office-bearers of BBA started a symbolic fast on Wednesday demanding physical hearings of cases. “Vaccine is here, so the chief justice can use his Constitutional position and ask the state government,” said Hasmukh Bhatt, president of BBA. He said that the chief justice should declare a declare a date for physical hearing of cases before February 1. “If the dates will not be declared all lawyers in Vadodara will break the law and enter the court compound to seek dates for physical hearing of the cases,” Bhatt added. On Thursday, the association’s office-bearers also talked with their counterparts in Surat, Ahmedabad and Rajkot to hold a meeting for chalking out a strategy. Hundreds of lawyers have been affected since the courts closed for physical hearing last year due to the pandemic and later started online hearing of cases. A senior lawyer said that those who can afford and manage are able to participate in online hearings, but the juniors and those who used to rely on walk-in clients are going through difficult times/ The district courts are currently hearing only bail petitions, motor accident claims and applications for muddamal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lawyers-want-judges-staff-vaccinated/articleshow/80514689.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||IDBI Bank reports Q3 net of Rs 378 crore||Mumbai: IDBI Bank has reported a net profit of Rs 378 crore for the quarter ended December 2020 as against a loss of Rs 5,763 crore in the year-ago period. The bank’s deposits rose 2% to Rs 2.24 lakh crore in October-December from Rs 2.18 lakh crore in the previous year. However, the bank’s MD & CEO Rakesh Sharma said that it had seen a decline in the cost of deposits, which resulted in interest expenses falling 20%. The high point of IDBI Bank’s performance during the quarter was the drop in net non-performing assets (NPAs) to below 2% at 1.94% — a sharp decline from 5.2% in the previous year. The net NPAs are the lowest in several years and point to a turnaround in IDBI Bank’s asset quality, Sharma said. During the quarter ended December 2020, the bank sold a 23% stake out of a 48% holding in its joint venture IDBI Federal Life Insurance, which has now been rechristened Ageas Federal Life Insurance. IDBI Bank’s post-sale holding in the JV is 25% as on December 31, 2020. The bank sold its stake for Rs 507 crore and the resultant profit of Rs 323 crore has been booked under income from the investment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idbi-bank-reports-q3-net-of-rs-378-crore/articleshow/80521131.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Patna||Criminals loot Rs 47.5 lakh from Axis Bank in Vaishali||PATNA: A group of over six armed criminals looted Rs 47.54 lakh in cash from the Kanchanpur branch of Axis Bank under the Bidupur police station area in Vaishali district around 12.20pm on Thursday. The bank is located on the busy Hajipur-Mahnar road, barely 14km from Hajipur. Bank’s cashier Gaurav Kumar said the robbers, who had covered their faces with helmets and clothes, held the employees and customers captive at gunpoint while looting cash from the counter. The robbers didn’t even spare a customer who had gone to the bank to deposit Rs 16,000 in his account. They threatened those present at the bank with dire consequences if they raised an alarm. The operation lasted for nearly 10 minutes. The criminals also damaged the CCTV camera installed at the bank before fleeing with the cash. Vaishali SP Maneesh, who rushed to the bank after the incident, told reporters that the CCTV footages had been obtained and the police were probing the case. “We have got some clues about the criminals and raids are on to arrest them. In CCTV footages, six robbers could be seen. The number of criminals could be more as some others were keeping vigil outside the bank,” the SP added. SHO of Bidupur police station Dhananjay Kumar said no security guard was deployed at the bank. “It seems that the robbers had done recce of the bank before committing the crime,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/criminals-loot-rs-47-5l-from-axis-bank-in-vaishali/articleshow/80516572.cms||Ramashankar
January 29, 2021||Pune||Pune: At almost 90%, PMC areas record highest vaccinations||PUNE: The daily vaccination of priority healthcare workers reached 89% of the total target in the Pune municipal limits on Thursday, its highest so far, making it the only component in the region to reach this milestone. A total of 3,819 or 76% of 5,000 healthcare workers were administered the Covid shot in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday. The inoculation drive conducted on Wednesday had recorded 71% coverage. Among other PMR components, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas recorded 75% vaccinations, a drop from its 80% target vaccination on the previous day. The rural parts of Pune recorded a surge in vaccination with 75% vaccination on Thursday. “That 11% target beneficiaries who didn’t turn up to take the shot in the PMC areas are mainly those who were either outstation, preoccupied or not well. Only a minuscule number might still be on wait and watch mode,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the health department, PMC. Among the newly added sites, Joshi hospital is among those few centres slightly lagging behind in achieving the daily target count. Physician Chandrashekhar Karve, CEO, Joshi hospital, said, “This is just the second day of our participation in the drive. The numbers will surely improve in a week’s time.” Inlaks and Budhrani hospital in Koregaon Park is another newly added centre in the PMC area. Hospital’s senior intensivist Vilas Gundhecha took the shot on Wednesday. “This is our second day in the drive and we have recorded 100% target vaccination,” Gundecha said. The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital and its extended vaccination site at DY Patil Hospital vaccinated 239 beneficiaries on Thursday. Rajendra Wabale, dean, YCM hospital, told TOI that they the numbers rose after awareness sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-almost-90-pmc-areas-record-highest-vaccinations/articleshow/80521874.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 29, 2021||Business||Indian investors join GameStop frenzy||MUMBAI: A group of American retail investors and day traders on Reddit, who revolted against Wall Street hedge funds by pushing up the over shorted stock of video game retailer GameStop by 3,000% since October, has caught the imagination of Indian investors. ‘DalalStreetBets’ and ‘IndianStreetBets’, clones of the Reddit thread WallStreetBets, which is credited for the over 1,800% rally in this month itself in GameStop, have become active on the same open discussion platform. Its members now talking about orchestrating a similar rally in Indian stocks. Market veterans, however, said that given current Sebi rules, such a situation is unlikely to happen in India. They, however, hailed the Reddit investors for planning this ‘coup’. About a couple of months ago, when GameStop’s stock was at less than $10, it was found that hedge funds had shorted more shares of the video game retailer than were issued by the company. That’s when a bunch of investors, in an act of rebellion against the hedge funds, decided to hoard GameStop’s stock by coordinating over the WallStreetBets thread. As the popularity of the thread gained momentum, the stock price began to rise. Initially, hedge funds, which were short on the stock, shorted even more to bring the stock down. The strategy, however, backfired and some of these institutions exited the stock with a combined loss of over $5 billion, media reports said. The GameStop frenzy for Reddit investors was fuelled by a tweet from Tesla co-founder Elon Musk and support from billionaire tech investor Chamath Palihapitiya. On Thursday, the stock was trading at over $400, a rise of over 33 times in about two months. The GameStop frenzy has led to traction for IndianStreetBets and DalalStreetBets, although the numbers are smaller in comparison. WallStreetBets has over 4 million members, over half of which joined in the last 10 days. IndianStreetBets has just over 12,000 members, 2,000 of which joined in the last 10 days, while DalalStreetBets has some 800-odd members. “This sub (thread) is trying to pump Suzlon, like WallStreetBets pushed up GameStop. Buy 50-100 shares for a short term, it’s very cheap,” read a post on IndianStreetBets. Another user said, “If you want to join the pump, just buy 100 (Suzlon) shares, it is not that expensive, only Rs 600.” After some traders reportedly accumulated losses of up to 40% in Suzlon, moderators of the Indian discussion forums advised against it. “Even if all the members here were willing and, more importantly, had the funds, it simply won’t be possible to do what the degenerates (users) at WallStreetBets are doing because the implementation of circuit breakers in our markets and other regulations,” a user posted on IndianStreetBets. In a tweet on Thursday, Nithin Kamath, co-founder & CEO, Zerodha, India’s biggest retail stock broker, explained why a GameStop like situation, prompted by a huge short squeeze, was not possible here. In India there are limits on how many shares a single entity can short or buy through the derivatives route. Such a restriction, “unlike in the US where there is none, ensures that short squeeze of epic proportions that we are seeing in GameStop…can’t happen here”, Kamath said. On one hand, while there is chatter relating to stocks about ITC, Yes Bank and Suzlon on Reddit, even Indian traders are buying GameStop. The fear of missing out (FOMO) on the GameStop rally, which US hedge fund manager Anthony Scaramucci called “the French revolution of finance”, is luring Indian investors seeking out ways to participate in this rally. According to Vinay Bharathwaj, co-founder & co-CEO, Stockal, which helps Indians trade on US bourses, it has seen $2 million worth of trades in GameStop on its platform in the last two days. This forms about 15% of Stockal’s daily trading volume, he said. As people are investing new trading strategies through platforms like Reddit, in closed social media platforms of market veterans, the chatter is about how unfair a top exchange official was to suggest cancelling all trades. Calling such a move as cheating, one user questioned why, if a big investor got it wrong, was it being bailed. Some people also pointed out that the GameStop event could be the start of a trend of democratising stock trading, a philosophy on which Baiju Bhatt and Vladimir Tenev built the Robinhood trading platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-investors-join-gamestop-frenzy/articleshow/80520468.cms||Aseem Gujar
January 29, 2021||Allahabad||Covid effect: Artistes unemployed as no Ramlila, Krishnaleela at Magh Mela||PRAYAGRAJ: For Ramlila artist Puneet Kumar, the ongoing Magh Mela has come as a big disappointment amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Holding rehearsals with colleagues till last year, Kumar, who had been performing various roles in Ramlila and Krishnaleela over the years, remembers days when he used to be busy learning dialogues and performing on stage at the camps of prominent seers and saints during the earlier Magh Melas. However, Kumar, who hails from Chitrakoot and arrived at the mela campus last week, is now looking for odd jobs to earn his livelihood as there has been no staging of Ramlila, Krishnaleela and other mythological episodes at Magh Mela due to restrictions implemented to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. Kumar is among thousands of Ramleela and Rasleela performers and artistes who were forced to switch to other professions to earn money due to the restrictions in the Magh Mela on performance of acts showing episodes from religious texts, Ramlila, Krishnaleela etc. Swami Brahmashram Maharaj, national president of Akhil Bharatiya Dandi Sanyasi Parishad told TOI that, “Over 500 small artists from Banda,Chitrakoot,Mauthra,Brindawan and other religious cities– who have been playing various characters in Ramlila, Krishnaleela and other mythological characters in the annual religious fair – Magh Mela, till last year, are jobless due to restrictions being put by the mela administration. He added that majority of seers, saints and religious discourse speakers are unhappy over the mela administration’s decision for not holding katha, religious discourses, keertan and mythological performances. “We have demanded mela authorities to allow the religious discourses and staging of Ramlila, Ram katha, Krishna katha with the assurance that all saints and attendees will be following the Covid-19 protocols,” said Brahmashram Maharaj. He said that staging of the Ram katha, Krishna katha, Ramleela, Krishna leela etc. had always been a key attraction during the Magh Mela but this time, the mela administration has not permitted the staging of the Ramlila, Ram katha, Krishna leela etc. Apart from the artists, make-up artists are finding themselves in a difficult situation with no work and thus no source of income. Swami Premdas camping near Akshayvat marg said, “I have not seen any kids dressed as lord Krishna, Shiva etc. roaming around the mela campus, like in the past.” He said, “I don’t know the reason but small kids dressed in the attire of various gods and goddesses are also missing this year”. Majority of seers and saints camping in sector 3,4 and 5 claimed that there has been a shortage of shops selling puja articles, utensils, blankets and other essential commodities and that they have to visit city areas like Daraganj and other parts for getting goods to fulfill their daily needs. Mela adhikari (officer), Vivek Chaturvedi , meanwhile, said, “The mela administration has not restricted any religious activity but we have been appealing and requesting seers and saints that mass gathering could turn be a major factor in spreading the Covid-19 infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-effect-artistes-unemployed-as-no-ramlila-krishnaleela-at-magh-mela/articleshow/80515400.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Varanasi||MP Kamlesh Paswan gets one-year-jail in 2004 case||GORAKHPUR: BJP MP Kamlesh Paswan and former corporator Rajesh Kumar were convicted by additional session judge Namrata Agarwal who then sentenced both to one year jail and Rs 2,000 fine in a 17 years old case. Both were, however, released on bail after they told the court that they will file an appeal. On December 18, 2004, Kamlesh Paswan, who was Samajwadi Party MLA from Maniram, corporator Rajesh Kumar and SP workers had stopped train number 222 down at Nakha Jungle station during a ‘rail roko’ agitation. They lay on the tracks and vacated them only after handing a memorandum to officials. The guard and driver of the train had lodged an FIR with RPF Nakha Jungle post under Section 174 of Railway Act. “It was a political rail roko movement of Samajwadi party and thousands of people were part of it, but only we two have been punished. We’ll appeal in High Court,” said Paswan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mp-kamlesh-paswan-gets-one-yr-jail-in-2004-case/articleshow/80516151.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad University to award gold to statistics toppers||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University (AU) have decided to institute a new gold medal to be awarded annually to the topper of the department of Statistics. The medal has been named after the founder head of the department of Statistics, late Prof SK Bhattacharya. On the initiative of Allahabad University Alumni Association of the department, Prof Alok Pandey of the College of Southern Nevada (CSN), US, has contributed an amount of Rs 1 lakh for the medal. Following the noble gesture by Prof Pandey, AU administration too has approved the proposal for instituting the medal, informed the university officials. AU is all set to hold its convocation in virtual mode in the first week of March this year. In this backdrop, Himanshu Katyan, a scientist at Durham, UK and Ashutosh Shukla of AU Alumni Association informed that a virtual meeting was held last year regarding the same. The members of the alumni association of the department who participated in the meeting included additional commissioner, Income Tax, Lucknow, Onkarnath Pathak, Panna (Madhya Pradesh) DM Sanjay Kumar Mishra and others. They had proposed that a medal should be founded in memory of the founder head of the department, late Prof SK Bhattacharya. The gold medal would be given to the topper of the department in the name of the first HoD. After a unanimous approval was achieved, the proposal was prepared and sent to the then acting vice chancellor of the university, Prof RR Tiwari. The same was later approved by the Academic Council at AU. Prof Alok Pandey contributed his share of Rs 1 lakh to AU for the medal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-award-gold-to-statistics-toppers/articleshow/80515310.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||Sensex slides for 5th day in a row, loses 536 points||Mumbai: The sensex fell for a fifth consecutive session as traders preferred to offload their holdings ahead of the Budget. The reason: They feel this year, the annual event is a tightrope walk for the finance minister. As a result, in volatile trades on Thursday, the sensex closed 536 points lower at 46,874 — a new monthly low for the index. From its all-time intraday high of 50,184, the sensex is now down a little over 3,300 points, or 6.6%. On the NSE, the Nifty lost 150 points during the day’s session to close at 13,818 points. Thursday’s Rs 3,713-crore net selling by foreign investors was the highest in over two months, BSE and CDSL data showed. The day’s slide also wiped out Rs 1.5 lakh crore worth of investors’ wealth with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 187.9 lakh crore, according to BSE data. Brokers said that investors may be realising that the market cannot sustain for long at such elevated valuation levels. According to HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani, stocks wiped out their gains in Europe for the year early on Thursday, ruined by a sell-off on Wall Street. Additionally, there was no end in sight to the pandemic lockdowns and there was a squeeze in short positions. “Asian shares slipped on Thursday as a reality check set in about the long-time economic damage from the coronavirus pandemic, giving Wall Street its worst day since October,” Jasani wrote in his post-market note. The session’s loss in the sensex was led by HDFC Bank, Infosys and HUL, while buying in Axis Bank, ICICI Bank and SBI cushioned the fall to some extent. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 21 ended in the red. In the broader market, however, advances outnumbered the declines by a decent margin with 1,482 stocks closing higher compared to 1,392 that closed lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-slides-for-5th-day-in-a-row-loses-536-points/articleshow/80520675.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Patna||JPU senate gives nod to Rs 508-crore deficit budget||CHHAPRA: Chhapra-based JP University (JPU) senate on Thursday passed a deficit budget of Rs 508.18crore for the financial year 2021-22. The senate meeting was presided over by JP University vice-chancellor (VC) Faruque Ali, while registrar Col (retired) Shyamanand Jha welcomed the members. Presenting the budget, pro-VC Laxmi Narain Singh said the income through different sources of the varsity has been estimated at Rs12.07crore. The budget has already been approved by the syndicate of the university. VC Ali said several pending examinations have been conducted after he took charge in September last and the university has to conduct 17 more examinations this year. He assured to conduct pre-PhD test as well. He also claimed that the university has issued 3,870 pending original degrees to successful candidates of different examinations. The VC expressed gratitude to both state and central governments for providing Rs11 crore for laying synthetic track and Rs 7.5 crore for construction of multi-purpose indoor hall under ‘Khelo India’ scheme. Participating in the discussion on the proposed budget, Prof VNYadav, MLC remarked that the university has not elected representatives for the senate from the last several years and members have been nominated by the government. Yadav, expressed concern over irregularities in the transfer of staff and teachers and suggested formation of a committee for this purpose. He also demanded to get some portion of the land freed from encroachment, installation of a statue of great scholar Rahul Sankritayan, after whose name the campus has been named and also demanded restoration of Bhojpuri teaching in the university. Participating in the discussion, another MLC Kedar Nath Pandey expressed pleasure over the decision of the university to convene a meeting of the academic senate for imparting qualitative education. Other members including Prof Shishir Kumar, Chulhan Prasad Singh and many others participated in the debate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jpu-senate-gives-nod-to-rs-508-crore-deficit-budget/articleshow/80515228.cms||H K Verma
January 29, 2021||Patna||Illegal gun factory unearthed in Lakhisarai||PATNA: The Lakhisarai police on Thursday unearthed an illegal gun factory and seized 14 semi-finished country-made weapons and other raw materials in huge quantity. Altogether seven arms dealers, including a kingpin Raja Singh, were arrested during the police operation. Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar said that the arrested arms dealers used to supply weapons to their counterparts in several states including West Bengal, Delhi and Jharkhand. Raja, a resident of Rahatpur diara under the Suryagarha police station area in Lakhisarai district, fell in police dragnet for the first time. According to initial police investigation, Raja had employed six arms manufacturers from neighbouring Munger district to cater to the demand of illegal weapons from different states, including poll-bound West Bengal. “We are probing their links with some gun runners of West Bengal,” the SP added. In all, 14-semi finished pistols, five magazines, five live cartridges of 7.62 bore, 10 barrel set slides, one hand drill machine, six pistol and base rods, six base machines, 27 pieces of pipes, two hand base and three mobile phones were seized from the illegal gun factory. Besides the ring leader Raja, six others arrested were identified as Md. Aurangazeb, Md. Babar, Md. Mahfooz, Md. Rizwan, Md. Shahid Chand and Md. Hussain alias Aslam, all stated to be residents of Mufassil police station in Munger district. The SP said that two of the seven arrested were earlier booked in cases lodged under Arms Act. “The antecedents of others are being ascertained,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/illegal-gun-factory-unearthed-in-lakhisarai/articleshow/80515283.cms||Ramashankar
January 29, 2021||Pune||Bhosari tutor held on charge of sexually harassing minor||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday arrested a 32-year-old tutor from Bhosari on the charge of sexually harassing a 12-year-old girl at his house on the night of January 26.The girl’s aunt lodged an FIR stating the tutor touched her niece inappropriately when she went for tuition at his residence along with her cousin. The man has been charged with offences punishable under Sections 354-A (sexual harassment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Sub-inspector Amol Dere from the Bhosari MIDC police said, “A magisterial court sent the tutor to the Yerawada central prion under court custody on Thursday.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhosari-tutor-held-on-charge-of-sexually-harassing-minor/articleshow/80521922.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Prior experience helped us get over inoculation nervousness: Vaccinator||Pune: For JS Ghodake, the vaccination in-charge at District Hospital Aundh, inoculation drives are nothing new. She has been part of such operations for about 25 years, coordinating polio, measles and rubella vaccination drives. Yet, when it was time for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, there was some excitement as well as nervousness. Ghodake has been appealing to candidates to come forward and get vaccinated.“The vaccination drives are not new to us nursing staff. Also, we were part of the dry run that was conducted on January 2 earlier this month. With the regular updates on the vaccine and doses from the health department, it helped us get over our nervousness,” the paediatric nurse, who supervises vaccine doses, the vaccination site and its proceedings, said. “The vaccine is something that has proven to be a tool for us to fight Covid-19, but refusing it without understanding scientific facts and believing some hoax on social media is worse than the virus itself.”Recounting her experience about the hoax, she said one of her relatives had sent her a clip claiming God would lead the way in the fight against the contagion. “I forwarded them the scientific facts by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the virus,” she said.Ghodake added that most of the staff members at the District Hospital Aundh, which is a Covaxin site, have been inoculated. “There were instances of resistance or rejection out of fear but we managed to convince most candidates. Not a single person, who has got the shot here has developed any kind of adverse event following immunization (AEFI), which has also boosted their confidence.”She said many individuals were apprehensive about the shot. If they have a contraindication, it is a different thing, but fear based on hearsay needs to be worked on, she explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prior-experience-helped-us-get-over-inoculation-nervousness-vaccinator/articleshow/80521909.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 29, 2021||Business||TVS records its highest ever quarterly profit of Rs 266 crore||Chennai: A sharp recovery in two wheeler demand saw TVS Motor Company beat analyst estimates in the October-December quarter with the highest ever quarterly net profit of Rs 266 crore, up from Rs 121.1 crore in the year-ago quarter. The company also recorded its highest ever revenue of Rs 5,404 crore in the quarter ended December 2020 up 31% from Rs 4,126 crore in the third quarter of 2019-20. TVS’s EBITDA was Rs 511 crore up 41% as against Rs 363 crore in the year ago quarter. It’s profit before tax of Rs 362 crore is more than double the Rs 146 crore it made in Q3 of last financial year. The company’s board has declared an interim dividend of Rs 2.1 per share (210%) absorbing a sum of Rs 99.77 crore for 2020-21. “During the nine months period, focused working capital management and improved operating performance helped the company to generate free cash flow of Rs 1,616 crore,” said the company in a statement. “These proceeds are used to reduce the debt. Lean stocks with the dealers also helped to unleash the blocked working capital across the supply chain.” “TVS Motor reported EBIDTA margin of 9.5%, against our estimate of 9% and its revenue is 1.4% higher than our estimate,” said Mitul Shah, head of research, Reliance Securities. During the quarter ended December 2020, the overall two-wheeler sales including exports grew 23% to 9.52 lakh units. Motorcycle sales grew 31% to 4.26 lakh units. Scooter sales were up 11% to 3.11 lakh units. Exports were up 20% to 2.61 lakh units “despite scarcity in availability of containers,” said the statement. Only three wheeler sales continued to be lacklustre at 0.38 lakh units as against 0.48 lakh units last Q3.TVS stock fell nearly 3% to close at Rs 528.65 in a falling market on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-records-its-highest-ever-quarterly-profit-of-rs-266-crore/articleshow/80519731.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||Covid pushes India’s gold demand to a 25-year low||Chennai: The impact of Covid pandemic on gold consumption pushed India’s gold demand to a 25-year low in calendar year 2020 at 446.4 tonnes, down 35% year-on-year. Total jewellery demand was down 42% at 315.9 tonnes. However, Q4 (October-December, 2020) saw a recovery in gold demand which was down only by 4%, as compared to a 30% drop in Q3. Festivals and weddings in Q4 offered the traditional seasonal boost to jewellery demand which recovered down by 8% in the fourth quarter, data from World Gold Council said. “Demand for gold has started to pick up in the fourth quarter on the back of pent-up demand from weddings deferred from earlier in the year and festive demand. However, Indians invested 26% more in gold (jewellery) this year, and got 4% less in quantity, due to a 32% price hike in the yellow metal,” said Somasundaram PR, managing director of the Council. During the fourth quarter, the value of gold jewellery demand reached a quarterly record of Rs 61,060 crore, a sharp recovery from the 12-year low of Rs 18,350 crore in Q2. Despite 130 tonne of outflows in Q4, gold backed exchange-traded funds (gold ETFs) saw record annual inflows with global holdings growth by 877.1 tonne in 2020. Easing of lockdown restrictions from September and a reported steady reduction in Covid-19 daily cases supported recovery in Q4. Gold price correction in December from around Rs 50,000 per 10 gm helped boost the pent-up demand, from the all-time high of Rs 56,000 per 10gm from early August, 2020. Globally, gold demand saw a 14% decline to 3,759.6 tonne and further dropped by 28% YoY in Q4, making it the weakest quarter since the midst of the global financial crisis in Q2 2008. Total annual gold supply also took a hit and was 4% lower YoY at 4,633 tonne, the largest annual fall since 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-pushes-indias-gold-demand-to-a-25-year-low/articleshow/80519559.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 29, 2021||Patna||Opposition: Govt, not employees, inefficient||PATNA: The state government’s move for compulsory retirement of “inefficient” public servants above the age of 50 years has generated a lot of political heat with opposition parties describing it as “anti-people”. RJD’s Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha said the government should explain the compulsion for this move. “In Bihar, people are employed at the age of 40-45 and they are now being asked to opt for compulsory retirement from service. The state government should first go as it has failed to fulfil the expectations of the people,” Jha added. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said the notification has exposed the double standards of the state government, which had promised to provide jobs to 20 lakh people ahead of the state assembly elections. Senior Congress leader and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra wondered how the government can describe someone as inefficient after 50 years of age. Terming the decision as “immoral” and “impractical”, the Congress leader said since law and order in the state is poor, the home minister should be described as “inefficient”. However, senior BJP leader Ram Sagar Singh defended the government’s order and said it is not the issue of forced retirement of employees, rather it’s about development work. “There are people who are not able to deliver the task they are expected to do in the larger interest of the people. Development work is getting hampered due to their inefficiency,” he said. The state home department had issued a fresh order on January 25 regarding setting up two committees to identify “Inefficient” government employees and police personnel above 50 years of age for compulsory retirement. While the first committee under home department’s additional chief secretary will review the work of group A employees, the second committee headed by secretary (home) will review the work efficiency of group B and group D employees and police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-govt-not-employees-inefficient/articleshow/80516037.cms||Ramashankar
January 29, 2021||Patna||Fuel prices continue upward trend||PATNA: Fuel prices surged in the city for the seventh consecutive day on Thursday when petrol was sold at Rs 88.97 and diesel at Rs 81.83 per litre. The current month so far has seen an overall 2.87% surge in petrol prices. Experts said the rising crude oil prices from the latter half of 2020 have led to the rise in fuel prices. Vibhash Kumar, executive director and state head of Indian Oil, said, “The fuel pricing is linked to various aspects, such as import parity, international crude oil prices and local taxes. Right now, the fluctuation is due to the change in international crude prices. It is automated and goes to the ministry only for formality. Nothing can be done about it.” D M Diwakar, an economist, said the rising prices of fuel would affect the commuters and also have cascading effects on the prices of other essential commodities like medicines, vegetables and pulses. “The economic condition of the country was not good even before the lockdown. Increasing the prices of petrol and diesel is not an option to recover the losses. Even if the international prices are coming down, the government is taking advantage by increasing prices to earn revenue,” Diwakar added. Prabhat Kumar Singh, president of Bihar Petroleum Dealers’ Association (BPDA), said, “Fuel prices have been constantly surging since the lockdown as the established pricing norm is no longer being followed in the country”. The surge in fuel prices is creating an additional burden on common people as well. Saket Kumar, a resident of Buddha Colony, said, “With soaring inflation and reduced salaries, it is becoming difficult day by day and the government is not helping at all.” “The government needs to be considerate towards the people in such difficult times. It is common knowledge that the production cost of diesel is lower than petrol, but even diesel prices are on the rise,” said Chatrapal Singh, a city-based businessman. Bihar State Auto Chalak Sangh’s general secretary Raj Kumar Jha said constant increase in fuel prices has added to the woes of autorickshaw drivers. “The fares have been fixed and cannot be increased. Hence, any increase in expenses due to hike in fuel prices affects the drivers as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fuel-prices-continue-upward-trend/articleshow/80515964.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Patna||BJP spokesperson’s condition still critical||PATNA: State BJP spokesperson Afzar Shamshi (53), who was shot at on his college campus in Munger on Wednesday morning, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Patna and still in critical condition. The hospital administration stated that Shamshi had undergone resuscitation and stabilization procedures before being taken for surgical interventions for his extensive abdominal and neurosurgical injuries a day before. “The patient is still in critical condition and undergoing extensive treatment by a multidisciplinary team of doctors,” read the statement issued by the hospital. His son, Asad, said Shamshi’s blood pressure was not under control. “We request everyone to pray for his recovery. He is in the ICU and fighting for his life. We also want the culprits to be arrested soon,” he added. Asad also claimed that his father had received a life threat almost a year ago from one Raj Kishore of Munger, after which an FIR was lodged against him. State BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the news of the attack on Shamshi was a big jolt for everyone in the party. “We all are praying for his recovery and health minister Mangal Pandey is personally reviewing his condition,” Nikhil added. Meanwhile, several BJP members, including MP Ram Kripal Yadav, visited the hospital to meet Shamshi’s family. Shamshi, who is an associate professor in the department of industrial relations and personnel management, was shot on his college campus. After the incident, the college’s professor in-charge Lallan Prasad Singh was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-spokespersons-condition-still-critical/articleshow/80516139.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 29, 2021||Bhopal||226 fresh Covid cases in MP, toll crosses 3800 mark||Bhopal: 226 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 across Madhya Pradesh here on Thursday. Since the pandemic began, Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 tally has touched 2,54,496 infection cases, according to MP health department daily bulletin. Three more people died due to the infection and the overall death toll rose to 3,802. A total of 321 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery count to 2,47,739. Of the new fatalities, one patient each died in Bhopal, Khargone and Chhindwara. Of the 226 new cases, Bhopal accounted for 59 and Indore 18. The number of cases in Indore rose to 57,377, including 924 deaths, while Bhopal’s case tally stood at 42,371 with 608 fatalities, the official said. Bhopal now has 814 active cases, while this figure for Indore is 453. With 16,248 new COVID-19 tests conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, the number of samples examined so far rose to 53,07,095.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/226-fresh-covid-cases-in-mp-toll-crosses-3800-mark/articleshow/80517610.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Anna Hazare to start fast for farmers from tomorrow||PUNE: Veteran social crusader Anna Hazare on Thursday said he would go on a fast from January 30 at his native place, Ralegan Siddhi, as talks with the Centre over demands raised by him on the farmers’ issues had not been fruitful so far. Former state cabinet minister and BJP leader Girish Mahajan met Hazare at Ralegan Siddhi on Thursday morning. He later told the reporters that steps were being taken for a breakthrough to ensure that Hazare did not have to go on a fast. Minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis are likely to meet Hazare at Ralegan Siddhi on Friday to hold further discussions with him. Fadnavis had held talks with Hazare last week over his demands. Hazare issued a press statement saying he would go on the fast alone at Yadavbaba temple in Ralegan Siddhi and appealed to his followers to not to come to the village in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He urged them to resort to agitation in their villages. Hazare said he had written letters to the Prime Minister and the Union agriculture minister five times in the past three months over farmers’ issues. The representatives of the government visited Ralegan Siddhi and held dialogues over his demands. But no solution could be achieved so far. Hazare has sought statutory and autonomous status for the central agriculture price commission, minimum support price (MSP) according to the formula of input cost and 50% additional amount for agriculture produce. He has also demanded MSP for milk, floriculture and horticulture. “We are sad over the violence during the farmers’ agitation in Delhi on January 26. I always want a peaceful and violence-free agitation. I have resorted to agitation on many occasions in the past 40 years. Lakhs of people participated in the 2011 Lokpal agitation in Delhi. However, not a single stone was pelted. Mahatma Gandhi has taught us that peace is the strength of agitation. There should not be violence in agitation. This is my request to everyone,” Hazare said in the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hazare-to-start-fast-for-farmers-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80521880.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly goes through another angioplasty, gets 2 more stents||KOLKATA: Three weeks after he had been through a similar procedure following a heart attack, BCCI president and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly underwent an angioplasty and had two stents implanted to open up his blocked cardiac arteries on Thursday. The procedure lasted about an hour and was successful, according to sources at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital where the 48-year-old was admitted with chest pain on Wednesday. Ganguly remains stable and will be under observation for two to four days. On January 2, the former cricketer had suffered a heart attack and was admitted to Woodlands Hospital. He was diagnosed with triple-vessel disease and underwent a coronary angioplasty to remove a 90% blockage in his right ventricular artery. A stent had been implanted in his right ventricular artery and two other blockages had been detected, but a team of medical experts — including cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, who flew in as an advisor — deemed they were not serious and could be dealt with later. On Wednesday afternoon, Ganguly had felt uneasy and was rushed to Apollo via a green corridor created between his Behala home and the hospital. Apart from Shetty, who flew in again on Thursday, cardiologists Ashwin B Mehta and Ajit Desai were brought in from Mumbai for the angioplasty. Three doctors who had been part of the team that conducted the angioplasty at Woodlands — Aftab Khan, Saroj Mondal and Sapatarshi Basu — were also roped in for the procedure at Apollo along with a team from the hospital, including cardiac anaesthesiologist Debasish Panigrahi. Two stents — left anterior descending artery (LAD) and left circumflex artery (LCX) — were placed on Ganguly’s affected arteries. “He is doing fine after the procedure. We also found the previous stent working perfectly. But he will be under hospital observation for two to four days,” said a doctor. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the hospital on Thursday afternoon, soon after the procedure had been conducted. “Sourav is fine and I have spoken to his family members. The doctors have done a good job and I congratulate them,” she said. Former state minister Ashok Bhattacharya, too, visited Ganguly on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-goes-through-another-angioplasty-gets-2-more-stents/articleshow/80517463.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Hair donors in Chennai provide locks of love for cancer patients||CHENNAI: After deciding on donating his hair for those undergoing cancer treatment, Nitin Bothra let his locks grow out for nearly 18 months. “My wife is a member of RCC Diva and I decided to grow my hair when the idea of the project was formed, which was two years ago,” says the entrepreneur, who donated over 9 inches of hair. Over 200 people joined Bothra on Thursday in donating their hair to those undergoing cancer treatment, at an event organised by Rajasthan Cosmo Club (RCC) DIVA Foundation in association with Terapanth Yuvak Parishad & Terapanth Kishore Mandal. The initiative is part of the ‘Hair to Hope’ project, launched by governor Banwarilal Purohit last year. Given Covid restrictions, many donors chose to courier their contribution from across India. “We received many hair donations through Dunzo, Swiggy and even couriers from places like Banaras and Jaipur,” says Nidhi Parekh, project head, Hair to Hope, adding that they soon plan on carrying out the event in a larger scale in many other states. Participants first sanitized their hands then clicked a “before” picture, following which, they received a haircut and took an “after” picture. Many children, such as four-year-old Vrishti Ramani, contributed their bit. “I wanted to give my hair as it would make someone happy,” says Ramani, who donated over 8 inches of her hair. This was also 13-year-old Vansika Bhurat’s fourth hair donation drive. Har Sahay Meena, IAS, was the event’s chief guest and Miss India 2019 winner Suman Rao the guest of honour||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hair-donors-in-city-provide-locks-of-love-for-cancer-patients/articleshow/80517657.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
January 29, 2021||Patna||Patna University to launch placement drive in February||PATNA: Patna University (PU) will launch a placement drive for its final year postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate (UG) students in the first week of February. Many companies will recruit the students through online interviews. According to PU vice-chancellor (VC) G K Chaudhary, eClerx, Apptunix - Mobile App Development Company and other reputed firms have been invited for the placement drive. “We will strengthen the placement cell of the university and ensure that maximum number of students get jobs,” the VC said. PU counselling and placement cell in-charge Ashim Lal Chakraborty pointed out that the placement drive was very slow last year due to Covid-19 pandemic, but now it would be accelerated. “Even during the pandemic a number of PU students got placed,” Chakraborty said. ‘Inspire younger generation’: Inaugurating a monthlong online induction programme organised by PU’s Human Resource Development Centre on Thursday, vice-chancellor (VC) G K Chaudhary called upon the newly appointed teachers to know their strengths and weaknesses and act accordingly in the best interest of the students. “You must create your own path to tread on and inspire the younger generation,” Chaudhary said. Former PU VC Rash Bihari Prasad Singh and ex-L N Mithila University VC R M P Sinha also asked the participants to deliver their best to the students. “As many as 40 teachers from different institutions of Bihar and Jharkhand are attending the programme,” centre director Chandrama Singh said. Course coordinator Shankar Kumar welcomed the guests and Patna Science College teacher Ashok Kumar Jha proposed the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-to-launch-placement-drive-in-february/articleshow/80515529.cms||B K Mishra
January 29, 2021||Patna||ECR extends services of 29 pairs of special trains||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has extended the services of 29 pairs of special trains till March and April to clear the rush of passengers. The Railway Board took the decision because several regular passenger trains continue to be suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Udaipur-New Jalpaiguri (09601/09602), Yeshwantpur-Patliputra (03251/03252), Raxaul-Lokmanya Tilak (05267/05268) and Amritsar-Saharsa (05531/05532) specials will run till March 29 and the Ajmer-Sealdah superfast special (02987/02988) till April 1. Other trains that will operate till April 1 include the Saharsa-Anand Vihar (05529/05530), Gaya-New Delhi (02397/02398), Danapur-Anand Vihar (03257/03258), Patliputra-Chandigarh (03255/03256) and Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Howrah (02351/02352) specials. “The services of the Bikaner-Kolkata (02495/02496), Darbhanga-Ahmedabad (05559/05560) and Muzaffarpur-Ahmedabad (05269/05270) specials have been extended till March 26, 27 and 28 respectively. The Barauni-Ernakulam special (02521/02522) will run till March 31 from Barauni-end and April 4 from Ernakulam,” the CPRO told this newspaper, adding that the Jaynagar-Udhna (05563/05564) and Gaya-Chennai Egmore (02389/02390) specials would run till March 28 and 30 respectively. While the Raxaul-Lokmanya Tilak special (02545/02546) will run till March 27, another train (05547/05548) between Raxaul and Lokmanya Tilak will operate till March 31. Besides, the services of the Patna-Dhanbad (03329/03330), Muzaffarpur-Howrah (05271/05272), Patna-Ranchi (02363/02364), Patna-Barkakana/Singrauli (03347/03349, 03348/03350) and Patna-Jammu Tawi (02355/02356) specials have been extended till March 31. The Darbhanga-Amritsar (05211/05212), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Durg (03287/03288), Darbhanga-Mysore (02577/02578), Patna-Chatrapati Shivaji Terminal (03259/03260), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Ajmer (02395/02396) and Darbhanga-Jalandhar City (05251/05252) specials will operate till April 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-extends-services-of-29-pairs-of-special-trains/articleshow/80516242.cms||Kumod Verma
January 29, 2021||Patna||Covid recovery rate almost 99% in Bihar||PATNA: The state’s Covid-19 tally rose to 2,60,359 on Thursday with 134 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Two fresh deaths, on the other hand, took the state’s toll to 1,492. However, with 2,57,391 recuperating from the virus in the state so far, there were 1,474 active cases on Thursday. Altogether 269 people defeated the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 98.86%. As per the health department, Patna and Khagaria reported one death each on Thursday. With this, Patna’s Covid toll has has increased to 413. At AIIMS-Patna, two more Covid patients have died, including a 65-year-old man from Srisiya village in East Champaran and a 90-year-old woman from Vishnupur in Vaishali district. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covod-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said three patients were admitted to the hospital and three discharged on Thursday. Altogether 81 Covid patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital on Thursday. Of 134 fresh cases in the state, Patna accounted for 40. The district’s Covid tally has now risen to 52,149. However, with 50,887 recoveries and 413 deaths, there were 849 active cases in the district on Thursday. Gaya also reported 19 new cases on Thursday. The other districts registered less than 10 cases in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-recovery-rate-nears-99-in-bihar/articleshow/80515462.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||How Manohar Parrikar put his foot down and saved Mollem||MARGAO: Circa 2013. Manohar Parrikar was the chief minister when the three contentious linear projects, cutting across the biodiversity paradise of Mollem, were first proposed. But contrary to many claims, edited video excerpts and blatant falsehoods being spread, Parrikar had rejected these proposals outrightly. The reason: It would entail largescale destruction of the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem. For one of the projects—the 440KV power transmission project by Tamnar—Parrikar even made them rework their proposal to keep the damage to the minimum. Former CM Parrikar was against double-tracking as it would destroy the biodiversity hotspot at MollemIt all started when Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) proposed double tracking through Bhagwan Mahavir National Park at Mollem to the forest department. The then principal chief conservator of forests, Richard D’Souza, vehemently put forth his objections to the proposal in writing in the file. D’Souza had noted that the proposed second railway line passes through the prime forest of Bhagwan Mahavir National Park which has “highly indigenous and endangered species like Black Panther, leopard, Gaur and a host of other fauna, which will be completely disturbed if doubling of the railway line is done”. The then forest minister Alina Saldanha concurred with D’Souza and placed her objections, too. When the file reached Parrikar on November 22, 2013, he wrote: “We may not agree as the government of Goa has so far not agreed to the proposal. In fact no such proposal has been received. We may, therefore, not agree for the proposal before the forest department.” Sources said sensing Parrikar’s disinclination, the Railways put the proposal on the backburner but vigorously renewed its efforts only after Parrikar moved to Delhi to take over as the defence minister. With Parrikar away from the state, RVNL for the second time in September 2016 pushed for the case with the help of the forest department. And it got support from the then chief secretary R K Srivastava. “Doubling of railway track in question assumes significance from the national perspective and in order to improve overall economy and efficiency into the system (sic). Project has already been approved by GOI. Proposal may be considered for approval please,” Srivastava noted in the file, before it was placed before the forest minister and the chief minister for their approval. The then forest minister Rajendra Arlekar and then chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar both gave the nod immediately without a single remark, as seen from the notings in the file, a copy of which is with TOI. Seven years after he put his foot down over the track doubling proposal, TOI spoke to D’Souza who voiced his concern over the vulnerability of the Braganza Ghat section to landslides, if the track doubling is carried out. “The Portuguese had carved out the railway track through the fragile ghat section very professionally, owing to which there hardly occurs any landslide during the monsoon. Can one be reassured that there will be no landslides following the construction of the second track, especially considering the landlslides on the Konkan railway track every monsoon? If the iconic Dudhsagar gets affected owing to the damage caused by the project, it will also adversely affect state’s tourism industry,” he said. Considering the high rainfall Goa receives—an average of 2,500mm—D’Souza said: “Disaster is waiting in the wings to happen in the ghat section. There’s no doubt about it.” With four engines required to propel a single rake up across the steep gradient of the Braganza Ghat, and the pollution-causing cargo that will be transported through open wagons, forest officials have voiced concern over its imminent adverse effects over the pristine yet fragile forest environment. As regards the national highway expansion project, sources in the forest department disclosed how Parrikar vehemently told the highway authorities that the proposal won’t be passed until all necessary mitigation measures were incorporated in the project. “He categorically told them that the proposal will never see the light of the day if you don’t give mitigation measures, and that they need to be incorporated in the project proposal,” a senior forest official familiar with the developments told TOI. “When the project consultants put forth the argument that the cost of incorporating mitigation measures would be prohibitive, Parrikar shot back saying, ‘If you want your project to be executed in a timely manner, you should incorporate all the mitigation measures.’” And based on Parrikar’s persistence, all the mitigation measures suggested by the forest department—a number of animal underpasses and overbridges—were recommended in the proposal and all of them later incorporated in the project, the official said. Forest officials have insisted on strict restrictions on vehicle movement through the highway passing through Mollem forests to prevent wild animals coming under vehicles. “Entry of vehicles on the roads passing through the Gir National Park is banned during the night. The road passing through the Bhimgad wildlife sanctuary also gets closed during the night. Why not have the same measures for the Mollem forest?” a forest official said. As regards the Tamnar power transmission project, forest officials familiar with the developments told TOI that it was Parrikar again who had directed the power firm’s officials to look for an alternative alignment to ensure “minimum damage” to the forest. According to the initial alignment, the transmission lines would pass through 13km of the prime forest area entailing huge destruction. The route was realigned and the distance through the sanctuary reduced to just 2.5 km. “There can be no other alignment to reduce the distance further. This is the only area where the sanctuary area is the narrowest,” a forest official said. But what perplexes the forest officials is the haste in which the Goa State Board of Wildlife gave its approval to the projects. “When we had opposed it with all seriousness it deserved when the projects first came up, I fail to understand why senior wildlife officials worked so seriously to approve the projects now, despite the circumstances remaining unchanged,” a former senior forest official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/how-parrikar-put-his-foot-down-and-saved-mollem/articleshow/80522989.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 29, 2021||Pune||Domestic market to see better supply of roses ahead of Valentine’s Day||PUNE: The strict lockdown imposed across Europe, United Kingdom and Australia has resulted in little to no demand for roses ahead of Valentine’s Day. Present conditions are likely to result in a higher supply of roses in the domestic market. Representatives of flower growers’ associations said the roses would remain available for the domestic market despite a 40% reduction in production this year. However, reduced production also means that the roses would be dearer. Praveen Sharma, president of Indian Society of Floriculture Professionals, told TOI, “The year 2020 was the toughest year in the recent past for Indian flower growers due to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and Cyclone Nisarg. The impact of the above factors was disastrous for many flower growers. During the lockdown, there was zero revenue, while regular operational expenses remained. Cyclone Nisarg in Western India added to the agony of the flower growers. On one hand, they were still trying to survive the lockdown effects, but on the other the cyclone did further damage to greenhouse structures. Eventually, some big players closed down their operations.” He added, “Every year, the months of November till February bring the growers some reason to cheer, as the climate becomes favourable thus resulting in world-class flower quality. However, due to the prevailing situation there is nothing much to cheer. The export of fresh flowers till November 2020 has witnessed a decline of 38%. As against exports of Rs50 crore in 2019, we could only achieve the figure of Rs30 crore in 2020.” Sharma said there could be some solace from the Middle East markets, Malaysia, and Singapore. Nevertheless, they are hoping for a better response from the domestic market due to the opening of colleges and schools. He said that every year they export about 5 million rose stems only from Pune region, but this year reaching even half the number would be considered a great achievement. Ramesh Patil, chief executive officer of Shrivardhan Biotech in Kolhapur district said that they usually export over 10 lakh roses every year, but this year, the production has dropped to just around 5 lakh roses. With high freight rates for international market, roses will be largely sold in the domestic market only. Vinay Shinde, a flower grower based in Talegaon, said that the produce has been affected rise in temperature. The cloudy conditions for around two weeks earlier this month also played a key role in affecting the quality of the produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/domestic-market-to-see-better-supply-of-roses-ahead-of-valentines-day/articleshow/80521945.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Chingrighata FOB likely to be completed by April||KOLKATA: The Chingrighata foot overbridge (FOB) is headed towards an April commissioning. The FOB is aimed at bringing down the fatality rate at one of the city’s accident hotspots. A senior official of KMDA, the implementing agency of the Rs 7-crore project and custodian of EM Bypass where the FOB coming up, said The FOB, comprising stairs and escalator, will connect Chaulpatty Road and Jal Vayu Vihar over EM Bypass till the arterial road next to the eastern drainage canal at the Chingrighata crossing. The area is one of the most critical intersections on the 29km EM Bypass. Currently, the landings and steps leading to the FOB have sunk into the banks of the canals on Chaulpatty Road and in front of Jal Vayu Vihar. In the next two months, heavy-duty cranes will be used to manoeuvre prefabricated structures to create walkways. These structures are expected to last longer than brick-and-mortar bridges. The FOB project was conceived soon after the February 2018 incident, in which two students were killed by a speeding bus and the mob fury that followed left five buses torched and many cars damaged, for execution in seven months. But no bidders participated. Re-tendering was done twice and terms were amended. Eventually, three companies participated and Mukherjee and Associates emerged as lowest bidder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chingrighata-fob-likely-to-be-completed-by-april/articleshow/80517629.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||First indigenously-built Metro rake arrives in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The first indigenously built rake to be deployed for Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar-Andheri via Western Express Highway) arrived in Mumbai from the Bengaluru facility of Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML) on Thursday. The rake will be unveiled in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar at the Charkop depot on Friday. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) plans to commence services from May 2021. The indigenously designed “driverless” Metro cars will operate on 25 kV AC traction power and come equipped with CCTV surveillance cameras. They also have a provision for carrying passengers’ bicycles in the coaches. The cars are made of a stainless-steel body, with a capacity of carrying 2,280 passengers in a six-car Metro train-set. BEML bagged a total order of 576 cars for MMRDA’s Metro project, the largest order ever, amidst stiff competition in the presence of international players. Supply is scheduled to be progressively done up to January 2024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1st-indigenously-built-metro-rake-arrives/articleshow/80521887.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bareilly||Nutrition worker died hours after getting 1st shot of Covid vaccine in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 55-year-old Class IV nutrition worker posted at Amaria tehsil headquarters died hours after he was administered the first dose of Covishield — Indian name for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine developed in the UK — around 11.35 am at district women’s hospital here on Thursday. The victim, Pratap Ram, was a cardiac patient and had been undergoing treatment for the past three years, said his family members. Pratap was feeling normal until 5 pm, but later his condition suddenly started deteriorating, said family members who called a private doctor around 7 pm, but Pratap had died by the time the doctor visited him. The family rushed Pratap to Amaria community health centre, where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival. Confirming the development, Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare said, “We have informed the state administration about the incident.” Pilibhit chief medical officer Dr Seema Agarwal said the postmortem report would throw light on the cause of the death. She said the department had fixed a target to vaccinate as many as 2,625 healthcare workers at 21 vaccination booths functional at eight centres and, so far, as many as 2,011 workers — 1,393 women and 618 men — had been vaccinated. Earlier this month, a ward boy in UP’s Moradabad had died a day after taking the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. His autopsy report had confirmed that the 46-year-old had suffered“cardiogenic shock (when the heart can't pump enough blood for the body) with septicemic shock because of cardio-pulmonary disease”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nutrition-worker-55-died-hours-after-getting-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80515277.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 29, 2021||Bhopal||76 sessions conducted in city on Day 8 of vac drive, 49% turnout||Bhopal: Day 8 of the Covid-19 vaccination began on a high in the state capital with 76 sessions conducted here on Thursday. Hesitancy for the vaccine has turned into enthusiasm as 3,743 people got the jab to protect them from the COVID-19. About 49% of the targeted coverage was achieved in Bhopal on Thursday. After top two health officials, ACS-health, Mohammed Suleman, and health commissioner, Sanjay Goel, got vaccinated, other senior health department officials were not far behind. Senior health officials, Dr Veena Sinha, Dr Archana Pundir and other health workers also took the vaccine at JP hospital on Thursday. “We have planned to increase the number of vaccination sessions and sites on a continuing basis,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. The vaccination drive had begun with 12 session sites, which was increased to 34. On Wednesday, the sessions increased to 52. On Thursday, the numbers of session sites were 76 in Bhopal, second only to Indore which has the most — 89 — session sites in Madhya Pradesh. 25K frontline workers identified in Bhopal As many as 25,585 frontline workers have been identified and registered on the Co-Win application to get the coronavirus vaccine. It includes 3,133 central government employees. Besides, the combined strength of state home guard, state police and state prison is 13,561. Urban development has uploaded a list of 8,378 people. Revenue department has assessed 533 beneficiaries to get the vaccine. Session sites increased AIIMS Bhopal had eight session sites on Thursday. 370 vaccines were administered in the premier institute. The increase came after TOI reported that the institute had demanded more vaccination sessions. 413 people got the vaccine in seven sessions sites at LN medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/76-sessions-conducted-in-city-on-day-8-of-vac-drive-49-turnout/articleshow/80517738.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Pune||Hit by pandemic & rising fuel rates, transporters seek relief in Union budget||PUNE: Transporters are expecting a reduction in fuel prices in the February 1 Union budget as a measure to help them tide over the losses running into crores of rupees because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kultran Singh Atwal, president of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said, “Road transport is a key link of the supply chain and the pending demands related to the sector should be fulfilled in the Budget. Petrol and diesel should be brought under the ambit of the Goods and Service Tax (GST). This will ensure uniform pricing of fuel (see box) across the country. The government should also announce cuts in the excise duty to reduce the impact of the rising fuel prices.” He said, “The transport sector get the ‘specific segment’ status. Also, the GST on third party premium on commercial vehicles carrying goods and passengers should be zero.” In Pune, most transporters said relief from the rising fuel prices and tax exemption on their vehicles were xpected in the Budget. “Only 70% of the transport vehicles are operational across the country and business recovery is slow. The rising prices of fuel are adding to our problems. If fuel is brought under GST, it will be free from VAT or excise duty. This can ensure uniform pricing,” Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, told TOI. Kiran Desai, secretary of the Pune Bus Owners Association, said, “Be it the price of fuel or spares, our woes have not ended. There has to be a favourable atmosphere for us to do business and stay afloat.” Balasaheb Khedekar, president of the Pune district luxury bus association, said, “Of the registered 8,000 luxury buses, only 60 are operational. We cannot increase the fares to tide over the rising fuel prices. Besides, we are not getting a large number of passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hit-by-pandemic-rising-fuel-rates-transporters-seek-relief-in-budget/articleshow/80522026.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 29, 2021||Pune||26 accident deaths on Pune-Mumbai expressway last year, down by 30% from 2019||PUNE: Twenty-six people died in accidents on the Pune-Mumbai expressway in 2020. This was a 30% drop from the 37 fatalities recorded the previous year, as per data available with the Highway Safety Patrol (HSP), which is responsible for the stretch of the high-speed corridor between Kiwale and the erstwhile Amrutanjan bridge. “In 2019, we recorded 33 accidents in which 37 people died while in 2020, we recorded 24 accidents that killed 26 people,” Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, HSP, said Jadhav said the complete lockdown from the end of March to early June last year played a major role in the decline. He said a lower volume traffic once travel restrictions eased too influenced this. “We are also strictly implementing traffic rules on the expressway,” Jadhav said, adding “This too had reduced the number of accidents.” Jadhav said they had observed that most accidents had occurred on the Mumbai-bound lane of the expressway. “We are looking into this to ascertain why there were fewer accidents on the Pune-bound corridor,” Jadhav said. There was also a considerable decline in the number of serious accidents last year on the expressway. In 2019, the expressway witnessed as many as 27 serious accidents in which 58 people suffered severe injuries. Last year, the police recorded only 12 serious accidents, in which 16 people sustained serious injuries, Jadhav said. Jadhav said police were continuously taking action against drivers caught speeding on the expressway. “Our interceptor vehicles, which have speed guns, have been strategically placed at he different spots on the expressway. Once a speeding vehicle is noticed, the teams posted at the toll plazas or at the Kiwale exit are immediately alerted. These teams intercept such vehicles and fine the drivers or generate an online challan,” Jadhav explained. “We have also disallowed heavy vehicles from driving on the middle or first lanes of the expressway — they can only travel on the leftmost lane. This too proved effective in controlling the number of accidents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/26-eway-accident-deaths-last-year-down-by-30-from-2019/articleshow/80521981.cms||Gitesh Shelke
January 29, 2021||Pune||Pune region: Last FYJC admission round today, 37,000 seats still vacant||PUNE: The last round of admissions to first-year junior colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas will begin on Friday. The admissions which are online on a first-come first-served mode will be open to all students who have passed their standard X examination as well as those with ATKT (Allowed To Keep Term). Of the seats in 304 colleges available, 69234 admissions have been confirmed against an intake of 1,07,090 seats leaving 37,856 seats vacant in the junior colleges. The centralised admission process committee had conducted three regular rounds and two special rounds before throwing open the admission process on a first- come first-served basis. However, even in this process, admissions are done as per the merit of the students applying in each college, officials added. Meena Shendkar, assistant director of Pune division, said, “Students who have passed class X or have been allowed to keep term (failed in maximum two subjects in class X) can apply in this round. This is the last round and the admission process will stop with this round. Hence we appeal to students to take admissions to whichever college is allotted to them. They need to first check the updated vacancy list which will be available tomorrow and then check whether the college they are applying to has vacant seats or not before filling in the options form.” The students can apply for allotment on January 29 between 10am and 8pm. They would get allotment as per their merit and they need to proceed for admission and confirm it by January 30, the notification said.  All FYJC students from the state board, irrespective of their admission status, began online classes from November 2. The directorate of education had roped in 80 teachers from different colleges to roll out the classes online for three hours every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/last-fyjc-admission-round-today-37k-seats-still-vacant/articleshow/80522043.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 29, 2021||Pune||Pune: Man flouts externment order, lands in cop net||PUNE: Adarsh Magar (21), a criminal on the police records externed from the district a few days ago for two years, was found having entered the prohibited area and threatening people at Ota scheme in Nigdi with a sharp weapon on Tuesday night. Constable Vilas Kekan of the Nigdi police station nabbed Magar after getting a tip-off about the latter’s movement. Magar was among 24 criminals externed from Pune district for two years on December 31 2020. He has been named in cases of body offences. “We have arrested Magar on the charge of illegal possession of a weapon and under Section 142 of the Mumbai Police Act for violating the externment order,” Kekan said. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “We will soon launch a mobile app called ExTra to track externed criminals.” The Pune police started using the ExTra app (Externees Monitoring and Tracking System) to track externed criminals. The app, installed on the externed criminals’ phone, sends an alert if the criminal violates the externment order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-flouts-externment-order-lands-in-cop-net/articleshow/80522049.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 10 booked for Rs 189 crore GST fraud, one held with Rs 50 lakh||KOLKATA: The Maniktala police have registered a case against at least 10 individuals for allegedly being a part of a racket that created fake companies only to pass on input tax credit benefits to various firms without making any bonafide transaction. The FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint by the state tax department and the fraud is estimated to be around Rs 189 crore. Cops alleged that the accused entered into a criminal conspiracy “amongst themselves and others and in pursuant to that conspiracy created false, fake business establishments or firms in the name of poor, uneducated persons as proprietors, partners or directors”. “They issued and received forged documents and tax invoices, furnished false returns and incorrect information. They misappropriated tax amounting to Rs 1,89,36,15,134,” the FIR read. The accused, claimed sources, were booked under various sections of the West Bengal GST Act, 2017, and the IPC. The case was filed by a senior functionary of the department. In another case, the Posta police on Wednesday evening nabbed a youth from Bihar with Rs 50 lakh ‘unaccounted-for’ cash. The cash was seized and central agencies, like IT and ED, were notified, said cops. Cops mounted a watch in the Rabindra Sarani area based on a tip-off. “The cash was found on a 25-year-old resident of Banka in Bihar, Pawan Yadav, in front of Marwari Relief Society Hospital,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-booked-for-rs-189cr-gst-fraud-1-held-with-rs-50l/articleshow/80517685.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 29, 2021||Pune||12.4L students attend schools in 26 districts after Stds V to VIII reopen||Pune: The data of 26 districts compiled by the State Council of Education, Research and Training (SCERT) indicated that on Wednesday 85% schools had reopened for standards V to VIII for the first time this academic year. There was 32% of the total student strength in these schools with at least 12.4 lakh pupils turning up. These classes have a total student strength of 78 lakh in the state with over 7 lakh in Pune district. Villagers want kids to attend, says teacher Ajinkya Jaid, a Zilla Parishad school teacher from Khed taluka, said his school started from Thursday as the RT-PCR test results were awaited by the teachers on Wednesday. “All of us are negative and we started school today. Our village had no Covid-19 positive patients so there was very less fear of the virus here. We have classes from stds V to VIII. We had already taken the consent forms from parents, and today we followed all the norms laid down by the government before allowing students inside the class. Students were very happy to be back. In the rural areas, students love to come to school, and hence we had 100% attendance today,” Jaid added.With the reopening of classes from V to VIII, parents are enquiring about reopening of the lower classes too, teachers said.The state government is may reopen classes till Std IV depending on the response to reopening of schools for standards V to VIII , school education minister Varsha Gaikwad had said on Wednesday. “The government has decided to reopen schools in phases. Depending on the smooth running of standards V to VIII and assessing the ground situation, we will think about reopening classes till Std IV,” she had added. The attendance in classes IX to XII has reached about 76%. We are hoping for a good response from students of standards V to VIII too, the minister had said.Good for mutual interaction, says another educator Nandkumar Yewale, a ZP school teacher from Ambegaon said in the villages, most parents are farmers and it is difficult for them to take care of the academic life of their wards on their own. Then there are problems like network and lack of cellphones. Most importantly, both parents and students in rural areas love the idea of a school where a teacher is standing in front of a blackboard and teaching students, he added. “They understand better when taught in class as we repeat multiple times in different ways so that students understand better. As a teacher, our biggest job is to nurture the curiosity of the students and that happens best in physical classes. Many parents of students from standards I to IV are asking us to reopen the classes for their children. Rural areas have a positive outlook towards starting of schools,” Yewale added. Thegovernment may also look at starting school buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-4l-students-attend-schools-in-26-districts-after-stds-v-to-viii-reopen/articleshow/80522013.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, you can drive goods tempo with private car licence||MUMBAI: From Friday, private car owners can use their driving licence to operate a goods transport vehicle too. This new rule has come into effect across Maharashtra following a circular issued by state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne to the 50 regional transport offices on Thursday. Earlier, licences were issued for two separate categories—transport and non-transport. But now it will be perceived as licences for ‘class of vehicles’—which in this case is a light motor vehicle (LMV). “The implementation of this rule was long overdue,” said Dhakne. “In fact, a 2017 Supreme Court order allows use of the same licence for transport and non-transport vehicles. But citizens complained of harassment by enforcement agencies when they were caught driving transport vehicles using a regular licence. Now, they can safely use the same licence to drive two different categories of vehicles, but both LMVs.” And, if one wants to operate a taxi—kaali-peeli or AC cab —autorickshaw or minibus, then an additional public service vehicle authorisation badge will be required from the transport department, apart from a permit. There will be no need for a separate commercial driving licence. Also, in case of two-wheelers, if Mumbai starts bike-taxi services, no separate licences will be required, sources said. A two-wheeler licence with permission/badge to operate passenger transport vehicles will suffice, they added. “The new rule will put an end to driving schools enrolling citizens for commercial driving licences for tempos and school buses. This will, in a way, affect their business as there are many applicants for such licences every month,” said a senior RTO official. However, he added, the new system will be a ‘convenience’ to anyone who wants to switch from a non-transport to transport vehicle. In the Mukund Dewangan vs Oriental Insurance Company Ltd order in 2017, the SC had said: “The Motor Vehicle Act requires a driver to hold a licence with respect to the class of vehicles and not with respect to the type of vehicles. In one class of vehicles, there may be different kinds of vehicles. If they fall in the same class of vehicles, no separate endorsement is required to drive such vehicles. As light motor vehicles includes transport vehicles also, a holder of light motor vehicle licence can drive all the vehicles of the class including transport vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-you-can-drive-goods-tempo-with-pvt-car-licence/articleshow/80522195.cms||Somit Sen
January 29, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Now, you can drive goods tempo with private car licence||MUMBAI: From Friday, private car owners can use their driving licence to operate a goods transport vehicle too. This new rule has come into effect across Maharashtra following a circular issued by state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne to the 50 regional transport offices on Thursday. Earlier, licences were issued for two separate categories—transport and non-transport. But now it will be perceived as licences for ‘class of vehicles’—which in this case is a light motor vehicle (LMV). “The implementation of this rule was long overdue,” said Dhakne. “In fact, a 2017 Supreme Court order allows use of the same licence for transport and non-transport vehicles. But citizens complained of harassment by enforcement agencies when they were caught driving transport vehicles using a regular licence. Now, they can safely use the same licence to drive two different categories of vehicles, but both LMVs.” And, if one wants to operate a taxi—kaali-peeli or AC cab —autorickshaw or minibus, then an additional public service vehicle authorisation badge will be required from the transport department, apart from a permit. There will be no need for a separate commercial driving licence. Also, in case of two-wheelers, if Mumbai starts bike-taxi services, no separate licences will be required, sources said. A two-wheeler licence with permission/badge to operate passenger transport vehicles will suffice, they added. “The new rule will put an end to driving schools enrolling citizens for commercial driving licences for tempos and school buses. This will, in a way, affect their business as there are many applicants for such licences every month,” said a senior RTO official. However, he added, the new system will be a ‘convenience’ to anyone who wants to switch from a non-transport to transport vehicle. In the Mukund Dewangan vs Oriental Insurance Company Ltd order in 2017, the SC had said: “The Motor Vehicle Act requires a driver to hold a licence with respect to the class of vehicles and not with respect to the type of vehicles. In one class of vehicles, there may be different kinds of vehicles. If they fall in the same class of vehicles, no separate endorsement is required to drive such vehicles. As light motor vehicles includes transport vehicles also, a holder of light motor vehicle licence can drive all the vehicles of the class including transport vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/now-you-can-drive-goods-tempo-with-pvt-car-licence/articleshow/80547610.cms||Somit Sen
January 29, 2021||Pune||Pune varsity rolls out online lectures for PG courses, offline mode awaited||Pune: Savitribai Phule Pune University started its first term for postgraduate courses online on Thursday. The university had put out a circular on January 4 stating that it would reopen all the classes physically from January 11. However, the university had later retracted the circular after the state higher education directorate sent a show-cause notice about the reopening date when he state government was yet to declare it. Some affiliated colleges had already started their online classes earlier in the month but students and colleges, are hoping that the physical classes will start soon. P B Buchade, principal of Abasaheb Garware College, said, “Our admissions happened early in the month and hence for some of the courses, we had already started online classes while some started today. Since they are postgraduate students, they are all well-versed with online modes and all have smartphones. I would say that on day 1, we had at least 90% participation from students at least in the science faculty,” he added. N S Umarani, pro-vice-chancellor of the university, said all university departments for postgraduate departments as well as some graduate departments offered by the university started online for the first-year students on Thursday. “We also have a learning management system in which we have already trained teachers from about 150 affiliated colleges taking online classes efficiently and integrating various props seamlessly the classes so that the lectures are not monotonous and are actually interactive and interesting. In the future, we will also see if we can offer something to student who can log in to lectures by professors from other colleges too,” Umarani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-varsity-rolls-out-online-lectures-for-pg-courses-offline-mode-awaited/articleshow/80522083.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Crooks use email spoofing to cheat Pune firm of Rs 27.8 lakh||PUNE: Cyber fraudsters stole vital data by hacking into the email account of a steel block manufacturing company in Khadki and used the same for sending emails to a co-operative bank and effecting two RTGS money transfers worth Rs27.8 lakh on December 1 and 3, last year. The company used the now compromised email address for business purpose and maintained a cash-credit account with the co-operatiive bank in Khadki, police said. Police investigation revealed that the money was transferred to bank accounts in New Delhi and Jaipur, and was immediately withdrawn from there by the culprits. The company officials had reported the matter to the Pune cyber police on December 4, last year. The cyber police did the initial verification, including tracing the accounts where the money was transferred and asking the banks there to freeze these accounts for legal purposes, before referring the case to the Khadki police for a formal registration of FIR and investigation. Sadashiv Patil (52), the company’s chief accountant, stated in his FIR on Wednesday that the fraudsters hacked into the firm’s email account to steal vital data and got two money transfers worth over Rs12.29 lakh and Rs 15.50 lakh effected on December 1 and 3 respectively. Patil refused to comment on the matter when the TOI contacted him over phone. In his FIR, Patil stated that he checked the bank statements on a daily basis, but could not do so on December 1 and 2, last year, as the bank’s online system was down. He stated that the two fraudulent transactions came to his notice on December 4, following which he checked with the company’s owner-director and the latter’s partner-son. They told him that no such transactions were done. Patil then checked with the bank authorities and found out details of the two fraudulent emails that led to the money transfer. “The fraudsters hacked into the company’s email account and obtained details of its RTGS transactions. They made minor changes in these transcations and sent two emails to the bank and got transferred money to bank accounts in New Delhi and Jaipur,” inspector Shafil Pathan (crime) from the Khadki police said on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crooks-use-email-spoofing-to-cheat-firm-of-rs-27-8-lakh/articleshow/80522115.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Now, you can drive goods tempo with private car licence||MUMBAI: From Friday, private car owners can use their driving licence to operate a goods transport vehicle too. This new rule has come into effect across Maharashtra following a circular issued by state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne to the 50 regional transport offices on Thursday. Earlier, licences were issued for two separate categories—transport and non-transport. But now it will be perceived as licences for ‘class of vehicles’—which in this case is a light motor vehicle (LMV). “The implementation of this rule was long overdue,” said Dhakne. “In fact, a 2017 Supreme Court order allows use of the same licence for transport and non-transport vehicles. But citizens complained of harassment by enforcement agencies when they were caught driving transport vehicles using a regular licence. Now, they can safely use the same licence to drive two different categories of vehicles, but both LMVs.” And, if one wants to operate a taxi—kaali-peeli or AC cab —autorickshaw or minibus, then an additional public service vehicle authorisation badge will be required from the transport department, apart from a permit. There will be no need for a separate commercial driving licence. Also, in case of two-wheelers, if Mumbai starts bike-taxi services, no separate licences will be required, sources said. A two-wheeler licence with permission/badge to operate passenger transport vehicles will suffice, they added. “The new rule will put an end to driving schools enrolling citizens for commercial driving licences for tempos and school buses. This will, in a way, affect their business as there are many applicants for such licences every month,” said a senior RTO official. However, he added, the new system will be a ‘convenience’ to anyone who wants to switch from a non-transport to transport vehicle. In the Mukund Dewangan vs Oriental Insurance Company Ltd order in 2017, the SC had said: “The Motor Vehicle Act requires a driver to hold a licence with respect to the class of vehicles and not with respect to the type of vehicles. In one class of vehicles, there may be different kinds of vehicles. If they fall in the same class of vehicles, no separate endorsement is required to drive such vehicles. As light motor vehicles includes transport vehicles also, a holder of light motor vehicle licence can drive all the vehicles of the class including transport vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-you-can-drive-goods-tempo-with-pvt-car-licence/articleshow/80547612.cms||Somit Sen
January 29, 2021||Pune||Association of malls looks for simplified GST||Pune: The Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), one of the largest groups of shopping malls or their equivalent in India, have demanded simplified goods and services tax (GST) regulations from the upcoming budget, besides lower rates, moratoriums, and tax holidays for malls in India to recover.  “The overall recovery of the industry could have been much better; however, the current recovery rate is not helping the sector financially. We have been urging the government to extend support to the industry with a long-term beneficial plan,” Amitabh Gupta, the chairman of SCAI, said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/association-of-malls-looks-for-simplified-gst/articleshow/80522076.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: Now, you can drive goods tempo with private car licence||MUMBAI: From Friday, private car owners can use their driving licence to operate a goods transport vehicle too. This new rule has come into effect across Maharashtra following a circular issued by state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne to the 50 regional transport offices on Thursday. Earlier, licences were issued for two separate categories—transport and non-transport. But now it will be perceived as licences for ‘class of vehicles’—which in this case is a light motor vehicle (LMV). “The implementation of this rule was long overdue,” said Dhakne. “In fact, a 2017 Supreme Court order allows use of the same licence for transport and non-transport vehicles. But citizens complained of harassment by enforcement agencies when they were caught driving transport vehicles using a regular licence. Now, they can safely use the same licence to drive two different categories of vehicles, but both LMVs.” And, if one wants to operate a taxi—kaali-peeli or AC cab —autorickshaw or minibus, then an additional public service vehicle authorisation badge will be required from the transport department, apart from a permit. There will be no need for a separate commercial driving licence. Also, in case of two-wheelers, if Mumbai starts bike-taxi services, no separate licences will be required, sources said. A two-wheeler licence with permission/badge to operate passenger transport vehicles will suffice, they added. “The new rule will put an end to driving schools enrolling citizens for commercial driving licences for tempos and school buses. This will, in a way, affect their business as there are many applicants for such licences every month,” said a senior RTO official. However, he added, the new system will be a ‘convenience’ to anyone who wants to switch from a non-transport to transport vehicle. In the Mukund Dewangan vs Oriental Insurance Company Ltd order in 2017, the SC had said: “The Motor Vehicle Act requires a driver to hold a licence with respect to the class of vehicles and not with respect to the type of vehicles. In one class of vehicles, there may be different kinds of vehicles. If they fall in the same class of vehicles, no separate endorsement is required to drive such vehicles. As light motor vehicles includes transport vehicles also, a holder of light motor vehicle licence can drive all the vehicles of the class including transport vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/now-you-can-drive-goods-tempo-with-pvt-car-licence/articleshow/80547615.cms||Somit Sen
January 29, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Now, you can drive goods tempo with private car licence||MUMBAI: From Friday, private car owners can use their driving licence to operate a goods transport vehicle too. This new rule has come into effect across Maharashtra following a circular issued by state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne to the 50 regional transport offices on Thursday. Earlier, licences were issued for two separate categories—transport and non-transport. But now it will be perceived as licences for ‘class of vehicles’—which in this case is a light motor vehicle (LMV). “The implementation of this rule was long overdue,” said Dhakne. “In fact, a 2017 Supreme Court order allows use of the same licence for transport and non-transport vehicles. But citizens complained of harassment by enforcement agencies when they were caught driving transport vehicles using a regular licence. Now, they can safely use the same licence to drive two different categories of vehicles, but both LMVs.” And, if one wants to operate a taxi—kaali-peeli or AC cab —autorickshaw or minibus, then an additional public service vehicle authorisation badge will be required from the transport department, apart from a permit. There will be no need for a separate commercial driving licence. Also, in case of two-wheelers, if Mumbai starts bike-taxi services, no separate licences will be required, sources said. A two-wheeler licence with permission/badge to operate passenger transport vehicles will suffice, they added. “The new rule will put an end to driving schools enrolling citizens for commercial driving licences for tempos and school buses. This will, in a way, affect their business as there are many applicants for such licences every month,” said a senior RTO official. However, he added, the new system will be a ‘convenience’ to anyone who wants to switch from a non-transport to transport vehicle. In the Mukund Dewangan vs Oriental Insurance Company Ltd order in 2017, the SC had said: “The Motor Vehicle Act requires a driver to hold a licence with respect to the class of vehicles and not with respect to the type of vehicles. In one class of vehicles, there may be different kinds of vehicles. If they fall in the same class of vehicles, no separate endorsement is required to drive such vehicles. As light motor vehicles includes transport vehicles also, a holder of light motor vehicle licence can drive all the vehicles of the class including transport vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/now-you-can-drive-goods-tempo-with-pvt-car-licence/articleshow/80547607.cms||Somit Sen
January 29, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, you can drive goods tempo with private car licence||MUMBAI: From Friday, private car owners can use their driving licence to operate a goods transport vehicle too. This new rule has come into effect across Maharashtra following a circular issued by state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne to the 50 regional transport offices on Thursday. Earlier, licences were issued for two separate categories—transport and non-transport. But now it will be perceived as licences for ‘class of vehicles’—which in this case is a light motor vehicle (LMV). “The implementation of this rule was long overdue,” said Dhakne. “In fact, a 2017 Supreme Court order allows use of the same licence for transport and non-transport vehicles. But citizens complained of harassment by enforcement agencies when they were caught driving transport vehicles using a regular licence. Now, they can safely use the same licence to drive two different categories of vehicles, but both LMVs.” And, if one wants to operate a taxi—kaali-peeli or AC cab —autorickshaw or minibus, then an additional public service vehicle authorisation badge will be required from the transport department, apart from a permit. There will be no need for a separate commercial driving licence. Also, in case of two-wheelers, if Mumbai starts bike-taxi services, no separate licences will be required, sources said. A two-wheeler licence with permission/badge to operate passenger transport vehicles will suffice, they added. “The new rule will put an end to driving schools enrolling citizens for commercial driving licences for tempos and school buses. This will, in a way, affect their business as there are many applicants for such licences every month,” said a senior RTO official. However, he added, the new system will be a ‘convenience’ to anyone who wants to switch from a non-transport to transport vehicle. In the Mukund Dewangan vs Oriental Insurance Company Ltd order in 2017, the SC had said: “The Motor Vehicle Act requires a driver to hold a licence with respect to the class of vehicles and not with respect to the type of vehicles. In one class of vehicles, there may be different kinds of vehicles. If they fall in the same class of vehicles, no separate endorsement is required to drive such vehicles. As light motor vehicles includes transport vehicles also, a holder of light motor vehicle licence can drive all the vehicles of the class including transport vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/now-you-can-drive-goods-tempo-with-pvt-car-licence/articleshow/80547618.cms||Somit Sen
January 29, 2021||Pune||Techie falls for old scooter sale bait, loses Rs 2.38L to online fraudster||Pune: A 35-year-old software engineer from Vishrantwadi was duped of Rs2.38 lakh by a fraudster over a deal of purchase of an old scooter worth Rs30,000 between November and December, last year. The fraudster introduced himself as an Indian Air Force (IAF) officer to win the techie’s trust, an officer of the Vishrantwadi police said. “The techie approached us on Wednesday to lodge an FIR and submit the transaction details,” inspector Manisha Zende of the Vishrantwadi police told TOI. “The techie conducted a search on a website where old goods were being traded and found a scooter on sale. He contacted the owner of the scooter, who told the techie to transfer money on two different UPI applications. On multiple occasions, the man posing as an IAF officer convinced the techie that the online transactions the latter made had failed and told him to make fresh transactions. The techie transferred Rs2.38 lakh to the suspect through multiple transactions,” Zende said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-falls-for-old-scooter-sale-bait-loses-rs-2-38l-to-online-fraudster/articleshow/80522156.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Smooth start to LU 3-shift exams, but no distancing||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow University’s experiment to conduct UG exams in three shifts a day to pace up academic session which is delayed by around two months went off smoothly on Thursday. However, social distancing outside the examination halls could not be maintained. Undergraduate BA, BSc, and BCom odd semester exams were held at new law building, commerce block, and science departments. With no markings to maintain social distancing, Covid norms went for a toss at commerce block and new law building. Around 7,738 students of BA, BCom, and BSc appeared for the examination and only 73 were absent on the first day of the examination which began with the first shift of BA exam at the new law building from 9am to 10.30am. Despite lesser students in the first shift, social distancing could not be maintained as only few members of the proctorial board were present to check students. In the afternoon, exam was conducted between 12noon and 1.30pm. This time, the situation was worse as examinees stood close to each other at the commercial block gate, violating Covid-19 safety norms. However, things improved during BSc examination held from 3pm to 4.30pm. A BA student Anushree Singh said, “There was a lot of confusion in locating the examination room since no official was present in the early hours. Students moved in groups looking for their classroom and that too without masks.” “I had a tough time entering the exam hall as all boys had overcrowded the entrance gate,” said BCom III semester student Shalini Singh. BA (III semester) student Anushree said no official checked the students who were not wearing masks. LU spokesperson Prof Durgesh Srivastava said, “The varsity is maintaining Covid-19 norms. At the same time, examinees should also understand their responsibilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smooth-start-to-lu-3-shift-exams-but-no-distancing/articleshow/80524183.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University revives sexual harassment complaints cell for staff, students||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University has revived its internal complaint committee (ICC) set up under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention) Act. Now, girl students as well as female teaching and non-teaching staff can lodge the sexual harassment complaint with the ICC which would have its office at CPMT building on the campus. The identity of the complainant will be kept confidential. The university has spread awareness about the ICC through a series of webinars and social media platforms like Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, said ICC chairperson Sheela Mishra. She added that complainants would now have multiple platforms to lodge their complaints with the ICC which consisted of six members. They can lodge complaints directly with the ICC office or can use six ICC helpline numbers made available on social media platforms and LU website, she said, adding that they can also drop an email on office.icc.lu@gmail.com or chairperson.icc.lu@gmail.com. Besides, a complainant can lodge her complaint with ICC representatives: chairperson Sheela Mishra, Shradha Chandra of the faculty of the public administration, Kusum Yadav of biochemistry, Amar Kumar Tiwari of Institute of Tourism Studies, LU employee Manish Kumar Balmiki and Adity Kumari of statistics department. An advocate and social worker Prayagmati Gupta is external member of the committee. Details of all the members are available on the website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-revives-sexual-harassment-plaints-cell-for-staff-students/articleshow/80524300.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bhopal||BJP readies blueprint for upcoming civic election in MP||BHOPAL: BJP has begun the process of preparing a blueprint for the upcoming civic polls in Madhya Pradesh. A meeting of the civic poll management committee convened at the party’s state head office on Thursday decided to promote young leaders and fix the criterion of one-member one-post. “We have begun discussions on the blueprint for the upcoming civic poll in the state. Former minister Umashankar Gupta is the convener of the committee. I am confident that BJP will emerge victorious in the civic polls,” said party state president V D Sharma after the day-long meeting. Sources in BJP, however, disclosed that a consensus has been reached to stick to the guidelines for the selection of candidates prepared by BJP’s central unit. The poll management committee will also focus on local issues, collect feedback of block-level workers and public demands in municipalities. Names of probable candidates in the municipal areas will also be discussed and finalised ahead of March 3, as the civic elections are likely to be declared in the first week of March, sources said. Earlier in the day, BJP also conducted a meeting of district heads to plan a fundraising drive under ‘Aajeevan Sahyog Nidhi’. The meeting was attended by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state chief Sharma and organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-readies-blueprint-for-upcoming-civic-election/articleshow/80517873.cms||Rajendra Sharma
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||E-vehicles get UP CM’s push, road tax may go||LUCKNOW: In a major push to electric vehicles and e-rickshaws, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that this technology needs to be given precedence over conventional fuel like petrol and diesel. During a review of electric vehicles by the department of infrastructure and industrial development on Thursday, the CM proposed an exemption in road tax and registration fees in order to promote electric vehicles. Assessing the proposed amendments to the Uttar Pradesh Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Policy-2019, the CM said that since electric vehicle manufacturing was an emerging sector, it was necessary to liberalise the policy and encourage mega investments. He said: "I have directed officials to make policy efforts to encourage manufacturing of electric vehicles in the state for a better future. Proposals have been received from various international automobile companies for setting up electric vehicle manufacturing units in the state. We will be providing all possible help to the companies. This will promote industrial investment in the state.” The CM said that a centre of excellence will be established at the earliest for research and development, testing and certification in the electric vehicle industry. To encourage the industry, the CM said that private electric vehicle parks should be given benefits under the state's private industrial park scheme and other incentives which have been provided to the bulk drug parks. For charging e-vehicles, the CM said that a revenue sharing model should be used for setting up charging stations. He also said that there was a need for giving capital subsidy to industries in place of the current rules of SGST reimbursement. The CM said that e-rickshaws should be promoted over diesel tempos and autos to reduce pollution. For this, he added, drivers of diesel rickshaws should be provided loans under various schemes of the central or state government related to self-employment for purchase of e-rickshaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/e-vehicles-get-cms-push-road-tax-may-go/articleshow/80524494.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 29, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Depressed after Covid-19 recovery, garment trader ends life||RAJKOT: A 45-year-old garment merchant was found hanging from a tree near Speedwell party plot in Rajkot on Wednesday night. Police said that the deceased Jasmin Mehta had recovered from Covid-19 infection five months ago and since then was suffering from depression. Mehta’s body was found on the Speedwell party plot located near the 80-feet-road which is a newly developed area adjoining an agriculture land. The area is isolated during the evening. According to police, their patrolling team found an abandoned motorcycle during the night and got suspicious. On searching nearby areas, they found Mehta’s body hanging from a tree after midnight on Wednesday. On searching, the cops found an identity card on Mehta’s body with his address. When the cops inquired with Mehta’s family, they informed that Mehta had left home in the evening and not returned. Mehta’s family members informed that he had gone missing earlier too, but they were able to trace him. V N Morvadiya, sub-inspector with Rajkot Taluka police station said, “The family members told us that Mehta had recovered from Covid-19 five months ago and since then he had been depressed. He used to fee that he won’t live longer.” Mehta is survived by a wife and two daughters. He used to sell ready-made garments from his house. His business had been hit due to lockdown and his financial situation was not good, said police quoting his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/depressed-after-covid-19-recovery-garment-trader-ends-life/articleshow/80515315.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Covid infrastructure helped add 200 Truenat testing sites for TB in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In what may be seen as a silver lining to a dark cloud, the Covid-19 pandemic has helped create a robust infrastructure for TB testing. More than 200 sites for TB testing through Truenat method have been added to state’s kitty since March 2020. “UP will have the largest network of Truenat machines by the end of March 2021, with 458 machines in place. This is in addition to 145 CB NAAT labs and 2,061 designated microscopy centres across the state,” said state TB officer Dr Santosh Gupta, adding, “The infrastructure will give a big boost to the Stop TB Campaign after the pandemic.” Speaking on the sidelines of a programme on TB elimination organised by not for profit organisation Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) here on Thursday, Dr Gupta said: “Though the programme suffered a lot in the wake of the pandemic, the state has launched aggressive efforts to bring it back on track.” He said that three special drives have been launched by the state government in the past six weeks to detect hidden cases from the community. “Titled ‘TB Harega Desh Jeetega’, the campaign brought to the fore more than 13,800 cases through three separate exercises covering vulnerable population groups like prisons, protection homes, orphanages, slums, and persons living with HIV or diabetes and reaching out to private sector stakeholders to aid the screening,” he said. He also said that the state government would give another push to the private sector engagement for TB screening. “The state is going to saturate all districts with JEET or ‘joint effort for elimination of TB’-like service. As on date, JEET is present in 55 districts and over the next 4-6 weeks, all 75 districts will have the service,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-infra-helped-add-200-truenat-testing-sites-for-tb/articleshow/80524417.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 29, 2021||Allahabad||Covid infrastructure helped add 200 Truenat testing sites for TB in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In what may be seen as a silver lining to a dark cloud, the Covid-19 pandemic has helped create a robust infrastructure for TB testing. More than 200 sites for TB testing through Truenat method have been added to state’s kitty since March 2020. “UP will have the largest network of Truenat machines by the end of March 2021, with 458 machines in place. This is in addition to 145 CB NAAT labs and 2,061 designated microscopy centres across the state,” said state TB officer Dr Santosh Gupta, adding, “The infrastructure will give a big boost to the Stop TB Campaign after the pandemic.” Speaking on the sidelines of a programme on TB elimination organised by not for profit organisation Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) here on Thursday, Dr Gupta said: “Though the programme suffered a lot in the wake of the pandemic, the state has launched aggressive efforts to bring it back on track.” He said that three special drives have been launched by the state government in the past six weeks to detect hidden cases from the community. “Titled ‘TB Harega Desh Jeetega’, the campaign brought to the fore more than 13,800 cases through three separate exercises covering vulnerable population groups like prisons, protection homes, orphanages, slums, and persons living with HIV or diabetes and reaching out to private sector stakeholders to aid the screening,” he said. He also said that the state government would give another push to the private sector engagement for TB screening. “The state is going to saturate all districts with JEET or ‘joint effort for elimination of TB’-like service. As on date, JEET is present in 55 districts and over the next 4-6 weeks, all 75 districts will have the service,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-infra-helped-add-200-truenat-testing-sites-for-tb/articleshow/80553429.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 29, 2021||Varanasi||Covid infrastructure helped add 200 Truenat testing sites for TB in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In what may be seen as a silver lining to a dark cloud, the Covid-19 pandemic has helped create a robust infrastructure for TB testing. More than 200 sites for TB testing through Truenat method have been added to state’s kitty since March 2020. “UP will have the largest network of Truenat machines by the end of March 2021, with 458 machines in place. This is in addition to 145 CB NAAT labs and 2,061 designated microscopy centres across the state,” said state TB officer Dr Santosh Gupta, adding, “The infrastructure will give a big boost to the Stop TB Campaign after the pandemic.” Speaking on the sidelines of a programme on TB elimination organised by not for profit organisation Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) here on Thursday, Dr Gupta said: “Though the programme suffered a lot in the wake of the pandemic, the state has launched aggressive efforts to bring it back on track.” He said that three special drives have been launched by the state government in the past six weeks to detect hidden cases from the community. “Titled ‘TB Harega Desh Jeetega’, the campaign brought to the fore more than 13,800 cases through three separate exercises covering vulnerable population groups like prisons, protection homes, orphanages, slums, and persons living with HIV or diabetes and reaching out to private sector stakeholders to aid the screening,” he said. He also said that the state government would give another push to the private sector engagement for TB screening. “The state is going to saturate all districts with JEET or ‘joint effort for elimination of TB’-like service. As on date, JEET is present in 55 districts and over the next 4-6 weeks, all 75 districts will have the service,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-infra-helped-add-200-truenat-testing-sites-for-tb/articleshow/80553422.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 29, 2021||Rajkot||Jamnagar builder injured in firing||RAJKOT: A 40-year-old developer was injured when two unidentified assailants opened fire at him in Ivapark on Lalpur road in Jamnagar on Thursday morning. The assailants later escaped from the spot. According to police, Jaysukh Pethadiya was at the construction site of his house on Lalpur bypass road on Thursday morning, when two men on a bike reached the spot and fired at him before fleeing the spot. Pethadiya received bullet injuries on his mouth and was taken to the hospital. Sources say that Pethdiya's condition is stable. Later the victim told the police that he suspects Jayesh Patel, a wanted criminal involved in a dozen cases including Rs 100 crore land grabbing case as well as murder of advocate Kirit Joshi, to be behind the firing on him. After the murder of Kirit Joshi a few years ago, Patel had also threatened Pethadiya. Police has initiated a process to lodge a case against unidentified persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including attempted murder and Arms Act and launched a probe. A few days ago, Jamnagar court had declared Jayesh Patel, who is believed to be in hiding in Dubai or in the UK and operating his gang from offshore, as wanted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-builder-injured-in-firing/articleshow/80515287.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Meerut||Bijnor SP dist prez, workers take out tractor rally on Jan 26, booked||Bijnor: More than 250 Samajwadi Party workers and district party unit president Rashid Hussein were booked for taking out a tractor rally in Bijnor on January 26 without prior permission in violation of prohibitory orders and social distancing norms. In addition, three persons were arrested on Thursday for leading a procession at Jeetpura village in violation of orders. Earlier on Wednesday, Jeetpura village pradhan, Raes Ansari, was arrested for allegedly opening fire in the air to kick off the procession. He allegedly fired three rounds during the procession, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-sp-dist-prez-workers-take-out-tractor-rally-on-jan-26-booked/articleshow/80515304.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 29, 2021||Kanpur||Covid infrastructure helped add 200 Truenat testing sites for TB in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In what may be seen as a silver lining to a dark cloud, the Covid-19 pandemic has helped create a robust infrastructure for TB testing. More than 200 sites for TB testing through Truenat method have been added to state’s kitty since March 2020. “UP will have the largest network of Truenat machines by the end of March 2021, with 458 machines in place. This is in addition to 145 CB NAAT labs and 2,061 designated microscopy centres across the state,” said state TB officer Dr Santosh Gupta, adding, “The infrastructure will give a big boost to the Stop TB Campaign after the pandemic.” Speaking on the sidelines of a programme on TB elimination organised by not for profit organisation Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) here on Thursday, Dr Gupta said: “Though the programme suffered a lot in the wake of the pandemic, the state has launched aggressive efforts to bring it back on track.” He said that three special drives have been launched by the state government in the past six weeks to detect hidden cases from the community. “Titled ‘TB Harega Desh Jeetega’, the campaign brought to the fore more than 13,800 cases through three separate exercises covering vulnerable population groups like prisons, protection homes, orphanages, slums, and persons living with HIV or diabetes and reaching out to private sector stakeholders to aid the screening,” he said. He also said that the state government would give another push to the private sector engagement for TB screening. “The state is going to saturate all districts with JEET or ‘joint effort for elimination of TB’-like service. As on date, JEET is present in 55 districts and over the next 4-6 weeks, all 75 districts will have the service,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-infra-helped-add-200-truenat-testing-sites-for-tb/articleshow/80553426.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Spurned lover turns stalker, later stabs 22-year-old techie in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Puzhal police are searching for a man who stabbed a 22-year-old software engineer early on Thursday as she ended their relationship. An officer said Premalatha of Puthagaram was admitted to Government Stanley Hospital after she was stabbed in the stomach. She is said to be in stable condition, officers said, adding that they are searching for the suspect identified as Sudhakar. Police said Sudhakar and Premalatha had been in a relationship from their school days. Premalatha is employed at a software firm in Ambattur, while Sudhakar runs a mobile phone recharge outlet. Over the past month, however, Premalatha had been avoiding Sudhakar citing his bad behaviour and the bad company he mingled with. She began avoiding his calls and refused to meet him, an officer said. It was then that Sudhakar began stalking Premalatha. Last week, Premalatha took him to task over the stalking and harassment and even threatened to lodge a police complaint. Infuriated, Sudhakar went over to Premalatha’s house around 5am on Thursday and stabbed her, leaving her inside a bathroom before fleeing. The accused is believed to have called her outside threatening to create a scene if she refused to come out, an officer said. Premalatha’s mother, who rushed to the bathroom on hearing her daughter’s cries, found her lying in a pool of blood. She was taken to the hospital with the help of neighbours. On information, Puzhal police reached the spot and conducted inquiries. Police added that her mother was unaware of her relationship. The woman, however, told police that Premalatha seemed tense for more than a week, but refused to say why he was frustrated. A case has been registered and a hunt has been launched for Sudhakar, who escaped with the weapon with which she attacked the victim. Police said Premalatha and her mother alone stayed in the house after her father passed away a few years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spurned-lover-turns-stalker-later-stabs-22-yr-old-techie/articleshow/80517978.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Surat||Surat: Fourth gang booked under GCTOC||SURAT: City police nabbed two members of the Vipul Gajipara and Altaf Patel gang on Thursday and registered the fourth case under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act (GujCTOC) against the gang. While the kingpins of the gang, Gajipara and Patel are absconding, sleuths of the detection of crime branch (DCB) nabbed Ujjwaldeep alias UD Brijmohansingh Rajput, 28 and Arjunkumar alias Arvind Pande, 36 from different locations in the city. So far 30 offences have been registered against the 10-member gang in different police stations of the city against crimes including extortion, threatening, assault and rioting cases. The gang targets businessmen to extort money or encroach their land. While Pande has tested positive of Covid and is admitted in New Civil Hospital (NCH), cops have arrested Rajput. The investigation has been handed over to C K Patel, assistant commissioner of police, A division. Earlier police have booked three gangs Muzaffarali alias Asif Saiyed alias Asif Tameta, Amit Rajput alias Lalu Jalim and Ashraf Nagori gang. In past the gang members have been externed and arrested under PASA but their illegal activities continued. “City police aims to make the city crime-free we are identifying each gang and registering offences against them. No criminal activities will not be allowed to continue in the city,” said Ajay Tomar, Surat police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fourth-gang-booked-under-gctoc/articleshow/80515362.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Friend stages kidnapping of broker to extort Rs 2.5 lakh from him, three held||CHENNAI: A six-member gang posing as policemen abducted a share market broker and his friend from MKB Nagar on Wednesday night and robbed one victim of Rs 2.5 lakh, before abandoning both men hours later. On investigation, police found that the broker’s friend had masterminded the abduction and robbery. Officers nabbed three people, including the friend, so far. Mohammed Rafiq of Puzhal and the accused Vijayakumar of Vyasarpadi became friends and worked in multi-level marketing (MLM). Since Rafiq earned more as share market broker, Vijayakumar decided to extort money from him and came up with the kidnap plan for which he took help from his friend Mohammed Kasim. Vijayakumar invited Rafiq home on Wednesday night saying he was hosting a party for friends. As the party was underway, the gang interrupted them, flashing IDs at them saying they were police personnel and were probing complaints related to Rafiq and Vijayakumar’s MLM firm. The gang asked the two to come with them for an inquiry. After driving to nearly 2km, the gang robbed Rs 50,000 from Rafiq and then made him withdraw Rs 2 lakh at an ATM. After threatening the men not to approach the police, the gang abandoned them near Madhavaram rountana around 2am on Thursday. Based on Rafiq’s complaint, the MKB Nagar police registered a case. Police grew suspicious of Vijayakumar when he gave contradictory replies and grilled him further. “Vijayakumar was trying to hide the real details of the gang and the robbery when we questioned him, which led us to suspecting him,” said an investigating officer. Police checked his call details and found several calls between him and the accused. Based on his confession, police secured Kasim and driver Raja. The gang had decided to share the booty on Friday. A car and Rs 80,000 were seized and a search was launched for the other suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/friend-stages-kidnapping-of-broker-to-extort-rs-2-5-lakh-from-him-three-held/articleshow/80518036.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Make children party to plea for guardianship, Bombay HC tells ex-MP||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday directed a former MP to add her son and daughter as parties to her fresh petition to be appointed legal guardian of her ailing husband. The court said it would consider appointing them jointly with her as his guardians. A bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar heard a petition by Rajkumari Ratna Singh in respect of her husband Jai Singh Sisodia, who hails from a royal family in Rajasthan. Singh was thrice Congress MP from UP. She joined BJP in 2019. She had recently moved a petition to be appointed legal guardian of her husband and also caretaker of his properties under the Guardians and Wards Act. The state said it is applicable to minors. She withdrew the plea after the judges suggested she file it afresh under Article 226 which gives the high court wide powers to grant relief. Her advocate Ashok Saraogi argued that since her husband is undergoing rehabilitation “someone has to manage the properties.” The judges inquired about the children. Saraogi informed that she has a daughter and a son who is a sitting MLA in UP. The judges then said she must add both as party respondents to her petition. They posted the hearing on February 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/make-children-party-to-plea-for-guardianship-hc-tells-ex-mp/articleshow/80522382.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fearing Rythu sop cap, big land owners split holdings with kin||HYDERABAD: The number of small farmers getting the benefit of Rythu Bandhu scheme has gone up in the current cycle, with about 36,000 more farmers owning three acres or less having received the benefit when compared to the first half of 2020. Reason: Land is being divided within families following fears that government may introduce a cap on subsidy based on land ownership. Officials, however, have denied any such plan. “Small farmers who are getting the benefit are not new owners but belong to the same family having chunks of land,” an official explained. In the last cycle, there were 44.42 lakh farmers in the category owing land up to three acres. This has gone up to 44.78 lakh farmers now. Govind Reddy (name changed), a farmer from Turkayamjal, said: “We have about 11 acres in the name of my father. To be on the safe side, we have divided the land in my brother and my name. We are getting the same benefit though,” he said. The government introduced the scheme for all landowners without any cap on the number of acres, providing Rs 5,000 per acre per season, which is twice a year. Only in one particular season the state had stopped the scheme to some farmers on technical grounds. “This has led to fears in some families who owned more than 10 acres. We never intended to introduce any cap on the number of acres owned. All this talk of government planning a cap on those owning more than 10 acres and not extend Rythu Bandhu benefit are only rumours,” Telangana State Planning Board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said. He said though land mutations in recent times have gone up, the government is not harbouring any idea of rationalising the scheme. Officials said there were about 87,000 mutations of agricultural land properties in this financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fearing-rythu-sop-cap-big-land-owners-split-holdings-with-kin/articleshow/80526906.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 29, 2021||Kanpur||74.25% turn up for Covid vaccination in Jhansi||JHANSI: In the third round of Covid-19 vaccination drive on Thursday, Jhansi witnessed a good turnout of health workers achieving a turnout of 74.25% of the target. The vaccination was conducted in 25 sessions at 12 centres including Jhansi Medical College, Paramedical College, District Hospital, TB hospital and eight rural centres. Of 3,290 beneficiaries identified for the third round, 2,443 turned up for Covid-19 vaccination on Thursday. While the maximum number of turnout was of 88.5% at Bamore CHC, the minimum of 50% was recorded at the District Hospital. Earlier, on Wednesday a workshop on Covid-19 vaccination was conducted by the health department in collaboration with a NGO. During the workshop, district magistrate Jhansi, Andra Vamsi showed his concern over the previous low turn out 58% of health workers during the last two sessions of Covid-19 vaccination. Meanwhile, three new Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed after the arrival of 2,801 lab test reports in the district on Thursday. With the detection of new cases, the total number of the Covid-19 positive cases reached 10,398. With the recovery of 21 patients the number of recoveries reached 8,370 in the district. The recovery rate here was recorded at 97.73%. At present, there are 61 active cases in the district. The total number of Covid-19 related deaths in the district has reached 174 with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/74-25-turn-up-for-covid-vaccination-in-jhansi/articleshow/80516325.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Meerut||Doctors in UP’s Meerut remove 375gmof hair from stomach of 11-year-old boy||Meerut: City doctors removed a hair ball weighing 375 grams from the stomach of an 11-year-old boy in surgery at a private hospital here. Doctors said the child — who consumed hair because he is suffering from a rare disease called trichobezoar — was unable to eat anything for the past one month due to the hair ball inside his stomach. “After getting the boy’s relevant tests conducted, it came to fore that he had a rare disease called trichobezoar. Under this condition, a patient remains mentally disturbed and starts eating hair,” said Dr Piyush Gupta, a laparoscopic surgeon at Vimal Shree Hospital and Maternity Home situated at Railway Road.“The shape of his stomach had changed. A hair ball of 375 grams was taken out of his stomach after the surgery,” said Dr Gupta, who performed the surgery.Dr Gupta was assisted by a team of three doctors — Dr Navneet Garg, Dr Sandeep Jain and Dr Manish Jain. “The child is being observed and his parents have been asked to keep a check on his mental health and behavioural patterns,” said Dr Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/doctors-in-ups-meerut-remove-375gmof-hair-from-stomach-of-11-year-old-boy/articleshow/80515326.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination: Low turnout pulls Lucknow down to 70th rank in UP||LUCKNOW: Less than half of the target for vaccination of health workers was achieved in the third round of the Covid-19 inoculation drive in the city on Thursday, steep fall of nine percentage points in comparison to the last round on January 22, despite health department’s decision to relax rules and allowing out of turn inoculation. About 49% (6,790) health workers turned up for vaccination against the target of 14,311, putting Lucknow on the 70th spot out of total 75 districts in the state in terms of turnout percentage. However, not a single incident of any adverse reaction was reported from those who got the shot in the city. In order to meet the vaccination target, the health department had allowed centres to vaccinate health workers even if they were not in the schedule for Thursday’s drive, but discrepancies in lists affected numbers. District immunisation officer Dr M K Singh said, “It has come to our notice that there were some anomalies. We will probe. Those who did not turn up today will get a second chance on February 5.” The drive had been expanded on Thursday and vaccination was carried out at 114 booths across 43 centres. The inoculations per booth were also increased from 100 to 125 to cover more health workers since the turnout in the previous two rounds was low. In the first round, the turnout at 12 centres was 70%, and was 58% in the second one across 35 centres. In absolute numbers, the third round saw more people getting vaccinated, but in terms of percentage, the turnout was less than the previous two. Covaxin was administered at three centres where 189 health workers, about 50% of those enlisted, received the shots. Covidshield was used at the remaining 40 centres where the turnout was about 49%. Among super-specialty medical institutes, SGPGIMS recorded a high turnout of 87% this time, whereas KGMU recorded 48% and RMLIMS 49% vaccinations. The turnout was even less at private medical education institutes with Integral Institute of Medical Science recording 21%, TS Mishra Medical College 39% and Era’s Lucknow Medical College 50%. The target for the fourth round on Friday is to vaccinate about 13,000 health workers. The vaccination will be carried out at 104 booths across 43 centres. The following two rounds will be held on February 4 and 5. Overall, 51,000 health workers have to be vaccinated in the city. (With inputs from Vivek Singh Chauhan, Pranchal Srivastava, Yashita Arora, Pragati Shukla, Niharika Ranjan and Anahita Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/low-turnout-pulls-lucknowdown-to-70th-rank-in-state/articleshow/80524074.cms||Yusra Husain
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Eight lions captured near Gujarat's Jetpur||AHMEDABAD: The state forest department on Thursday captured eight Asiatic lions from Kharachiya village in Jetpur taluka of Rajkot district. These lions did not attack any humans nor are they suspected to have contracted any illness or disability, said a government official in the know of the matter. While the exact reason for their capture is not known, a senior forest official said they were caught as a precautionary measure in the wake of upcoming local body elections. What has however not gone down well with wildlife lovers is that the department, instead of rehabilitating them back in the wild, has put them in Sakkarbaug zoo for reasons that are not very clear so far. With this, the tally of lions has increased to more than 90 at Sakkarbaug, said sources. In November 2020, six lions that had ventured into Jetpur area, were ushered into Gir Sancturary after Jayesh Radadiya, food and civil supplies minister, Gujarat, urged the department to act. Some locals recently complained to the forest department after eight lions were again spotted in their area. The population of lions has risen to a robust 674 in Gujarat according to the latest 2020 census. More than 50% lions live outside the protected areas. These revenue areas include places like Jetpur, where the lion populations have increasingly moved from Gir Sanctuary in the last few years. Hundreds of lions are peacefully surviving with humans and it has been proven in various researches that lions and locals outside Gir co-exist with each other peacefully. Asiatic lions are part of the Schedule I species of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 that covers endangered species. These species need rigorous protection and therefore, the harshest penalties for violation of the law are under this Schedule. Considering the multiple lion deaths in recent past due to diseases like Canine Distemper Virus and Babesiosis, there has been a need to have satellite lion population distributed in large geographical areas. Restricting their population to narrow pockets of Gir Sanctuary puts a question mark on the future of Gir lions, said an expert. Promoting the human- lion coexistence around Gir protected area has remained a part of state’s wildlife management policy, said a senior forest official. Considering that the lion pride has not made a single human injury, their capture can be challenged going by the provisions of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, said a wildlife expert. “If a Schedule-1 animal like lion is captured, it should be rehabilitated into the wild which is not the case here,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-lions-captured-near-jetpur/articleshow/80518043.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Meerut||Bird flu detected in Bijnor, poultry farm sealed, over 1,000 chickens culled||Bijnor: Days after samples taken from crows found dead recently in Muzaffarnagar tested positive for bird flu, another sample, taken from chicken in a poultry of Bijnor, tested positive at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly. The local administration quickly sealed an area of radius 1 km around the poultry farm and had all the chickens culled as precaution. There is panic in several pockets of the district over the death of crows and other birds in the area.According to officials, five samples were found positive in the report that arrived late evening on Wednesday. The samples were sent to IVRI Bareilly after some hens died in the poultry farm in Amkhera Sanjaypur village on December 28. The farm owner, Madan Pal, had informed administration about the deaths of hens.Confirming the advent of bird flu in the district, Dhampur’s SDM Dr Virendra Singh said, “Some samples were collected and sent to IVRI on December 28. We have destroyed all chickens at the poultry farm and buried them. All other poultry farms within a kilometer radius were sealed. Besides, precautionary sampling and testing is being done over a radius of 10 km.”Already, a large number of carcasses of wild birds are being found across the district, including those of crows, owls, pigeons and kites. Over 300 such samples were sent to IVRI, of which, 200 tested negative. In fact, the first time when samples were found positive was in the poultry farm, causing panic.There have been 15 instances in the recent past when carcasses of crows were found here. A major part of Bijnor district falls within Hastinapur wildlife sanctuary, which hosts thousands of migratory birds in its wetlands. Bijnor also has over 20 poultry farms, with over five lakh hens that lay around 3 lakh eggs a day. Their turnover from eggs alone is worth Rs 4.5 crore per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bird-flu-detected-in-bijnor-poultry-farm-sealed-over-1000-chickens-culled/articleshow/80515318.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 29, 2021||Meerut||Body of missing bank staffer, 32, recoveredfrom sewer, family says he was 'murdered'||Meerut: Anuj Gupta, 32, a staffer at a private bank in UP's Meerut, went mysteriously missing on the night of January 21. A resident of the city's Brahmpuri area, Gupta was returning from an office party on Garh Road when he suddenly "disappeared". A missing report was subsequently filed by the family and Gupta's body was later recovered on January 25 from a sewer line near posh Abu lane area within limits of Sadar Bazar police station. His family has now accessed CCTV footage from the spot which purportedly shows an auto-rickshaw trying to mow down a man which the family is now claiming to be Gupta. Local police have begun investigation in the case after the purported CCTV footage surfaced. "We are trying to analyse the call detail record (CDR) of the victim. Based on the findings of CCTV footage, postmortem report and CDR, further action will be taken," Akhilesh Narayan Singh, Meerut SP (City) said. The family, based on the CCTV footage, claims an auto-rickshaw could be seen trying to run over a man multiple times before he was allegedly pushed in the sewer along the road. The family is convinced the victim in the footage is Gupta and what initially looked like an accident is actually a murder. The timing and the stretch on which the purported CCTV footage was captured make their case of murder much stronger. "An auto-rickshaw can be seen taking several turns to mow down my brother on a road along the sewer. His body was later thrown in the sewer," Umesh Gupta, brother of the deceased said. According to the family, he had last spoken to his mother at around 12 on the night of January 21. "He said he was on the way and would reach soon," Umesh said. Meanwhile, the postmortem report has cited "asphyxia as a result of ante-mortem drowning as the cause of death".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/body-of-missing-bank-staffer-32-recoveredfrom-sewer-family-says-he-was-murdered/articleshow/80515320.cms||Piyush Rai
January 29, 2021||Meerut||Man-animal conflict turns ugly, villagers lynch leopardess in Bijnor||BIJNOR: Over a week after a juvenile leopard was hacked to death by villagers in Saharanpur, a three-year-old leopardess was allegedly lynched in Bijnor after it attacked two children playing near an agricultural field. The incident took place at Mauzampur Sadat village of Nagina area late on Wednesday evening when some children were playing on the outskirts of the village. By the time forest department officials reached the spot, the big cat was dead. On a complaint by the forest department, an FIR was filed against one named and other unnamed under the Wildlife Protection Act. According to wildlife experts, incidents of man-leopard conflict increase during sugarcane harvesting season as the big cats living amid the cane fields adjacent to forests are exposed. Bereft of a cover, they tend to move towards villages, where they can find easy prey like dogs and calves. In this scenario, man-leopard conflict is inevitable. Since November 25, 2019, leopards have claimed eight lives in Bijnor district. Likewise, these shy felines too are victims of this growing conflict. On January 15, village youths hacked to death a leopard and displayed its carcass like trophy, the video of which went viral. Experts blame expansion of agriculture right up to the forests for this face-off as leopards live on the fringes of jungles and consider the cane or wheat fields and extension of their natural habitat. Mauzampur Sadat village is less than a kilometre from Nagina forest range of Bijnor forest division. According to villagers, the leopardess suddenly appeared on the spot where the children were playing and attacked two minors -- Sajan (14) and Kamal(13). On hearing their cries for help, villagers rushed to their rescue. The big cat had fled into a nearby cane field. The villagers surrounded the field and subsequently, bludgeoned the animal to death before throwing the carcass into a nearby pond. After getting wind of the incident, a forest team led by ranger AK Shrivastava and police officials rushed to the scene. The carcass was fished out from the pond. After a post-mortem, it was buried. Arvind Shrivastava, ranger, said, “We have a video of the villagers and are identifying the culprits. As of now, a case has been registered against one Bholu and others under the Wildlife Protection Act. A probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-animal-conflict-turns-ugly-villagers-lynch-leopardess-in-bijnor/articleshow/80515354.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 29, 2021||Meerut||Meerut: 'Lust' leads to brutal killing of woman, nephew arrested||MEERUT: Refusal to yield to sexual advances led to the alleged brutal killing of a woman whose body with several stab wounds and slit throat was found at her house in the Meerut area on Wednesday. Police claimed to have cracked the case and arrested the woman's nephew for the heinous crime. The 22-year-old youth is in his B.Com final year. According to police sources, the suspect entered home when the woman was alone and allegedly demanded sexual favours. The woman reacted by slapping the youth and threatened to expose him after which he used a kitchen knife to perpetrate the crime. Jani police station in-charge Rishipal Singh said, "The killer was identified from within the family. He was present during investigation and looked really nervous. He had fresh knife injury marks on his hands and chest which he could not explain properly." "When he was questioned firmly, he acknowledged his crime and the motive as well." "Later, his crime was confirmed when we visited his house where he had taken bath soon after the act and even recovered the blood stained clothes. We also found blood clots in the bathroom," Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lust-leads-to-brutal-killingof-woman-nephew-arrested/articleshow/80515353.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Auto, 2 bikes fall into cave-in near Shahpur Metro station||Ahmedabad: An autorickshaw and two bikes that were parked in the vicinity of the Shahpur Metro station fell into a cave-in near the metro construction and were severely damaged. AMC officials said that cave-in was caused by leakage in the 700mm diameter water line, and not due to metro station work, though such rumours had begun. However, the vehicles parked in the vicinity fell in the cave. The leakage caused the earth around the civic body waterline to collapse and an enormous pit of the size of 6 ft by 10-12ft appeared beside the box section of running metro tunnel work near Shahpur station. Civic body officials said the pipeline was very old and they didn’t have the layout. The connections to the pipeline were also not clear to AMC or Metro authorities. The cave-in also affected work for the Metro in the locality due to ingress of soil and water in the tunnel work. However, the leakage was repaired and work had resumed said Metro officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-2-bikes-fall-into-cave-in-near-shahpur-metro-station/articleshow/80518100.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Most who had Covid satisfied with treatment at public hospitals’||MUMBAI: Over a third of Mumbaikars faced difficulties in accessing medical attention for non-Covid ailments during the initial lockdown period, a survey has found. On the bright side, most affected by Covid among respondents were satisfied with treatment they got at public hospitals. About 60% admitted to feeling “nervous” and “stressed”. These are findings of a survey, ‘Impact of COVID-19 in Mumbai-Citizen Survey on Livelihood, Health, Education, Housing and Transport’, done by NGO Praja Foundation after interviewing 2,087 Mumbaikars. “Livelihood and employment across sectors have been the worst hit. Two of every three respondents said their livelihood was adversely impacted, of which 36% had leave-without-pay, 28% worked with reduced salary, 25% worked without salary and 13% had extra working hours or were otherwise overburdened,” said Praja Foundation director Milind Mhaske. For healthcare-related questions, the survey found that people couldn’t access healthcare because private services were closed during lockdown. “Non-availability of doctors/staff for non-Covid patients was also a reason,” said Praja founder Nitai Mehta. Mental health emerged as a big concern. While majority of respondents said they faced stress, 84% said they didn’t speak to anyone about their fears. About 10% of respondents felt “difficulties were piling up so high that they could not be overcome”. Regarding access to Covid treatment, respondents said they were satisfied with public hospital treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/most-who-had-covid-satisfied-with-treatment-at-public-hosps/articleshow/80522440.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bareilly||124 booked for taking out illegal flag rally in Moradabad||BAREILLY: A case has been registered against 24 named and around 100 unidentified people for taking out a flag rally on motorcycles without prior permission, playing loud music and creating a ruckus on the streets in Moradabad city on Republic Day. Moradabad police said on January 26, some 2,000 motorcyclists, including a few members of right-wing outfits, had participated in the illegal rally that fanned out across the city. Further investigations are underway. Amit Kumar Anand, superintendent of police, city, Moradabad, said, “People had taken out a bike rally in the city on Republic Day. The rally had moved through parts of Civil Lines despite restrictions imposed in the city. No prior permission was taken from the district administration to take out the rally on January 26. However, many people participated in it, raising slogans and playing loud music.” The SP said the illegal rally caused traffic jams at several places. Further probe is underway. Darvesh Kumar, SHO, Civil Lines police station, said, “As many as 24 identified and 100 unidentified people have been booked for violation of section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and other IPC sections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/124-booked-for-taking-out-illegal-flag-rally-in-moradabad/articleshow/80514365.cms||Maria Khan
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Over 5 lakh cases settled under Varasat drive||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday instructed revenue officials to carry out on-the-spot verification of claims being cleared under the ongoing Varasat campaign. The campaign aimed at settling land and property claims in rural areas of the state. The CM said that officers should carry out random investigation into records of undisputed succession under the campaign. On December 15 when the campaign was launched till now, about 5.24 lakh applications have been processed under the Varasat Abhiyan. Revenue secretary Sanjay Goyal said over 15,000 applications each have been processed in Prayagraj, Azamgarh, Hardoi, Jaunpur and Ghazipur districts.  Goyal said that the scheme was launched with the agenda of ‘Aapki zameen, aapka adhikar, sabko mile apna uttaradhikar’. Of 5,73,217 applications received from December 15 to January 28, 5,24,774 have been disposed of, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-5l-cases-settled-under-varasat-drive/articleshow/80524568.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Mau lad Colonel Dr Sanjay Mishra makes history with four presidential medals||LUCKNOW: Conferred with the fourth presidential medal this Republic Day, Colonel Dr Sanjay Kumar Mishra, 48, made history to become India’s youngest and highest decorated officer in armed forces medical services. But the road to glory straddles dirt tracks of a nondescript hamlet in eastern UP’s Mau district, where as a boy he would be carried on his mother’s arms to a village physician for medication. Weak, infirm and youngest among five siblings, Sanjay’s wobbly frame couldn’t bear the stress of 10km trek to a doctor in his native Vishwanathpur village. But the lean boy defiantly fought odds to join Army Medical Corps (AMC) and attributes his success to his mother Sampuranrani Mishra and grandmother Dipraj Mishra. After bagging an MBBS degree from Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, he was commissioned into AMC in 1995. After his post-graduation in 2002, where he was honoured with commendation by the Army chief, the retinal surgeon successfully performed over 10,000 surgeries in his 25-year career. The officer’s medal tally includes four Presidential medals, including two Sena medals (distinguished), two Vishisht Seva medals, four army chief commendations, four vice-chief and GOC-in-C commendation, a CISC commendation and DG Coast Guard medal. Currently posted in Military Hospital (Research & Referral), Delhi, Dr Mishra credits his mother and grandmother for his record-breaking feat. “In my childhood, these two women would walk miles carrying me in their arms from our remote village to the nearest doctor for a medical check-up. I was lean and prone to illness. It was then I decided to become a doctor and help others like my mother.” During his stint in Lucknow, Colonel Mishra established the state-of-art retinal centre in 2018, catering to patients from UP, Uttarakhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. “Earlier, only five eye surgeries were performed per day at Lucknow Command Central Hospital, but I pushed for 40-50 surgeries per operation theatre after establishing an advanced retinal centre. Taking cue from our success story, the current chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat asked me to help Shaurya Chakra para-commando Manchu, who lost vision in both eyes during a counter-insurgency operation in the Northeast. Today, the paratrooper has gained vision,” said Dr Mishra. In his Lucknow tenure, Dr Mishra also performed surgeries on former vice chief of army Lt Gen Devraj Anbu, who was serving in Udhampur in 2018. Four months back, he performed a retinal detachment surgery on a 45-day-old baby weighing 1.5 kg. In 2006, he served in a UN mission as eye surgeon in Democratic Republic of Congo and helped many civilians to regain vision. Inspired by Dr Mishra, his daughter Shreya Mishra, a student of Class 9, too wishes to become a doctor. His wife, Manorama Mishra, is an assistant professor at Noida-based government PG college. His father, Shriram Mishra, was a squadron leader in IAF and his elder brother Colonel Santosh Mishra is currently posted in Delhi as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maus-col-scripts-history-with-four-sena-medals/articleshow/80524700.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 29, 2021||Kanpur||Cops arrest 8 for Rs 30 lakh loot case in Jhansi||JHANSI: Police on Thursday cracked a loot case and arrested eight persons including two women in Jhansi district. Revealing the details in a press conference, SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P said some unidentified people had looted Rs 30 lakh from the driver of a grain merchant, Atit Rai after firing on his hand on January 16 at Laxmanpura under Baruasagar police station. The driver was coming back after taking a payment from a merchant in Mauranipur. After lodging a case against unidentified persons, police started investigating and found the statements of the driver Babulal Kushwaha alias Bunty contradicting. The suspicion further became strong during the reconstruction of the crime scene which did not match the details given earlier by the driver. Police kept a strong vigil on Kushwaha and started investigating about his contacts. On Wednesday, police got a tip that Kushwaha is meeting three of his gang members in the jungle near Anjani Mata temple near Baruasagar to distribute the booty and caught them red handed along with Rs 25 Lakh. Those arrested were identified as Pushpendra Rai, Jitendra Rai, Ashok Brar and Babulal. On interrogated, the master mind, Jitendra Rai who is also a close relative of the victim revealed that he wanted to fight the forth coming Panchayat oolls for which he wanted money. He knew that Atit used to transact huge sum of cash quite often through his driver and hatched a plan luring Kushwaha along with other associates. On 16th, when Atit asked Kushwaha to bring the cash, he alerted his gang members who intercepted on midway. They fled with the cash while Pushpendra shot him on the arm to show it a case of forced loot. Later on, four more associates Rakesh Rai, Rajkumar Rajpoot, Sadhna Rai and Sumitra Rai were also arrested on the basis of the revelation of the four accused for helping them in the loot. Police recovered Rs 2.5 lakh from them summing up the total recovery to Rs 27.5 lakh. Police have also recovered three country made 315 bore guns and 5 live cartages along with two motor bike and a SUV used during the crime. A case has been lodged against them under sections 394, 411, 408, 120B of IPC and sections 3/25/27 of Arms Act. As per SSP Jhansi, Jetendra and Ashok are proclaimed history sheeters having number of cases lodged against them previously. “They will be tried under gangster act,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-arrest-8-for-rs-30l-loot-case/articleshow/80516357.cms||---
January 29, 2021||India||Maharashtra best state in justice delivery again, Tamil Nadu a close second: Report||MUMBAI: Maharashtra ranks first in the second edition of the India Justice Report (IJR) 2020, that judges states on delivery of justice to people. Released on Thursday, the report said Maharashtra retained its number one position among 18 large and mid-sized states — each with a population of over one crore — followed by Tamil Nadu, which improved its ranking from its previously third position in 2019, and Telangana. The IJR tracked the rise and fall in each state’s structural and financial capacity to deliver justice, using the latest available government figures from budgets, human resources, infrastructure, workload, and diversity across police, judiciary, prisons and legal aid in 25 states. Times ViewThat 2/3rds of the prisoners are undertrials is a telling commentary on hiw slowly the wheels of justice grind in India. These detainees are trapped in a helpless limbo. This is a human rights issue. Such a high number of undertrials only highlights the crying need for speeding up the judicial process, which translates into more judges and more benches.Telangana showed the highest improvement in justice delivery and ranking as it rose to the third position from the 11th it held in 2019 while Kerala slipped from the second position in 2019 to fifth in 2020. The list of seven small states (population of less than one crore each) was topped by Tripura (2019: seventh), followed by Sikkim (2019: second) and Goa (2019: third). The report, an initiative of Tata Trusts in collaboration with Centre for Social Justice, Common Cause, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, DAKSH, Tiss-Prayas, Vidhi and How India Live 2020, highlights stark conclusions when aggregated for an all-India picture. The report said, “Two-thirds of the country’s prisoners are yet to be convicted” or acquitted. In the last 25 years, only 1.5 crore people have received legal aid, though 80% of the population is entitled to it, and women comprise only 29% of judges in India. Maharashtra saw a decline in women police officers — less than 10% are women — but a rise in women overall. Gujarat was the only state that saw a rise in women’s employment across departments of police, prisons and judiciary in 2020. “In 27 states, the share of women judges in subordinate courts has improved. However, in high courts, the increase is seen less, and the glass ceiling remains,” said the report. Andhra Pradesh has the highest percentage of women HC judges at 19%, followed by Haryana with 18.2%, and Tamil Nadu in the third place with 16.7%. Eleven out of the 18 large and mid-sized states have more than 33% women in the subordinate judiciary as judges; four states (Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Punjab) have more than 40%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-best-state-in-justice-delivery-again-tamil-nadu-a-close-second-report/articleshow/80534287.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Surat||Surat: Demolition of illegal shrimp farms bring AAI huge relief||SURAT: Authorities of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) are a mightily relieved lot after the district administration began demolishing the illegal shrimp farms in Olpad taluka. With Surat international airport surrounded with shrimp farms — both on government and private lands — the sky over the airport was fraught with danger from birds that hovered around these areas. It seriously threatened the smooth operations of aircraft and also pushed number of bird hit cases. Official sources said that every year about 15-20 cases of bird hit are reported. In 2019-20 about 14 bird hits were reported compared to seven in 2018-19. Surat airport is the lone airport in the country surrounded by the shrimp ponds. Airport director Aman Saini told TOI, “Time and again we have written to the district administration for removing or shifting the shrimp ponds around the airport which posed a serious challenge to aircraft movement. The cases of bird hits are increasing due to its presence.” Sources said that the villages such as Bhimpore, Magdalla, Dumas, Gavier, Abhva among others have more than 1,500 shrimp ponds. Official sources said that the Instrument Landing System (ILS) system was damaged in the torrential rains and flooding in the airport premises in 2018. The heavy water logging was due to the underground storm water line together with the presence of the shrimp ponds, hindered the smooth flow of water from the airport towards the sea. “The high bunds of the shrimp ponds hinder the smooth flow of rain water from the airports towards the Arabian sea and causes water logging outside the airport premises,” Saini said. A senior officer of District Inspector of Land Records (DILR) said, “Illegal shrimp ponds thrive on 1,000 hectare land in Khajod, Bhimpore, Abhava and Magdalla. All these will be demolished. We started razing farms from Olapad’s Mandroi village on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/demolition-of-illegal-shrimp-farms-bring-aai-huge-relief/articleshow/80515406.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Varanasi||Woman killed in accident; mob sets afire police outpost, three dumpers in Bidhnoo||KANPUR: An irate mob on Thursday evening set ablaze a police post and three dumpers in the district’s Bidhnoo area following the death of a woman in a road accident. Sensing trouble, a heavy deployment of police force was made to control and chase away the rampaging mob, said superintendent of police (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava. Srivastava further said a woman identified as Maya Devi (45), wife of Deshraj and a resident of Gurwa Kheda village in Bidhnoo was run over by a dumper near the Pipargawan village under the limits of Bidhnoo police station. “The woman was returning home from her relatives place in Koyla Nagar area, when a dumper involved in transporting material at the dedicated freight corridor site, hit her from rear and she died on the spot. As soon as the news of her death spread in the area, a group of angry mob set three dumpers afire, besides also vandalised Koria police out-post and later setting it afire too,” he said. They also tried to disrupt law and order, prompting the requisition of heavy police and PAC personnel at the site. Those involved in vandalism will be identified and brought to the book, he added. The woman’s body has been sent for the post-mortem, he said, adding law and order has been restored and the situation is now under control. As per the local sources, the situation went out of control following delay in the arrival of police force at the mishap site from nearby Koria police out-post. Police officials said some locals tried to seek help from the police staff on duty at the Koria police out-post. “However, before the police staff could react, some miscreants from the mob vandalised the police out-post and later set it on fire. Soon, several fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire. We are in the process of identifying the miscreants,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-killed-in-accident-mob-sets-afire-police-outpost-three-dumpers-in-bidhnoo/articleshow/80516276.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad gets feel of 5G as Airtel 1st of the blocks to test tech in city||HYDERABAD: IT capital Hyderabad got a 5G boost with telecom player Bharti Airtel successfully demonstrating live 5G service over a commercial network in the city. As part of the demonstration, conducted over Airtel’s existing 4G spectrum in the 1800 MHz band, a 5G handset was able to download a full-length movie (1GB file) in less than 30 seconds, something that would take around 8-10 minutes on an average 4G connection. Avneet Singh Puri, CEO, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Bharti Airtel, told TOI that Hyderabad was chosen as it is the IT capital of the country where a lot of work is happening around 5G use cases. In fact, the Hyderabad-based Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT) has set up the country’s first 5G use case lab to explore the application of 5G in banking and financial services sector and handset manufacturers like OPPO already have 5G labs in the city. Airtel said it was able to seamlessly operate 5G and 4G concurrently, within the same spectrum block, with the help of a spectrum sharing technology called NSA (Non Standalone Architecture) network technology. NSA is a 5G service which, as the name suggests, does not stand alone but is built over an existing 4G network, whereas SA (Standalone Architecture) enables independent 5G service operations without any interaction with an existing 4G core. With this, Airtel has shown that it has the capability to operate 5G over its existing spectrum in the mid-band (1800/2100/2300 MHz) and sub-GHz bands (800/900 MHz) and can operate 5G and 4G within the same spectrum block if it is permitted. While a low band (600-700 MHz) tower can cover a larger area of hundreds of square miles with 5G services at speeds in the range of 30-250 megabits per second (mbps), a mid-band (2.5/3.5 GHz) tower can cover a smaller radius of several miles with 5G service at speeds from 100-900 mbps. On the other hand, a high band (24-39GHz) tower can cover a radius of one-mile or lower while delivering roughly 1-3Gbps speeds. Pointing out that it is ready to deploy 5G in a matter of months, the company said that its existing technology capability along with future spectrum allocations (in 3.5 GHz) will enable it to deliver a full 5G experience. According to Gopal Vittal, MD & CEO, Bharti Airtel, the demonstration validates the 5G readiness of Airtel’s network across all domains – radio, core and transport. However, he pointed out that the commercial 5G rollout will be possible only after government approvals and when adequate spectrum is available. “Every one of our investments is future proofed as this game changing test in Hyderabad proves. With Airtel being the first operator to demonstrate this capability, we have shown again that we have always been the first in India to pioneer new technologies,” Vittal said. According to the telco, Airtel 5G would be capable of delivering 10x speeds, 10x latency and 100x concurrency as compared to existing technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-gets-feel-of-5g-as-airtel-1st-of-the-blocks-to-test-tech-in-city/articleshow/80527046.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Fresh CBI FIR in Rs 4.25 crore missing cash from Bank of India chest||LUCKNOW: Central Bureau of Investigation’s anti-corruption unit in Lucknow, which is probing into the Rs 4.25crore missing cash from Bank of India’s chest in Prayagraj branch, registered an FIR late Monday. Two bank employees and two others have been booked by CBI, which is investigating the money trail. The breach in bank chest was first reported by a senior banker of the branch on July 3, 2019, at Dhumanganj police station in Prayagraj. Now, CBI has registered an FIR against bank official, Bashishth Kumar Ram, and two others, Sanju Mishra and his father SK Mishra, and booked them for cheating by impersonation, criminal breach of trust, forgery and criminal conspiracy. CBI officials said, the fresh FIR followed the state government’s recommendation for a Central agency probe in August 14 last year. Sources privy to the probe said, a fraud of such a magnitude could not have been possible without involvement of multiple conduits, including bank insiders. The agency will also thoroughly probe into the purpose for moving out such a big amount from the bank chest. The complainant, senior bank manager Vivek Gupta, had told the Dhumanganj police that during an audit on July 3, 2019, Rs 4.25 crore was found missing from the bank chest. During interrogation, currency chest officer, Bashishth Kumar Ram, said, the transaction was done for refurbishing funds of a rural branch. After intense grilling, he squealed that he had given the cash to the son of a businessman, Sanju Mishra, who in turn gave him a hefty interest. In his complaint, bank manager Vivek Gupta had claimed that Ram had not only committed fraud, but also misused his position for personal profit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fresh-cbi-fir-in-rs-4-25cr-missing-cash-from-bank-of-india-chest/articleshow/80524626.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Bulls-eye: Archery club inaugurated at Colvin College in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: An Archery club was inaugurated at the archery ground of Colvin Taluqdars’ College on Thursday. The club was inaugurated by the chief guest and British Indian Association president Raja Anand Singh. The inauguration ceremony was attended by Manish Vardhan Singh, secretary-cum-manager of the college; Rai Swareshwar Bali; Raja Birendra Singh Parmar; Shailendra Nath Tandon; Dhyan Pal Singh, college Managing committee members, archery coach Vaibhav Shahu and teachers of the institution. Vote of thanks was delivered by college principal Anoop Raj. “We felt the need to establish an archery club in the college as it’s not only a sport but it also symbolizes the ways used to achieve a goal with focus on various aspects of life. This is the spirit which we want to inculcate in our students,” said a college official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bulls-eye-archery-club-inaugurated-at-colvin-college/articleshow/80524358.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||Kanya Sumangala Yojana has benefited 5.8 lakh girls in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The Kanya Sumangala Yojana launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in November 2019 has benefited 5.8 lakh girls in the state till now. The scheme envisages payment of Rs 15,000 to a girl over a period of about 15 years, starting from the time of her birth with the last instalment paid when she gets admission to a graduation or diploma course. A government spokesperson said that the scheme has benefited girls in primary, upper primary, secondary and higher education classes. The government has also reached out to schools and colleges in all 75 districts so that eligible girls can be linked with the scheme. Deputy director of the women welfare department Ashutosh Kumar Singh said that financial support is provided in a phased manner under this scheme. A sum of Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,000 is given on birth and first vaccination respectively. This is followed by Rs 2,000 each at the time of admission in classes 1 and 6. The fifth instalment of Rs 3,000 is given when a girl is enrolled in class 9 while the final instalment of Rs 5,000 is disbursed when a girl who has passed intermediate takes admission to a graduation or diploma course. Director for women’s welfare Manoj Kumar Rai said that the main objective of the government in starting this scheme was to ensure that the birth of daughters in the state was welcomed and that parents and guardians had sufficient financial assistance to ensure the welfare of the female child. “The scheme not just links daughters with education but also helps in curbing female feticide and child marriage,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanya-sumangala-yojana-has-benefited-5-8-lakh-girls-in-state/articleshow/80524534.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||UP to drop lockdown breach charges against migrants||LUCKNOW: The Yogi government has decided to withdraw criminal cases registered against traders and migrant labourers who violated the Epidemic Act during the lockdown period in the state in 2020. Giving this information to TOI on Thursday, law and justice minister Brajesh Pathak said that cases against people linked with Tablighi Jamaat would not be withdrawn and they would have to face legal action. The minister said that delegations of traders had been pressing for withdrawal of cases registered against them under the Epidemic Act. “After deliberations, the state government decided to withdraw their cases,” Pathak said. Terming it as a ‘historic’ decision, several organisations of traders have hailed the government for considering their demand sympathetically. Over 10,000 cases were registered against traders and migrant labourers, Pathak said. In the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the state government had imposed lockdowns in the state, while ensuring availability of essential commodities. During the lockdown the police had registered hundreds of cases against traders and migrant workers for violation of the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-drop-lockdown-breach-charges-against-migrants/articleshow/80524658.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Schools in Kolkata set to seek parents’ nod over bringing kids back to campus||KOLKATA: Hoping that the state government would grant them the permission to reopen their campuses from February, most schools in the city are ready to take consent from parents of board-year students with whom they plan to restart classes.  The format is ready and consent will be taken so that there’s no delay in re-opening the moment the government nod comes in. The first set of forms will be sent to parents of the board-year science students who will be called to the campuses first for their practical lab work. The next set of forms/letters will be sent to parents of other board-year students for their pen-and-paper exams and other writing sessions. Guardians are free not to give their consent if they feel campuses are not yet safe for their kids. Schools said they would not waste a single day in re-opening campuses. Verbal consent has come from most parents who were contacted by class/subject teachers informally. But schools felt they needed formally, signed consent from parents because “in a Covid turmoil like this, nothing should be left to chance”. Most institutes have been uploading consent forms on their school apps or websites for parents to sign them. Though parents can always say no to letting their children attend on-campus classes, schools have told them about the safety SOP and most guardians have verbally expressed satisfaction. Loreto Elliot Road and Loreto House, which had sent consent forms earlier, will re-send the same formats. Loreto House had taken parents’ permission and called Class-XII students to the campus for lab work before Christmas. “We will again take consent through Google forms, like earlier,” said principal Aruna Gomes. Loreto Convent Entally principal Jessica Gomes Surana said, “We had sent consent forms in October when there were talks of reopening of campuses. The form not only sought consent but also laid down the responsibility of the parent and child to adhere to the protocol. We will repeat it,” she said. Parents of Ram Mohan Mission students have told the school head, Sujoy Biswas, they were ready to send their children. “Every parent of Class X and XII has been spoken to. They seem eager. We are in the process of taking written consent,” Biswas said. Verbal consent has been taken from parents at La Martiniere for Girls before a formal procedure is launched. Apart from lab work, students are expecting viva lessons in mid-February on campus and written tests in March. “We are waiting for the state nod,” said principal Rupkatha Sarkar. Some schools, like St James’ and South Point, have readied consent/declaration forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-set-to-seek-parents-nod-over-bringing-kids-back-to-campus/articleshow/80518302.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Threat to guarantors after debtor flees||Ahmedabad: A 31-year-old man from Thaltej on Thursday filed a complaint at Sola police station alleging that a moneylender from Ghatlodia threatened to kill him and his brother-in-law if they did not pay him Rs 2.50 crore on behalf of a borrower who fled away borrowing Rs 20 lakh at 7% monthly interest. According to a complaint filed with Sola police, Palak Patel, a supervisor at a building construction site in Thaltej, said that Mukesh Desai, a resident of Ghatlodia, threatened to kill him and his brother-in-law Deepal Patel over the debt of Manthan Shah, who fled to an unknown place in October 2019. “Shah was a friend of Deepal’s and mine and when he borrowed Rs 20 lakh at 7% monthly interest, we became the guarantors. We gave four cheques, for Rs 17 lakh, to Desai six years ago when Shah took the money,” Palak Patel stated in the FIR. In October 2019, Shah suffered losses and as he was unable to pay the interest, fled the city. Desai then began recovering the money from Palak and Deepal and had taken Rs 17 lakh from them. Desai continued to demand more money and last week, began demanding Rs 2.50 crore from them. Desai on Tuesday barged into Palak’s house with other accomplices and his wife and mother, saying he would kill them if his money was not paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/threat-to-guarantors-after-debtor-flees/articleshow/80518283.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Teen survives 35-ft fall after feet plastic sheet gives way||Vasai’s Ajay Pawar (15) had a miraculous escape after a plastic sheet roof connecting terraces of two building wings, on which he was standing, gave way and he fell around 35 feet to the ground on Wednesday. Ajay was saved as he first fell on a bicycle parked in the compound of the three-storey Laxmi Tower in Anand Nagar, Vasai; he escaped with injuries to his chin and hands. Ajay, who is preparing for Class X exams, is recuperating in a private Mira Road hospital. The student of a Rajasthan school had returned home during the pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teen-survives-35-ft-fall-after-feet-plastic-sheet-gives-way/articleshow/80520081.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kanpur||UP to drop lockdown breach charges against migrants||LUCKNOW: The Yogi government has decided to withdraw criminal cases registered against traders and migrant labourers who violated the Epidemic Act during the lockdown period in the state in 2020. Giving this information to TOI on Thursday, law and justice minister Brajesh Pathak said that cases against people linked with Tablighi Jamaat would not be withdrawn and they would have to face legal action. The minister said that delegations of traders had been pressing for withdrawal of cases registered against them under the Epidemic Act. “After deliberations, the state government decided to withdraw their cases,” Pathak said. Terming it as a ‘historic’ decision, several organisations of traders have hailed the government for considering their demand sympathetically. Over 10,000 cases were registered against traders and migrant labourers, Pathak said. In the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the state government had imposed lockdowns in the state, while ensuring availability of essential commodities. During the lockdown the police had registered hundreds of cases against traders and migrant workers for violation of the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-to-drop-lockdown-breach-charges-against-migrants/articleshow/80553383.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man arrested for flashing law student||AHMEDABAD: Navrangpura police on Wednesday arrested a 24-year-old man from Usmanpura area for allegedly flashing in front of a 21-year-old law student in Navrangpura on January 22 on the pretext of asking for an address. According to a city police officer, the woman, who works at a private firm in Navrangpura, had gone to a commercial complex near Samved Hospital in Navrangpura when the accused Chirag Bhati, who was riding his scooter, approached her and asked about an address. She said she did not know the address but then tried to give the direction according to her knowledge. At that time, the man made indecent comments about her body and flashed in front of her while making indecent demands. She screamed for help, but by the time, he had fled from there. The woman later approached Women’s police station (west) and filed an application to probe into the incident. Meanwhile, Navrangpura police was roped in to look into the case as the incident took place in their jurisdiction. The cops then gathered CCTV footage of the incident and traced him as a resident of Usmanpura. Inspector R J Chudasama of Navrangpura police said that Bhati was caught from his home in Usmanpura on Wednesday, after which he was questioned about the incident. “Bhati told cops during primary questioning that he hadn’t had sex for past three months as his wife was pregnant, and that is why he had committed the offence,” said Chudasama. Police are probing if he was also involved in the past in any such offence, said Chudasama. Bhati has been booked under charges of sexual harassment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-arrested-for-flashing-law-student/articleshow/80518229.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Varanasi||UP to drop lockdown breach charges against migrants||LUCKNOW: The Yogi government has decided to withdraw criminal cases registered against traders and migrant labourers who violated the Epidemic Act during the lockdown period in the state in 2020. Giving this information to TOI on Thursday, law and justice minister Brajesh Pathak said that cases against people linked with Tablighi Jamaat would not be withdrawn and they would have to face legal action. The minister said that delegations of traders had been pressing for withdrawal of cases registered against them under the Epidemic Act. “After deliberations, the state government decided to withdraw their cases,” Pathak said. Terming it as a ‘historic’ decision, several organisations of traders have hailed the government for considering their demand sympathetically. Over 10,000 cases were registered against traders and migrant labourers, Pathak said. In the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the state government had imposed lockdowns in the state, while ensuring availability of essential commodities. During the lockdown the police had registered hundreds of cases against traders and migrant workers for violation of the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-to-drop-lockdown-breach-charges-against-migrants/articleshow/80553379.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 29, 2021||Allahabad||UP to drop lockdown breach charges against migrants||LUCKNOW: The Yogi government has decided to withdraw criminal cases registered against traders and migrant labourers who violated the Epidemic Act during the lockdown period in the state in 2020. Giving this information to TOI on Thursday, law and justice minister Brajesh Pathak said that cases against people linked with Tablighi Jamaat would not be withdrawn and they would have to face legal action. The minister said that delegations of traders had been pressing for withdrawal of cases registered against them under the Epidemic Act. “After deliberations, the state government decided to withdraw their cases,” Pathak said. Terming it as a ‘historic’ decision, several organisations of traders have hailed the government for considering their demand sympathetically. Over 10,000 cases were registered against traders and migrant labourers, Pathak said. In the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the state government had imposed lockdowns in the state, while ensuring availability of essential commodities. During the lockdown the police had registered hundreds of cases against traders and migrant workers for violation of the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-to-drop-lockdown-breach-charges-against-migrants/articleshow/80553385.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 29, 2021||Lucknow||UP’s Ram temple tableau at Republic Day parade bags first prize||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s tableau in the Republic Day parade, showcasing the Ram temple at Ayodhya, has won the first prize. The government will now bring the tableau from Delhi to Lucknow, driving it through various districts where it will be ceremoniously welcomed. Union state minister for youth affairs and sports Kiren Rijiju handed over the trophy to additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal and director information, Shishir, at a ceremony in Delhi on Thursday. This was the second consecutive year when UP won a prize, having come second in the 2020 parade. ‘CM has expressed the desire to bring R-Day tableau to Ayodhya’CM Yogi Adityanath said that this was a moment of great pride and ecstasy for the state. Praising the spiritual representation of the temple, he said: “The construction of the temple of Lord Rama at Ayodhya marks the victory of faith shown by struggle and sacrifice of many devotees over hundreds of years, as a result the replica of the Ram Temple at the parade was welcomed with chants of Jai Shri Ram.” The tableau shows the replica of the temple that will be constructed in Ayodhya and Sage Valmiki writing the Ramayana. It also showcases the Deepotsav celebrations with diyas displayed on both sides of the tableau. Sehgal said that there was also an attempt to convey a message of social harmony by showing Ram eating Shabri’s berries. “Other murals depicting Nishadraj embracing Ram, Ahalya’s salvation, Hanuman bringing Sanjeevani booti, Jatayu-Ram dialogue and the Ashoka Vatika were also brought alive in the tableau,” he said. The tableau was, however, damaged in the violence that took place during the farmers’ protests in Delhi on Republic Day. Shishir said that the tableau had reached the Red Fort and was parked there when violence broke out, in which a tomb and some diyas were damaged. “The damaged parts will be repaired and then the tableau may be brought to UP. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed the desire to bring the tableau to Ayodhya where it will be accorded a grand welcome,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-ram-temple-tableau-at-r-day-parade-bags-first-prize/articleshow/80524741.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||BJP legislator AH Vishwanath can’t be minister, SC concurs||BENGALURU: The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the high court verdict barring BJP legislator AH Vishwanath from becoming a minister or holding any other public office until he gets elected to the legislative assembly or council, or till the remaining term of the assembly. The verdict has dashed his hopes of becoming a minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet and possibly spelt an end to his four-decade-long political career. Vishwanath is a nominated MLC. “I have been politically shot down by BJP, Congress and JD(S) in a secret pact,” he said after the verdict. “I will continue to fight legally. When the state BJP sent the list of candidates to elect members for the council last year to the party high command for approval, my name was on the top of the list but only my name was not approved. It suggests there was some conspiracy by all three parties.” After long wait for berth, setback for VishwanathHearing a batch of petitions challenging the induction of disqualified MLAs Vishwanath, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj into the cabinet, the high court in November 2020 had ruled that Vishwanath’s disqualification under the antidefection law will continue till the expiry of the term of the current assembly (May 2023). Vishwanath had moved the apex court and the bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde dismissed his plea on Thursday. The SC bench said the disqualified MLAs cannot hold any public office till they get re-elected to either of the houses. “If you are elected as an MLA or MLC, you can become minister in the government but if you are nominated, you cannot become minister. The high court is right,” the bench said, dismissing his petition. Vishwanath, who was JD(S) president, was among 17 MLAs who resigned in 2019, leading to the fall of the JD(S)-Congress government led by HD Kumaraswamy. In 2019, then Speaker KR Ramesh Kumar held that his resignation amounted to defection under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The Speaker’s order was upheld by the Supreme Court in November 2019. However, the top court clarified that the disqualified members can contest bye-elections. Though Vishwanath contested the by-polls on BJP ticket, he lost. In July 2020, he was nominated by the governor to the legislative council, seemingly as a part of a plan to induct him as a minister. However, the state government’s move to make Vishwanath and two other similarly nominated members (Shankar and Nagaraj) ministers was challenged in the high court in a PIL filed by one Harisha AS. On November 30, 2020, a division bench headed by Chief Justice AS Oka ruled that the disqualification of Vishwanath subsisted even after his nomination. The bench observed that the Governor should take this aspect into account while acting on the recommendation to make him a minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vishwanath-cant-be-minister-sc-concurs/articleshow/80534818.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bengaluru||Classes 9 & 11 in Karnataka to reopen fully from February 1||BENGALURU: After grades 10 and 12, the Karnataka government has decided to resume regular, full-day classes for students of grades 9 and 11 from February 1. A decision to this effect was taken after a meeting of education department officers with the Technical Advisory Committee on Thursday afternoon. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said the decision on resuming the rest of the classes will be made after a meeting of the technical committee in the second week of February. Will go ahead with committee advice: MinFull-day classes will help teachers complete the syllabus. There have been requests to reopen all classes, including Vidyagama for classes 1-5. During our discussion with the technical committee, we sought reopening of class 8 too. But the committee said we should wait to see how this decision progresses,” said the minister. Attendance is not compulsory. Students are free to opt between online and offline classes.“We do not want any child not to get education. In Karnataka, Covid has come under control with only 400-500 cases being reported every day and it is in single digits in some districts. It’s with great effort we achieved it. We will go ahead with the advice of the technical committee,” he said. About the fee issue, the minister said: “We understand the situation of parents. At the same time, in various private schools, teachers have no salary or get a part of it. Many have lost jobs. While making sure that parents’ interest is protected and teachers do not lose their livelihood, we will take steps. Will hold a meeting with the CM for this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/classes-9-11-in-state-to-reopen-fully-from-feb-1/articleshow/80534826.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt to allot 13-acre plot to private sector for skill varsity||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government has decided to allot a 13-acre prime plot of land located in Shilaj area of Ahmedabad to the private sector for setting up a national university for development of the service sector. The state labour & employment department has got the necessary approval from the government and has initiated the process to invite private universities to come forward to take up the project. The government expects private players to invest between Rs 250 crore and Rs 300 crore for the project, which will train youth in newer and emerging trends in the service sector. “The proposed university will offer diploma and degree courses to around 5,000 students every year. About 60 types of modern courses like BPO and KPO handling, ITO technology, etc. will be taught and focus will be on training youth to suit needs of the emerging industries. The state government’s industrial training institutes (ITIs) will also be linked to the proposed university,” sources said. A new bill will be moved in the upcoming budget session of the state assembly to constitute the university to improve skill development in the state, sources said. The state government may give some support to the proposed private university. Government of India’s financial and technical support for the proposed university is also expected, sources said. The state government expects private universities of international repute to come forward to partner with the state government for the skill development university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-allot-13-acre-plot-to-private-sector-for-skill-varsity/articleshow/80518338.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Surat||Surat: Class X boy hangs self||SURAT: A 15-year-old Class X student committed suicide in Vesu area on Thursday allegedly after his father reprimanded him for not focussing on studies. The boy, Tanish Jhunjhunwala, was found hanging in the room at his house Florencce Apartment in the afternoon. He was taken to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead on admission. Sources said his father Vikas had scolded him for studying properly, but police are yet to ascertain the exact reason behind the extreme step. Vikas runs textile yarn business. Tanush was good in studies and had recently started going to school after the reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/class-x-boy-hangs-self/articleshow/80515461.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Drunk man argues with cops over bad roads, booked||Ahmedabad: A man, who went into arguments with cops over potholes and dysfunctional traffic signal near Prahladnagar garden on Wednesday, was booked after police found that he was drunk. According to a complaint with SG-2 division traffic police, when a traffic policeman was regulating traffic at Prahladnagar T-junction near Prahladnagar garden, the accused, a 34-year-old man from Satellite, stopped his car in between the road and obstructed others’ way. When a head constable Jaydeepsinh Dilipsinh told him to park his car on one side of the road, the accused began arguing with him. “He began asking me on why the traffic signal was not functional and why it was not repaired. As I told him that a road construction work was going on due to which the signal was not working, he began arguing aggressively about problems of bad roads,” said the traffic cop in his FIR. The FIR mentions that the accused had dialed police control room complaining that a cop was harassing him and a PCR van reached there in few minutes. “When the cops of PCR van told him to come out of his car for further legal procedure, he came out of the car but could not walk properly as he was heavily drunk,” mentions the FIR. Police booked him under the charges of drunk driving and seized his car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunk-man-argues-with-cops-over-bad-roads-booked/articleshow/80518296.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||7 traffic cops, including two SIs, suspended for dereliction of duty||Dehradun: Seven traffic police personnel in Dehradun, including two sub-inspectors, have been suspended by the Uttarakhand traffic police on charges of dereliction of duty. According to Kewal Khurana, DIG traffic, the cops against whom the action has been taken were found missing from their duty points during a sudden inspection done by him between 2:30 pm and 6 pm on January 27. The errant cops include sub-inspector Anup Singh, sub-inspector Dwarika Prasad, head constable Laxman Singh, constable Rajpal, constable Laxman, constable Bharat Singh, constable Randeep Singh and constable Trilok. Meanwhile, the traffic director has asked the Dehradun SP traffic to check the CCTV footage of the duty points to verify the presence of errant cops and submit a report within next five-days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-traffic-cops-including-two-sis-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/80515459.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||iHub to back Toy Design Challenge winners||Ahmedabad: In a major boost to aspiring toy designers, iHub – Gujarat Student Start-up and Innovation Council, has announced financial support to winners of the Toy Design Challenge which will be held as part of the second edition of Ahmedabad Design Week (ADW). The announcement was made during a media briefing held in Ahmedabad on Friday for the announcement of second edition of ADW, which will be held next week. Hiranmay Mahanta, CEO, iHub, said, “The challenge has been organised as part of ADW across some five categories. We will choose three from each, and financially support some 15 innovations. iHub will make way for turning these ideas and innovations into formal startups with financial and incubation support.” iHub has recently launched a similar programme – National Toy Innovation Challenge in December 2020 – as part of which ideas have been invited from across the country for toy design around various themes reflecting Indian culture and social values.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ihub-to-back-toy-design-challenge-winners/articleshow/80518316.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana rises 8 spots to be no. 3 in delivering justice to people||HYDERABAD: Surpassing many states, Telangana has risen to third place in the country in delivering justice. The second edition of India Justice Report (IJR), India’s only ranking of states on delivery of Justice to people, on Thursday stated that Telangana jumped eight spots to get into the top three club. More number of women as judges at district judiciary and better legal aid to the poor were two of the reasons for the rank, among others, that contributed to the growth of Telangana. The progress displayed in four key wings — police, prisons, judiciary and legal aid — was recorded by the researchers before giving the ranks to individual states. Maharashtra is at the top of the 18 large and mid-sized states (with a population of over one crore each) this year too, followed by Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Punjab and Kerala. The list of seven small states (population less than one crore each) was topped by Tripura, followed by Sikkim and Goa. The India Justice Report (IJR) is an initiative of Tata Trusts in collaboration with Centre for Social Justice, Common Cause, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, DAKSH, TISS–Prayas, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy and How India Lives. The maiden IJR was announced in 2019. Describing the data emanated from Tata Trusts and their research effort as most trustworthy, retired Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B Lokur, said: “The states and judiciary should use the data to prepare a roadmap for further strengthening their systems.” He was addressing the audience in a virtual conference after the unveiling of IJR 2020 report on Thursday. “We have resources like national police academy and national judicial academy. We have to pull them together and make justice accessible through police, legal aid, judiciary,” he said. The report brought together statistics from authoritative government sources on the four pillars of Justice delivery — police, judiciary, prisons and legal aid. The report highlighted stark conclusions when aggregated for an all-India picture. Women comprise only 29% of judges in India, two-thirds of the country’s inmates are undertrials. In the last 25 years, since 1995, only 1.5 crore people have received legal aid, though 80% of the country’s population is entitled to get this aid. Each pillar was analysed through the prism of budgets, human resources, personnel workload, diversity, infrastructure, and trends, against the state’s own declared standards and benchmarks. The report assessed how all the 29 states and seven UTs have built their capacities and, out of them, ranked the 18 large and mid-sized states and seven small-sized states introducing a spirit of competitiveness. Niti Aayog vice-chairman Dr Rajiv Kumar, who participated in the virtual conference, told the audience about a software developed by UP that digitally recorded the history of each contractor and thereby saved public money totalling about Rs 2,000 crore to government departments such as public works. “Enforcement of contracts is one area where India needs to send out a strong message that investors and their money is safe here,” said Dr Rajiv Kumar. “There is unpredictability in this area now and investments won't come if we leave it that way. We have to improve enforcement of contracts, the bedrock,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-rises-8-spots-to-be-no-3-in-delivering-justice-to-people/articleshow/80527196.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat second in PMAY-U funds availed||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat has emerged as a prominent beneficiary under the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) as the state has received the second-highest central assistance after Uttar Pradesh. Out of the total Rs 13,899 crore sanctioned, central assistance worth Rs 9,717 crore has been released to Gujarat under PAMY (U) as on January 25, 2021, shows data released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA).  Uttar Pradesh has seen the highest amount of central assistance (Rs 13,329 crore) being released to the state. Total assistance of Rs 27,342 crore has been sanctioned for Uttar Pradesh. The PMAY(U) launched in June 2015, is a flagship mission of the central government to ensure a pucca house to all eligible urban households by the year 2022. It is being implemented by MoHUA. Apart from interest subsidy on home loans, financial assistance is also provided to eligible households under different components of the scheme. Most of the central assistance has been disbursed in form of a subsidy under PMAY(U)’s credit-linked subsidy scheme (CLSS). According to the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), Gujarat, a subsidy of Rs 6,896 crore was disbursed to 2,89,684 crore beneficiaries across the state under the CLSS as on October 31, 2020.According to the ministry data, out of 7.5 lakh houses sanctioned to be built under the programme, construction of 5 lakh houses has been completed across the state since the launch of PMAY(U). The state also has the second highest number of completed houses after Uttar Pradesh. “Gujarat is one of the most urbanised and industrialised states in India. Hence, there is a good demand for urban housing in the state,” said Jaxay Shah, national chairman, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI). “Factors such as robust urban and social infrastructure, state’s affordable housing policy, smooth co-ordination between the state and central government have further contributed to the strong performance of PMAY(U) in Gujarat,” he added. According to industry players, enhancement in the carpet area for middle income group (MIG) categories of housing has further resulted in an increase in the number of beneficiaries. Within Gujarat, Ahmedabad has grabbed the largest of share — Rs 2,333 crore — of the released central assistance. The total assistance sanctioned for Ahmedabad is Rs 3,802 crore. Out of the total Rs 1.77 lakh crore sanctioned across the country, states and Union territories have been released an amount of Rs 84,387 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-second-in-pmay-u-funds-availed/articleshow/80518410.cms||Kalpesh Damor
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||At 15.2 degrees Celsius, Mumbai sees year’s lowest temperature once more||MUMBAI: Breaking Wednesday’s record, temperatures in the city dipped further on Thursday. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 15.2C, down from 15.3C on the previous day. IMD has forecast minimum temperatures to dip further on Friday. Thursday’s temperature is now the lowest recorded this year, and the second lowest this season. The lowest was 15C, recorded on December 29, 2020. The Santacruz minimum temperature, representative for Mumbai, was 2.3C below normal. Similarly, the minimum temperature at Colaba was 17.6C, 1.9C below normal. “Minimum temperatures in and around Mumbai were expected to drop owing to cold winds from the north. Similar conditions are likely to prevail for the next 48 hours. The minimum temperature may further see a dip on Friday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. The day temperatures were lower than normal, but marginally higher than Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in the city improved marginally to the ‘poor’ category on Thursday. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) Mumbai’s overall AQI was 293.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-15-2c-city-sees-years-lowest-temp-once-more/articleshow/80522566.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||4,827 people vaccinated, 83 +ve cases & three Covid deaths reported statewide||Dehradun: In the latest round of vaccinations, the Uttarakhand health department has successfully vaccinated 4,827 people against Covid-19 by Thursday, while ensuring strict compliance to pandemic guidelines, taking the overall count of people vaccinated in the state to 19,517. Three deaths were also recorded on the same day, alongside 82 positive cases, taking the overall death toll to 1,642 and the positive case count to 95,908. There are 1,338 active cases. On the same day, 178 people were reported to have recovered from the infection, taking the overall number of recoveries in the state to 91,597 (95.51%). All three dead are males aged 84, 81 and 68, and had multiple other ailments. They breathed their last at Doon Medical College, Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital and Kailash Hospital in Dehradun, respectively. Till date, Dehradun has recorded the highest number of deaths (931) and positive cases (29,193), followed by Nainital with 230 deaths and 12,497 positive cases, Haridwar with 152 deaths and 13,951 positive cases, and US Nagar with 117 deaths and 11,434 positive cases. Meanwhile, to ensure that the Kumbh Mela doesn’t turn into a health emergency, experts from AIIMS Delhi are expected to be roped in to keep a check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4827-people-vaccinated-83-ve-cases-three-covid-deaths-reported-statewide/articleshow/80515463.cms||Shivani Azad
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC asks edu dept to halt appointment of assistant teachers||Dehradun: In what is being seen as a massive setback for aspirants, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) has asked the education department to put on hold the appointment process of assistant teachers in various government schools.The single bench of the HC has asked the education department as well as the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) to come up with a reply within three weeks. The court took its decision after a petition was filed in this matter soon after the education department released an order dated January 15, for the commencement of the appointment process.As many as 2,600 vacant posts of assistant teachers have been put on hold following the order.The matter came to the fore after protest from the gradautes of DEl . Ed (Diploma in Elementary Education) against the decision of including to the appointment for those candidates who have done their D. El. Ed course from NIOS (National Institute for Open Learning).The protesting graduates claimed that it’s unfair to include the graduates from open schooling in the appointment process as they had a 1-year course while the ones who did the regular course have spent 2 years to become graduates.Meanwhile, state education minister Arvind Pandey said, “We have given instructions to the officials to act as per the orders of the HC regarding this matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-asks-edu-dept-to-halt-appointment-of-assistant-teachers/articleshow/80515467.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 29, 2021||Surat||Surat: Businessman kidnapped for ransom, released in 10 hours||SURAT: A 36-year-old businessman living in posh Ghod Dod Road area was kidnapped early on Thursday morning, but mysteriously released after nearly 10 hours.The kidnappers had even demanded Rs 3 crore ransom from his family and threatened to kill him if they alerted the police. Businessman Komil Dudhwala was going on his bike to the gym at around 7am when a white car first knocked him down in the narrow lane. After he fell on the road, four kidnappers forced him to their car which had no number plate and sped away. Police recovered CCTV footage of the kidnapping from a nearby shop. They later made calls for Rs 3 crore to his father Anwar. After the family alerted the cops, police tried to track the location of Dudhwala but the kidnappers were continuously moving in the car and changing their locations. They kept moving for around 60 km and went to Kim, Mandvi and then returned to Kamrej where they dropped Dudhwala. He took a rickshaw to reach home but police tracked him in Varachha. It is suspected that the kidnappers carried out a recce of his movements as they knew about the time and targeted him in a narrow lane where not many people are present in the morning. All four had their faces and heads covered. The family members had left home with the ransom and attempts were made to constantly engage the kidnappers into conversation to ensure that Dudhwala was safe, sources in police informed. It is not clear if the money was paid. The Dudhwala family is into the business of luggage and school bags. The brothers live in the neighbouring house in Karimabad Society. Watch On cam: Businessman kidnapped for ransom in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-kidnapped-for-ransom-released-in-10-hrs/articleshow/80515503.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Urdu Academy in Maharashtra soon: Nawab Malik||MUMBAI: Minority development minister Nawab Malik said the Maharashtra State Urdu Sahitya Academy would be formed soon. The last academy formed by the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government was dissolved after the BJP lost power in November 2019. The academy is the state’s nodal agency to promote the Urdu language. The delay in selection of new members for the academy, which usually has 15 members from across the state, and the academy’s secretary and chairman, has disappointed Urdu writers and Urdu-speaking masses. “The formation of the Urdu Academy has been delayed as we have a three-party government. I hope it will be formed soon, as we are in the process of deciding names for the members, secretary and vice-chairman,” said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/urdu-academy-in-state-soon-nawab-malik/articleshow/80522785.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Masks must for TET this Sunday||KOLKATA: The primary TET examination, which is scheduled to be conducted on January 31, will be one of the first public examinations in the state to be held physically. As the number of candidates is likely to be around a few lakhs, the West Bengal Board of Primary Education has made it mandatory for the examinees to wear mask at the exam centres. “There will be sanitizers and social distancing will be maintained while seating arrangements are made,” said an official. Also, candidates have been asked not to carry bags inside the examination centres. They will have to enter the halls on or before noon, an hour before the beginning of the tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/masks-must-for-tet-this-sunday/articleshow/80518450.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC notice to IIM-Ahmedabad over doctor’s plea for full-time job||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday issued notice to the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) over a petition filed by its resident medical officer (RMO) seeking full-time appointment and pay parity after serving for 41 years in the institute. The RMO, Dr Kiran Desai (67) has been serving as a medical officer with the premier institute since 1979, but he is not permanent and full-time employee of the institute. His contract is nearing an end shortly and he has moved the HC through advocate Deepak Shukla. Dr Desai has sought directions to IIM-A to treat him as permanent and full-time RMO since he joined the services. He has demanded the benefits of Pay Commission Pay-scales and other monetary benefits extended to the other officers, staff members and employees with the institute and the arrears since his joining. He has also urged the HC to direct the institute to grant terminal benefits like gratuity, leave encashment, pensionary benefits etc. on par with other officers on his superannuation. The petitioner wants his services to continue till December 2023 and the institute not fill the post of the medical officer in his place till the final disposal of the petition in the interest of justice. His lawyer contended that the junior pharmacist working under him is getting higher pay package than him because of regular employment. After hearing the case, Justice A G Uraizee sought a reply from the institute and posted further hearing in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-to-iim-a-over-doctors-plea-for-full-time-job/articleshow/80518455.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Thane||Kalyan: Retired railway staffer pushed off cliff lands on tree, two held for bid to steal Rs 40 lakh||KALYAN: A caretaker and his accomplice were arrested after a retired railway employee who they had assaulted and flung into a 300-feet deep valley in Malshej Ghat had a fortuitous escape. The duo kidnapped the 61-year-old with the intention of killing him so that they could lay their hands on his bank balance of Rs40 lakh and valuables. Mahatma Phule police in Kalyan said the victim, Prakash Bhoir, had lost consciousness after landing on some bushes. On reviving, he took the help of locals and got himself admitted to the railway hospital. After recording the statement of Bhoir, police immediately formed separate teams under assistant police inspector Deepak Sarode. While caretaker Shailesh Gaikwad (35) and his accomplice Bharat Gaikwad (34) were arrested within hours, a hunt is on for Pradeep Jadhav (34), the driver of the auto that was used to take the victim to Malshej Ghat. Police said Bhoir, who retired as a deputy accountant from the Central Railway, lived alone, while his wife and two daughters stayed separately. Bhoir had hired Shailesh, who was his friend’s son, to take care of the house and run errands. The accused was aware Bhoir had a bank balance of Rs40 lakh as the senior citizen had shared his ATM PIN and would often ask him to withdraw money. Vivek Pansare, DCP, Thane police, said primary probe has revealed on January 26, Shailesh told Bhoir he needed his help to recover some dues from a relative. “He was taken to Malshej Ghat where the accused struck him on the head with a stone and threw him into the valley,” said Pansare. Police said after Bhoir landed on a tree, the accused extricated him and threw him further down. However, except for minor scratches, Bhoir escaped unscathed. After believing Bhoir to be dead, the accused went to his house and stole jewellery and cash and also withdrew Rs 40,000 from his bank account. “After the incident came to light, we formed separate teams and managed to nab the two accused within 12 hours. We have recovered cash and jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh,” said senior inspector Narayan Bankar. ACP Anil Powar advised senior citizens and those living alone not to share their ATM PIN with anyone. Watch Two held after retired railway staffer pushed off cliff lands on tree and survives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/retd-rly-staffer-pushed-off-cliff-lands-on-tree-2-held-for-bid-to-steal-rs-40l/articleshow/80522691.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Horses in Uttarakhand with glanders put down||Dehradun: Just as Uttarakhand resumed trade in poultry items with neighbouring states on Wednesday, another deadly zoonotic disease – Glanders — has been traced in horses in the state. The state animal husbandry department suspected that four of its own horses — two 3-year-old males and one 3-year-old female in Bhagwanpur of Haridwar, and one 3-year-old male in Charba village of Sahaspur block in Dehradun— were infected with the deadly bacterial Glanders disease. Their samples were sent to the National Research Centre on Equines at Hisar in Haryana a couple of days ago. All four horses were euthanised on Thursday in the presence of veterinarians from the animal husbandry department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/horses-in-uttarakhand-with-glanders-put-down/articleshow/80515518.cms||Shivani Azad
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami launches smart, next gen bikes||CHENNAI: A total of 1,000 smart bikes and next generation bikes were launched by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at the Marina beach on Thursday as part of a Greater Chennai Corporation initiative. These are upgraded versions of the 500 cycles presently placed at 76 locations.  Dharmin Dontamsetti, managing director of SmartBike Mobility, said the bikes were ready before Covid-19 struck, but couldn’t be launched due to the lockdown restrictions. “We were waiting to launch them here first, but launched them in Chandigarh last December,” he said. The battery-powered bikes, which can also be pedaled, can run for 45km once fully charged. “Our studies in countries such as the US have found that a commuter can reach a destination faster on these bikes than on a two-wheeler or car during peak traffic hours. Besides, the tyres won’t get punctured and the chain won’t break,” he said. People can use the smart bike mobile app to use the bike that can travel at 25km per hour. One would need to register using a proof that will be verified before a payment wallet is activated and the bike can be unlocked using QR codes. The app will also display the ride details, distance travelled and calories burned to help riders keep track of their fitness goals.  The civic body had earlier launched 500 cycles in 76 locations as part of the Smart City mission. Before Covid-19, about 450 people used these cycles every day, mainly for exercise or leisure, at the Marina, Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza, OMR, and Anna Nagar east near Thirumangalam metro station. With the new bikes, officials plan to improve patronage for the cycle sharing system. While a smart bike can be rented out at Rs 1 per minute, a next generation bike comes at Rs 5.50 for half an hour and Rs 9.90 for every extra hour.  Ranjith Srivastava, vice-president for marketing, said that post Covid only 50-100 cycles were being rented every day. “But in the last week after we launched the trial for smart bike in 10 locations, the number has slowly increased. We hope in the coming months, more people will use them,” he said, Dharmin hoped that people in Chennai would find their rides more enjoyable especially around the beach. “Not only can people avoid traffic but they can also relieve themselves of the struggles of finding a parking spot, securing a taxi, a safe mode of travel and unnecessary expenses on petrol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cm-launches-smart-next-gen-bikes/articleshow/80518511.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Afghan man held in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 55-year-old Afghan national who had been staying illegally in the city for the past 15 years was arrested by the Gujarat ATS on Thursday. Accused Sardarkhan Pathan, who was living in Mirzapur, had allegedly obtained bogus identification documents like Aadhar card, PAN card, election card, driving licence and ration card. He was booked under the Foreigners Act and Passport Act, said police. SP (ATS) Imtiaz Shaikh said, "We have recovered two Indian passports, the copy of a document with the symbol of Afghanistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and a Pakistani identity card from him. We have sent him for pre-arrest Covid-19 test."  ATS sources said that they searched a house in Shreyas Plaza in Mirzapur following a tip-off and found Pathan there. "During primary interrogation, Pathan confessed that he was from Afghanistan and had been staying in Ahmedabad with his son for almost 15 years. Pathan was a money-lender. His father Haji Pathan used to frequent Ahmedabad to sell asafoetida (hing) and shilajit. Once he accompanied his father to Pakistan, and entered India through the Amritsar border," said Shaikh. ATS sources said he used to earlier live at Chandan Talavadi in Dariapur. After obtaining bogus identity documents, he managed to get an Indian passport, they said., adding, "We are checking his antecedents and verifying if Pathan was involved in nefarious activities. Pathan travelled to Pakistan often: ATS sources said Pathan had travelled to Pakistan on his Indian passport some time ago. "There, he married for a second time and came back to India. He used to travel to Pakistan frequently," said an ATS source. Civil war forced him to flee Afghanistan: ATS sources said when civil war erupted in Afghanistan during the Taliban regime, Pathan’s entire family shifted from Afghanistan to Pakistan. When the situation worsened in Pakistan, they went back to Afghanistan, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/afghan-man-held-in-city/articleshow/80518845.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Haridwar traders, hoteliers seek revocation of mandatory RT-PCR tests order for Kumbh devotees||Haridwar: The traders’ body along with the hoteliers in Haridwar on Thursday criticised the central government’s decision to make RT-PCR tests mandatory for pilgrims coming to the Kumbh, saying the restricted entry of people would dampen their earnings, which was significantly hit by Covid-19 restrictions. While the traders’ body submitted their memorandum to city magistrate Jagdish Lal, addressing it to the Prime Ministers’ Office seeking revocation of the order, the hoteliers’ body would present their letter on Friday. The business owners asserted that there was no need to spend crores of public money on creating infrastructural works for the festival if the intention was to keep the numbers low for the mega festival. They added that if the UP government can organise the Magh Mela without restrictions, “why were such measures imposed for the Haridwar Kumbh?” “We were eagerly waiting for the Kumbh mela as we have been facing loss since March due to Covid-19 lockdown. Now that the situation has eased, we hoped that more pilgrims will visit Haridwar and we can earn some money. But the new guidelines broke our hope,” local traders’ leader Sunil Sethi told TOI. Hoteliers also requested the government to review the new Covid-19 guidelines which were released on Wednesday. “Haridwar Kumbh can help the boost hotel industry in Haridwar and Rishikesh, but the new SOPs issued by the Union government can significantly decrease the number of pilgrims who are trying to come to Haridwar. We request the government to rethink about Covid-19 SOPs for the Kumbh pilgrims,” Vibhas Mishra, who runs a hotel in Haridwar, told TOI,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-traders-hoteliers-seek-revocation-of-mandatory-rt-pcr-tests-order-for-kumbh-devotees/articleshow/80515510.cms||MS Nawaz
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Incensed over teasing, 20-year-old man beats 9-year-old to death with cricket bat in Bageshwar||Pithoragarh: Incensed that a nine-year-old boy had teased him, a 20-year-old man entered his house when he was sleeping and beat the minor boy to death with a cricket bat in Supi village of Kapkot Tehsil, Bageshwar district. According to police, the incident took place on Tuesday night when Rakesh Kumar, a class IV student, was sleeping with two brothers in his house. Kailash Ram (20), resident of the same village, entered the room, picked up the bat and thrashed his head, police said. Hearing the commotion, both brothers woke up and saw their brother lying in a pool of blood while Kailash managed to escape. The boys’ parents then took Rakesh to a hospital but he died on the way, station house officer of Kapot police station, Mangal Ram said. Later, an FIR was lodged against Kailash and he was subsequently arrested. The villagers claimed that Kailash was furious when Rakesh teased him and decided to “teach him a lesson”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/incensed-over-teasing-20-year-old-man-beats-9-year-old-to-death-with-cricket-bat-in-bageshwar/articleshow/80515532.cms||Prem Punetha
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Potato prices plummet due to excess supply at Koyambedu||CHENNAI: Potato prices have crashed to six-year low of Rs 12-Rs 16 a kg at Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, thanks to a jump in supply to the city. Cost of other vegetables also fell on Thursday. Market sources said about 30% of the total sale at Koyambedu was to chips manufacturers, hotels and restaurants. V R Soundararajan, former member of Market Management Committee of KWMC and a wholesale trader said Thursday prices were the least when compared with the rates of potato since 2015. The cost of potato was hovering between Rs 20 to Rs 40 during the past two months. "In fact, one reason that has kept potato prices lower at the wholesale market was due to the shrinking demand from the chips manufacturers," he said.  About 450-500 tonnes of potato largely from Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh are received at KWMC daily, the sources said. It was half of the total quantum of arrivals two months ago that shot up the rates of potato to Rs 40 a kg. S S Muthukumar, president of Koyambedu Semi Wholesale Vegetable Traders Association said the volume of almost all vegetables arriving at Koyambedu has increased, which reflected on the prices going down. "We received 500 trucks of vegetables ferrying 5,000-5,500 tonnes and it was higher by an average of 100 vehicles. This was the major reason that brought down the rates," he said. While the cost of first grade onion dropped by Rs 4 a kg than the previous week, prices of the same quantity of small onions dipped by Rs 10 to Rs 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/potato-prices-plummet-due-to-excess-supply-at-koyambedu/articleshow/80518584.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||First time since Jan 14, more Covid cases than recoveries||Nagpur: For the first time in the last 14 days, Vidarbha on Thursday reported more new Covid-19 cases than number of recoveries. As against 808 new cases reported from 11 districts, 676 patients recovered during the day which also saw nine patients succumbing to the disease. This reversal in the trend, however, did not affect the recovery rate which is still above 95%. One of the reasons behind this sudden spike in new patients could be increased testing done after Republic Day which is a public holiday. Nagpur district conducted near 6,000 tests and reported 355 positive cases, followed by Yavatmal (79 cases out of 1,273 tests), Amravati (78/1,980), Washim (72/750), Akola (51/450), Buldhana (47/843), Wardha (46/907), Gondia (41), Bhandara (20), Chandrapur (16/953) and Gadchiroli (3). Number of recoveries dropped in almost all the districts. Recoveries reported during the day included Nagpur (250), Amravati (145), Yavatmal (64), Washim (59), Gondia (34), Akola (32), Buldhana (31), Bhandara (23), Chandrapur (23), Wardha (10) and Gadchiroli (5). Now, out of the total 2.71 lakh Covid cases reported so far in the region, 2.58 lakh patients have recovered. Recovery rate is 95.2% which is equal to the state average. The national average is 97%. There are 5,986 patients under treatment in Vidarbha, which is 2.2% of total cases. The nine fatalities on Thursday included six from Nagpur while Chandrapur, Amravati and Washim reported a death each, taking the toll to 6,941. The case fatality rate came down to 2.55% which is still higher than state average (2.53%) and national average (1.4%). Akola: The district reported 51 new cases, 32 recoveries and no death on Thursday. The district’s caseload is 11,495, out of which 10,510 patients have recovered and the toll is 335. Now, 650 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 72 new cases and 59 recoveries in the last 48 hours. A death reported on Thursday took the toll to 153. Out of the total 7,095 Covid-19 cases reported so far, 6,784 patients have recovered and 157 are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 47 new cases and 31 patients recovered on Thursday. Toll remains at 167 as no death was reported. The district has registered 13,792 cases so far, out of which 13,363 patients have recovered and 262 are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported single-digit increase in Covid-19 cases on Thursday after zero cases on Wednesday. As against three new cases, the district reported five recoveries and no death. The district’s caseload is 9,338, including 9,180 recoveries. Now, 53 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 41 new cases, 34 recoveries and no death on Thursday. This took the caseload to 14,157, including 13,835 recoveries and 181 deaths. Now, 141 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 20 new cases and 23 recoveries on Thursday. No death was reported for the 5th day in a row. The caseload is 13,179, including 12,683 recoveries and 320 deaths. Now, 176 patients are under treatment. Yavatmal: 79 were found positive in the district. Currently there are 444 active positive patients undergoing treatment the district. 64 patients were discharged from the hospitals in the district. No deaths were reported and the death toll remained at 428. Chandrapur: 16 people tested positive, while 23 patients were discharged on Thursday. There was lone death reported and the toll rose to 389. There are 151 active patients left in district. Wardha: With new 46 patients on Thursday, total cases of district reached 9,982. Meanwhile, 10 patients were discharged and recoveries climbed to 9,343. 335 are active positive patients in district. In 46 patients of Thursday 32 are from Wardha, 7 from Karanja, 3 from Hinganghat, 2 from Arvi and 1 each from Deoli and Ashti. No death was reported on Thursday while toll remain at 304. Amravati: Ninety recoveries as against 78 new cases took the total recoveries to 20,766 (96.51%) while the caseload to 21,517 on Thursday. With no death reported, the number of active cases stood at 337.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-time-since-jan-14-more-covid-cases-than-recoveries/articleshow/80515540.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Agra||Farmers withdraw dharna in Mathura||AGRA: Farmers in Mathura called off their dharna on Thursday evening after the intervention of the local administration and police. Earlier, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered all district magistrates to end farmers’ protests and remove them from the protest sites. Addressing the farmers after a brief discussion with DM Navneet Singh Chahal and Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover, farmers’ leader Rambabu Kateliya said the administration had assured them that their demands would be sent to the President and the Prime Minister. Earlier in the day, a heavy police force was deployed on the Yamuna Expressway in Mathura after farmers decided to block the e-way. As the farmers could not reach the e-way, they staged a protest in Naujheel area amid tight security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-withdraw-dharna-in-mathura/articleshow/80515519.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||72-year-old Powai man’s email account hacked, two duped of Rs 1.7 lakh||MUMBAI: A 72-year-old Powai resident’s email account was hacked and distress mails were sent to to his friends’ list seeking immediate monetary help as “he was stuck in San Francisco”. Two victims fell prey to the con and transferred a total Rs 1.7 lakh to a bank account in Delhi. Powai police registered the case on Monday after the victim, Sudhakar Patnaik, who is employed in a private firm in Marol, filed a complaint. Patnaik learnt that his email account had been hacked on December 12, 2020, after a friend, Nalind Rana, called him up and asked how much money he needed. “I told him not to transfer any money and immediately alerted my contacts on WhatsApp to not make any payments,” Patnaik said. “But the next day, I received a call from my relative Niddhi from Hyderabad saying she has transferred Rs1 lakh to a bank account belonging to one Vinay Kumar at Karol Bagh in Delhi based after receiving the email. A friend from Pune, P K Nair, also transferred Rs70,000 to the same account.” A police officer said: “The bank has been asked to freeze the account to which the money was transferred by Patnaik’s friend and relative. The two victims had registered cases in Hyderabad and Pune last month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/72-year-olds-email-account-hacked-two-duped-of-rs-1-7l/articleshow/80522943.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Four arrested on charges of killing property dealer in Dehradun||Dehradun: Four persons were arrested on Thursday in connection with the murder of a property dealer who was shot dead in Nehru Colony police station area of Dehradun on late Wednesday night.Deceased property dealer Raju Boxer, alias Rajendra Pundir, was shot dead when was sitting at the plot of his friend, identified as Shavez and believed to be the mastermind of the murder, when two armed persons came and pumped bullets into him, police said.Police have arrested four persons— mastermind Shavez, Vinay Kamboj, Aniket Kamboj and Farid Khan. Police have also recovered pistols and live cartridges from the possession of Vinay and Aniket, who allegedly shot Boxer dead. Yogendra Singh Rawat, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Dehradun, said, “Shavez, who is the mastermind, is the business partner of Boxer. During interrogation, he revealed that he had hatched a plan to kill Boxer as they were having a feud related to property money."Shavez also told police that he brought Farid and Vinay into the plan to kill Raju Boxer and usurp all of his properties and his business.“To execute the plan, Vinay called one of his friends Aniket from Saharanpur. On January 27, they all met at Farid's office where Shavez gave pistols to Vinay and Aniket to kill Boxer who was supposed to come at Shavez's plot for a late-night party,” the SSP said.Incidentally, Raju Boxer was also a noted criminal and was arrested in 2014 for stabbing two police personnel in Dehradun.Meanwhile, SSP Dehradun has announced a cash reward of Rs 2,500 for the team which solved the murder case within 24-hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-arrested-on-charges-of-killing-property-dealer-in-dehradun/articleshow/80515545.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Corporators get Rs 892 crore to spend before ’22 polls||MUMBAI: At a time when the BMC faces a fund crunch, netas are on a spending spree using civic funds to distribute freebies ranging from jute bags to photocopy machines and idli batter grinders. BMC has cut its budget by Rs 2,500 crore, but corporators bagged Rs 892 crore as part of discretionary development funds. All 227 corporators get Rs 60 lakh each as development funds. Besides, the standing committee has allotted Rs 640 crore in budgetary amendments based on representations by individual corporators and the general body has allocated another Rs 116 crore for remaining needs. BMC corporators get Rs 900cr to splurge, with no checksDespite a squeeze in finances due to the pandemic, BMC corporators have nearly Rs 900 crore at their disposal to woo the electorate in the runup to civic elections next year None of this is for asset creation (read, construction of roads, bridges, pavements). These are funds available for beautification, repair, and welfare, depending on what the politician thinks is essential to impress his constituents. Activists and opposition parties have pointed out that such discretionary spending amidst a financial crisis would set a bad precedent. What’s more, funds are not evenly distributed – local representatives in many areas have received a token amount while party leaders have cornered large sums. Leading the pack is Shiv Sena’s standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav with Rs 33.4 crore (see graphic), more than all the other civic leaders put together. Items sanctioned for distribution in wards as welfare include photocopying machines, laptops and tablets, idli-dosa grinders, food trucks, sewing machines and sanitary pads. Corporators can also use their funds to distribute dustbins to housing societies to segregate waste or spend on street or garden furniture. Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh said, “So much should not be spent as unforeseen revenue expenditure. These funds must be made part of capital expenditure and all corporators should be asked to seek funds based on a detailed plan for their electoral wards.” Apart from the size of the spend, there are questions about the process for procuring items for distribution as well as the eligibility criteria for selecting beneficiaries. For dispensing small items like jute bags, there is no eligibility, said an official, but for larger products like sewing machines and food trucks, there would be. “We have eligibility criteria. For instance, they must be residents of Mumbai. For photocopying machines, they must be disabled more than 40%, and certified by a designated hospital. They must be 18-60 years of age and have an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh. We have similar criteria for disabled persons who can be given two wheelers with side wheels,” the official said. However, the official admitted that it was difficult to enforce eligibility. “We can only check the address and income certificate. If applicants have an orange or yellow ration card or a below poverty line certificate, they are eligible. For items like sewing machines, women need to be trained and certified. But it is difficult to check this,” the official said. Given such concerns about leakage and wastage, Shaikh said the Opposition had demanded cuts in expenditure. “Big ticket projects have been hit. But there is virtually no control on the way ward level funds are spent. So there needs to be a reform in the civic budget,” he said. For instance, Sena’s Jadhav has bought 84,000 jute bags for around Rs 1.4 crore. Each bag costs Rs 161 and will be distributed in an electoral ward with around 50,000 voters. Congress corporator Ravi Raja, the opposition leader in BMC, too is giving out tablet PCs to students worth Rs 1 crore. “This spending is nothing but a scam. At the ward level there is no check on who is getting what. Officials only check if beneficiaries are residents of the ward,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in the BMC. RTI activist Anil Galgali said citizen groups must be vigilant in such a situation to monitor spending. Additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal said the process works as per the demands made by the corporators in the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-corporators-get-rs-900cr-to-splurge-with-no-checks/articleshow/80522852.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Residents in suburbs want Chromepet GH general ward reopened||CHENNAI: Residents in the southern suburbs of Chennai want the general ward in Tambaram Taluk Government Hospital, better known as Chromepet GH, to be reopened soon. The 189-bedded facility was closed last March to accommodate more Covid-19 patients from Pallavaram, Chrompet, Tambaram and other areas in Chengalpet. Since then all other cases have been referred to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) at Park Town which is nearly 25km away. On an average, around 1,500 to 2,000 people visit this hospital and the general ward usually accommodates all kinds of surgery cases, ortho care, paediatrics, casualty and ENT patients. At present, only the Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (CEmONC) centre and the accident ward are admitting patients. Every day, at least three accident victims arrive at this health facility. Also, out-patient cases are attended by duty doctors till 12 noon. V Santhanam, from a Chennai-based NGO named People Awareness Association, said, “Overall Covid-19 caseload has drastically come down in Chennai and right now there is only one corona patient admitted at Chromepet GH. So, it was better to shift Covid cases here to Tambaram TB Hospital and reopen the general ward without further delay”. Government has failed to assess the ground situation. There was no point in making patients from southern suburbs to travel to RGGGH, he said in his letter to the state health minister C Vijayabaskar on Thursday. When asked about this, a senior health official from Chengalpet district said, “We have already discussed with the collectorate regarding reopening of the general ward by next week. Around 10 beds alone might be reserved for Covid patients and the rest of the hospital will resume functioning as usual soon”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/residents-in-suburbs-want-chromepet-gh-general-ward-reopened/articleshow/80518631.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s Kedarkhand-themed tableau at Republic Day bags third price||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand tableau, themed on Kedarnath shrine, which was displayed at the the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on January 26 has won the third prize.Union minister of state Kiren Rijiju gave the award to the Uttarakhand team led by it’s leader KS Chauhan.Notably, it is for the first time that Uttarakhand's tableau has bagged any award in the Republic Day parade.The tableau featured Lord Shiva's vehicle Nandi and devotees at Kedarnath dham. The front part of the tableau depicted state animal musk deer, state bird monal and state flower Brahma Kamal.Expressing happiness at the state's tableau getting an award, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tweeted, “It is a matter of pride for the entire state. Heartiest congratulations to all the people of the state for this achievement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhands-kedarkhand-themed-tableau-at-republic-day-bags-third-price/articleshow/80515562.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 29, 2021||Patna||Economist Shaibal Gupta passes away in Patna||PATNA: Shaibal Gupta, the renowned economist and founder of the Asia Development Research Institute (ADRI), passed away in Patna on Thursday after a prolonged illness. He was 67. A statement issued by the ADRI said Gupta was suffering from chronic health problems and was admitted to a hospital a few days ago. He breathed his last with his wife, daughter, son-in-law and grand-daughter by his bedside. CM Nitish Kumar condoled Gupta’s death and announced that his cremation would be done with full state honours. “He made important contributions to several economic reforms carried out in Bihar as a member of the state finance commission as well as several other bodies. I had a personal relationship with Shaibal Gupta. I am deeply saddened by his demise,” Nitish said. Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said, "The Bihar annual economic survey was based on social and economic studies done by Gupta and his team from ADRI." State IPRD minister Vijay Kumar Choudhry also condoled his death. “He made important contributions to the state’s development and the finance commission was enriched by his presence,” he said. A renowned social scientist, he was known as an institution builder, and he considered the establishment of ADRI as his most important achievement. His contribution to development economics and development challenges of Bihar had received wide attention in India and abroad. Gupta was involved in the field of economics and industrial economics for the last two decades. He was also the director of the Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance set up within ADRI by the Bihar government as a dedicated centre for public finance research. Gupta worked on various research projects with the Institute of Development Studies, Sussex; the International Labour Organisation; World Bank and the London School of Economics. He was also a sought-after commentator on social and political affairs. "Shaibal Gupta played a key role in important economic institutions not only in Bihar but across the country," said BJP's Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav. Union minister Nityanand Rai said economic and social development in the state has suffered a deep loss with the demise of Gupta. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, party’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar and RJD’s national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari also condoled the demise of Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/economist-shaibal-gupta-passes-away/articleshow/80516458.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Seer who lived in caves for over six decades donates Rs 1 crore for Ram temple||HARIDWAR: Swami Shankar Das, an octogenarian seer from Rishikesh who has been living in caves for more than 60 years, deposited a cheque for Rs 1 crore as donation for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. According to Das, it was at the cave of his guru Taat wale Baba that he received donations from devotees that added up to the amount that he donated on Wednesday. Employees at the main branch of State Bank of India, Rishikesh, were in disbelief when the seer handed over the cheque, until they checked his account and found the amount there. RSS functionaries were then called to the bank to complete the process. Rishikesh head of RSS Sudama Singhal told TOI, “We reached the bank after receiving information about Swami Shankar Das seeking to donate Rs 1 crore to the Ram Mandir trust. As he could not donate the money directly, he handed over a cheque to us and we gave him a receipt. Using the cheque, the bank manager will now submit the money in the trust’s account.” Das wanted to keep his donation a secret but agreed to share his story so it inspires others to donate for the construction of Ram Temple as well. Locally known as “Fakkad Baba” in Rishikesh, Das lives on donations and feeds the needy for free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seer-83-who-lived-in-caves-for-over-six-decades-donates-rs-1-crore-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80515587.cms||MS Nawaz
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Opened 2 years ago, selfie point near Ram Nagar Sq in a shambles||Nagpur: The selfie point developed and inaugurated by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) near Ram Nagar Square two years ago now lies in a shambles. Ex-MLC Prakash Gajbhiye is spending another Rs25 lakh for setting up a plaque on the preamble of the Indian Constitution at the spot. As part of Swachh Survekshan, the Dharampeth zone had undertaken beautification of the spot which was then one of the garbage vulnerable points. The then principal secretary Manisha Mahiskar had praised the NMC. The then assistant municipal commissioner Mahesh Moroney, who is now deputy municipal commissioner and in-charge of NMC’s enforcement department, besides holding post of deputy CEO of Smart City, too had appreciated the initiative. Despite being close to a busy square, the selfie point is ill-maintained, and hence remains unnoticed. No one seems to be aware of its purpose now. It has turned into a den for illegal activities, said roadside shop owners and residents of Hill Top. Civic activist Amit Heda said the place was developed when Swachh Survekshan was underway. “The way it was developed and beautified with plantations, fencing, statues and placards with messages related to cleanliness, one can imagine the kind of public money was spent,” he said. “Now, seeing its current state it’s obvious that all this was just a show off in the backdrop of Swachh Survekshan and the rewards and awards associated with it,” he said. Over time, the spot has been ignored and now lies in ruins. “It’s a classic case of how public money is squandered as per whims and fancies of authorities,” said Heda. An official from Dharampeth zone blamed the locals for the mess. Gajbhiye said locals should also take efforts to conserve public property. Fountains installed at the same place in the past too were damaged by the residents. In 2013, when Gajbhiye was corporator of the locality, he had developed Literacy Theme Park on the slope of Ambazari Tekdi road. Rs80 lakh fund from MOIL had been spent for erecting 12 murals. But today it too is lying in a shambles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/opened-2-years-ago-selfie-point-near-ram-nagar-sq-in-a-shambles/articleshow/80515592.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt puts stay on its earlier order denotifying Shivalik Elephant Reserve||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Thursday issued a stay on its earlier government order (GO) of January 8 to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve. The GO had been issued on January 8, hours after the Uttarakhand high court put a stay on the state wildlife board’s recommendation for denotification of the state’s premier and only elephant reserve. The court had subsequently put a stay order on the GO three days later.Forest minister Harak Singh Rawat had called it a “coincidence” that the GO and the HC’s stay order were issued on the same day, hours apart, saying he had no knowledge of the court’s order. Now, the stay will be in place until further orders from the court.Thursday’s order was issued by principal secretary of forests Anand Bardhan. The government’s proposal to fell 10,000 trees to make way for expansion of the Jolly Grant airport had first been highlighted by TOI. Uttarakhand government’s decision to denotify Shivalik in the 16th State Board for Wildlife on October 1 last year had triggered recurrent and widespread protests. Doon-based activist Reenu Paul took legal recourse to reverse the decision. The HC’s stay order was issued while hearing a PIL filed by her.According to a source in the forest department, the state plans to present its side to the court in order to move ahead with the denotification and pave the way for several developmental projects, including the expansion of Jolly Grant airport.Spanning across 5,400 sq km, covering both Kumaon and Garhwal regions, Shivalik is home to over 2,000 elephants and has around a dozen elephant corridors.Shivalik Elephant Reserve was first identified by the central government back in 1991-92 under ‘Project Elephant’, with the aim to protect elephants and their habitat. Its objective was to arrest man-animal conflict in the region and rehabilitate elephants that were formerly held captive. Shivalik was notified through a government order in October 2002 by the Uttarakhand government. And in 2003, Uttarakhand was included in the 10 MIKE (Monitoring of Illegal Killing of Elephants) sites of India. As a signatory of MIKE, Uttarakhand forest department receives funds to the tune of crores every year and alongside other elephant range states of the country, provides information needed by the Centre to make “appropriate managing and enforcement decisions”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-puts-stay-on-its-earlier-order-denotifying-shivalik-elephant-reserve/articleshow/80515580.cms||Shivani Azad
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Yavatmal revenue dept staffers stage dharna, demand security||Yavatmal: Revenue department staffers from all 16 tehsils in the district staged daylong dharna in front of the district collector’s office here on Wednesday to protest murderous attack on naib tehsildar Vaibhav Pawar and talathi Gajanan Surose on Umarkhed-Dhanki road on January 23. The agitators have demanded immediate arrest of the alleged sand smuggler kingpin Avinash Chavan and his supporters, vehicle owner and drivers involved in the attack on the revenue officials when they tried to stop sand being smuggled. Prominent among those who addressed the staffers included resident district collector Lalitkumar Warhade, sub-divisional officer Aniruddha Bakshi, Yavatmal tehsildar Kunal Zalte and others. Members of the Drivers’ Union, led by president Ajay Mishra, also staged dharna demanding arrest of the culprits. Kunal Zalte of Tehsildar and Naib Tehsildar Sanghatana has warned the government of intensifying the agitation if the demands for police protection and weapons for personal security are not met. Without police protection and weapons for security, officers and employees won’t attend duty related to the prevention of sand excavation and its illegal transportation by sand mafias, said Zalte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-revenue-dept-staffers-stage-dharna-demand-security/articleshow/80586314.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ranks first in justice delivery again: Report||MUMBAI: Maharashtra ranks first in the second edition of the India Justice Report (IJR) 2020, that judges states on delivery of justice to people. Released on Thursday, the report said Maharashtra retained its number one position among 18 large and mid -sized states—each with a population of over one crore —followed by Tamil Nadu, which improved its ranking from third position in 2019, and Telangana. The IJR tracked the rise and fall in each state’s structural and financial capacity to deliver justice using the latest available government figures from budgets, human resources, infrastructure, workload, and diversity across police, judiciary, prisons and legal aid in 25 states. Telangana showed the highest improvement in justice delivery and ranking as it rose to the third position from 11th in 2019 while another southern state, Kerala, slipped from second position in 2019 to fifth in 2020. The list of seven small states (population of less than one crore each) was topped by Tripura (2019: seventh), followed by Sikkim (2019: second) and Goa (2019: third). The report, an initiative of Tata Trusts in collaboration with the Centre for Social Justice, Common Cause, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, DAKSH, Tiss-Prayas, Vidhi and How India Live 2020, highlights stark conclusions when aggregated for an all-India picture. The report, which aimed at a comprehensive big picture from “otherwise siloed statistics”, said, “Two-thirds of the country’s prisoners are yet to be convicted” or acquitted. In the last 25 years, since 1995, only 1.5 crore people have received legal aid, though 80% of the country’s population is entitled to it, and women comprise only 29% of judges in India. There has been an improvement in women’s representation across police, prisons, judiciary and legal aid, says the report, but the increase is concentrated in the lower ranks. Maharashtra saw a decline in women police officers— less than 10% are women—but a rise in women overall. Gujarat was the only state that saw a rise in women’s employment across all departments of police, prisons and judiciary in 2020. “In 27 states and Union Territories, the share of women judges in subordinate courts has improved. However, in high courts, the increase is seen less, and the glass ceiling remains,” said the report. Andhra Pradesh has the highest percentage of women HC judges at 19%, followed by Haryana with 18.2%, and Tamil Nadu in the third place with 16.7%. Eleven out of the 18 large and mid-sized states have more than 33% women in the subordinate judiciary as judges; four states (Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Punjab) have more than 40%. Prison occupancy has increased in 25 states and Union territories. Part of the reason is a high proportion of undertrials. In 35 of 36 states and UTs, they exceed 50% of inmates. Many states, of all sizes, have vacancies that exceed 25% of the state’s own sanctioned strength, said the IJR, charting posts in police, prisons, judiciary and legal aid. Maja Daruwala, who helmed the report, stressed on the importance of “access to justice”. She said, “For the edifice of rule of law to remain unscarred by the consequences of the past, access to justice—easy, efficient and everyday—cannot pause for a natural calamity but be the antidote that reduces its worst effects. It is as well to remind ourselves then, that justice is a heart dwelling belief and its delivery is not a pity-plea but a right—and there is manifest duty to deliver it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-no-1-in-justice-delivery-again-report/articleshow/80527876.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Brother of Tiger Memon granted 7-day parole for final rites of kin||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Thursday granted parole to ’93 bomb blast convict Essa Memon, brother of absconding prime accused Tiger Memon for seven days, without police escort. He shall be with his family to participate in the last rites for his brother. Essa Memon is serving a life sentence after being convicted by a special TADA court in 2007 and has completed more than 26 years in prison. He had sought emergency parole for a death in the family, during lockdownon June 26. His brother had died but religious rituals could not be held due to restrictions and were slated to be performed from January 28 with a main ritual to be held on January 29. The HC bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale said the “explanation given’’ by Memon in an affidavit over non-performance of rituals immediately after the death of his brother “appears to be plausible, in the backdrop of the Covid-19pandemic”. It said, “A policy decision was also taken to grant emergency Covid parole to the convicts.” The HC also factored in his good conduct in returning to jail on time during earlier releases on furlough and parole. He had challenged an order asking him to pay Rs 70,000 daily for police escort last June while granting him emergency parole for death in family, for three days. He moved HC last year and a notice issued in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/brother-of-tiger-memon-granted-7-day-parole-for-final-rites-of-kin/articleshow/80518664.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Degree colleges to be opened in all development blocks: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||ALMORA: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday announced the opening of degree colleges in all development blocks of the state that don’t have one. He was speaking at the inauguration of website of the newly-formed Soban Singh Jeena University. The CM said the aim of the project was to make higher education accessible, as many students have to travel far to avail of it. He added that all requirements for Soban Singh Jeena University will be fulfilled. “All universities should contribute towards eradicating the state's economic struggles and unemployment using the resources and specialties of the mountains,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/degree-colleges-to-be-opened-in-all-development-blocks-cm/articleshow/80515622.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||32-year-old protests open drinking, attacked with hammer by 7 goons||Nagpur: A 32-year-old man was thrashed and attacked with a hammer by a gang of around seven goons at Gyaneshwar Nagar under Wadi police station jurisdiction on January 24 after he protested against open consumption of liquor. A construction site labourer too was assaulted when he tried to intervene. It is also alleged that the miscreants had fled with gold chain of the complainant Karan Pal, who claimed to be getting threats from the goons. Pal suffered injuries on the left shoulder after having sustained a hammer blow. Though Wadi police had arrested five miscreants on the following day (January 25), a court rejected the cops’ plea for custody and granted bail to the accused. The cops are now planning to invoke stringent preventive measures against the gangsters. It is also learnt that the goons, including one who had been externed earlier, have serious crime record against them. The persons arrested were identified as Charudutta Narbariya, Bingo Agarwal, Yash Tekam, Tejas Chavan and Akash Chawake. Police said Narbariya has around seven offences against him while ex-externee (tadipar) Agrawal too has around a dozen offences. Tekam too has crime record against him. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said he would look into the case and intensify drive against those consuming liquor in the open. In the latest case, Pal had earned the wrath of the gang after he asked one of their acquaintances to refrain from consuming liquor in the open. “The man was consuming liquor at a public place near my construction site, after purchasing the booze from an outlet in the vicinity. The liquor outlet has become a nuisance as people purchase booze and consume it on the road, inconveniencing the passers-by,” he said. Pal said the man, who was consuming liquor, called others after being objected. “The goons came in a car and on a bike. They started thrashing me after pinning down on the ground. One of them picked up a hammer and attacked me. My labourer too was attacked when he tried to rescue me,” said Pal. “The gangsters snatched my gold chain and fled,” he said. Wadi police station senior inspector Pradeep Suryawanshi said bike-borne beat marshals would be alerted to ensure no one consumes liquor in public places. “We are taking strict action against such violators,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/32-year-old-protests-open-drinking-attacked-with-hammer-by-7-goons/articleshow/80515625.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Fugitive gangster Papla Gujjar arrested by Rajasthan team from Maharashtra hideout||JAIPUR: A special emergency response team (ERT) of the Rajasthan police comprising commandos arrested the most wanted fugitive, Papla Gujjar, from a house in Kolhapur in Maharashtra on Thursday. The arrest came almost one-and-a-half years after the notorious gangster escaped following a jail break amid firing from Behror police station where he was being held in Alwar district. “He has been arrested along with his female friend,” confirmed an elated director general of police (DGP) Mohan Lal Lathar while addressing a press conference in the evening. According to police, they received concrete information on the whereabouts of Papla, and a team of 26 policemen, including commandos of the Rajasthan police, rushed to Maharastra. On January 18, the police team of Jaipur Range-1 had received some information on the presence of Papla in Maharashtra. “Having learnt our lessons from the past, I was only speaking to additional SP Sidhant Sharma of my range. All other members of the team were not given the fine details of the operation,” said Jaipur Range inspector general (IG) Hawa Singh Ghumaria to TOI. On January 18, the police team of Jaipur Range-1 had received some information on the presence of Papla in Maharashtra. A special team of 26 policemen, including at least 15 commandos, was sent to Kolhapur. “Our team tracked his movements and surrounded his house at Kolhapur. The whole area was cordoned off with the help of Maharashtra police. We barged into the place at 2.15am. We were carrying weapons, including AK-56. He attempted to jump from the third floor of the house, but was caught,” said a senior officer who was part of the operation. Papla sustained an injury on his right leg. According to police, Papla has been in Kolhapur for the past two months where he was living with a woman who is a gym owner. He had two hideouts in Kolhapur and would visit his friend on and off. “We were aware that while he was visiting the woman he would come unarmed. Thus we decided to strike at the house and caught him unarmed,” said the officer. “She has also been charged with harbouring a criminal,” said the officer. After completing the operation, Jaipur Range additional SP Sidhant Sharma informed IG Ghumaria. There's a total reward of Rs 5 lakh on Papla and this would now be given to the special police team. In the evening, the police team took a flight from Mumbai to Ahmedabad and flew Papla to Jaipur. “Yes, we have landed. We will take him to Behror directly via road in tight security,” said an officer late night after landing at Jaipur airport with the gangster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fugitive-gangster-papla-arrested-by-raj-team-from-maha-hideout/articleshow/80522893.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||NCP president Sharad Pawar asks sugar industry to do a rethink||MUMBAI: NCP president Sharad Pawar has urged the sugar industry to devote greater attention to its byproducts such as ethanol and molasses to generate sustainable energy. “It’s time we shifted from sugar to its byproducts. From sugar cane juice we can make ethanol and molasses, which can be used as CNG,” Pawar said on Wednesday. Stating that the country’s storehouses had a sufficiently good stock of sugar, Pawar said that it was necessary to think of a shift in the sugar sector. The NCP president was addressing a conclave, held at the Y B Chavan Centre, on agriculture to mark the birth centenary of Annasaheb Shinde, the Congress stalwart who had planned the Green Revolution in the 1970s with Babu Jagjivan Ram, C Subramanian and Dr M S Swaminathan. TimesViewThe need for sustainable and renewable energy cannot be overemphasized at a time when climate change is real. The suggestion to take a fresh look at sugar’s byproducts is a welcome one, and there must be a debate and discussion on the subject so that the best way forward is found. Hopefully it will also lead to a positive turnaround for the state’s politics.Observers said Pawar has indicated that the sugar cooperatives, which form the backbone of Maharashtra politics and which often come under fire for the emphasis on sugarcane, the water-guzzling crop in the state, should mend ways and accord priority to energy. Pawar said the Centre ought to handle the ongoing farmers’ stir in New Delhi with sensitivity. “Those in power should see that farmers, who are agitating against the agriculture laws braving punishing cold, do not take recourse to extreme measures out of frustration,” he added. Noted agriculture expert Gokul Patnaik said that the new farm laws put no check on big businesses forming cartels to dominate the markets. He questioned the Centre’s move to give unbridled permission to “anyone” to enter agricultural markets. Stating that Indian farmers were innovative and hardworking, Patnaik stressed the need for research and extension programmes to ensure better production and productivity in a sustainable manner, food security for the nation and farmers’ welfare. “Currently, India spends less than 0.5 % of its GDP on R&D. We need to at least double our current expenditure on R&D, and spend more on creation of public infrastructure,” said Patnaik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncp-chief-tells-sugar-sector-to-shift-focus-to-byproducts/articleshow/80523033.cms||Ambarish Mishra
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal: Reopen decision likely at educational meet on February 3||KOLKATA: Schools, colleges and universities are expecting a government decision on the reopening of campuses in the first week of February. A meeting of West Bengal Higher Education Council has been called on February 3 that state university vice-chancellors are slated to attend. “A decision on campus reopening is likely. At least, some decision by the higher education department will be passed on to us,” said a VC, adding many VCs might seek permission to open hostels, without which it would be difficult to run classes with students from distant places. Many VCs said individual universities might be granted the autonomy to decide on phased reopening. Jadavpur University, which has sanitized the administrative building and other facilities and will again, on Monday, has called a meeting of stakeholders on Friday to discuss the modalities and to seek opinion from all about the reopening of student facilities, including labs and hostels. “We are not allowed to restart academic activities without government nod. But we would like to discuss students’ demands. A meeting will be held to decide on the format of a letter, which will be placed before the state government with views from all the stakeholders,” said a JU official. A senior Calcutta University official said the campus had been sanitized. CU has opened labs for its PG science students. “We are awaiting a government order, after which we can allow PG students to attend all classes on campus. The Covid protocol will be maintained,” he said. CU colleges running PG courses have also decided to open labs for odd-semester students. “Like CU, we have allowed PG students to access labs. Now we are waiting for a sanction to reopen the campus for UG students,” said Siuli Sarkar, principal at Lady Brabourne College. CU has announced that odd-semester exams can be held from March 8 for both PG and UG. “We expect at least science students will be allowed to take practical exams in labs,” said a CU source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/reopen-decision-likely-at-edu-meet-on-feb-3/articleshow/80518728.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Curtain-free solution to Rajdhani coach windows||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) has come up with a solution to prevent light and heat from entering through the windows of uncurtained airconditioned coaches of the special Rajdhani Express running between Howrah and New Delhi. This system, that also helps maintain privacy, has been introduced in First AC coaches and will be extended to other classes soon. “Due to the pandemic, curtains were removed. This led to a problem. Passengers were unable to prevent light from entering the coach even when they wanted to take a nap. It also got warmer inside the coaches, making the ride uncomfortable. Passengers also felt a lack of privacy when the train stopped at stations and people on the platforms attempted to peep in. We have now found a solution to these problems. This will also reduce UV Rays from entering the coaches,” said Kamal Deo Das, CPRO, ER. The system introduced is a Polymer Dispersed Liquid Crystal (PDLC)-based window pane that can be switched from transparent to opaque (from outside) by passengers as per their choice. These window panes will replace normal ones in other AC coaches of the Rajdhani Express soon. They will also be introduced in trains like Shatabdis and Durontos and will ultimately replace curtains that are difficult to maintain and have a tendency to gather dust. “Ultimately, all AC coaches in all trains will have such windows,” another ER official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/curtain-free-solution-to-rajdhani-coach-windows/articleshow/80518723.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 29, 2021||Dehradun||Char-dham all-weather road to claim over 56,000 trees; 36,000 already felled||Dehradun: The central government’s ambitious Char Dham road project — that will link the shrine towns of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri through widening and strengthening of an almost 900km-long stretch of Himalayan roads — is leading to the felling of over 56,000 trees in the ecologically-fragile mountain ranges. Of these, around 36,000 trees have already been felled while the rest are on the chopping block and are awaiting clearance from officials, data exclusively accessed by TOI has revealed. The maximum number of trees that are due for felling currently are on National Highway-125, between Tanakpur to Pithoragarh where 6,885 trees are to be felled. The stretch of NH-58 between Rudraprayag and Mana will see 6291 trees being felled whereas the Rishikesh to Rudraprayag stretch on NH-58 has got 3460 trees marked for felling. While these are official numbers, those in the know say that the deforestation on the ground may be much more. Experts point out that the blatant tree felling and slope cutting has already started having a devastating impact on the Himalayan ranges. “Unabated, unaccounted felling of Himalayan trees, which cannot be compensated by planting any other tree at that height and drilling of the mountains without proper measures, are steps that are opening doors for endless new chronic landslide zones,” said geologist Navin Juyal, who is a member of the Supreme Court-appointed high-powered committee constituted to assess the environmental impact the project is having on the Himalayan landscape. Residents of hill areas are worried, too, since landslide-related accidents on or near the project sites last year alone have claimed around a dozen lives, mostly of workers involved in the project. Some villagers have also lodged police complaints regarding ineffective disposal of muck and work being undertaken on the project in an arbitrary manner. One such complaint was lodged by Inder Singh Bisht of Semi village in Rudraprayag. Speaking to TOI, Bisht said that he was prompted to lodge the complaint since he feared that “we are heading for another massive ecological tragedy like the Kedarnath deluge of 2013.” “I saw huge machines being deployed which simply chopped the trees in Kund area on the Guptkashi side of NH-109. The area has several geological infirmities and required geomorphological, structural and geotechnical investigation before any work is done there as per HPC recommendations. However, nothing of that sort was done.” Similarly, another complaint was registered at Joshimath by villagers of the area regarding trees being cut at Helang-Marwari bypass in violation of SC orders. A complaint registered by Pithoragarh-based conservationist Manoj Matwal pointed out that “rampant works sans HPC recommendations continued in Gurna, Pithoragarh, despite the fact that due to road cutting works, boulders fell on a moving truck on October 28, 2020 killing the occupants.” Vijay Lal, 57, a retired army personnel from Gavela village, Uttarkashi, who had two shops on the highway told TOI, “Although the Supreme Court has mandated a maximum width of 5.5 metre for the Char Dham highway, the road in front of our shops, that was already 10 meters wide, was widened further and my shops were demolished despite several requests to the authorities that the road is already wide enough and doesn’t need any further action.” Geologists whom TOI spoke to regarding the issue, said that the ecologically-fragile slopes of the Himalayas shouldn’t be touched unless one has the capability to treat it. “Once a landslide zone becomes chronic to nurture, it is difficult to rectify. Totoghati is a classic example. Ever since blasting was done here for the all-weather road project, we have recurring ‘rock avalanches’ due to slope instability,” said YP Sundriyal, head of the department of geology, HNB Garhwal University. Officials of the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), under whose supervision work on the project is being carried out meanwhile said that “all due processes are being followed.” “There is no fresh tree felling or rock cutting being planned under the project,” said Virendera Khaira, chief engineer, MoRTH, Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-all-weather-road-to-claim-over-56000-trees-36000-already-felled/articleshow/80515611.cms||Shivani Azad
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 5.9 lakh crore annual credit plan for Maharashtra?||MUMBAI: National Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) proposed an annual credit plan of Rs 5.9 lakh crore for Maharashtra in 2021-22, which is 8% higher than last year. It includes a credit projection of nearly Rs1.3 lakh crore for agriculture sector, nearly Rs 3.5 lakh crore for MSME sector and Rs 1.1 lakh crore for other sectors like education and housing. NABARD presented its annual credit plan focus paper on Thursday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who presided over the event, urged it to make maximum credit available for backward regions. He suggested a three-monthly review of the credit plan. He said although the state government had provided a loan waiver scheme, a large section of nationalized and private banks had not met their targets for crop loan disbursal. He urged banks to meet targets and provide crop loans in time to farmers. Cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil said farmers who had benefited from MVA government’s loan waiver scheme were finding it difficult to get fresh loans, and banks should pay attention to this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-5-9-lakh-crore-annual-credit-plan-for-maha/articleshow/80522974.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||NMC identifies two revenue sources to fund Nag river project: Mayor||Nagpur: With the decision of National River Conservation Directorate (NRCD) of Jal Shakti ministry to appoint a project management consultant to prepare tender document of Nag river rejuvenation project, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation will have a Herculean task to arrange its share of the Rs2,117.71 crore project. The central government, state government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation have 60:25:15 share in the project respectively. The central government will spend 60% or Rs1,323.51 crore, state government 25% (Rs496.38 crore) and NMC will bear 15% (Rs297.82 crore). The project will be funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency at a cost of Rs1,864.3 crore, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari informed the media here on Thursday. Tiwari admitted arranging funds will not be easy for the cash strapped civic body. He, however, said the enforcement of unified DCR will help in generating additional revenue from the owners of many properties who will regularize their excess constructions. Besides this, NMC is focusing on generating revenue from its properties given on lease. These two avenues will definitely raise money, which can be NMC’s contribution towards the project, he said. This is a dream project of Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who had also directed appointment of a PMC for the Nag River project on the lines of the PMC appointed for the Ganga Rehabilitation Project. Dr Satish Wate, a retired officer of Neeri, will assist in this work, he said. According to him, the project will be implemented by NMC. For this project, NMC will either block or divert wastewater coming into the river, treat it, build a wastewater treatment plant, toilets etc. This is an important project for the people of Nagpur and will add to the beauty of the city. The loan agreement for the project indicates that work on the project will begin soon. When completed, the signature river will change its identity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-identifies-two-revenue-sources-to-fund-nag-river-project-mayor/articleshow/80515644.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Finishing schools in Chennai evolve to enroll young men||CHENNAI: Gone are the days when finishing schools were all about teaching young girls to master good manners, etiquette and be a lady, ready to enter society and find a suitable groom. Today, some of these schools in the city have evolved and have begun to enroll young men. “Manners, etiquette, and life skills, today, are needed by men too. It helps enhance their personalities both personally and professionally,” said Sugandha Mittal, founder principal of the Confianza Finishing School in Shenoy Nagar. They teach them the same manners as for the girls and ensure that they come out as polished gentlemen. The institute has a separate curriculum for young men and prospective bridegrooms called - Perfectly Polished, where they get expert tips on grooming, meeting and greeting, table manners such as fork, knife, and chopstick etiquette, and international cuisine and wine etiquette, power dressing including accessorizing their outfits, food, and fitness, and the dos and donts of small talk. The concept of finishing schools started in the 19th century in Switzerland where wealthy young women were sent to these institutes to learn how to be good wives. This has however evolved over the years and several institutes have broadened their curriculum by including communication skills, social work, and making women more independent and representable. “Men today need it too. And many that we meet have the same social anxiety and nervousness as women when they interact with the other gender. Learning these qualities helps them gain confidence in projecting themselves in different situations. And they all want to be their best versions,” said Gerard Assey, who runs Etiquette Works, a grooming school in Anna Nagar. Though it’s only been about five years since these institutes began taking in men the response has been promising.“Six out of 10 of my clients are men,” said Sugandha. But while they are very committed to learning, a few are still shy about revealing their identities outside. “They do not want people to know that they are learning from a school, originally meant for girls,” said Gerard. Ajay Singh, a 35-year-old entrepreneur from Guduvancherry however has no qualms about sharing his experience from the month-long course he attended at Confianza. “I didn’t even know how to wear a formal dress before. I have learned a lot. I feel more at ease at social gatherings now. I am glad that these courses are open for men too,” he said. Institutes like The Good Shepherd Finishing School for Girls, in Ooty, have also been getting inquiries and requests from men and their families to open separate courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-finishing-schools-evolve-to-enroll-young-men/articleshow/80518686.cms||Aditi R
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Only 20,000 pvt health staff get jab on 2nd day of vaccination||HYDERABAD: On Day 2 of the vaccination programme of healthcare workers in private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics, there was a lukewarm response from nurses and class IV employees. Meanwhile, only 45% of the target for vaccination was met on Thursday.  While the state health department had planned vaccinating 45,973 healthcare workers from the private sector on Thursday, by the end of the 487 sessions held in the state, only 20,636 beneficiaries could be vaccinated. With majority of nurses being female, a large number of nurses fell in the category of people who are not to be vaccinated — like pregnant women and lactating mothers. “We have a number of nurses who refused to take the vaccine as they are planning to start a family soon. In fact, even some male healthcare workers including, ward boys, have refused saying the same,” said an official from a private hospital in Kukatpally. While corporate hospitals continued to record a better response as compared to smaller hospitals, there is a fear of side effects, especially among Class IV employees. On Thursday, three minor incidents of side effects, or Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI), were reported among the 30,636 beneficiaries. Dr Sushma Medica, superintendent at Care Hospitals, Hitech City said, “Vaccines to prevent Covid-19 are perhaps the best hope for ending the pandemic. Getting a Covid vaccine can help protect you by creating an antibody response in your body without your having to become sick. A Covid vaccine can cause mild side effects after the first or second dose, including pain, redness or swelling where the shot was given, fever, fatigue, headache, chills, muscle and joint pain. Most side effects happen within the first three days after vaccination and typically last only one to two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-20k-pvt-health-staff-get-jab-on-2nd-day-of-vaccination/articleshow/80523137.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 29, 2021||Kochi||Alappuzha bypass opened for traffic||ALAPPUZHA: The district’s long-pending dream came true on Thursday when the bypass road was inaugurated by Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan via videoconferencing. The foundation stone for the bypass was laid way back in 1980. Speaking on the occasion, Gadkari said that in 2020-21, Centre will develop 177km (of road) in Kerala by spending Rs 604 crore. “Under Bharatmala Pariyojana, Centre is constructing 35,000km of national highways in India and 1,234km will be in Kerala. Besides, Centre is also planning 119km of port connectivity roads under Bharatmala and Sagarmala schemes in state,” he said. Steps are progressing for developing a 13km stretch of NH-66 from Aroor and Thuravoor as a six-lane, elevated road. Centre will also develop 650km (of road) under 23 projects in Kerala as part of Mumbai-Kanyakumari Economic Corridor, Gadkari added. “As many as 227 blackspots were identified in NHs of Kerala and steps are being taken to reduce road accidents. Government is also considering the use of coir and jute for road construction,” he said. Vijayan said that Palarivattom flyover will be completed in May and steps will be taken to reduce the number of accidents by 50%. He also drew the attention of the Centre towards the construction of a ring road for Vizhinjam harbour. At the same time, there were some problems when Congress workers took out a protest march from General Hospital Junction to the venue of inauguration (Kalarcode) alleging that authorities hadn’t invited MP KC Venugopal and other Congress leaders for the event. Venugopal was Alappuzha MP from 2009 to 2019 and had worked for the project. Though his name was there in the guest list, he skipped the event saying that he was not invited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alappuzha-bypass-opened-for-traffic/articleshow/80515650.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||HAM operators help find Australian citizen lost on Kolkata streets||KOLKATA: A 69-year-old man of Indian origin, who was rescued from the streets of Kolkata a few weeks ago and admitted to the Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital, has turned out to be an Australian citizen. Thanks to amateur radio operators (HAMs), the Australian High Commission in India has been contacted and efforts are on to track down his records and family. The only document he possesses is the photocopy of a registration certificate, declaring him an Overseas Citizen of India (OCI). “A few days ago, health department officials, who know of our work in tracing down the families of lost people, got in touch and told us about the man. A plastic pouch was found in his possession but it was so dirty that doctors or nurses had not bothered to look inside. On our insistence, they did so and it came to light that the man is Ashoke Chakravorty from Sydney, Australia. He has been declared a consultant in the OCI certificate,” said Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary, West Bengal Radio Club (WBRC).  The HAMs got in touch with the ministry of external affairs as well as the Australian High Commission. At the same time, they checked out the local address in Birati, which was mentioned in the OCI certificate. It turned out that Chakravorty used to live there but sold the property several years ago and moved to Siliguri where he stayed at a rented accommodation with a woman from a northeastern state. It is also possible that Chakravorty worked at the branch of a nationalised bank in the Darjeeling district before moving to Australia. “We received calls from the Australian Deputy High Commissioner’s office. The officials spoke to the patient who speaks fluent English and says that he is from Australia but doesn’t remember his address there. When asked whether he seeks assistance, he demanded that he be united with his relatives in Australia,” an official at the state-run hospital said. When contacted, a source at the Australian Deputy High Commissioner’s office in Kolkata said that efforts are on to find out more about Chakravorty. According to Nag Biswas, Chakravorty has spoken of a daughter in Sydney but he is unable to give further details about his stay in India or correct address. Though he seems to be suffering from some mental disorder, Chakravorty is not a lunatic, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ham-operators-help-find-oz-citizen-lost-on-kolkata-streets/articleshow/80518770.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Veda Nilayam now a memorial; veena, books big draws||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday inaugurated former CM J Jayalalithaa’s Veda Nilayam residence which will now be a memorial. The Madras high court on Wednesday allowed the opening ceremony but restrained the government from throwing it open to the public for now. The conversion of the residence spread out on a ten-ground plot, into a memorial, was one of the key demands of deputy CM O Panneerselvam for the merger of his erstwhile faction with the EPS group in August 2017. On Thursday, Palanswami and Panneeselvam, along with ministers and senior party functionaries paid floral tributes to the portrait of Jayalalithaa kept on the portico. After a ribbon-cutting ceremony, the CM, along with cabinet colleagues stepped into the residence and lit the traditional lamp and took a tour of the house, reliving memories of the departed leader, a four-time chief minister.  The state government had kept on display the personal belongings of Jayalalithaa, including a veena painted in green and red, mementos and personal collection of about 8,400 titles, neatly catalogued behind the glass panels. Her bedroom has her writing table and a large TV screen. There is also her personal gym with a treadmill. “It has been the dream of partymen and that of people of Tamil Nadu to convert her house into a memorial, which has now been fulfilled. It showcases her greatness for future generations to see. For us, Amma (Jayalalithaa) is alive and she lives among us,” senior minister D Jayakumar said. People gathered in the bylanes leading to Poes Garden where Veda Nilayam is located. Disappointment was palpable in the crowd as a huge posse of policemen took position and barricaded the house. “We never got a chance to go to her house when she was alive and even now, we are not being allowed. It is our temple, but it seems unreachable,” said K Vasanthi Kumar, a functionary from Vadapalani. I Renis and his friends from Pattukkottai had to contend with taking selfies. V Krishnan and A Subramani, elderly partymen from Pallipalayam municipality controlled their anger as policemen yelled at them to move away. Tirunelveli MGR mandram joint secretary S Ramasubbu was hopeful of the state getting justice in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veda-nilayam-now-a-memorial-veena-books-big-draws/articleshow/80518803.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Hansa asking for CBI probe with ulterior motives: Maharashtra to Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The demand for a CBI probe into the TRP scam is “obviously made for ulterior motives,” said a reply filed by the state government and Mumbai police in the Bombay high court, which is hearing a petition by Hansa Research Group. The company had moved HC last year seeking orders to prevent police from harassing its executives and transfe r of the case CBI. The police in an affidavit said they are also investigating the role of Hansa officials, adding their complicity cannot be ruled out. The affidavit by an ACP said the petition filed by Hansa was a “complete abuse of law” and makes out no breach of fundamental rights whatsoever of the petitioner. The police denied “as totally false” Hansa’s allegation that it was being pressured to “name a particular channel.” Hansa Research was hired by Broadcast Audience Research Council or BARC to install barometers in select households to gauge TV viewing patterns. Arnab GoswamiThe affidavit said Hansa filed the petition when the probe was at a nascent stage and sought a stay “only after getting to know the development in the probe which revealed the possibility of involvement of the petitioners in the TRP Scam.” Police said, “Preliminary forensic audit report revealed that the holding company of Hansa Research has commercial interests with various TV channels, and that there have been suspicious transaction (sic) of Rs 32 lakh between Hansa Group company and ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd.” ARG Outlier Media operates Republic TV. And the “information was concealed from BARC and the police.” The police said to “confront the veracity” it had requested Hansa to join the investigations, however “instead of cooperating” they “started avoiding.” Republic TV is one of the channels being probed for TRP manipulationThe police said they did not exert pressure on Hansa to make a statement, denying a report aired by Republic TV was “a Hansa report.” Hansa had last year itself moved city civil court to restrain Republic TV from referring to “any internal document” of it as a ‘Hansa Report’, the affidavit said. Republic TV is one of the channels being probed for TRP manipulation. Police said Hansa has taken a “contrary stand” “after realizing that” police are “investigating the nexus between the petitioner and accused TV channels.” In its rejoinder, Hansa described the affidavit as one with “nothing but merely few denials and unsubstantiated, vague and superficial allegations.” It said lack of denial of harassment by Sachin Vaze (assistant inspector), named by Hansa as first respondent, “speaks volumes.” Hansa said it was “compelled by unwarranted pressures and harassment to move HC for an independent investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hansa-asking-for-cbi-probe-with-ulterior-motives-state-to-hc/articleshow/80523110.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Pench STPF fire in air to quell attack by fishermen, 1 arrested||Nagpur: The Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) patrolling staff had to fire in the air in self-defence to quell the attacking fishermen who had entered the Totladoh lake for fishing. As per the Supreme Court orders, fishing inside the tiger reserve is prohibited. The Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) has arrested one fisherman and seized 150 nets along with two boats. The incident occurred on January 27 evening and the operation to flush out the fishermen continued the whole night. The arrested fisherman has been identified as Akram Sheikh, a resident of New Totladoh (Wadamba) . Sheikh was produced before Ramtek judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), who granted him three days forest custody remand (FCR). According to officials, STPF men on Wednesday saw a group of fisherman in 7-8 boats fishing in Totladoh reservoir. The patrolling staff chased these fishermen and arrested one of them. On learning about the incident, Deolapar PSI Govind Punjarwad and RFO Mangesh Tate reached the spot with additional force. They found that the illegal fishermen had set the forest on fire in compartment number 530 in the East Pench range. The police and the forest force launched an offensive against the fishermen who threw stones at them. The forest staff had to resort to firing in self-defence. Deputy director Amlendu Pathak and ACF Atul Deokar are investigating further. Earlier on November 2, 50-60 fishermen had attacked patrolling staff and set on fire their boats. Poacher’s bail rejected The Umred JMFC has rejected the bail application of tiger poaching accused Diwakar Nagekar from Navegaon Sadhu village. The accused had poisoned four tigers by spraying insecticide on a cattle carcass on December 26 inside Umred-Karhandla-Paoni Wildlife Sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pench-stpf-fire-in-air-to-quell-attack-by-fishermen-1-arrested/articleshow/80515680.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 29, 2021||Goa||Goa’s debt jumps by 52% in last 3 years||PANAJI: A spurt in infrastructure projects coupled with a sharp drop in income has seen Goa’s debt jump by more than 50% in the last three years from Rs 12,395 crore as of March 2017 to Rs 18,844 crore in December 2020. The rise in the government’s outstanding debt has also shown a corresponding increase in interest payments with a 30% jump from Rs 925 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 1,204 crore in 2019-20. Data provided by chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is also finance minister, shows that since 2012, when BJP formed the government, Goa has sold state securities worth Rs 14,514 crore. The state also admitted that it was selling bonds in order to repay loans taken earlier and which have come up for redemption. “Some loans have been taken to service previous loans to reduce the effective interest rate by restructuring,” the finance department said in response to a question raised by the opposition during the on-going assembly session. Goa’s interest outgo on the loans stood at Rs 925 crore in 2016-17, Rs 997 crore in 2017-18, Rs 1,094 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 1,204 crore in 2019-20. Goa’s total debt as of December 2020 is 18,844 crore, which includes Rs 1,146 crore received as loans and advances from the Centre and Rs 15,064 crore as market borrowing. “It can be seen that the government is in a bad shape when capital borrowings are used to repay loans instead of infrastructure works,” said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. In 2020, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India had expressed apprehension that debt repayment will strain the Goa government's budgets in future, and suggested that it work out a strategy to avoid a debt trap. The CAG had observed that most of Goa’s fresh debt was being used to repay earlier liabilities. The CAG also said that Rs 7,093.4 crore, which is 52% of the total public debt, would be repayable within the next seven years. Concerned over Goa’s increasing debt liability, CAG recommended that the state government consider creating a ‘debt sustainability framework’. Ponda MLA and former PWD minister Ramakrishna Pandurang Dhavalikar questioned the variance in interest for various loans taken by the government. “The budget speaks about Rs 3,000 crore for PWD, but it utilised just Rs 600 crore. Where did the money go? The government is just paying loans and interest,” said Dhavalikar. “I am not saying don’t take loans, but why is the interest rate at such a high variance?” The opposition slammed the government for doing little to plug revenue leakages while increasing the state’s debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-debt-jumps-by-52-in-last-3-years/articleshow/80523290.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ludhiana||CETP share row: PPCB begins probe into allegations||Ludhiana: In what can be termed as a fallout of the tiff among the members of the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) over the alleged irregularities in the share allotment for treatment of dyeing water in the under construction common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Tajpur, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has started a probe into the allegations being levelled by some members. Speaking to TOI on the condition of anonymity, a senior official of the PPCB said, “The work on the 50MLD CETP at Tajpur is going on smoothly and a team of our officials is keeping a constant watch on the progress of the project so as to ensure that it’s operational soon. A business association has been entrusted with the task of allocating shares in the treatment of dyeing water to the interested members according to their monetary contribution. But recently, some of the members have come forward to claim that they have not got rightful allotment in accordance with their monetary contribution. They are also claiming that some members who made similar contribution were given more shares than them.” The official added that, “So, as per the directions from our higher authorities we have started probing this matter and as of now the entire process of allotment of shares by the business association, consent and other related aspects are being examined by us. Once we receive the report from the investigating team, we will evaluate it and if the shares have not been allotted properly by following the due process, then action will be taken as per law.” Meanwhile, Bobby Jindal, president of the PDA, said, “We welcome any kind of probe by the PPCB into the frivolous allegations levelled by some of our members, who are totally ill-informed about the entire matter. Findings of this probe will be in our favour as allocation of share has been done as per rules and there is no disparity in the allotment of the shares to the persons making the same amount of contribution. In fact, this will further acknowledge the fact that the working of the PDA is totally transparent and fair.” He added that, “However, we also request the PPCB to not to go ahead with its new rule to allocate 11% shares of the CETPs to scattered industries, which is totally unjustified. We are giving one week’s time to the PPCB to cancel this decision or else we will take up this matter with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the department will then have to face embarrassment as it is acting against the rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cetp-share-row-ppcb-begins-probe-into-allegations/articleshow/80515676.cms||Mohit Behl
January 29, 2021||Kochi||Delayed winter in Munnar gives tourism a leg-up||IDUKKI: The hill station of Munnar is experiencing a delayed winter due to the change of pattern of the winter season. The normal winter season starts in November with temperatures dipping below zero degrees Celsius by the first week of January. But this year, in the first week of January, winter eluded the hill station. But for the past three days Munnar has been experiencing sub-zero climate. Latchmi Estate recorded -1 degrees Celsius on Thursday while it was 1 degrees Celsius at Munnar UPASI and Chenduvarai. On Wednesday, Nallathanni, Chenduvarai, Seven Malai and Silent Valley experienced zero degrees Celsius. The lowest temperature recorded in Nallathanni Latchmi, Seven Malai and Silent Valley respectively was 0, -1, 0 and 2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday as per the data from United Planters Association of South India (UPASI) tea research foundation. The mercury started dipping by the end of December and the temperature later increased with the unexpected January rains. For the past three years, Munnar has been experiencing a change in the winter pattern. Climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil said, “Munnar experienced a long winter in 2019 February and many reasons were cited for the phenomenon. This year, Munnar missed the winter in the first week of January due to unprecedented rains. The state received over 100mm rainfall during that period while the earlier record for the period was 90mm.” “The winter pattern changed due to the unexpected rainfall. Once the rains recede, the hill station experiences winter. Now, we can’t predict for how many days the winter will last,” said Cholayil. However, the late arrival of winter has provided an extra boost to the tourism sector in the district. District tourism promotion council (DTPC) secretary in-charge Gireesh P S said, “After the lockdown Idukki district emerged as one of the main tourism destinations in the state. In 2019, a total of 2,47,392 tourists visited the district. Post-lockdown, 1,41,396 tourists visited the district and the district recorded over 70% tourist inflow while comparing with last year.” “After lockdown, more Malayali tourists seem to have chosen destinations in Idukki,” the official added. Eravikulam National Park range officer Job J Neriamparampil said that 2,581 people visited the park on Republic Day alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/delayed-winter-in-munnar-gives-tourism-a-leg-up/articleshow/80515677.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Docs, Samaritans launch portal in memory of Covid-19 victims||Hyderabad: As India enters the second year of grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, a group of Good Samaritans and doctors from across the country have come together to start an online portal in memory of the people who succumbed to Covid-19. With as many as 1,53,847 people having succumbed to the pandemic nationally, the memorial might give a much-needed closure to many families and friends. The portal allows family members and friends to write a blog, tell their stories and post photos of loved ones who have departed. These require authentication and the portal is set to go live later this week. Telangana has so far lost 1,594 people to the pandemic and many heart-wrenching stories of people not being able to say good bye to their loved ones have come to light. This initiative is gaining momentum. Among doctors from the city who have joined the initiative, Dr P Raghu Ram, a Padma Shri awardee and director, KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases, who is also advisor, Covid Care Network said, “We have put together this initiative hoping to bring in an emotional closure to many who are grieving their loved ones lost to Covid-19. Also, this will be a memoir for the people who lost their lives to Covid.” “During the initial days of the pandemic, people who were dying of Covid were denied the cultural sensitivity and possibly the dignity that a person who is existing in the world should get. While this was not allowed scientifically, it was the most painful circumstance. Families could not see their loved ones one last time, relatives were not allowed to pay homage to their loved ones. It was the scientific cost of the pandemic and we thought we should create a space where these incomplete feelings can keep them alive and respect can be paid to them,” said Dr Abhijit Chowdhury, mentor, Covid Care Network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-samaritans-launch-portal-in-memory-of-covid-19-victims/articleshow/80523244.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Mercury slides to 13°C in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A sharp chill descended on Kolkata on Thursday even as the northwesterly wind gained momentum, pulling the minimum temperature down to 13°C. While a low-pressure trough in the region may pull the temperature up on Saturday, the mercury will slide yet again on Sunday and may settle between 13°C and 14°C till February 2, said the Met officials. “This chilly spell is set to last for almost a week, with a day’s interval in between. The northwesterly is flowing in unobstructed again, which has intensified the chill. It will be partially blocked on Friday night that may pull the minimum temperature up for a day. But the chill will return within 24 hours,” said Regional Meteorological Centre director G K Das. A low-pressure trough will form in the eastern region and generate clouds that may float into Kolkata and south Bengal late on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mercury-slides-to-13c-in-kol/articleshow/80518949.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||14-year-old tiger found dead in Bhadrawati range||Chandrapur: A full grown tiger was found dead in Bhadrawati range late on Thursday evening. Forest officials have ruled out poaching and suspect that the tiger has died of old age. Sources claimed the male tiger was around 14 years old and was not able to hunt properly. The carcass was found in compartment number 210 near Chiprala village during routine patrolling. On getting information, a team led by in-charge RFO Rathod reached the spot and took charge of the carcass. Later, DFO Sarita Jagtap and ACF Shriniwas Lakhmawad too visited the spot. As it had grown quite dark, it was decided to carry out post-mortem on Friday morning. Officials have posted guards and laid camera traps around the carcass for overnight vigil. Foresters have been keeping a close watch on the old tiger for over a year following its dwindling physical condition. “All the body parts are intact, which rules out poaching. It was a well known tiger in the area and apparently died of old age,” CCF, Chandrapur, NR Pravin told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/14-year-old-tiger-found-dead-in-bhadrawati-range/articleshow/80515704.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Cyber criminals held with data of 27,000 people||MUMBAI: Cyber police busted a four-member gang of African nationals which duped a 30-year-old Chembur resident of Rs 17 lakh in an employment fraud. The accused were arrested from Pune. Investigators seized a laptop which contained data of 27,000 people from 48 countries and passport details of around 2,500 people. Police suspect the racket is widespread and efforts are on to establish the number of people duped so far. “We have got one hard disk containing the data of 27,000 people collected over the past eight to nine months. The accounts of 64 people in 12 nationalised Indian banks were used. We are verifying who these people are. The account holders are from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam and other states,” said police. The accounts reflect transactions to the tune of around Rs 2.75 crore collectively. Police have also found two foreign accounts — in UAE and Nigeria—where transactions of around Rs 10 crore were carried out. Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime), said the complainant, who was working in the city, had uploaded his bio-data on various job portals. “He received an email where the sender offered him a job at Hotel Hilton in Canada. The sender later sent an email confirming the appointment,” said Bharambe. The victim was given a phone number and told it belonged to a diplomat named Mark Brown. When the victim communicated with the individual who identified himself as Brown, he was asked to deposit a job processing fee, visa fees etc to a bank account. The unsuspecting victim deposited around Rs 17 lakh in several installments. The man then asked him to furnish an RBI clearance certificate. When the victim contacted an acquaintance for information about the certificate, he was told RBI does not issue any such certificate. Suspecting something fishy, he approached the police and an FIR was subsequently registered. BKC cyber police led by DCP Rashmi Karandikar nabbed three Nigerian nationals and a Sierra Leone national. Those arrested are Ogunsakin alias Michael Olayeni (32), Sotomiwa Thompson (25), Opeyemi Ogunmoroti (26) and Augustin Williams (22). They were remanded in police custody till January 29. “Two of them were here on student visas. The passport and visa of another accused has expired,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cyber-criminals-held-with-data-of-27000-people/articleshow/80523197.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Auto driver returns bag with Rs 20 lakh gold, felicitated||CHENNAI: A Chromepet resident who left behind 50 sovereigns of gold jewellery worth more than Rs 20lakh in an autorickshaw on Wednesday evening, after his daughter’s marriage, got it back within hours thanks to the driver. Police later felicitated the autorickshaw driver Saravana Kumar. After the wedding at a hall in Chromepet, a police officer said, Paul Bright, a businessman, was going home in an auto carrying the gold jewellery in a bag and was busy talking over the phone throughout the journey. After he got off at his residence, Saravana Kumar collected the fare and took off. A little while later, he noticed the bag on the back seat and was wondering about how to return it to its owner. He didn’t have Paul’s phone number. In the meantime, Paul and his family members noticed the bag missing and panicked as they were preparing to send the bride to her in-laws’ house. He immediately lodged a complaint with the Chromepet police, but could not recall the auto’s registration number. A case was registered and police checked the footage from cameras along the routes he travelled and managed to locate the autorickshaw. They found the vehicle was registered in the name of Saravana Kumar’s sister. Before a police team could reach the spot along with Paul, the driver reached the station with the jewellery. It was handed over to Paul who was in tears, said the officer. Police personnel at the station presented a bouquet to the autorickshaw driver who, however, did not think too much about his act. “I panicked on seeing the huge jewellery bag. I know honesty will help me till my life ends. I have never overcharged my passengers,” said Saravana Kumar.  Another officer said it was rare to see such honesty in these times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/auto-driver-returns-bag-with-rs-20lakh-gold-felicitated/articleshow/80519020.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||MSRTC drops plan to start Tadoba bus||Nagpur: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC)’s plan to start bus service to Tadoba has been called off due to a feasibility issue. A survey by the MSRTC found that the service would be economically unviable. MSRTC divisional controller Nilesh Belsare told TOI, “The survey found that most tourists book tickets online and the travel plans are made beforehand. Many tourists are from big cities, who arrive by flight to Nagpur and their travel plans are arranged by the tour operators well in advance.” He added, “Even if we start the bus, we will only get routine passengers travelling to places like Umred, Bhisi, Chimur, and Sindewahi. This defeats the very purpose of starting the bus, especially for Tadoba tourists.” The BJP MLA from Chimur, Kirtikumar (Bunty) Bhangadiya, on January 22, had asked the division office to immediately start a bus to Kolara and Madnapur for tourists from Nagpur. Accordingly, MSRTC Nagpur division had planned to launch the bus from Nagpur to Kolara-Madnapur and further to Navargaon and Sindewahi through Bhisi-Umred-Chimur, from January 24. Belsare said, “We want a bus on the lines of the one which has started for temple tourism in Nagpur district. It is pulling a good crowd. We have informed the MLA that the bus will be unviable.” TOI had earlier reported that the tourist bus in its present form will not work. The MSRTC had proposed to start the bus at 6.30am and the return timing was 5.30pm. Both the timings would not have benefited either the morning safari or the afternoon safari tourists. During summers the morning safari starts at 6am and ends at 10am, while the evening safari starts at 2pm and ends at 6.30pm. Sandeep Dahat, a regular visitor to Tadoba said, “Most of the tourists visiting the park from Kolara are from Nagpur. MSRTC should start the bus at 10.30am so that it reaches the Kolara gate before the start of the safari at 2pm. The same bus should pick up the tourists at 6.30pm after the evening safari.” During the intervening period, Dahat added, “The bus should operate between nearby towns of Chimur and Sindewahi. It will give double benefit to the public transporter. MSRTC should think about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msrtc-drops-plan-to-start-tadoba-bus/articleshow/80515702.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Med, dental colleges to reopen on Feb 1 after Covid-19 break||Hyderabad: After a hiatus of almost 10 months, all medical and dental colleges are set to reopen from February 1 following permission from the Telangana government recently. The Kaloji Narayana University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS), on Thursday, issued a notification informing students and principals of affiliated colleges that they can reopen in a phased manner. As per the detailed guidelines colleges will commence classes for students of final year and those appearing for their first year exam, initially. “Colleges may plan opening the campuses to conduct classes in two shifts/by rotation of batches, with such activities where they can easily adhere to social distancing, use of face masks and other protective measures. This may include administrative offices, research laboratories and libraries etc.,” stated the guidelines. Colleges have been asked to prepare details of opening the campus in a phased manner with a complete roster of all departments and batches of students in different years of study. Teaching hours in a day may be extended to accommodate students in batches, as per requirements of the college. Theory lectures will continue online till the Covid-19 situation improves, the circular stated. “We have asked all colleges to prepare a plan for completion of clinical postings and practicals in a short period to facilitate conduct of final year examinations as per the proposed schedule of National Medical Commission,” said V Karunaker Reddy, vice-chancellor, KNRUHS, adding that the time-table and modalities to conduct exams will be reviewed once institutions reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/med-dental-colleges-to-reopen-on-feb-1-after-covid-19-break/articleshow/80523337.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||After two years in jail, man granted bail in Pocso case||MUMBAI: After spending more than two years in jail on allegations of sexually assaulting his 12-year-old neighbour, a 48-year-old man was granted bail after a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act observed that his act of slapping and pulling the child’s hair for making noise outside his door suggested that there was no intention to molest her. “Though I am not deciding the matter on merit, but prima facie record shows that there was no sexual intention on the part of the applicant. Also, he is in custody since November 16, 2018, which is considerable time,” the court said. Opposing the bail plea, the prosecution submitted that he could pressure the child and witnesses. The court told the accused not to threaten or harm to the child and her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-2-yrs-in-jail-man-granted-bail-in-pocso-case/articleshow/80523344.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mercury in Ahmedabad dips to 9.9°C||AHMEDABAD: The minimum temperature in Ahmedabad fell below 10 degrees celsius on Thursday, with the mercury touching 9.9 degrees, 3 degrees below normal. The city was the seventh coldest place in the state after Naliya (4°C), Keshod (8°C), Gandhinagar (8.2°C), Deesa and Kandla (8.8°C), and Rajkot (9.6°C). According to the India Meteorological Department, the minimum temperature on Friday will likely to be around 11°C in Ahmedabad. ‘No large change in minimum temperature during next two days likely over the region, thereafter a rise by 2-3 degrees celsius in subsequent 2-3 days,’ the forecast for Gujarat states. The IMD also issued a severe cold wave warning for Kutch and Keshod in Junagadh for January 29 and 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mercury-in-city-dips-to-9-9c/articleshow/80519074.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||MahaMetro to complete Navi Mumbai Metro Line 1||Nagpur: In a major achievement for MahaMetro, the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) has chosen it to complete the 11.1 kilometre Line 1 of Navi Mumbai Metro. Work on it had been started by Cidco years ago but it is still not complete. Cidco said in a press statement that due to the pandemic situation and some technical issues, the development work of six stations out of total 11 on Line 1 has not been executed at expected speed. Therefore, Cidco has decided to appoint MahaMetro to complete the work. MahaMetro is already executing Metro projects in Nagpur and Pune. “It is a matter of great pride for us that we were chosen by Cidco over other agencies like Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) etc for completing Line 1,” said a MahaMetro official. Sanjay Mukherjee, vice-chairman and managing director (VCMD) of Cidco, tweeted, “Cidco has been examining the issue of Navi Mumbai Metro and has decided to focus on its competences and bring in the best in the field to buttress its capabilities. Hence, it has decided to give MahaMetro the task of engineering and construction.” This is the first time that Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has given extra work to MahaMetro. Till now it was BJP leaders Nitin Gadkari and Devendra Fadnavis who asked MahaMetro to do outside jobs. Earlier, Thane Municipal Corporation had asked MahaMetro to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) of MahaMetro. The report is nearing completion. Fadnavis had also asked MahaMetro to execute the Nasik Metro project. The DPR for this Metro has been submitted to the state government for approval. MahaMetro’s design has tremendously reduced the cost of Nasik Metro, which has been appreciated by union ministry of housing and urban affairs. Besides these, Gadkari has asked Metro to execute several development projects in Nagpur. RECORD RIDERSHIP ON R-DAY MahaMetro broke all previous records to establish a new ridership benchmark on Republic Day. The total ridership of Reach I and III was 56,406. The previous best ridership figures reached by MahaMetro was on December 27, 2020, when the ridership was 22,123. With Republic Day figures, Maha Metro has overtaken many other Metro services in terms of ridership. In fact, given the trend for some time now, MahaMetro ridership has been continuously on the rise. Considering these factors and anticipating this commuter rush, MahaMetro had extended travel time by more than an hour on January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahametro-to-complete-navi-mumbai-metro-line-1/articleshow/80515715.cms||Ashish Roy
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||NMC auctions 110 scrapped city buses for Rs1.84 crore||Nagpur: The cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) expects to receive Rs1.84 crore after it auctioned 110 defunct buses to multiple online bidders. The buses were owned by ousted city bus operator Vansh Nimay Infraprojects Ltd (VNIL), which had procured these vehicles in 2007-09 for about Rs28 crore. Due to poor maintenance, the buses started developing problems and within a couple of years were left defunct. The NMC had appointed three members from Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation to help it auction 228 scrapped buses, which have remained idle for more than a decade. While 110 buses were parked at Jaitala, the remaining were stationed at private places in Teka Naka. As per the advise of MSRTC’s expert panel, the NMC decided the offset value of spare parts of the scrapped buses at Rs1.03 crore. The civic body further increased the price by 10% and kept Rs1.13 crore as the reserve price for auction of the 110 buses. During the online process, conducted on Thursday, the buses were auctioned for total Rs1.83 crore, informed a senior official from the department. The officer pointed out that NMC cannot claim the money right now as VNIL has approached the court and currently the case is under arbitration. The ousted operator had even defaulted on mandatory government taxes (RTO dues) to the tune of Rs7.86 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-auctions-110-scrapped-city-buses-for-rs1-84-crore/articleshow/80515713.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Holding Tricolour, 50-odd locals ask farmers to vacate the road||NEW DELHI: Around 50 people holding the Tricolour in their hands staged a protest near the police barricades at Singhu border on Thursday. The protesters, who claimed they were residents of the neighbouring villages, demanded that the agitating farmers vacate the road, the site of their movement for over two months. The group claimed not only to be facing daily inconveniences due to the closure of the border, but were also aggrieved by the farmers “insulting the national flag. Soon after the villagers arrived at Singhu border, a few farmers formed a human chain near the barricading. Jagmandeep Singh, a farmer from Ropar, said, “The human chain was a precautionary measure. We stood between our farmers and the protesters because we did not want them to clash. After the turn of events on January 26, we didn’t want to take any risk.” While Gursab Singh of Amritsar, alleged that the locals had been spurred to protest by the central government and the farmers would cease their movement, local resident Satendra Kumar of Khempur village, said, “We want the farmers to vacate Singhu border as their stir has affected the traffic movement here for two months. We also felt hurt when the farmers hoisted another flag atop Red Fort. We will continue to protest till the farmers return to their villages.”Another local, Amit Kumar, had a specific grievance. “I own a grocery shop in Bakholi village,” Kumar said. “The farmers’ agitation has affected supplies for my shop since they mostly come from wholesalers in Haryana.” Asked on why the locals were objecting to the farm strike after two months, Suresh Singh said, “I live in Narela, but work in a farmhouse near Singhu border. I now have to walk an extra 2km to reach my work place. Moreover, we do not want to support farmers after the violence they indulged in on Republic Day.” The angry locals also claimed they had gone to meet the farmers to request them to call off their protests, but they had refused to hear them out. Later in the day, Vishnu Gupta of Hindu Sena claimed that his organisation, along with locals, had staged the protest at Singhu border. However, when TOI spoke to Suresh, he denied the role of Hindu Sena in Thursday’s protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/holding-tricolour-50-odd-locals-ask-farmers-to-vacate-the-road/articleshow/80523456.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Thane: Seven-year-old boy abducted by mom’s partner||THANE: The Thane crime branch rescued a seven-year-old boy after he was kidnapped on Sunday by his mother’s live-in partner. The accused, Rinku Saroj (35), who hails from Uttar Pradesh, was arrested. An officer said the boy’s mother (30) was in a live-in relationship with Saroj. “He wanted her to come to UP with him, but she refused. In a fit of rage, he kidnapped her son on January 24, and planned to take him to UP on a train,” said assistant inspector Praful Jadhav. Sub inspector Ashok Mane got in touch with the railway police, who spotted Saroj with the boy on a train heading to UP. Saroj was nabbed and the boy was brought to Thane on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7-year-old-boy-abducted-by-moms-partner/articleshow/80523317.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 29, 2021||Thane||Thane: Seven-year-old boy abducted by mom’s partner||THANE: The Thane crime branch rescued a seven-year-old boy after he was kidnapped on Sunday by his mother’s live-in partner. The accused, Rinku Saroj (35), who hails from Uttar Pradesh, was arrested. An officer said the boy’s mother (30) was in a live-in relationship with Saroj. “He wanted her to come to UP with him, but she refused. In a fit of rage, he kidnapped her son on January 24, and planned to take him to UP on a train,” said assistant inspector Praful Jadhav. Sub inspector Ashok Mane got in touch with the railway police, who spotted Saroj with the boy on a train heading to UP. Saroj was nabbed and the boy was brought to Thane on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/7-year-old-boy-abducted-by-moms-partner/articleshow/80523317.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Duo arrested 2 for cutting birthday cake with sword||Nagpur: Ambazari police on Thursday arrested two youngsters, Aryan Bhende (19) and Rushab Kumre (21), for cutting a birthday cake with sword and uploading the video of it on Facebook. Police said Bhende, who wanted to establish his domination in the locality, had cut the cake at Hill Top auto stand. Cops were alerted after the post went viral. An offence has been registered against the two under the Arms Act at Ambazari police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/duo-arrested-2-for-cutting-birthday-cake-with-sword/articleshow/80515779.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Eight held for gambling at kitty party||AHMEDABAD: It was game’s up for members of a kitty party being run in a posh locality in Maninagar when cops raised the place and arrested eight women for gambling.  Interestingly, the owner of the bungalow is a 70-year-old woman, while the other accused are also above 50 years of age. Police said they had received information that an all-women gambling den had been operating here for about a month. Of those arrested, four are from Maninagar, one from Thakkarnagar, one from Vatva, one from Kubernagar and one from Krishnanagar area. The women, who were arrested under the gambling act, were released on bail later. Maninagar PSI A J Vanzara said, "The women used to organize such parties at different locations and indulge in gambling. At the bungalow, the kitty party was being held on the first floor. We seized Rs 25,000 in cash, 104 playing cards, six mobile phones and things used for gambling." Police said, "Such kitty parties have been going on in the area. Cops will now keep an eye for these activities."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-held-for-gambling-at-kitty-party/articleshow/80519159.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Bail to two in northeast Delhi riots case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court granted bail to two men accused in a rioting case where a car showroom in northeast Delhi was vandalised and the complainant suffered a loss of Rs 3.5 crore. Noting that the men — Asrar and Imran — were arrested nine months after the case was registered, the court directed them to maintain “peace & harmony” in their localities as a bail condition. “The investigation is complete and the chargesheet filed. No purpose will be served by keeping them behind bars, as the trial is likely to take longer,” said additional sessions judge Vinod YadavThe court said the men were entitled to bail on grounds of parity, for the role assigned to them was on identical footing as the other accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bail-to-two-in-ne-riots-case/articleshow/80523523.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Republic Day mayhem in Delhi - Police Story: How they braved odds||NEW DELHI: Tales of difficulties faced by police personnel during the clashes with farmers on Republic Day are now emerging. From facing sword-wielding protesters to two women inspectors hugging a tractor to stop it, telling its frenzied driver that they too were daughters of farmers, the cops had to think on their feet while managing the rampaging mob. Sub-inspector Dayanand of Mandawali police station, the man in the viral picture face to face with a Nihang Sikh brandishing a sword, was deployed near Akshardham when a mob charged at him. “It all happened within seconds, and my colleague was hit. The mob was equipped with swords and spears,” said Dayanand. “We maintained restraint as they broke down the barricades with tractors.” At ITO, police had to control a crowd of thousands. The reason why the ITO intersection had to be secured was to prevent protestors from entering the Lutyens’ zone housing important government establishments and places of historical importance. On receiving an emergency message, police personnel from South and South- East districts rushed to ITO. Since tractors jammed Outer Ring Road near Pragati Maidan, the cops almost jogged around 5km to reach the last barricade near Tilak bridge. And yet, the cops were outnumbered almost 1 to 5. “Quick coordinated action by a force that was highly motivated and dominated the area plus the accurate use of tear gas and stun grenades prevented the protestors from getting out of hand,” claimed Atul Thakur, DCP (South). “Our personnel on ground were hit and sustained wounds but managed to cover the flanks and used the barricades effectively.” While Thakur and other officers handled the crowd near Tilak bridge, RP Meena, DCP (Southeast), spoke to the farmers squatting on the road alongside a protester’s body. The farmer had died after his tractor overturned while trying to ram the police barricade. “It was difficult to convince the men to move the body,” said Meena. “So, we had to make arrangements to shift the group and so facilitate the crowd’s movement as well.” Unlike the harried cops elsewhere, at Chintamani point in Shahdara, the security was confident and brought the agitating farmers under control. “Initially, the tractors were on the permitted route, but then took a U-turn and came back near Apsara flyover. We persuaded the protesters to keep to the pre-decided route, but had to use mild force when they refused,” said Sanjay Sain, additional DCP (Shahdara). “It was purely our confidence that helped us in making them retreat. Trainee IPS officer Mridul also did a fabulous job in controlling the mob.” On Wednesday, Sain invited the officers involved for a cup of tea to thank them for their valour. A drone footage showed how the cops chased the protestors with lathis, while others deflated the tractor tyres, blocking the parade’s progress into unauthorised roads. Inspector Pushpalata, 59, and sub-inspector Suman stood undaunted in front of a tractor at Anand Vihar. They told the angry farmers that they too were daughters of a farmer. Pushpalata’s cold courage calmed down the farmers, and the duo was able to prevent the tractor from proceeding further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-story-how-they-braved-odds/articleshow/80523709.cms||Sakshi Chand
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Seven booked for smuggling gold||AHMEDABAD: Two customs superintendents and five others have been booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) allegedly for smuggling in gold, saffron, and gutka from Dubai and Abu Dhabi through the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport. The CBI acted on the basis of a complaint forwarded to them by the customs department in Ahmedabad. An FIR registered by the CBI on January 19 named customs superintendents Somnath Chaudhary and Sujeet Kumar, both earlier posted with the air intelligence unit, as accused. The others named are Sajahan Chowdhary, Shahidul Chowdhary, Mohammed Mansuri, all from Valsad, Mohammed Azam from Mumbai and Shamim from Dubai. The CBI FIR mentions that sanction under section 174 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 has been obtained to investigate the offences against the two customs officials. Senior CBI officials said they had received a written complaint from the customs department that some unscrupulous persons based in Vapi had engaged carriers to smuggle in gold paste as well as 24-carat gold jewellery from Dubai and Abu Dhabi through Ahmedabad airport. The FIR stated, "The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had on June 27, 2019 intercepted Sajahan and Mansuri who had arrived by Etihad Airways flight EY-226. The DRI seized gold chains weighing 1.4kg, 1.8kg of gold paste from which 1.1kg of pure gold was extracted, 10kg of Iranian saffron and 4,000 pouches containing 4gm of gutka from them." The FIR mentioned that Sajahan and his brother Shahidul ran a jewellery shop in the name of M/s Tinkubhai Jewellers in Vapi and also had a gold refinery in Vapi. The smuggled gold was supposed to be delivered to Vapi. CBI sources said Sajahan, Shahidul, and Mansuri in association with Shamim and Azam have smuggled gold jewellery, bars, and other goods in commercial quantities worth crores through the Ahmedabad airport. "They had been doing this for months prior to their arrest in June under the Customs Act, 1962," said CBI sources. Role of customs officials: According to the FIR lodged by CBI, the smugglers were aided and abetted by customs superintendent Somnath Chaudhary, of the air intelligence unit for monetary gains. The DRI unearthed the money trail connecting the smugglers to Chaudhary during their investigation. "Circumstantial evidence linked the involvement of another customs superintendent Sujeet Kumar of AIU to the scam," said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-booked-for-smuggling-gold/articleshow/80519257.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Sakinaka cops reject bribe offer, nab online fraud accused in Raj jungle||MUMBAI: Sakinaka police on January 24 solved two online fraud cases with the arrest of two men from a jungle in Rajasthan. They allegedly siphoned Rs 20,500 from the credit card of a Marathi actress on September 27, 2019, after she tried to order wine by calling a number she found on the Internet. And a 22-year-old man lost Rs 33,000 that he paid to buy a bike on sale on OLX in June 2020 by a person posing as an Army man. While tracking phone details in both cases, sub-inspector Sunita Bhosale found a common link: The fraudsters were operating from Khohra Karmali village, Ramgarh (Alwar) Rajasthan. They upload their numbers on the Internet and with the help of an app communicate with victims to avoid arrest. They duped several persons of lakhs of rupees, police said. Bhosale travelled to Rajasthan with constable Sangram Jagtap and a cyber detection team and camped there for almost eight days before they caught Unnas Kammruddin Khan (38) on the night on January 23 for duping Harishwar Yadav by posing as an Army man. They took custody of Barkat Sahabbuddin (28) after he got bail in an attempt to murder case of December 2020. “The challenging part was to return safely after nabbing the two as there cops from Mumbai have been attacked by villagers with stones and weapons in Rajasthan earlier,” Bhosale told TOI. Ruchita Jadhav (31) had lost money after she placed the order by calling Poly Wines in Andheri (E) in September 2019, while Yadav lost money during lockdown when he tried to buy the bike. “The villagers tried to lure the team with money,” said a police officer. Zonal DCP Mahesh Reddy supervised ACP Ramesh Nangare, senior inspector Balwant Deshmukh, Bhosale and the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sakinaka-cops-reject-bribe-offer-nab-online-fraud-accused-in-raj-jungle/articleshow/80523547.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 29, 2021||Delhi||New barricades placed at Singhu border to restrict farmers||NEW DELHI: Two days after the Republic Day mob rampage, the protesting farmers have been cornered at Singhu border. On Thursday, police put up new barricades and stopped the movement of private vehicles some distance from the border. Police deployment was also beefed up. The border was heavily barricaded two months ago when farmer protesters reached Delhi, but police had left a small passage free for people’s movement. That opening was barricaded on Thursday. Besides, vehicles from Delhi were earlier allowed to go up to the toll plaza. The road was blocked a few kilometres from the protest site to bar private cars, and only government vehicles were allowed to pass. People, however, were permitted to walk towards the toll plaza. Things were subdued at Singhu, and unlike on other days, the various langars had emptied out by 3pm. The tent in front of the protest dais was half empty in the afternoon. Some protesters there conceded that many local residents who had been extending their support to the farmers hadn’t turned up on Thursday. Gurdeet Singh of Devinagar village in Patiala added that a large number of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh who had come only for the tractor parade had returned. “However, the farmers who have been camping at Singhu border for nearly two months continue to remain there,” he added. Another farmer explained that Delhiites could not cross the new barricades, leading to the thinning of the crowd at Singhu. “However, this will have no impact on our movement because scores of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are going to join us soon.” Gurpreet Singh of Gurdaspur also insisted, “The January 26 incident has not dampened the spirit of the farmers. We will leave the border only when our demands on the repeal of the three laws are met.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-barricades-placed-at-singhu-to-restrict-farmers/articleshow/80523497.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 186 new Covid-19 infections, one death||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 186 new cases of coronavirus and one death, even as the number of active cases further went down to 2,698 in the state. While the state has so far recorded 2,93,923 cases of coronavirus so far 1,594 people have died from the infection and 2,89,631 people have recovered from the virus. The recovery rate in the state went up to 98 percent, bettering the country's average of almost 97 percent. The case fatality rate (CFR) currently stands at 0.5 percent as against the country average of 1.4 percent. On Thursday a total of 31,119 samples were tested for the novel coronavirus infection, taking the total count of samples tested so far in the state to 77.6 lakh. With this, Telangana reached 2,08,474 sample testing per million population. Of the samples tested on Thursday, 66 percent were of primary and secondary contacts of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last couple of days. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 35 new coronavirus cases while Ranga Reddy recorded 15 cases, Medchal Malkajgiri district recorded 12 cases while Karimanagar and Warangal Urban recorded 11 cases each. All the four districts in the state did not record any case on Thursday, while the remaining recorded up to 10 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-186-new-covid-19-infections-one-death/articleshow/80523541.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Vandals damage 41 vehicles in Pune's Market Yard, assault and rob four||PUNE: A group of young men, armed with sharp weapons and iron rods, went on the rampage in the Ambedkarnagar and Baiil Bazaar slum pockets of Market Yard, damaging 41 vehicles, assaulting a local resident and robbing cash from two shops on the night intervening Wednesday and Thursday. Most of the damaged vehicles were three- and four-wheeler tempos and two-wheelers, police said. The apparently unprovoked attack caused tension and panic in the area, as people affected by the vandalism rushed to the Market Yard police station early on Thursday morning to raise their grievances. By then, the police had arrested four of the seven men involved in the attack and launched a hunt for the remaining three. A strong police bandobast was made in the area to check any untoward fallout considering that the most of the suspects were also local residents. Raju Gaikwad, a local resident, told TOI, “I was sleeping with my family members when we heard commotion outside our house around midnight. Initially we ignored it. But as I ventured out in the morning, I found my three-wheel tempo damaged. Somebody had damaged its windshield and mirror. I don’t have money to repair the tempo. The business picked up in the past few days after a long hiatus due to the Covid-induced lockdown. It’s a tough situation for me.” Senior inspector Duryodhan Pawar of the Market Yard police said, “We have arrested Kiran Vinod Thorat (25) and Sachin Parshuram Mane (22), both criminals on the police records with robbery and body offences to their names, and Sagar Anil Lokhanse (22) and Somnath Dnyandev Shinde (21). A search is on for their three aides. Mane is a resident of Maharshinagar. The other three arrested are residents of Ambedkarnagar.” Kalim Babu Shaikh (42), a local vada pav vendor, stated in his FIR lodged on Thursday that the armed men reached his handcart around 10.30pm on Wednesday and started threatening him with dire consequences. They collected Rs1,600 from the cash box of his hand cart and left the spot. Inspector Pawar said, “After collecting cash from Shaikh, the group proceeded to the other side of the area and assaulted resident Mustafa Sultan Shaikh (30). He sustained deep cut wounds to his cheeks and hands. The group then barged into a grocery shop and robbed cash from the counter. While moving around, they damaged the windshields of three- and four-wheeler tempos and two-wheelers with sharp weapons and rods.” Deputy commissioners of police Namrata Patil and Mitesh Ghatte visited the slum pockets to take stock of the situation. The police conducted a combing operation, which led to the arrest of the four men. Watch Pune: More than 60 vehicles damaged as 'drunk' miscreants go on rampage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vandals-damage-41-vehicles-in-market-yard-assault-rob-4/articleshow/80523612.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Omkar Group promoters remanded in ED custody||MUMBAI: A day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested the promoters of Omkar Group, Babulal Varma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, a special court remanded them in two-day ED custody on Thursday. The ED searched Omkar Group premises in a money-laundering case related with a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme at Wadala on which they took a Rs 410-crore loan from Yes Bank. The investigating agency alleged that Omkar Group had not started the SRA work and the documents relating to slumdwellers’ names were forged to claim more FSI for mortgaging the same with banks for taking loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/omkar-group-promoters-remanded-in-ed-custody/articleshow/80523483.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Assembly vs corporations: Delhi HC won’t interfere with order||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to interfere with an order staying the demand by a Delhi legislative assembly committee for certain financial information from municipal corporations. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said it was not going to interfere with the December 23, 2020 order of the single judge as it was only an interim direction and disposed of the appeal filed by the deputy secretary (committees) against the same. The high court noted that the interim stay was in operation till February 9, 2021, the next date of hearing before the single judge, and on that date, the committee representative could raise their contentions before the single judge. The single judge order had come on a petition moved by the chairman of the standing committee of South Delhi Municipal Corporation challenging a December 4, 2020 notice issued by the committee on municipalities calling for certain information regarding the accounts of the three municipal corporations. The single judge had observed that “a perusal of the documents sought for by the committee in the impugned notice would, prima facie, reflect their intent to exercise the powers of superintendence over the accounts of the MCDs.” The high court had in December last year also said that superintendence over accounts of the civic bodies was a power and duty conferred upon the corporations’ standing committee and the notice seeking information prima facie appears to be “infringing upon the separation of powers and self-governance” provided under the Constitution. In its appeal challenging the December 23, 2020 order, the deputy secretary contended before the division bench that the single judge did not have the power or the jurisdiction to interfere with a notice issued by a committee constituted by a legislative assembly. The plea contended that this would amount to interference with the legislative process. The next date of hearing before the single judge is February 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/assembly-vs-corpn-hc-wont-interfere-with-order/articleshow/80523580.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Bike rally spreads vax awareness||Hyderabad: To create awareness on Covid-19 vaccination and precautions to stay safe from coronavirus, over 25 bikers from Ekibrotom, a Hyderabad motorbike club organised a bike rally in the city. The rally held on Republic Day was flagged off at MG road and headed towards Tank Bund where the bikers created awareness by holding banners on promoting the benefits of Covid-19 vaccine. The banners carried slogans such as “Let’s fight Covid-19 together” and “Get a shot and get your life back to normal” to create awareness among the general public. Ekibrotom was founded in 2017 by Rohan Modi, a twelfth grader from Chirec International School, Hyderabad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bike-rally-spreads-vax-awareness/articleshow/80523634.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Daily Covid-19 case tally under 200 for seven time in January||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 199 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday — the seventh time the daily incidences count stood below the 200-mark in January. The positivity rate, meanwhile, stood at 0.34%. A total of 57,993 tests were conducted the previous day, which included 31,247 RT-PCR tests and 26,746 via rapid antigen testing. The Covid infection tally in Delhi currently stands at 6.34 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 10,835 with six new fatalities in the past 24 hours, authorities said. The active cases tally on Thursday rose slightly to 1,575 from 1,501 on Wednesday. The capital had recorded 96 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, its lowest in over ten months. In view of the falling number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the state government had on Wednesday ordered resumptions of surgeries, OPDs and other medical services at its state-run hospitals. This month, 585 Covid-19 cases were reported on January 1 and 494 on January 2; 424 on January 3; 384 cases on January 4; 442 on January 5; 654 on January 6; 486 on January 7 and 444 on January 8; 519 cases on January 9; 399 on January 10; 306 on January 11; 386 on January 12; 357 on January 13 and 340 cases on January 14. From January 15-26, the daily figures stood at 295; 299; 246; 161; 231; 228; 227; 266; 197; 185, 148 and 157, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daily-covid-19-case-tally-under-200-for-7th-time-in-jan/articleshow/80523650.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||‘To reduce pollution, must move to electric vehicles’||Panaji: The first public electric vehicle (EV) charging unit in the state was commissioned by chief minister Pramod Sawant at the assembly complex in Porvorim on Thursday. The 142 KW fast-charging station is the first among 12 public EV chargers to be set up. Sawant also flagged off two electric vehicles— a Hyundai Kona and Tata Tigor. Sawant said statistics have shown that with the rise in vehicles in the state there has been a rise in air pollution levels. “If pollution is to be reduced it is necessary to move to electric vehicles,” he said. The Goa government has signed an agreement with Energy Efficiency Services Limited for deploying electric vehicles to government departments and developing infrastructure for charging electric vehicles where Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) is the implementing agency, power minister Nilesh Cabral said. Chief secretary Parimal Rai said the government aims to have charging stations every few kilometres on highways and within city limits. “Goa’s policy has been to provide worldclass infrastructure and ecosystem for electric vehicles,” he said. Secretary power and new and renewable energy Kunal stated that the charging units will make charging electric vehicles hassle-free and convenient for consumers. Adoption of electric vehicles for daily commute is essential for a wide range of goals including better air quality, enhanced security, transition to clean energy sources and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, Mahua Acharya, CEO and MD CESL said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-reduce-pollution-must-move-to-electric-vehicles/articleshow/80523673.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 vaccine shots hit a record number, but percentage lower than before||NEW DELHI: A huge jump was witnessed in the number of healthcare workers turning up to get Covid-19 shots on Thursday. By the end of the day, 8,244 people were vaccinated, which was the highest single-day turnout till date. Compared with a day earlier, an additional 1,699 beneficiaries were inoculated. However, only 77.7% of the scheduled beneficiaries turned up for vaccination, lower than the past three sessions. The percentage reportedly dipped despite the record turnout because vaccination centres were increased from 81 to 106. A government official said the increment was part of the upscaling plan and slowly the number of vaccination centres would be increased to 176. For Thursday, the target of inoculation was 10,600. Among the 8,244 who got the jab, only 15 reported adverse events across the 11 districts. Four more centres were added in Central district, taking the total number to 13. “Now, vaccination is being administered at two centres in the hospital instead of one,” said Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, where 200 people were vaccinated and the turnout was 100%. A health department official said most of the 25 new vaccination centres came up in hospitals where vaccination centres already existed. “The additional centres have been created in the hospitals where 100% or more turnout was being reported. Some of them had witnessed a huge rush, while some saw people returning without getting the shot,” added the official. Hospitals with two or more centres will now have to ensure that they achieve the full target. “With more centres, the hospitals will be able to accommodate more walk-ins,” said an official. In all, 60 healthcare workers walked into Lok Nayak Hospital for the shots on Thursday. The overall turnout was only 53% on the first day, 44% on the second day, 48% on the third day and 73% last Thursday. Last Saturday, 86% of beneficiaries were vaccinated, 91.5% on Monday and 80.8% on Wednesday. The vaccination turnout is increasing because hesitancy is slowly decreasing and confidence is building among people, said an official. Among the 34 hospitals that reported 100% turnout, 10 were Delhi government facilities. Sundar Kumar, a nursing assistant who got vaccinated at a private hospital in Southwest district, said, “I have not reported any adverse event after vaccination. I will come to work tomorrow.” He had been infected with Covid-19 in April. Delhi government has taken a number of measures to promote vaccine acceptance among healthcare workers, including allowing walk-ins, counselling, getting feedback and mobilising them. After 2.5 lakh healthcare workers are vaccinated in the first phase, frontline workers like police personnel would be inoculated. A source said soon the government would allow frontline workers to get the shots. Minor adverse issues have been reported in only over 100 people among the nearly 48,000 people inoculated. Experts said it was routine for almost all vaccines to have some adverse events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vax-shots-hit-a-record-number-but-percentage-lower-than-before/articleshow/80523628.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||No funds, MVA government downs shutters of counter-insurgency, anti-terror school in Nagpur||MUMBAI: The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Thursday decided to shut the five-year-old Counter-Insurgency and Anti-Terrorism School (CIAT) at Nagpur citing that Maharashtra does not need such an institution as there are already several state-run organisations with the same purpose. Sources said after the Centre stopped financial assistance in 2017, Maharashtra struggled to run the school. In 2019-20, even the state stopped grants to the CIAT and later terminated the entire staff. The home department then sought advice from the finance department. “The finance department said that the state does not need such a school since there are several organisations working for the same cause,” deputy secretary Sanjay Khedkar said in the order issued by the home department. This is yet another decision of the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government overturned by the MVA. On December 17, 2016, the Centre decided to set up 25 CIATs, including one in Nagpur at Unconventional Operational Training Centre in Surabardi, at a total cost of Rs 52.4 crore. The purpose was to train police personnel to tackle insurgency in naxal-infested states, particularly Maharashtra, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. As per the agreement, the Centre was to provide finance and infrastructure, while the states were tasked with providing land for the schools. But the Centre decided to stop providing funds from March 31, 2017. For the next two years, the state managed to fund the school. But in 2019-20, when the MVA government came to power, grants were stopped. Calling it a wrong decision at a time when Maharashtra is witnessing a rise in violence by naxalites, a senior bureaucrat said home minister Anil Deshmukh must step in and stop the closure of the CIAT located in his hometown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-funds-mva-govt-downs-shutters-of-counter-insurgency-anti-terror-school/articleshow/80523804.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Vax infra scale-up: Delhi govt adds 25 new sites||NEW DELHI: Delhi government started the process of scaling up vaccination centres in the city by adding 25 new sites on Thursday even as the approval from the central government is awaited for taking up the number of sites to 175 for the time being. On Thursday, the vaccination drive was carried out at 106 sites while the drive had started with 81 sites on January 16. The government has drawn up a tentative list of 189 vaccination sites in the city as part of the scaling up exercise. From the 81 vaccination centres, the number of locations would go up to 144 and many of these would have multiple vaccination sites. The government plans to eventually scale up the number of sites to 1,000 to inoculate one lakh beneficiaries every day. The total 144 centres that have been finalised for the second phase of scaling up include many smaller hospitals, nursing homes, dispensaries, mother and child welfare centres, polyclinics and even diagnostic centres. Out of the total 25 new sites added on Thursday, South and Central districts added highest four sites each. The number of sites at both South and Central districts went up from nine to 13 on Thursday. While the number of sites is expected to go up to 24 soon at South district, the number is slated to go up to 30 in Central district, which has the highest number of registered healthcare workers — 34,653. “We have increased four sites today, which includes one additional site at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, two additional sites at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and one additional at Ambedkar Hospital,” a South district official said. Three additional sites each were added by authorities at West, North West and South East districts. “We have increased the number of sites from 11 to 14, which include one additional site each at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Janakpuri Super Speciality Hospital and Maharaja Agrasen Hospital,” a West district official said. The New Delhi district already reached its targeted vaccination sites of the second phase of scaling up as it increased the number from seven to nine. The North East district also added two additional sites, while East, Shahdara, North and South West districts added one additional site each on Thursday. By increasing the number of sites from six to seven, Shahdara district has almost reached its target of eight sites, while South West with 10 sites now is closer to the target of 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vax-infra-scale-up-govt-adds-25-new-sites/articleshow/80523697.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 29, 2021||Pune||Lanes must be widened as trees reduce carriageway: PMC||PUNE: If the corporation’s arguments TOI highlighted thus far justifying its controversial proposal to include the internal colony lanes in the list of nine-metre roads have not baffled you, this one will for sure: narrow streets should be widened because trees planted along them are reducing the carriage width. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s official road-widening proposal states, “In some places, the actual carriage width of the narrow streets gets further reduced due to on-street parking and trees planted along its sides.” The corporation also cited the growth in traffic on smaller lanes that link two major thoroughfares and the need to decongest the streets providing access to schools, gardens and other civic amenities, justifying its road-widening plan. Residents of “green canopy-covered” Chintamani Housing Society in Karvenagar are vehemently opposing the PMC’s move. “Our society is blessed with trees all along the internal road, which has a garden around it. We challenge the PMC to give us one logical reason for robbing us of our leafy surroundings,” the office-bearers of the society told TOI. The society comprises four bungalows and 24 apartments along a C-shaped road that overlooks a splendid garden. As many as 250 property owners on Thursday sent an official objection letter to the PMC, challenging the plan to widen their internal road. “I can understand if trees are required to be axed for widening a busy street that witnesses traffic congestion every day and where accidents occur. Is there such data available with the PMC regarding our internal lane?” asked Yogesh Deshpande, staying in the society for the last two decades. “The most dominant vehicles that occupy our lane for a major part of the day are the kids’ tricycles,” he sarcastically said. Another office-bearer of the society said, “We are not against development. But select the streets that need widening and have traffic issues. Kindly show us the traffic data or accident data or any assessment which forced you (PMC) to select this lane for widening.” He said, “We can show you hundreds of such lanes which face traffic issues and are not in the list. Someone must have invested in a plot here and wants to construct a high-rise. We need our trees, not wide roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-lanes-must-be-widened-as-trees-reduce-carriageway/articleshow/80523682.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||India slips 6 spots to 86th rank on global graft index||India’s ranking on the Corruption Perception Index–2020 slipped from 80 to 86 even as its score decreased only by one point to 40 from 41 in 2019. The index released annually by Transparency International ranks 180 countries by their perceived levels of public sector corruption according to experts and business people. It uses a scale of zero to 100, where zero signifies the highest level of corruption and 100 is very clean. Denmark and New Zealand topped the list with scores of 88, followed by Finland, Singapore, Sweden and Switzerland (85 each). Like in previous years, more than two-thirds of countries scored below 50, with a global average score of just 43. The data shows that despite some progress, most countries still fail to tackle corruption effectively, states Transparency International, a global civil society. Syria with a score of 14, Somalia and South Sudan with scores of 12 each occupy the bottom slots on the CPI-2020. The average score in the Asia-Pacific region, which encapsulates 31 countries, is 45. India’s score of 40 is below both the global average and the Asia-Pacific average. Pakistan, fared poorly with a score of 31 and a rank of 124. India’s score is also lower than that of China, which scored 42 with a rank of 78. However, Pakistan, fared poorly with a score of 31 and a rank of 124. In the Asia Pacific region, New Zealand was the top performer. Other top-scoring countries in this region were Singapore (85), Australia (77) and Hong Kong (77). In Asia, key economies such as India, Indonesia and Bangladesh with scores of 40, 37 and 36 respectively, experienced slow progress in anti-corruption efforts, with several government commitments to reform not yet materialising effectively, states the CPI-2020 report. According to Transparency International, CPI-2020 shows that corruption is more pervasive in countries least equipped to handle Covid-19 and other crises. “COVID-19 is not just a health and economic crisis. It is a corruption crisis. And one that we are currently failing to manage,” Delia Ferreira Rubio, Chair of Transparency International said. “The past year has tested governments like no other in memory, and those with higher levels of corruption have been less able to meet the challenge. But even those at the top of the CPI must urgently address their role in perpetuating corruption at home and abroad,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/india-slips-6-spots-to-86th-rank-on-global-graft-index/articleshow/80528502.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||UoH’s laser method to sort out plastic||Hyderabad: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) researchers have developed a low cost method for sorting plastic using laser based technique known as laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS). Every year, several million tons of plastic waste generated worldwide is leading to a landfill problem and their incineration polluting the environment. The increasing domestic and industrial plastic waste raises more concerns over recycling which offers an efficient solution to minimize waste output and reduces the usage of natural resources. The research team from UoH employed LIBS to generate data from different types of plastics. All samples were collected from a recycling plant to simulate the conditions of a real-time application. The generated data was combined with machine learning to identify the type of the unknown plastic. This system demonstrated successful identification of samples from plastic waste with an average accuracy of around 97 per cent. Their approach displayed potential in realizing a low-cost sorting system for plastic waste recycling. Research work “low-cost sorting of plastic waste” authored by Rajendhar Junjuri and G Manoj Kumar is published in Optics and Photonics News (OPN) review 2020 published by Optical Society of America. Each year, December issue of OPN highlights exciting optics research to emerge in the preceding 12 months. This year, 30 works were selected out of 115 summaries submitted by various research teams across the globe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uohs-laser-method-to-sort-out-plastic/articleshow/80523824.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Ramtekdi waste processing plant shut after fire, PMC to send garbage to nearby processing sites||Pune: Till the Ramtekdi garbage processing unit re-commences operation, the civic administration will temporarily send trash to a garbage plant in Hadapsar. The 75-tonne plant at Ramtekdi is currently non-functional because of last week’s fire. The civic authorities said they were expecting the plant to start functioning in the next three weeks and instructions had been issued to initiate steps in this regard. “Restarting the plant will take some days. For the time being, we shall send the garbage to the Hadapsar processing plant. The garbage will be processed at the mobile unit set up in the vicinity. We have asked them to ramp up daily processing. The administration is seeing how things can be worked out,” said an official. A huge fire engulfed the Ramtekdi trash processing plant on January 23, leading to shutting down of plant as the blaze damaged the machinery at the unit. Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “The administration is ensuring that maximum garbage is processed. We are looking forward to managing the daily processing by sending the garbage to other units.” The civic administration said it has also initiated steps to ascertain the reasons behind the fire at the Ramtekdi plant. “We are collecting relevant details to find out the reason behind the fire,” an official from the administration said. Altogether 11 fire tenders were deployed at the Ramtekdi plant, which primarily handles dry waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ramtekdi-waste-processing-plant-shut-after-fire-pmc-to-send-garbage-to-nearby-processing-sites/articleshow/80523717.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||Citroen rolls out 1st C5 Aircross SUV from Thiruvallur plant||Chennai: Citroën in India, has started commercial production and rolled out the first Citroën C5 Aircross SUV, from its manufacturing facility in Thiruvallur. The flagship SUV is the first product from the Citroën brand for Indian customers and is slated to be launched in this quarter. The start of production of the new Citroën C5 Aircross SUV in India has started after testing of the vehicle for over 2.5 lakh kilometres. Emmanuel Delay, executive VP, Stellantis & chairman, PCA Automobile India & PSA AVTEC Powertrain said, “We are excited to officially rollout the first Citroën C5 Aircross SUV, which will be the first of many differentiating products for India from the brand. There is a lot of market anticipation for the new Citroën C5 Aircross SUV. We are looking forward to welcoming the customers to the La Maison Citroën dealership network, which means ‘the home of Citroën’ in a few weeks from now, across key cities of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/citroen-rolls-out-1st-c5-aircross-suv-from-thiruvallur-plant/articleshow/80519330.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Expect chilly day in Delhi; Met issues yellow alert||NEW DELHI: A thick haze hung over the capital on Thursday even as calm winds led to poor visibility. Air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category. Delhi recorded an overall AQI of 357, according to Central Pollution Control Board. Agencies, however, forecast an improvement in the air quality by Friday. Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi recorded yet another cold day on Thursday, with the minimum temperature settling at 3.8 degrees Celsius — five degrees below normal for this time of the season. India Meteorological Department has forecast cold wave conditions over parts of the city on Friday, along with dense fog. The minimum is likely to hover around 3 degrees Celsius. “Yellow alert is in place for Delhi for Friday,” said a Met official. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 19.4 degrees Celsius —three notches below normal. The coldest location in Delhi on Thursday was Lodhi Road where the minimum fell to 3.4° C. Relative humidity, meanwhile, oscillated between 59 and 100% over the last 24 hours. Calm winds and drop in temperature have led to the deterioration in air quality. “AQI is likely to marginally improve to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days,” said SAFAR, a body under the ministry of earth sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/expect-chilly-day-in-city-met-issues-yellow-alert/articleshow/80523728.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Video of leopard in Najafgarh goes viral; animal still untraced||NEW DELHI: With a video of a leopard apparently captured on a CCTV camera in Najafgarh going viral on Thursday, a team of the forest department was sent to the village. However, forest officials said no pug marks were found. The video shows the animal appearing outside the main gate of a house, sitting there for a couple of seconds before moving down the street. A forest official said they were informed about the video on Thursday, following which forest rangers and other field staff in the west division were alerted. “A team was formed and asked to check the area. Till the evening, we hadn’t found any trace of the animal. Most people are also unaware of any such sighting,” he said. Delhi is no stranger to sighting leopards, often having strayed down either from the Aravalis and in cases, even along the Yamuna floodplain. In December 2016, a leopard was spotted at Yamuna Biodiversity Park in north Delhi. The animal was captured by the wildlife department and released in another state. Dr Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist-in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said leopards are adaptive and generalist feeders. “They can survive on rats, dogs and even garbage, so their detection takes time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/video-of-leopard-in-najafgarh-goes-viral-animal-still-untraced/articleshow/80523762.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bareilly||UP farmer's autopsy finds 'brain matter' spilled out of 'everted' wound||RAMPUR: The autopsy of the 24-year-old farmer from Rampur who had died after his tractor turned turtle during the Republic Day farmer protests in Delhi has found that he died of “shock and haemorrhage as a result of antemortem head injury.” The report, a copy of which is with TOI, lists six injuries — over the eyebrow, chin, skull, ear ossicles, chest and thigh — but the doctors who conducted the autopsy said they would not be able to comment on their nature. The family of the farmer, Navreet Singh, had alleged that he had died of a bullet which shot through his chin and came out near his right ear, after which the tractor turned turtle. “We were told by one of the doctors that the bullet injury is visible. After being assured, we cremated the dead body peacefully. We never thought we’d be cheated,” Inderjeet Singh, his uncle, said on Thursday. The report of the autopsy, conducted on January 27 at 2am, found “lacerated wound of size 2cmx1cm over left side of the chin, 1cm below left angle of the mouth,” adding that “margins are inverted and bone deep.” Another injury, the report said, was a “lacerated wound of size 6cmx3cm over right ear, margins are irregular and everted (inside out) right ear ossicles and brain matter is coming out from wound.” While the family said the latter was an exit wound, deputy CMO Manoj Shukla said, “It is possible upon accelerated collision with the floor.” The report also mentions “lacerated wound of size 2cmx1cm bone deep medial end of right eyebrow, margins are inverted,” and “traumatic swelling” over the skull. On the body, there were contusions on the chest and abrasion over the right thigh. The autopsy also found “free floating blood present in cranial cavity.” When asked about the nature of injuries, Dr Shukla said, “We cannot comment unless we have a true copy of the report.” He had signed the autopsy report. Inderjeet, meanwhile, said, “We want to mourn Navreet’s loss before taking further steps.” A senior government doctor based in UP said the family could seek assistance: “They could approach the National Human Rights Commission, who can ask for the video of the autopsy and cross-examine the doctors’ statement and opinion.” Inderjeet said they would take a call on that later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-farmers-autopsy-finds-brain-matter-spilled-out-of-everted-wound/articleshow/80514665.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Intelligent student, racer and activist’: Rs 32 lakh compensation to accident victim||NEW DELHI: A Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal has noted that a 19-year-old accident victim is an “intelligent student, racer, dancer, NCC cadet, actor and a social activist”, while awarding him Rs 32 lakh compensation for having suffered a permanent disability after being hit by a DTC bus in 2018. “The injured was a promising young boy of about 19 years and a student of Indian Institute of Computer Science, ministry of electronics & information technology. This disability would definitely affect his future prospects as well as his day-to-day movement,” said MACT presiding officer Atul Kumar Garg. The claimant, Ahsas, now 21, told the tribunal that he was crossing a road outside AIIMS when the bus, driven at high speed from the side of INA, hit him from the rear. He accused the driver, Ganeshi Lal, of driving in a rash and negligent manner. According to records placed before MACT, Ahsas was admitted in Safdarjang Hospital on June 22, 2018 and remained under treatment till June 30, 2018, with his left foot being amputated. The petitioner stated that owing to the surgery and consequent disability, he hasn’t been able to take part in physical activities, which he used to actively participate in. The DTC bus driver and the insurance company, with which the vehicle was insured, contested the claims of the petitioner to argue that the bus was being driven at a slow speed. The corporation, through its counsel, submitted that it was Ahsas who came in front of the bus. The tribunal, however, found “no meaning” in the submission and took into consideration the statement of a police officer who had visited the spot to observe that the driver was rash and negligent. The disability certificate before MACT showed the victim had suffered 50% permanent physical impairment in his left leg. “As a matter of rule, half of the functional disability of anyone of the limb has to be taken off for the purpose of calculation of future prospects. The MACT further quantified the prospective loss suffered by Ahsas owing to his disability to be Rs 18 lakh besides taking into account factors such as loss in education, special diet and cost of an artificial limb. Full foot silicone prosthesis has to be changed every five years. At least he would have lived upto 60 years, which is normal at present, and changed the full foot silicone prosthesis eight times — costing Rs 4.8 lakh,” it stated. Owing to his permanent disability, the tribunal considered it a case where the victim was incapacitated to perform normal activities in his day-to-day life in order to pursue his “talents, recreation interests, hobbies and evocations”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/intelligent-student-racer-and-activist-rs-32l-compensation-to-accident-victim/articleshow/80523816.cms||Aamir Khan
January 29, 2021||Goa||Classical music fest goes virtual, to be livestreamed||Panaji: The 40th edition of Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar Sangeet Samaroha is being held from January 29 to 31, at Kala Academy, wherein renowned vocalists and instrumentalists from the country are performing. It will be open to music lovers and the general public.The festival will be livestreamed in association with Kala Nation, Bengaluru, on all three days and will be available on YouTube and Facebook. CM Pramod Sawant is scheduled to inaugurate the festival at 5 pm after which vocalist Prachi Jathar will present classical vocal recital at 5.15pm, followed by an instrumental concert of sitar and Indian cello by Shubhendra Rao. The first day’s session will conclude with a classical vocal concert by Pt M Venkateshkumar, exponent of Kirana and Gwalior Gharana. On January 30, the session will begin at 10.30am with a classical vocal concert by Poornima Kulkarni, a Kirana Gharana Vocalist from Bengaluru and will conclude with an instrumental concert (Sarangi) by Momin Khan Niazi, a young Sarangi exponent. The evening session will begin at 4pm with a classical vocal concert by Kalyani Salunke, followed by classical vocal concert by Prabhakar Kashyap and Diwakar Kashyap. Ustad Faiyaz Wasifuddin Dagar from New Delhi will present his classical Dhrupad concert. The concluding instrumental Jugalbandi concert of carnatic music will be presented by Vidwan Shashank Subramanyam (Carnatic Flute) from Chennai, Vidwan Patri Satish Kumar (mrudangam) and Ojas Adhiya (tabla). On January 31, Anol Chatterjee will present a classical vocal concert at 10.30am followed by a classical vocal concert of Shalmalee Joshi. The next session of the Samaroha will commence at 4 pm wherein Prachala Amonkar will present her classical vocal recital. Following which, Pt Ram Deshpande from Mumbai will present a classical vocal concert followed by an instrumental concert (sarod) by eenowned exponent Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar from Kolkata. The festival will conclude with a classical vocal concert by vocalists’ brother duo of Banaras Gharana, Pt Rajan Misra and Pt Sajan Misra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/classical-music-fest-goes-virtual-to-be-livestreamed/articleshow/80523735.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||3 steal ornaments worth Rs 55L, held||Pune: Three persons, including a woman, from Karnataka were arrested recently on the charge of diverting attention of a jeweller by spilling oil on the bonnet of his car and stealing his bag containing silver ornaments valued at over Rs55.62 lakh in Sadashiv Peth on December 31 last year. The jeweller, Karan Mali (35) from Dehugaon, had parked his car near RCM College in Sadashiv Peth. The arrested trio — Shankar Achari, Yadgir Achari and Mary Naidu — and their accomplices diverted Mali’s attention, stole his bag and fled. Shankar, Yadgir and Mary are currently in magisterial remand in the Yerawada central prison. Senior inspector Rajendra Landge from the Faraskhana police said on Thursday, “We had initially identified one of the suspects from CCTV footage. We then analysed 700 cameras and searched for Shankar in an under-construction house in Saswad, but he was not there. We then obtained his cellphone number, traced his location in Karnataka and took him into custody.” Landge said, “We arrested Yadgir and Mary based on the information from Shankar. The trio told the police that they had given the bag with ornaments to the main suspect on the run. They also admitted to stealing a bag containing Rs7 lakh from Kothrud last year.” He said, “Investigations revealed that the suspects were running a gang and operating in states like Maharashtra and Bihar. They are using minors for spilling oil/throwing dirt on vehicles for stealing bags/cash by diverting attention of their owners.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-steal-ornaments-worth-rs-55l-held/articleshow/80523790.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Depleted Pune civic body may seek 11% property tax hike||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will start its budgetary planning for the forthcoming fiscal with just Rs 300 crore in its kitty from the ongoing financial year 2020-21. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar will present his budget on Friday. The civic body, which has suffered revenue losses due to Covid-19, has earned around Rs3,300 crore in the first three quarters of the current fiscal. Nearly Rs 3,000 crore has already been spent. The civic administration suffered revenue losses in major income sources like building permission and property tax. The amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters and efforts to recover money from pending rent from civic properties helped boost the income somewhat. Around Rs1,400 crore has been raked in from property tax, while nearly Rs300 crore has been generated from building permissions as well as development charges and nearly Rs40 crore has been collected as rent. The commissioner’s office is contemplating an 11% hike in property tax for generating revenue in the next fiscal. The standing committee and elected members may not approve the hike. The standing committee will present the final budget later. “Efforts should be on recovering the dues from defaulters of various schemes. The tax hike will not be a good option. We are not in favour,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of standing committee, said. Deepali Dhumal, leader of the opposition in PMC, too said additional tax will be injustice to the tax payers. “The lockdown and pandemic has caused financial loss to all citizens. Increase in the property tax will add to their problems. This hike is not justified amid these testing times,” she added. As per the PMC officials, revenue has fallen due to the lockdown and the coronavirus since March 2020. The administration has decided to reduce the expenditure on various projects due to poor income this fiscal. The decision to reduce 40% budget was taken after the directives from the state government. Only around 60% provisions in the municipal budget will be implemented till March 31, 2021. A five-member committee, including senior PMC officials, and elected members are keeping a check on expenses. “The reduction in budget has impacted civic works. The civic administration has taken efforts for proper utilisation of funds. Public funds have been saved. New proposals have been kept on hold and priority has been given to essential works. The diversion of funds has been done from second priority works to basic municipal necessities. Procurement of street furniture accessories like benches, garbage bins has been stopped,” Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner of PMC, said. Last year, Shekhar Gaikwad, who had taken charge as municipal commissioner, had proposed a 12% hike in the property tax in the draft civic budget for 2020-2021. Gaikwad tabled a budget for Rs 6,229 crore which was Rs 144 crore more than the previous year's budget of Rs 6,085 crore. He had said that the administration expected an additional income of Rs 150 crore from the proposed hike on property tax which will also be applicable to the cellphone tower companies, IT and ITES companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/depleted-civic-body-may-seek-11-property-tax-hike/articleshow/80523831.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to implement hybrid policy for hearings||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has decided to implement hybrid system of hearing on a trial basis, after testing for the same in the chief justice’s courtroom recently. The hybrid system allows proceedings to be held virtually as well as in the physical mode. Lawyers, who did not wish to attend physical proceedings, can appear virtually for cases. Cameras have been set up in the courtroom, which shows the judge and the lawyers who appear in person before the court. The hybrid system is expected to reduce delays in hearings, as it has the option for lawyers to appear physically or virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-to-implement-hybrid-policy-for-hearings/articleshow/80523900.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||JDA to audit EWS, LIG houses built under private schemes||Jaipur: The developers who have failed to construct houses for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and Lower Income Group (LIG) in their schemes as per the mandatory norms will be under Jaipur Development Authority (JDA)’s radar.The Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) Gaurav Goyal on Wednesday directed to constitute a panel of chartered accountants to audit the houses and plots constructed under various provisions of the Chief Minister Jan Awaas Yojana.The zone commissioners have also been directed to monitor the houses and plots constructed under the Chief Minister Jan Awaas Yojana.An official said, the civic body provide relaxation in land conversion, building map approval and other charges to developers for constructing houses for EWS and LIG category. In return of the benefits, the private developers have to develop schemes and invite applications by lottery in the presence of representative of local bodies.An official said, “The developers who have not followed the lottery allocation process, the relaxation provided by the JDA will be cancelled and all charges will be levied. Moreover, a penalty will be imposed. The zone commissioners have been directed to prepare the record of the defaulters and submit at JDA,” the official said.As per the township policy rules, builders or developers launching a group housing schemes or high-rise has to construct houses for EWS and LIG category. Till date, no project has been cancelled and developers who have defaulted have not initiated construction.Sources said, “Developers had shown apprehensions to construct houses for poor on premium land and schemes. Following this, relaxation was provided to construct houses for EWS and LIG category on some other project land. However, many have not adhered to the policy. This time JDA plans to impose heavy penalty,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-audit-ews-lig-houses-built-under-private-schemes/articleshow/80523907.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Pune civic body recovers Rs 479.09 crore in property tax arrears via amnesty scheme||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has recovered Rs479.09 crore from property tax defaulters through its amnesty scheme since October last year. A total of 1.49 lakh property owners took advantage of the scheme till its deadline on Tuesday. The civic body has waived Rs211 crore of the penalty amount. “The PMC’s income had reduced because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body had introduced the scheme to ensure revenue generation. The initiative aimed at recovering property tax from those who had not paid it for years,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the civic standing committee, said. As per the PMC, around 10.6 lakh properties are in its property tax net. The number of properties increased in 2017 after the inclusion of 11 villages in the civic limits. Around 2 lakh properties were added to the tax net after the merger. The civic administration has given the defaulters many opportunities to come forward and clear their dues, a PMC official said. The amnesty scheme was introduced a few times, giving a waiver on the penalty amount. The scheme started in October last year. PMC offered 80% discount in the property tax penalty, which was subsequently reduced to 75% and then to 70 %, the official added. According to PMC records, around Rs4,500 crore were to be recovered from the property tax defaulters. This included Rs2,000 crore as principal amount and Rs2,500 crore as the penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-recovers-rs-479-09cr-in-property-tax-arrears-via-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/80523912.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Engineering student held with country-made pistol||NAGPUR: A 22-year-old engineering student had to pay heavy price for his attraction for guns. Sayyed Rajik Ali, second year student of a reputed polytechnic college, was arrested by Tehsil police from Mominpura in the wee hours of Thursday after a country-made pistol was found in his possession. Police have also seized a mobile phone worth Rs80,000 from him. The police team led by senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar had zeroed down upon Ali, whose father is principal of an engineering college, after getting information about the firearm in his possession. Ali has, so far, admitted to have purchased the firearm from one Javed Khan, residing in Mhalgi Nagar. The police team of assistant sub-inspector Sanjay Dubey, constable Anil Chaturvedi and others under sub-inspector BG Rathod have also seized Ali’s car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/engg-student-held-with-country-made-pistol/articleshow/80515805.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 29, 2021||Agra||Mathura court dismisses 9 pleas for becoming party in Mathura mosque land suit||AGRA: The Mathura district court on Thursday dismissed nine pleas filed by various organisations, including the Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha, Mathur Chaturvedi Parishad and Hindu Mahasabha, to become a party in the case filed earlier seeking removal of a 17th century mosque near the Krishna Janmasthan temple in Mathura. The next hearing on the revision petition filed by Lucknow resident Ranjana Agnihotri is scheduled on March 22. While priests’ bodies had condemned the petition for the removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque built within the Katra Keshav Dev temple, on grounds that the issue can create “communal disturbance in the town”, other organisations, including Hindu Mahasabha had claimed that the Idgah, adjacent to “Krishna’s birthplace, is illegal”. Talking to TOI, district government counsel Shivram Singh said all the pleas have been dismissed by the court as the “appeal” had been modified into a “revision” petition. In such a situation, no one can become party in the suit filed by Agnihotri and seven others. Last year on October 16, Mathura district court had admitted an appeal filed against the dismissal of a civil suit on September 30, seeking ownership of 13.37-acre land near the temple complex and removal of Shahi Idgah mosque thereon. Earlier this month, the management trust committee of Shahi Idgah moved an application in the district court objecting to the admission of an appeal filed against the dismissal of a civil suit as it was registered as a “miscellaneous” petition, which was dismissed by the court. While hearing the objections raised by the committee, the district judge directed for the modification of the petition and its registration as a “revision” petition on January 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/court-dismisses-9-pleas-for-becoming-party-in-mathura-mosque-land-suit/articleshow/80515764.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 29, 2021||Goa||Give land ownership rights to tillers: AAP||Panaji: AAP has demanded that rights to the land which the government had earlier transferred in the name of IIT be transferred to the tillers. The party stated that while the government has scrapped setting up of the IIT at Melauli, the land has not been transferred in the name of the cultivators yet. “Goa has the land to the tiller act in force the land ought to be transferred in the name of the tiller, which has not happened as yet” AAP spokesperson Surel Tilve said. He demanded that the government draft a proper notice giving all the details about the new site where the IIT is proposed to be set up and pointed out that the committee that the chief minister had promised to set up to decide on the IIT hasn’t been set up yet. “The chief minister should name the local stakeholders in the committee as and when it is constituted, including social activists from the area,” he said, adding that only such a broad committee would ensure that there are no hassles once the new spot is decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-land-ownership-rights-to-tillers-aap/articleshow/80523846.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Goa||85 new Covid cases, two deaths||Panaji: Goa reported 85 new cases of Covid-19, two casualties and 52 recoveries, taking the tally of active cases to 767 on Thursday. With two deaths, the state's mortality count reached 766. Two men – an 85-year-old from Quepem and an 86-year-old from Caranzalem – succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College (GMC). The 85-year-old man died within an hour after he was referred to GMC. He was referred by Hospicio as a case of myocardial infarction and heart failure, said GMC dean S M Bandekar. With 1,875 swab tests conducted during the day, the positivity rate was at 4% and recovery rate 97% during the day. A total of 33 patients home isolated while 32 were admitted to hospital. Margao urban health centre’s caseload jumped to 105 from 89 on Wednesday, while Chinchinim primary health centre, which is having a little more cases than other centres in South Goa, witnessed a drop. The tally of Panaji urban health centre dropped to 85 and that of Porvorim primary health centre rose to 67.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/85-new-covid-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/80523896.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Four lakh masks given via ‘wall’ initiative||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority’s state-of- the-art initiative to distribute mask during ongoing pandemic has yielded desirable results as 4 lakh residents have availed the free of cost facility. Two months ago, the civic body rolled an innovative idea and started mask distribution after constructing the wall. The model turned out to be successful in fighting the pandemic and wall constructed for mask distribution continued to stood firm till state government-initiated vaccination programme on Saturday. Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) Gaurav Goyal who spearheaded the JDA’s mask distribution campaign and implemented the idea says, “Nearly 5,000 residents collect mask from the wall daily constructed on a strategic local at JLN road. Initially, teams were formulated to distribute the masks. However, it was difficult to analyse it was reaching actual users. People who are walking to the wall are genuine users,” he said. Taking cue from ‘Neki ki Deewar’ idea (to assist these in want), the JDA kept the option open for the philanthropist to donate masks at this wall. “Many residents donated mask. With the joint-effort, the figure touched 4 lakh and distribution continues. The JDA constructed the wall after spending Rs 2 lakh,” says official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-lakh-masks-given-via-wall-initiative/articleshow/80523852.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Now, swamps in Sindhudurg a biodiversity heritage site||MUMBAI: Bombarde Myristica swamps in Sindhdurg district has been notified as a biodiversity heritage site. The state revenue department on Thursday issued a notification under Biodiversity Act, 2002, considering its biological and historical value. It is the eighth site in Maharashtra to be given the tag. Others include Glory of Alapalli and Wardham park in Gadchiroli district, Anjarle and Velas beaches in Ratnagiri district, Landor Khori forest and Shivaji Park in Jalgaon district, Daldalkhui in Gondia district and Ganeshkhind garden in Pune district. Spread over 6.5 acres of revenue land at Hevale village in Dodamarg taluka, Ben Clement, chief conservator of forests (Kolhapur region) said Myristica swamp formations are unique fresh water swamps of the western ghats. Myristica swamps having members of myristicaceae, a primitive family of flowering plants, are associated with rainforests of Asia, Africa, Madagascar and South America. These swamp patches have been found in south Kerala, north Karnataka and south Goa. Hevale villagers protected the swamp as a sacred grove. Clement said a local management committee comprising villagers will be set up for protection of the swamp and a 10-year management plan will be prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-swamps-in-sindhudurg-a-biodiversity-heritage-site/articleshow/80523996.cms||Clara Lewis
January 29, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: New idols installed at Ramatheertham temple||VISAKHAPATNAM: The endowments department on Thursday organised the installation of new idols of Lord Sri Ram, Sita and Laxman at the Baalalayam (temporary temple) at Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district.  The idols were made by the TTD following the vandalising incident at Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple in December last year. Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner of the endowments department, Ch Ranga Rao, said the new idols were installed at Baalalayam at Ramatheertham on Thursday as per tradition. The government will be developing the Sri Kodanda Swamy temple at cost of Rs 3 crore. After the completion of works, the idols will be installed at the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-idols-installed-at-ramatheertham-temple/articleshow/80515882.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 29, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram: Small shrine in spotlight following desecration||VISAKHAPATNAM: A relatively small shrine, the Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple atop a hill at Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district, has become the centre of attention following state-wide outrage over its desecration. Devotees who mostly used to offer prayers at the main Lord Ram temple at Ramatheertham are now interested in visiting this small shrine. The Ramatheertham temples were built by Vizianagaram’s royal family centuries ago. The Lord Rama temple at Ramatheertham is popularly known as the Ramula Swami temple. This centuries-old temple houses idols of Lord Rama, Sita Devi and Lord Lakshmana plated in silver. Spread across three bare hills — Bodikonda, Durgakonda and Gurubhaktunta Konda — are remains of an ancient Jain temple and an extensive Buddhist monastery. Ch Ranga Rao, assistant commissioner of endowments department, Sri Ramaswamy Vari Devasthanam, said that thousands of devotees from across north Andhra Pradesh come to the temple to witness the celestial wedding of Sri Rama Swamy during Sri Rama Navami. Following the desecration incident, the state government has decided to develop the Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple at a cost of Rs 3 crore. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao said that the ancient temple will be reconstructed as per advice of Vedic scholars and Agama pandits. The construction of the temple, in accordance with Vaikhanasa Agama, will be completed within a year. Idol of the presiding deity, sculpted by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), will be installed at the temple in place of the vandalised one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/small-shrine-in-spotlight-following-desecration/articleshow/80515874.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 29, 2021||Vijayawada||Filing of nomination for local polls begins||Amaravati: After prolonged legal battles, the stage is now set for elections to local bodies with filing of nomination papers to begin on Friday. With three days to file papers, parties are struggling to finalise the candidates. Legislators and constituency in-charges have reached their constituency headquarters and are holding discussions with strong aspirants in villages. The YSRC leadership has directed district ministers to convene coordination meets with legislators and constituency in-charges and finalise candidates for majority of the seats by Thursday night. The situation is volatile in some of the segments where constituency-level leaders are insisting that their followers be given preference over others. Ministers and state-level coordinators are fine tuning the process to see that infighting does not result in defeat. Although the panchayat elections are held on non-party basis without any party symbol, all political parties are approaching the elections as a matter of prestige. YSRC, which swept the assembly polls with a massive vote share, is trying to repeat the performance by winning as many gram panchayats. TDP, which was confined to 23 seats in the assembly two years ago, is desperate to regain lost ground. While BJP has no seats in the assembly, its alliance with Jana Sena is likely to make contests in several villages a close affair. The state election commission (SEC) has prepared the schedule by allowing elections in each revenue division in one phase. While smaller districts like Vizianagaram, which have just two revenue divisions, would face only two phase elections, in some districts the elections would be conducted in four phases. Nearly 11,000 village panchayats are going to polls three years after the expiry of the term of the elected bodies in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/filing-of-nomination-for-local-polls-begins/articleshow/80515927.cms||Samdani MN
January 29, 2021||Vijayawada||‘Petitioner who challenged poll notification not registered voter’||Vijayawada: The petitioner, who moved high court challenging the notification for panchayat elections saying it would be a violation of her right to vote, is not a registered voter, state election commission’s counsel Ashwani Kumar told the court on Thursday. The petition is mischievous, misconceived and meant to mislead the court, and should be dismissed with costs, he urged the court. The HC asked the petitioner’s counsel to explain what powers the court has at this stage to intervene in the matter. Dhulipalla Akhila, a degree student, had moved court challenging the notification released by SEC to conduct elections to panchayats according to 2019 electoral rolls. She argued that by not conducting elections according to 2021 electoral rolls, the SEC denied her the right to vote which is a violation of the Constitution. Advocate G Siva Prasad Reddy, Akhila’s counsel, told the court that as many as 3.6 lakh new voters have been denied their right to vote in the panchayat elections. As per section 11, 201(2) of Panchayat Raj Act, the election commissioner is the authorised person to prepare electoral rolls, he argued. However, the SEC said it was the duty of panchayat raj officials and initiated action against them for not updating electoral rolls, he said. The SEC’s counsel said that the petitioner was misleading the court by bringing other issues which are not part of the petition, adding that the petition was not maintainable as the petitioner did not even register to vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/petitioner-who-challenged-poll-notification-not-registered-voter/articleshow/80516087.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 29, 2021||Goa||‘Places linked to Liberation to be beautified’||1Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant informed the House that with the state completing 60 years of Liberation, the government will beautify all places linked to Goa’s Liberation. Sawant made the statement during question hour on Thursday in response to a question pertaining to Kranti Maidan in Ponda that was tabled by Congress MLA Ravi Naik. Sawant said work in some talukas like Patradevi’s freedom fighters monument and other memorials have been undertaken. The House was told that renovation of Kranti Maidan was completed in June 2017 and the government spent Rs 4.8 crore on the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/places-linked-to-liberation-to-be-beautified/articleshow/80523932.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Make best use of funds under 15th Finance Commission: CS||Jaipur: Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya has given directions to make better use of funds of 15th Finance Commission and send the utility certificates (UC) soon. Arya gave these instructions while presiding over a meeting of the high-level monitoring committee through video conference at the secretariat here on Thursday. Arya said as per the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission, the grant money from the Centre had been transferred to panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies. He directed that both departments should ensure better utilisation of this amount for the purposes fixed by the commission. He directed the department of autonomous governance to send UC soon so that the next installment could be received on time. Principal secretary of finance department Akhil Arora said Rs 1931 crore had been transferred to panchayati raj institutions and Rs 929.50 crore to urban local bodies. Additional chief secretary (public health and engineering department) Sudhansh Pant emphasised on promoting water harvesting structures in cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/make-best-use-of-funds-under-15th-finance-commission-cs/articleshow/80523938.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Vijayawada||Anganwadis to resume ops from Feb||Vijayawada: The state Women’s Development and Child Welfare Department announced that anganwadi centres which have been shut since lockdown would be reopened from February 1. According to a press release issued by the department on Thursday, director Krithika Shukla said that these centres would be implementing lunch plan for children aged 36 to 72 months. They would also be continuing the existing policy for children aged between six to 36 months, pregnant and lactating mothers. Shukla ordered officials that the surroundings of the Anganwadi Centers should be kept clean and that Anganwadi workers and assistants should wear proper face masks, wash their hands frequently as per the guidelines and adhere to social distancing. “While schedules are paramount when it comes to pediatric vaccinations, these factors are given top priority. Even though schooling is done online, children can also avail education Anganwadi Centers,” Shukla stated. Officials said that priority would be given to malnourished children and pregnant women as they come under high-risk category for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anganwadis-to-resume-ops-from-feb/articleshow/80515935.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Vadodara||‘Maskless’ woman dares Vadodara cops to take action on erring netas||VADODARA: She has been breezing in and out of offices of the top brass of the city police and even wheezing past cops freely on the roads — but so far, mask-less Akshataba Solanki has not been stopped or troubled by the men in khaki. While the crusader isn’t attempting to throw guidelines to the wind, a peeved Solanki is only demanding action against the ‘power faces’ that defy the mask rule. Irked by visuals of the victory celebrations and rallies after the Baroda Dairy polls, Solanki gathered enough evidence and approached the Makarpura police with a complaint. The police took her complaint but never registered an offence against the prominent politicians who had violated Covid-19 norms by not wearing masks and gathering crowd in large numbers. Solanki, who is also active with the Yuva Jan Jagriti Party, said that she visited the police station and senior officers seeking development on her complaint but did not get any response. “I did not get any reply. Senior officers too did not respond to my requests,” she said. As a protest, Solanki decided that she will not wear a mask. “The police too have started recognizing me now and do not bother me any more. I am not against masks, but the law should be strictly implemented for all,” said Solanki adding that while she fully understood the Covid-19 situation as she worked for relief during the lockdown she is angry with disparity in police’s treatment. “Cops treat the common man as a terrorist if he is not wearing a mask. They should then give the same treatment to prominent persons too,” she said. Solanki also said that instead of collecting hefty fines, a smaller amount can be collected which can be utilized on awareness building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/maskless-woman-dares-vadodara-cops-to-take-action-on-erring-netas/articleshow/80514754.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Vijayawada||Canadian friend of Alekhya in disbelief||Tirupati: A Canadian friend of Alekhya, who was allegedly killed along with her younger sister Sai Divya by their parents in Madanapalli on Sunday night, is in complete disbelief that an intellectual girl like her could die this way. “Ever since the news of their brutal deaths broke out, I have been bombarded with questions from many but I haven’t said anything so far as it is very disturbing for me. I first met Alekhya during my visit to India in 2017-18 and we became good friends over the last two years,” Riley told TOI from Canada. “During our many interactions (on Skype) she told me she found a lot of benefits from meditation. She was deeply fascinated by spirituality and Lord Shiva, but never sounded suicidal. She knew I did not agree with some of her more extreme beliefs against other religions, so I think she probably censored some of her thoughts with me,” Riley added. He said Alekhya wanted to travel across the country after completing her course at the Indian Institute of Forest Management in Bhopal. “Her sister was her pride as she had managed to get admitted in a popular music school. I spoke to her about a week before she was killed. She seemed happy, sounded optimistic about her future and assured me that we would meet during my next visit to India,” Riley said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/canadian-friend-of-alekhya-in-disbelief/articleshow/80516307.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 29, 2021||Goa||Last year’s lockdown led to drastic decline in road accident deaths||Panaji: Goa, which witnesses an average of 300 deaths due to road accidents each year, saw a drastic reduction in this number in 2020 with only 204 recorded by the state directorate of transport. It also logged 2,378 accidents last year when compared to 3,440 road accidents in 2019 and 297 consequent deaths. The traffic cell has attributed the dip in road accidents and deaths in 2020 to the Covid-19 induced lockdown through the summer months, during which vehicular movement was restricted. “There was less traffic during the lockdown as we had curtailed the movement of vehicles except for purchase of groceries and medicine. Also, the entire police force was on the field carrying out ‘nakabandis’ to ensure that restrictions during the nights were followed,” DySP Salim Shaikh, said. The lowest number of accidents was during April. Figures shared by the state directorate of transport reveal that there were only 83 accidents recorded in April, leading to five deaths. Though Goa gradually opened up in the following month, the number of fatalities increased only marginally. There were 156 accidents and eight deaths in May. Despite the dip in numbers during this period, there was an upward trend in accidents as well as deaths then on. Shaikh said these were mostly due to irresponsible driving after people who were under lockdown for nearly two months suddenly started “speeding for thrills”. The highest number of accidents was in January 2020 (342), while the highest number of deaths was in March (28). “March was the peak festival season with Shigmo, and it is also a time when drunk driving continues to be high in the tourist belt. The police therefore recorded more numbers that month,” he said. Shaikh also said that since the influx of tourists all over Goa was at an all-time high in November-December 2020, there were more road mishaps. However, since these tourists arrived in their private vehicles, they were recorded in the jurisdiction of their respective states. Road safety activist Pramod Sawant said that the reduced number of accidents doesn’t mean that issues related to road safety must be ignored. “People continue to violate traffic rules, yet the new MV Act is not yet implemented and the Traffic Sentinel scheme has been scrapped. There are 118 corrective measures required at accident prone zones of which not even 5% have been implemented. There is a need for speed radars as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/last-years-lockdown-led-to-drastic-decline-in-road-accident-deaths/articleshow/80524008.cms||Nida Sayed
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Drop in turnout for shots but Maharashtra goes past 2 lakh mark||MUMBAI: After two days of steady climb, the turnout for vaccination in the city and across the state plunged on Thursday. In Mumbai, the drop was of a significant 15% compared with Wednesday’s turnout figures, while for the state overall, the dip was of 3%. The state on Thursday vaccinated 40,187 health workers -- 73% out of the intended 54,771 and down from 77% on Wednesday. Maharashtra, however, breached the 2 lakh mark, with a total of 2,19,696 being vaccinated by the eighth day of the drive. It became the fourth state in the country to vaccinate over 2 lakh. Officials said nearly 28% of the 8 lakh health workers have been vaccinated so far, and the target was to finish giving the first dose by February 15. The decline in Mumbai was sharper than in the rest of the state. Of the intended 7,700, merely 4,430 (58%) came to take the vaccine. In the previous two days, 5,197 and 5,005 were vaccinated, pushing the coverage to 72% and 77% respectively. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said it was not clear why numbers dropped so significantly. SevenHills Hospital, where 15 booths have been added, saw a footfall of 331, much less than the response expected. Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli saw the highest footfall (728), followed by KEM (578). In all, the city has completed vaccinating 27,829 of the registered 1.23 lakh health workers. “We are sending messages but also calling beneficiaries to ensure better turnout,” Gomare said, adding that the majority of the vaccination numbers were made up by those who are walking in instead of those scheduled for the day through Co-WIN appointments. The BMC plans to increase the number of vaccination booths from 77 to 90 on Friday. “We will add one more hospital (jumbo facility at NESCO grounds) to our list of 11,” said AMC Suresh Kakani. “To begin with, NESCO will have two booths, but we may extend it to four if the response is good enough,” he added. As the BMC has decided not to dismantle any field hospital till March 31, it may set up booths at field hospitals in Dahisar and Mulund in the coming days. “We have the potential and space to increase booths to way over 100 if needed at short notice. The turnout will decide our future of action,” Gomare said. For a better response, BMC has also planned to empower ward-level teams by handing them the complete list of registered beneficiaries and letting them register those missing from Co-WIN database. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, said the participation is mainly from the private sector now. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said KEM staffers were getting vaccinated in a staggered manner so that the hospital work remains unaffected. Dhule district continued to clock the highest coverage in the state at 111%, followed by Beed, Palghar, Nanded, Sindhudurg and Thane with over 90% turnout. However, centres giving Covaxin didn’t see any remarkable shift. While 94 were vaccinated in Amravati, Nagpur saw 38, Pune saw 15, Mumbai 17, Solapur 15 and Aurangabad saw 53 beneficiaries take the shot. Each centre is supposed to vaccinate 100 in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drop-in-turnout-for-shots-but-state-goes-past-2-lakh-mark/articleshow/80519697.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||7.45 lakh more voters in Amdavad Municipal Corporation this time||AHMEDABAD: While Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation alone has registered an increase of 7.45 lakh voters since 2015, the six corporations that go to the polls in February have 19 lakh more voters. The 231 taluka panchayats and 31 district panchayats have 2.5 crore voters, an increase of 25 lakh from 2015. The 81 municipalities have 46 lakh voters. Thus, the recent updated voters list for the local body elections has 4.1 crore voters. Officials in the state election commission said that the voter lists for the six corporations have been finalized and those for municipalities, taluka and district panchayats are being finalized. Officials said the six corporations including Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar have 1.15 crore voters. Officials said of the 1.15 crore voters in municipal corporation areas, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has the most, 46.25 lakh. Of these, 24.14 lakh are male. Officials in the state election commission said about 167 transgenders are registered as voters in Ahmedabad. Of these, the North Zone had the highest number of transgender voters, 53. Officials said zone-wise, the West Zone has the most voter, 8.48 lakh. It is followed by the North Zone which has eight lakh voters. Officials said the fewest voters, 3.69 lakh, are in the South Zone. The officials said that besides the increase in voters in the city, the city also had new areas added to its limits, such as Bopal-Ghuma. Officials said that the final voters list including those for municipalities, district and taluka panchayats will be available by the end of next week. Of the 48 wards in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, 14 have more than one lakh voters, while 20 wards have more than 90,000 but less than one lakh. Three wards have less than 80,000 voters. The officials said that in the city Thaltej ward in terms of population was the biggest ward with 1.31 lakh population followed by Saijpur Bogha with a population of 1.3 lakh. In terms of area, the officials said that the Thaltej and Jodhpur are the ward which perhaps cover largest area in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-45-lakh-more-voters-in-amc-this-time/articleshow/80519762.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 29, 2021||Delhi||IIT-Delhi may drop JEE for its design course||NEW DELHI: Students interested to study design may be able to join Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi (IIT-D) without having to appear for JEE Advanced from this year. The institute’s decision-making body will soon decide on the matter. IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao told TOI, “For the bachelor’s programmes being run at the institute, all admissions are done through JEE Advanced. For the first time, we are considering taking students through an alternative route.” The programme run by the department of design is related to creativity and does not require analytical skills, Rao pointed out. “Bachelors of Design is nothing to do with maths, physics, chemistry and such subjects. In our country, there is already an exam called UCEED (Undergraduate Common Entrance Examination for Design) to test the creative ability of an aspirant,” he said. “It is currently being considered by our senate.” For the masters programme, the institute conducts its own entrance exams. “The new centre for public policy is starting a master’s programme. In the 2020-21 academic session, we started masters in economics for which we conducted our own entrance. We have masters in cognitive sciences for which, too, we conduct our own entrances,” said Rao. IIT-D, which is celebrating the diamond jubilee, has 11,000 students, out of which 60% are in the masters programmes and over 3,000 are PhD scholars. In the past five years, the institute has added 2,500 seats. Rao said IIT-D was moving towards becoming a fully research-oriented university. “The goal is to scale up the IIT system and become more comprehensive,” added Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iit-d-may-drop-jee-for-its-design-course/articleshow/80523920.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 29, 2021||Vijayawada||CS urges Centre to ignore SEC’s orders||Amaravati: Chief secretary Adityanath Das has requested Centre to ignore SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar’s censure proceedings against IAS officers GK Dwivedi and Girija Shankar. In a letter to the secretary of DoPT (department of personnel and training), Das said the state government has already rejected the same as SEC has no authority to initiate such proceedings. “The proceedings issued by the state election commissioner administering censure against two IAS officers and to direct that the same will form part of their service record is without competency and jurisdiction. It is nothing but transgressing into the powers vested with the state government. Any instrument issued without competency is illegal and bad in law,” he said in the letter. SEC is empowered to suspend any officer for insubordination or dereliction of duty besides making recommendations to the competent authority for taking disciplinary action, the chief secretary said, adding that these guidelines were issued in terms of settlement between the Union of India and ECI. “Disciplinary proceedings against All India Service officers have to be dealt with under AIS (D&A) Rules, 1969. Since censure is a penalty classified under minor penalties, the state government is the competent authority to impose the said penalty on a member of service,” Das said, adding that the state has already turned down the SEC’s proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cs-urges-centre-to-ignore-secs-orders/articleshow/80516020.cms||Samdani MN
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||State govt files caveat in posting of ‘accused’ IPS officer||Jaipur: The state government has filed a caveat in the high court on a petition challenging field posting to IPS officer Satyaveer Singh, who is now IG Udaipur. Petitioner Abdul Matten Khan said Singh was caught by the ACB in a case of illegal gratification and FIR was filed against him in Kothwali police station in Kota in 2014. He was also accused of unleashing a murderous attack on one of the witnesses in the corruption case of Ansur Ali in November 2020. The petitioner said the accused is on bail now. The petitioner said the accused occupying positions of power could influence the witnesses and the outcome of the ongoing litigation. He said according to a circular of the department of personnel on July 23, 2003, no officer accused of corruption, misappropriation of public money should not be given filed postings. He said no further circular was issued to any relaxation in the provision.Following the petition, the high court had issued notice to the state government prompting the department of personnel to file a caveat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-files-caveat-in-posting-of-accused-ips-officer/articleshow/80523984.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Drop in turnout for shots but Maharashtra goes past 2 lakh mark||MUMBAI: After two days of steady climb, the turnout for vaccination in the city and across the state plunged on Thursday. In Mumbai, the drop was of a significant 15% compared with Wednesday’s turnout figures, while for the state overall, the dip was of 3%. The state on Thursday vaccinated 40,187 health workers -- 73% out of the intended 54,771 and down from 77% on Wednesday. Maharashtra, however, breached the 2 lakh mark, with a total of 2,19,696 being vaccinated by the eighth day of the drive. It became the fourth state in the country to vaccinate over 2 lakh. Officials said nearly 28% of the 8 lakh health workers have been vaccinated so far, and the target was to finish giving the first dose by February 15. The decline in Mumbai was sharper than in the rest of the state. Of the intended 7,700, merely 4,430 (58%) came to take the vaccine. In the previous two days, 5,197 and 5,005 were vaccinated, pushing the coverage to 72% and 77% respectively. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said it was not clear why numbers dropped so significantly. SevenHills Hospital, where 15 booths have been added, saw a footfall of 331, much less than the response expected. Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli saw the highest footfall (728), followed by KEM (578). In all, the city has completed vaccinating 27,829 of the registered 1.23 lakh health workers. “We are sending messages but also calling beneficiaries to ensure better turnout,” Gomare said, adding that the majority of the vaccination numbers were made up by those who are walking in instead of those scheduled for the day through Co-WIN appointments. The BMC plans to increase the number of vaccination booths from 77 to 90 on Friday. “We will add one more hospital (jumbo facility at NESCO grounds) to our list of 11,” said AMC Suresh Kakani. “To begin with, NESCO will have two booths, but we may extend it to four if the response is good enough,” he added. As the BMC has decided not to dismantle any field hospital till March 31, it may set up booths at field hospitals in Dahisar and Mulund in the coming days. “We have the potential and space to increase booths to way over 100 if needed at short notice. The turnout will decide our future of action,” Gomare said. For a better response, BMC has also planned to empower ward-level teams by handing them the complete list of registered beneficiaries and letting them register those missing from Co-WIN database. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, said the participation is mainly from the private sector now. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said KEM staffers were getting vaccinated in a staggered manner so that the hospital work remains unaffected. Dhule district continued to clock the highest coverage in the state at 111%, followed by Beed, Palghar, Nanded, Sindhudurg and Thane with over 90% turnout. However, centres giving Covaxin didn’t see any remarkable shift. While 94 were vaccinated in Amravati, Nagpur saw 38, Pune saw 15, Mumbai 17, Solapur 15 and Aurangabad saw 53 beneficiaries take the shot. Each centre is supposed to vaccinate 100 in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/drop-in-turnout-for-shots-but-state-goes-past-2-lakh-mark/articleshow/80551297.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 29, 2021||Thane||Drop in turnout for shots but Maharashtra goes past 2 lakh mark||MUMBAI: After two days of steady climb, the turnout for vaccination in the city and across the state plunged on Thursday. In Mumbai, the drop was of a significant 15% compared with Wednesday’s turnout figures, while for the state overall, the dip was of 3%. The state on Thursday vaccinated 40,187 health workers -- 73% out of the intended 54,771 and down from 77% on Wednesday. Maharashtra, however, breached the 2 lakh mark, with a total of 2,19,696 being vaccinated by the eighth day of the drive. It became the fourth state in the country to vaccinate over 2 lakh. Officials said nearly 28% of the 8 lakh health workers have been vaccinated so far, and the target was to finish giving the first dose by February 15. The decline in Mumbai was sharper than in the rest of the state. Of the intended 7,700, merely 4,430 (58%) came to take the vaccine. In the previous two days, 5,197 and 5,005 were vaccinated, pushing the coverage to 72% and 77% respectively. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said it was not clear why numbers dropped so significantly. SevenHills Hospital, where 15 booths have been added, saw a footfall of 331, much less than the response expected. Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli saw the highest footfall (728), followed by KEM (578). In all, the city has completed vaccinating 27,829 of the registered 1.23 lakh health workers. “We are sending messages but also calling beneficiaries to ensure better turnout,” Gomare said, adding that the majority of the vaccination numbers were made up by those who are walking in instead of those scheduled for the day through Co-WIN appointments. The BMC plans to increase the number of vaccination booths from 77 to 90 on Friday. “We will add one more hospital (jumbo facility at NESCO grounds) to our list of 11,” said AMC Suresh Kakani. “To begin with, NESCO will have two booths, but we may extend it to four if the response is good enough,” he added. As the BMC has decided not to dismantle any field hospital till March 31, it may set up booths at field hospitals in Dahisar and Mulund in the coming days. “We have the potential and space to increase booths to way over 100 if needed at short notice. The turnout will decide our future of action,” Gomare said. For a better response, BMC has also planned to empower ward-level teams by handing them the complete list of registered beneficiaries and letting them register those missing from Co-WIN database. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, said the participation is mainly from the private sector now. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said KEM staffers were getting vaccinated in a staggered manner so that the hospital work remains unaffected. Dhule district continued to clock the highest coverage in the state at 111%, followed by Beed, Palghar, Nanded, Sindhudurg and Thane with over 90% turnout. However, centres giving Covaxin didn’t see any remarkable shift. While 94 were vaccinated in Amravati, Nagpur saw 38, Pune saw 15, Mumbai 17, Solapur 15 and Aurangabad saw 53 beneficiaries take the shot. Each centre is supposed to vaccinate 100 in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/drop-in-turnout-for-shots-but-state-goes-past-2-lakh-mark/articleshow/80551294.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 29, 2021||Vijayawada||N Chandrababu Naidu: Not in favour of unanimous polls||AMARAVATI: TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday alleged that YSRC is trying to make the polls unanimous by terrorising opposition candidates, and said his party will not succumb to such tactics. “We will contest elections in all villages. There is no question of supporting the state government’s ‘unanimous’ concept,” he said after releasing his party’s manifesto for the ensuing panchayat polls. Naidu said they would provide protected drinking water through taps to all households if TDP supporters are elected to the panchayats. He also promised to rationalise property tax and improve civic amenities. He also vowed to provide protection to temples. “It is shocking to see this government advocating unanimous elections. We will not allow such practice,” he said, and added that Rs 5 crore would be spent on each village in the coming five years with NREGA and finance commission grants if TDP supporters are elected. Meanwhile, BJP state president Somu Veerraju, Jana Sena PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar and other leaders met governor Biswabushan Harichandan and submitted a representation for conduct of panchayat polls. “Ruling party leaders are threatening opposition candidates and preventing them from filing nominations. We requested governor to take necessary action to prevent such incidents. Unanimous polls are not uncommon, but YSRC is trying to win maximum seats by threatening other parties and declaring unanimous polls,” Veerraju alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-not-in-favour-of-unanimous-polls/articleshow/80516224.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi University students protest, seek campus reopening||NEW DELHI: Different student organisations held a protest at Delhi University on Thursday demanding reopening of the campus. They said that disabled students or those from economically weaker section are facing problems due to online classes. One of the student groups also submitted a memorandum to the officials highlighting issues faced by students of open learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-students-protest-seek-campus-reopening/articleshow/80523888.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||Watch movies with bunch of friends, make a splash in pool||Chandigarh: Following the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines, the UT administration on Thursday decided to remove the 50% occupancy limit for cinema halls and throw open swimming pools to all. The guidelines, which will be applicable from February 1 till February 28, were issued by UT adviser Manoj Parida. In the guidelines, the ministry, for the first time since March 2020, refrained from advising those above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age to stay at home. The new guidelines merely advise these vulnerable categories to take necessary precautions.Cinema halls, which were permitted up to 50% seating till January 31, will be allowed to increase capacity, subject to a revised SOPs to be issued by the I&B ministry in consultation with the MHA. Swimming pools, currently permitted only for sportspersons, will be open for all, starting February 1. Updated SOPs will be issued in the regard. All types of exhibition halls, and not just business-to-business (B2B) halls, have been allowed to function.The MHA has asked the UT administration to take all necessary measures to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensure wearing of masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. National directives for Covid-19 management will continue to be followed throughout the country.There will be no restriction on inter- and intra-state movement of people and goods, including those for cross land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries, the MHA said. Social gatherings’ limitAs per MHA guidelines, social and other types of gatherings need not be limited to 50% of hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons in closed spaces, as was before. According to the MHA, states and UTs can, starting February 1, allow gatherings without any restrictions, subject to their own SOPs. The UT adviser said they would decide their SOPs in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/watch-movies-with-bunch-of-friends-make-a-splash-in-pool/articleshow/80519572.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Dial 139: Security helpline and ‘rail madad’ merged||HYDERABAD: The Indian Railways merged railway security helpline number 182 in to ‘rail madad’ single helpline number 139 for convenience of passengers. This integration of both security helpline numbers into single helpline number 139 will help the passengers to make all inquiries and lodging grievances also. Dial 139: Integration of Railway Helpline Numbers into a Single Number https://t.co/RZmNlIubai https://t.co/p9mEAg4xdi— South Central Railway (@SCRailwayIndia) 1611808438000Earlier, the Indian Railways provided the 182 security helpline toll-free number to provide speedy assistance to passengers in the event of thefts, harassment on trains or station premises. Officials said the move will be of great help to passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dial-139-security-helpline-and-rail-madad-merged/articleshow/80524016.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat lawyer told to cough up Rs 91,000 in parking charges||AHMEDABAD: A consumer court in Gandhinagar held a lawyer liable to pay Rs 91,000 as parking charges to a workshop, because she did not take delivery of her car for 910 days, following a dispute over repairs. A practising lawyer, Sona Sagar, left her Tata Nano at the Harsolia Brothers workshop on June 7, 2018, for repairs. A week later, the workshop called her and told her to take her vehicle, saying it had been reparied and raised a bill of Rs 9,900. The lawyer complained that certain parts were missing from the vehicle and the AC and music system were damaged. She did not pay the bill and left the car. In 2019, the lawyer approached the Gandhinagar District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission and sued the workshop for deficiency in service and sought delivery of her car in fully repaired condition. The workshop, on the other hand, complained that 58 e-mails were sent to the lawyer and a notice too, asking her to take delivery of the vehicle and pay for the repairs. She did not turn up for more than two years. The lawyer should pay parking charges of Rs 100 per day from the day she left her car, the workshop submitted. In 2020, the lawyer filed another application and sought directions to the workshop to deliver the car. She claimed that she was called on six occasions, but the car was not delivered to her. Against this, the workshop submitted, “This is a fit case where the complainant being a practising woman advocate has tried to influence by way of not paying even a pai or a pittance and compelled the opponent to repair it without any money which cannot be endured by the opponent.” It demanded that the lawyer be fined for such behaviour to set an example among lawyers. After hearing the case, a quorum of the commission’s president D T Soni and member J P Joshi said that the lawyer ought to have first paid the repairing charges. She cannot be considered a consumer for not paying repairing charges. It observed further, “The car is lying idle in an unworkable and worsening condition by lapse of time for more than two years. Harsolia Brothers has, in fact, shown good faith and kindness, but it has been its misfortune. In absence of wherewithal of the complainant, opponent is made to wait for the result of this litigation.” Beside holding that the lawyer was liable to pay Rs 100 per day as parking charges for 910 days, the commission imposed a cost of Rs 3,500 on her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lawyer-told-to-cough-up-rs-91k-in-parking-charges/articleshow/80519578.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Install TVs at shelter homes for kids & women: HC directs govt||Jodhpur: Rajasthan High Court on Thursday directed the state government to ensure that smart television screens were installed in all the institutions and pre-recorded courses of the education department were provided so as to impart education to the women/children housed in various institutions like Balika Gruhs, children observation homes and Nari Niketans.During the hearing of a habeas corpus petition on Thursday, the division bench comprising Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha arrived at this observation after the amicus curiae Nupur Bhati suggested that vocational skills of the women in Nari Niketans could be enhanced using smart televisions, which could also be used for imparting education by way of pre-recorded courses prepared by the education department.“The suggestion is considered to be an effective tool for providing education to the ladies without requiring physical presence of faculty members”, the court observed directing execution be ensured by the next hearing of the matter scheduled on March 15.With regard to previous directions, the court was also apprised that the process of establishment of open air gymnasiums in these institutions in the entire state was underway and full compliance would be ensured within next two months.The submission by the state government in the court in order of the compliance of the directions of the high court to set up Open Air Gyms in all the shelters homes for girls, women and children in the state in February last year.Before this, the court has given directions to the government to increase the frequency of visits of medical experts in the shelter homes and filling up of the vacant posts in the Nari Niketans and Balika Gruhs.While the High Court expressed satisfaction with the compliance report on visit of the medical experts, it resented the failure in submission of compliance report on filling up of the vacant posts, giving last chance to do the needful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/install-tvs-at-shelter-homes-for-kids-women-hc-directs-govt/articleshow/80524053.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Altercation between two groups over sewing machine||Hyderabad: Two women running a boutique at Manikonda lodged a complaint against TV artiste Sameer alias Amar and his friends alleging that they misbehaved with them. A counter complaint was also lodged. According to police, on Wednesday night, television actor, Sameer alias Amar, along with his friends, Swati and Teja went to Rashmi Deepa and Srividya’s boutique in Manikonda to pick up a sewing machine. They were running the boutique earlier. However, their business incurred huge loss.  When Swati asked for a sewing machine, Deepa and Srividya refused to return the machine which led to an altercation between the two groups. The video of the argument went viral on social media. Subsequently, Srividya lodged a complaint with Raidurgam police alleging that Amar, Swati and others misbehaved with them.  Swati lodged a counter complaint against Srividya and Deepa alleging that they misbehaved with her. “We received complaints from both the groups and have registered two cases under sections 506, 504 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The fight is over ownership of a sewing machine,” Raidurgam inspector, Ravinder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/altercation-between-two-groups-over-sewing-machine/articleshow/80519566.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||‘Panel to meet by Feb 10 to resolve Sonsoddo issues’||Panaji: The high-powered committee will meet before February 10 to resolve Sonsoddo-linked waste management issues, chief minister Pramod Sawant told the assembly on Thursday during ‘Question Hour’ after the opposition members questioned the government over changes in plan for waste management at Sonsoddo. Earlier, replying to the question tabled by Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, waste management minister Michael Lobo told the House that the government now wants to have a single waste management plant at Sonsoddo similar to the one at Saligao. Earlier, seven bio-methane plants were to be set-up once the remediation of the Sonsoddo waste was completed. The opposition MLAs objected to the change in plan saying that they were not consulted at all. Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said the proposed waste management plant at Verna was to be the centralised waste treatment plant. But now the minister is talking about a centralised plant at Sonsoddo. “Seven small bio-methane plants were planned for Sonsoddo due to lack of adequate land for a single big plant. The minister wants a single plant and none of us have been consulted,” Sardesai said. He said the file for setting-up seven bio-methane plants is held by the urban development ministry.Sawant said that he will call the file, which was sent for administrative approval, from the urban development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panel-to-meet-by-feb-10-to-resolve-sonsoddo-issues/articleshow/80524063.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Biker death case reopened in Jaisalmer, 6 booked for murder||Jaisalmer: Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh, reopening a 2.5-year-old case of the death of a biker, has restarted probe into the matter. On August 16, 2018, a motorcyclist of international repute, who had come to take part in an international bike rally was found dead at Bibiyan desert area in Shahgarh Bulj area. The biker, Asbak Meen from Bangalore (a native of Kunnoor in Kerala) along with his four friends had come to Jaisalmer. The biker had allegedly lost his way and had died of thirst and hunger and the case was considered to be that of natural death. Now, the SP has lodged a case against the biker’s wife and his five friends, prima facie considering it a murder case and has started an intensive investigation. The investigating officer had filed FR in the case and the SP, after studying the report, suspected it to be a high profile murder and lodged a case at Shahgarh police station under Sections 302, 201, 120B. The biker’s mother TK Subeda and brother Arshad too during their Jaisalmer stay, did not agree that it was a natural death and had in their statements called it a murder. Dy SP Bhawani Singh is investigating the case. Many points of suspicion have been raised in it. The biker was taken to the abandoned desert area where there was no mobile network and the murder may have been given a shape of natural death. SP said that when the FR came to him, he studied it and found the case suspicious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/biker-death-case-reopened-in-jaisalmer-6-booked-for-murder/articleshow/80524013.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||HC blasts Telangana over lack of panel for workers||HYDERABAD: The 30-member State Social Welfare Board for Unorganised Workers has been lying in a defunct mode with just two members for the last six years and the government’s claim that it did form the board and even appointed some members irked the high court. Describing it as a dereliction of duty towards the most vulnerable section of society, the high court on Thursday directed the labour commissioner to appear before the virtual court on the next date of hearing. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing a PIL filed by former deputy chief minister Damodara Rajanarasimha seeking directions to the state to form the board. The labour commissioner, in his affidavit, said the board was formed with two members and “the issue of appointing remaining members is under active consideration of the government”. The petitioner’s counsel informed the court that there was practically no board and even the two members, referred by the labour commissioner, were none other than the labour minister and the principal secretary of the labour department. They would be there anyway and this cannot be called a board, he said. The state counsel for labour department sought a few more weeks to complete the task. An enraged bench asked him whether five more years would be sufficient. The counsel could not answer a query whether the state has made available any funds for the board to reach out to the workers in distress. He sought time to get instructions on the availability of funds. The bench said that it was giving a last opportunity to the state to fill all the member posts in the board and this should be done within four weeks from now. Otherwise, the labour commissioner has to appear before the virtual court on February 25 to explain the reasons for the laxity. Since the labour commissioner stated in his affidavit that the appointment of members was under active consideration of the state, he should explain how long this active consideration would mean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-blasts-t-over-lack-of-panel-for-workers/articleshow/80519532.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Criminal case registered against EFLU vice-chancellor||Hyderabad: Based on the complaint given by few students of English and Foreign Languages University, a criminal case was registered against EFLU vice-chancellor for allegedly restraining the students from attending Republic Day’s celebrations at the university campus. OU inspector L Ramesh Naik said that vice-chancellor E Suresh Kumar was booked under section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. “In the circular, we never asked the students to visit the campus physically. An online link was shared with all of them where they could attend the event. Students are deliberately trying to make an issue out of something as the same set of students were involved a day before R-Day at the National Commission of Backward Classes hearing where they shouted at our representatives,” said Suresh Kumar, EFLU vice-chancellor. “In the complaint, given by three students Vikas, K Srinath and G Kumar,they said that a circular was issued by varsity authorities inviting students, teaching and non-teaching staff to participate in R-Day celebrations. But complainant’s allegation is that they were denied despite authorities inviting them to participate,’’ inspector Ramesh said. In the circular, we never asked the students to visit the campus physically. An online link was shared with all of them where they could attend the event. Students are deliberately trying to make an issue||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/criminal-case-registered-against-eflu-vice-chancellor/articleshow/80519612.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||Not shifting offshore casinos to Mopa: CM||Panaji: There is no proposal under consideration of the government to relocate offshore casinos from the Mandovi to Mopa at the site allocated to the greenfield international airport, chief minister Pramod Sawant told the assembly on Thursday in a written reply to the question tabled by independent MLA Rohan Khaunte. However, a proposal to shift offshore casinos to a feasible location is under consideration, Sawant said. In September 2020, the home department renewed permissions of offshore casinos to operate in the Mandovi till March 31, 2021 or till an alternative site is notified by the government, whichever is earlier, subject to the condition that the licence is in force during that period. In the past three years, the government enhanced fees of offshore casinos once. “The draft rules are under consideration of the government,” the CM stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-shifting-offshore-casinos-to-mopa-cm/articleshow/80524111.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: CJI terms Republic Day tractor raid as farmers’ visit, Centre objects||NEW DELHI: The day-long unruly behaviour by farmers who used tractors to smash through police barricades on Republic Day and hoisted the Sikh religious flag atop Red Fort was termed “farmers’ visit” by Chief Justice S A Bobde on Thursday, which immediately drew a strong protest from the Union government. Referring to the dangers of unbridled free speech causing irreparable harm to societal harmony, a bench headed by CJI Bobde said, “The fact of the matter is that there are TV programmes which instigate people. You as the government are doing nothing about it. Instigation can be against any community.” The SC saw no wrong in the government taking steps to stop telecast of offensive programmes. It drew a parallel with suspension of internet services in areas witnessing law and order problems. “You (the government) stopped internet services (in several areas of Delhi) because of farmers’ visit,” he said. Use of the term “visit” to describe the mayhem caused by rampaging farmers who injured over 300 policemen drew a sharp reaction from solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who said, “That was anything but a visit to the capital.” The CJI immediately clarified that he was “deliberately using a non-controversial term”. The CJI's predicament was understandable as a bench headed by him is hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of three farm laws, whose enactment has led to farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting at Delhi’s borders. He had also appealed to the farmers not to breach peace during the protests or during the tractor rally. The CJI also appeared critical of the manner in which some journalists and media houses transmitted fake or unverified news that possibly added to the frenzy among the farmers, who used tractors as weapons against lathi-wielding policemen. He was possibly referring to certain reports that attributed the death of a farmer, who died when his tractor turned turtle while being driven at high speed to smash through a police barricade, to police firing. “These are problems which can arise anywhere. Point is that fair and truthful reporting is not a problem. But it is a problem when the news is projected in a manner to instigate. The pen in the hand of a free speech-armed journalist is like the lathi in the hand of a policeman. How they use their pen or lathi in a law and order situation is integral to maintenance of law and order. And that matters a lot,” the CJI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cji-terms-republic-day-tractor-raid-as-farmers-visit-centre-objects/articleshow/80524023.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘HRCT caught 50% of asymptomatic Covid cases’||AHMEDABAD: Before RT-PCR tests were made available widely in June in Gujarat, high-resolution computerized tomography (HRCT) and chest X-ray were the go-to diagnostics for many to detect Covid-19 infection. A study based in Ahmedabad claimed that HRCT successfully detected Covid-19 in 50% of the cases where the person had no or mild symptoms of the infection. The study titled ‘Demographic and clinico-radiological profile on HRCT thorax in mild or asymptomatic clinically suspected Covid-19 patients in high-endemicity area of India’ has been published in the latest issue of the ‘Indian Journal of Radiology and Imaging’. The authors include researchers from UNMICRC, Usmanpura Imaging Centre, Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences, and IIPH-G. Analysis of the symptoms showed that 52% had fever and 46% had sore throat before HRCT. Ground-glass opacity was the most common diagnosis (74%), followed by enlarged lymph nodes (28%). Interventional cardiologist and study’s lead author Kamal Sharma said that lung involvement in Covid-19 infection was found more in those patients with breathlessness and loss of smell. It was also found that even in the cases of no or mild symptoms, HRCT could detect the infection after three days of onset of the symptoms,” he said. “Out of the patients under analysis, 3.6% had severe infection, despite having mild or no symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hrct-caught-50-of-asymptomatic-covid-cases/articleshow/80519749.cms||Parth Shastri
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cow on rampage kills one, injures four||HYDERABAD: One person was killed and four others injured after a cow went on a rampage in Pahadishareef on Thursday. Mohammed Khaja, a 65-year-old man had gone outside for a walk in the morning. He was attacked by the cow on his way back home. “My father went outside for a walk and while returning, a cow hit him down. He was badly injured and passed away soon,’’ said Mohammed Moin, deceased’s son. The cow went on rampage for a couple of days. Passersby as well as residents became common targets. Many received minor injuries while others had to be rushed to close by hospitals. Police sought the forest department's help to catch the cow. A team comprising five to six forest department officials with tranquilizers reached a forested area to capture the cow. At first, they tried hard to locate it and later when they had spread out, the cow charges at one of the men. “Before we could react it charged out of nowhere and hit him with its front legs and galloped over him, as he fell down in a heap. It took us a long time to revive our senior officer," said one forest official. Officials managed to catch the cow and sent it to the gaushala. S Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, SHO Pahadishareef said that the cow was bitten by stray dogs. After that incident, the cow got nervous at any moving object.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cow-on-rampage-kills-one-injures-four/articleshow/80519653.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP announces alliance with Azad group for Mohali municipal corporation polls||MOHALI: The Azad group led by former Mohali mayor Kulant Singh and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have reached a consensus and announced their alliance here on Thursday. Now, the AAP will also contest under the Azad group party symbol in the forthcoming MC elections. The declaration was made by the Azad group supremo. He said, “We have an alliance with the AAP and have reached a mutual consent to contest elections under one symbol, that is the Azad group symbol. The Azad group will contest on 35 seats whereas the AAP will be flanking their candidates on 15 seats.” The AAP also made a declaration in this regard. An official statement issued from the party headquarters stated that the MC elections to be held on February 14 would be fought jointly with the Azad group, Mohali. The party said joint candidates would contest on all 50 seats. AAP Mohali unit head Parminder Singh Golday said, “The party had agreed to contest the PC polls with honest people in association with the Azad group, so that the public would not face problems.” The press statement further stated that the Congress and the Akalis, while in power, had worked to fill their pockets, instead of working for the welfare of the people. “Our sole goal is to bring forward those who work for the people,” the statement said. With the latest development, the MC elections are set to witness a four-cornered contest among the SAD, Congress, BJP and the AAP-Azad group alliance. The local bodies department of Punjab had notified the 50 wards list after delimitation of the wards in Mohali recently. With this, only 20 wards have been left for general category candidates whereas 60% of the total wards are either reserved for women or for SC-ST-OBC candidates. This time 50% reservation for women, including SC/ST and OBC classes divided into 23 for general category women, two for reserved category women and five for general reserve category of SC/ST/OBC. The list also shows five wards for reserved categories (general) for SC/ST and OBC from which women or men candidates can file nominations and wards with odd numbers have been reserved only for women in general category. Many wards have been re-shuffled and the list of 25 wards reserved for women has also been released by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-announces-alliance-with-azad-group-for-mohali-mc-polls/articleshow/80519705.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Culling to start at 3rd poultry farm today||MOHALI: The culling of the poultry birds at the third farm in Derabassi will commence on Friday. Ten teams have been constituted to cull around 25,000 birds, said V K Janjua, additional chief secretary, animal husbandry, dairy development & fisheries department, Punjab.  He said the delay of one day was due to the training of the newly-constituted team members as the earlier team members had been put under home quarantine.  Janjua said, “Bird flu has also been found at the third farm, Evergreen Poultry Farm, in Behra village of Derabassi. The culling process will start from Friday. Preparations have been made for the burial of culled birds at the farm.” From January 22 to 25, the department had culled 55,843 birds at two poultry farms, Royal and Alpha, in Behra village and destroyed 2,040 eggs. National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, had confirmed bird flu at the three farms in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/culling-to-start-at-3rd-poultry-farm-today/articleshow/80519677.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Gold wires worth Rs 10 lakh seized from man at airport||JAIPUR: Customs officers at city airport seized gold wires weighing 200.99 grams worth around Rs 10 lakh on Thursday. The wires were concealed in an iron frame of a trolley bag of a passenger named Tazeel Khan, a resident of Delhi. According to customs commissioner Subhash Aggarwal, the passenger travelled to Dubai around 10 days ago and was told by his uncle that a man will give him a suitcase that he has to take back to India. For the entire work, Tanzeel was promised to be paid mere Rs 10,000. Assistant commissioner customs M L Shera said, “Smugglers now-a-days are trying different methods to conceal gold. We look at the profile of a person. This man went to Dubai just 10 days ago. From his appearance, he wasn’t looking wealthy so we realised he wasn’t there just as a tourist. During x-ray we found wires concealed in the trolley.” According to the rules, a person can be arrested and jailed for any unaccounted gold worth Rs 20 lakh or above. This time the gold was about Rs 10 lakh so the guy was let go but a fine from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh will be imposed on Tanzeel. “Smugglers now-a-days have become smart as they bring gold lower than Rs 20 lakh to get away with imposition of just fine. We have caught men with gold worth Rs 19 lakh. With rising unemployment among the youth, they have become easy targets of these smugglers,” said Shera. The guy is from Delhi but due to strict checking at the airport there, smugglers try to board flights from small airports like Jaipur with expectation of leniency. However, they don’t get lucky sometimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gold-wires-worth-rs-10-lakh-seized-from-man-at-airport/articleshow/80524253.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Foul Air: Hot mix plants, stone crushers major contributors to air pollution||HYDERABAD: Hot mix plants and stone crushers are turning out to be major contributors to air pollution in the city with many residents raising an alarm over air, soil and water contamination. “People have been wearing a mask due to Covid-19 now. We have to wear masks every time we step out as the situation is so bad that we find it difficult to even breathe amidst all the dust particles,” said Vijay Reddy, a resident of Hyathnagar. These hot mix plants are spread across Hyderabad, mostly in Shamshabad, Ibrahimpatnam, Patancheruvu, Borabanda and also towards Sangareddy. Residents claim that this is just the tip of the iceberg as there are many such hot mix plants which are violating norms and go unattended and uninspected in residential areas. “There was a time when we had a lot of teak trees in our vicinity. Now, due to the pollution, the teak trees neither grow nor sustain. Due to the dust particles, we cannot plant any trees as none of them sustain after a point,” said Ravula Sridhar, a resident of Abdullapurmet. Heavy metals from these hot mix plants have contaminated the water and ground water can no longer be utilised by people for drinking without multiple filtering, said K Raji Reddy, who has filed multiple complaints with the TSPCB against the hot mix plants. “The government needs to have a permanent solution for these hot mix plants,” he added. “The fine dust particles settle on the crops that we eat. The dust forms a thick layer on the soil thereby making it infertile for cultivation,” said Dr Shashikanth Reddy, a resident, who also owns almost 60 acres of land in Saddupally, but has been able to cultivate only on five acres of land due to rising pollution. Turns out, the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) ordered closure of eight hot mix plants in Saddupally village in Rangareddy district recently. The closure orders, in possession with TOI, reveal that the hot mix plants were found functioning without obtaining the consent for operation (CFO) from the TSPCB. “After careful consideration of the material facts of the case, the board is of the firm opinion that the industry is operating without CFO of the board and causing air pollution to the surrounding area, thereby affecting the public health and environment,” read one of the closure orders issued by TSPCB. Although the TSPCB has ordered closure wherein they asked the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) to cut power supply to these plants, residents claim that these industries have been functioning with diesel generator. Asked about violations by these hot mix plants, M Venkanna, regional officer, TSPCB said, “We have seized diesel generators of these hot mix plants that were functioning without obtaining CFO. We are continuously monitoring the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/foul-air-hot-mix-plants-stone-crushers-major-contributors-to-air-pollution/articleshow/80524245.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Make Centre integral part in battle against human trafficking mafia: HC||Hyderabad: Making it clear that the states leading lone battles against child traffickers may not yield better results and that they should make the central government an integral part in the battle against the human trafficking mafia, the Telangana high court on Thursday made the union women and child welfare ministry as a necessary party to a batch of cases that are seeking the intervention of the courts and governments to trace the missing children and to protect them from being trafficked.  The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also made a suggestion to the state to follow the guidelines given by Delhi high court in the past in its judgement in Sapan Haldar versus state of Delhi. It also spoke about the facility to be integrated with the agencies of the states and the Centre. Advocate general BS Prasad said that they will incorporate all the guidelines in their approach. However, he said that Telangana government and its police have been using facial recognition technology called Darpan. This facility was integrated with the state and central agencies and has been yielding good results, he said. Dealing with a separate set of pleas that are related to formation of child welfare committees in all the 34 districts in the state, the bench questioned the state as to why the state is making inordinate delay in forming committees that play an important role in protection and care of children in distress. The bench directed the state to notify the constitution of all the child welfare committees in the state within one week from now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/make-centre-integral-part-in-battle-against-human-trafficking-mafia-hc/articleshow/80519690.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Student stabbed for admonishing woman’s harasser||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old Intermediate student was stabbed allegedly by his neighbours following an argument over harassment of a woman at Shaheen Nagar in Balapur. The victim, Abdul Wahed, 22, is an Inter second year student of a college in Chandrayangutta. He is a resident of Wadi-e-Aam in Shaheen Nagar. During the recent past, Wahed and his family members had admonished a local youth, Sohail, three times for harassing their cousin. On Wednesday morning, Wahed’s cousin Osama called him to inform that Sohail once again harassed their family member. Upset, Wahed went to Sohail’s house on Wednesday night to discuss the issue with Sohail’s brother Ahmed Fahad Ali. “Wahed spoke to Fahad about the harassment and informed him that despite repeated warnings, Sohail has not changed his behaviour. Wahed requested Fahad to convince his brother to mend his ways and left the place,” Balapur inspector B Bhaskar said. While Wahed was returning home, Fahad along with his father and brother followed him. “The trio intercepted Wahed at New Medical shop in Wadi-e-Aam and Fahad attacked the victim with a knife. Wahed suffered a stab injury on his left hand. Fahad’s father and his brother punched Wahed while he was trying to escape. The injured was shifted to hospital by his friends Azam and Siraj,” the inspector said. Police said that Wahed’s condition was out of danger. The accused have been reportedly picked up.  On Wednesday morning, Wahed’s cousin Osama called him to inform that Sohail once again harassed their family member. Upset, Wahed went to Sohail’s house to discuss the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-stabbed-for-admonishing-womans-harasser/articleshow/80519770.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||RPO declared ‘Plastic free office’||Secunderabad: The Regional Passport Office has been declared as ‘Plastic free office’ by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). As part of implementation of ‘Swachchata Pakwada’ programme held between January 1 and 15, officails of four offices of ‘Ministry of External Affairs’ (MEA), including Regional Passport Office, MEA branch Secretariat, Protector of Emigrants office along with Migrant Resource Centre and Regional Office of Indian Council for Cultural Relations participated within the workplaces and took up cleaning drives in their office premises. All the Passports Seva Kendras (PSKs), Passport Laghu Kendras (PLKs) and Post Office PSKs (POSPKs) also followed the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rpo-declared-plastic-free-office/articleshow/80519725.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Braving severe cold, people cast votes in Ajmer||Ajmer: Polling for local elections in Ajmer, Kishangarh, Kekeri, Sarwar and Bijaynagar was peaceful on Thursday. Ajmer registered an overall turnout of 62.18% while the highest voting was recorded in Sarwar with 88.7%. Barring a minor clash between Congress and BJP workers in Kishangarh, polling was largely peaceful in the region. There were instances where voters couldn’t find their names in the lists. There were also complaints of proxy voting from some booths. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/braving-severe-cold-people-cast-votes-in-ajmer/articleshow/80524333.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Dust particles impact soil fertility: Experts||HYDERABAD: Dust particles from the hot mix plants and stone crushers not only slows down the photosynthesis of plants but also impacts soil fertility, said agriculture experts. “When the dust falls on leaf surface, photosynthesis activity goes down thereby reducing the yield as well. Fine dust also fills up all the pores in the soil, turning it hard and infeasible for cultivation,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. “Minerals from these dust particles get dissolved in the water and changes the pH level of soil. The soil’s chemical properties and water properties are destroyed, thereby increasing the chances of an Eluru like outbreak in the area,” warned Ramanjaneyulu. It may be noted that hot mix plants and stone crushers are one of the major contributors to pollution in states such as Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Tamil Nadu. Some states even have specific guidelines on regulation of hot mix plants and stone crushers to keep pollution levels under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dust-particles-impact-soil-fertility-experts/articleshow/80524323.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Witness fined for distancing breach during virtual hearing||AHMEDABAD: A debt recovery tribunal (DRT) has imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 on a bank manager after the tribunal saw during a video-conference hearing that the bank manager was not maintaining social distancing at his lawyer’s chamber. Vinay Goel, a member of the DRT in Ahmedabad, on Wednesday took up the case of the Bank of Baroda through video link. BoB’s chief manager Vijay Sharma appeared for deposition through virtual hearing. Sharma was sitting in the chamber of his advocate, Bhavesh Suthar. As soon as the hearing began, the tribunal noticed, “The witness was not wearing a mask, but while appearing for the hearing, he put it on his face. The conduct of the witness is liable to be deprecated because he was seated in the chamber of advocate just near him without proper mask and failed to follow social distancing norms.” The tribunal said that it was needless to mention that many lawyers have suffered due to the pandemic and blamed litigants like Sharma for the lawyers’ suffering. With this observation, the tribunal ordered the manager to pay a Rs 2,000 fine for not observing social distancing. He will have to deposit the penalty with the National Defence Fund and inform the tribunal on February 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/witness-fined-for-distancing-breach-during-virtual-hearing/articleshow/80519820.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Govt to e-auction 55 quarries||About 55 quarries of sandstone and limestone having less than one hectare area will be offered to small businesses through e-auction to be held between February 16-19.These mines are located in Nagaur, Bhilwara, and Chittorgarh. The e-auctions will be held on the Centre’s MSTC portal. “These are small quarries for local businessmen and entrepreneurs. Once operational, they will create employment opportunities for local people and boost the economy there,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum.He said the department is following a transparent system of allotment by offering the quarries through e-auction. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-e-auction-55-quarries/articleshow/80524279.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra lifts stay on changing collector’s land to freehold||MUMBAI: The state revenue department on Thursday revoked its orders staying the conversion of occupancy class-II lands to freehold. Occupancy class–II lands are commonly known as collector’s land as they require prior permission from the collector for transfer. Freehold means the ownership lies with the occupants who can use the land in any manner in accordance with local regulations. The stay was issued in December 2020 following complaints that the order for conversion, issued by the Fadnavis government, was being misused. However, Sena MLA Mangesh Kudalkar, effected a rethink. Sena MLA from Kurla Mangesh Kudalkar convinced chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of the need to revoke the order. Kudalkar said there are nearly 3,000 housing societies in Mumbai on collector’s land and a majority are in his constituency. These housing societies, he said, are 40-50 years old and are occupied by middle class people. He said the societies are decrepit and in urgent need of redevelopment. Salil Rameshchandra, president, Federation of Grantees of Government Land, welcomed the order. “The blanket stay order should not have been issued as it created problems for several plot holders across Maharashtra. The decision did not affect Mumbai much as residents are unable to afford the premium to be paid for the conversion,” he said. Rameshchandra said they would now work on convincing the government to reduce the premium to 5% as has been done for Nazul lands (revenue land) in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-lifts-stay-on-changing-collectors-land-to-freehold/articleshow/80528816.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||BJP will always back practice of Agama Vidhi, says L Murugan||CHENNAI: BJP state president L Murugan on Thursday said his party supports Agama Shastra, the manual of rituals and traditions prescribed for temples, and said those who are not qualified to perform rituals and pujas should not enter the sanctum sanctorum of temples. He was replying to queries from reporters whether the BJP supported appointment of non-brahmins as temple priests and whether the hymn Kantha Shasthi Kavacham should be recited inside the sanctum sanctorum of temples. Murugan said prayers are performed in Tamil in all temples. But when the reporter persisted with the query as to was it the case inside the sanctum sanctorum, he lost his cool and asked, “What is the need for me to enter the sanctum sanctorum. Those who have studied Agama Vidhi and know about the sanctum sanctorum rules can go inside.” Responding to a query about 203 non-Brahmin archakars waiting for appointment orders, he asked, “Will you (journalists) be able to do a professor’s job?” He said the case was pending before the Supreme Court and skirted the topic. The Supreme Court, in December 2015, had ruled that nobody should be discriminated on the basis of caste in the appointment of temple priests. “The party will always support the rituals and religious practices done as per Agama Vidhi,” Murugan said and added that the party would stand guard to protect Hindu religion, Tamil culture and customs from any harm. DMK women’s wing leader and MP Kanimozhi and DMK deputy general secretary A Raja have been taunting BJP state leaders in the recent days with questions as to whether they would ensure pujas are held in temples in Tamil and non-brahmins are appointed priests. Religion has taken the centre stage in many political discourses in recent times after L Murugan took out Vetrivel Yatra across Tamil Nadu, covering the six holy abodes of Lord Muruga, to consolidate Hindu votes. DMK spokesperson T K S Elangovan, responding to Murugan’s comments, said, “The BJP boasts itself as a party for Hindus and their welfare, but they have not taken any effort to infuse self-respect among the Hindus. Murugan’s statement reiterates this.” President of Tamil Nadu Government Archakars’ Association V Ranganathan said the BJP leader’s views clearly indicated that they follow the old social order that discriminates on caste lines. “His (Murugan’s) statement punctures the party’s repeated claims that it will fight for the rights of all Hindus. They are following the law of Manu,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-will-always-back-practice-of-agama-vidhi-says-murugan/articleshow/80519784.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||Thousands of devotees participate in Thaipoosam||COIMBATORE: A large number of devotees thronged the Subramaniya Swami Temple at Marudhamalai on the occasion of Thaipoosam on Thursday. Though the crowd was lesser compared to the previous years due to Covid restrictions, police said there was a steady flow of devotees from the morning. Scores of devotees had taken padayatra from various places and had reached the foothills of Marudhamalai on Wednesday night itself. Due to Covid restrictions, the devotees were not allowed to scale the hill to reach the temple. In the early hours of Thursday, thirukalyana utsavam for Lord Subramanya Swami and Goddess Deivanai was performed. The deities were taken in a procession around the temple. The devotees were allowed to scale the hill from 6.30am. “We don’t mind being prevented from witnessing the thirukalyana utsavam and thiruveedhi ula because we understand the restrictions were because of Covid. All that we wanted to have was darshan of the Lord on Thaipoosam and we are satisfied that we had that,” said a woman devotee from Mettupalayam. Police personnel allowed devotees to enter the temple in batches. Special puja was held in other Murugan temples also. Meanwhile, government offices and banks remained shut as the government had declared holiday for Thaipoosam from this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/thousands-of-devotees-participate-in-thaipoosam/articleshow/80519777.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||Apni mandis to start from Monday||Chandigarh: After a gap of over 10 months, apni mandis will be back in the city from Monday. The civic body wrote a letter to the Punjab Mandi Board in this regard on Thursday, asking them to allow farmers to come to the city for the mandis. The civic body will allow the apni mandis only at identified locations. The day markets, which were given permission along with apni mandis at the same location, will not be allowed as of now. These will be given a nod to resume after seeing the situation at apni mandis.“We have written a letter to the secretary of the Punjab Mandi Board to allow their licensed farmers to come to the city Monday onwards. Since the Covid-19 situation is still prevailing, we are not allowing the day markets, but these will be permitted later,” said an MC official. Sources in the civic body said municipal commissioner KK Yadav has also issued directions to all the engineers and officers concerned to start levelling and cleaning mandi locations, so that neither residents nor farmers face any problem. The approach roads and its adjoining areas will also be levelled to enable smooth entry.During a war-room meeting held on Monday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had asked the MC to resume apni mandis as the Punjab government had already started them. Moreover, municipal councillors and people of the city were also demanding reopening of mandis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/apni-mandis-to-start-from-monday/articleshow/80519871.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 29, 2021||Goa||Water connections to Kadamba Plateau under way, says PWD minister||Porvorim: The PWD has already started releasing water connections to residents of Kadamba Plateau, minister Deepak Pauskar told the House on Thursday. “There is no delay in carrying out the work. This office has already started releasing water connections in a phased manner,” he said. Release of water connections to individual households in Santa Cruz under the Jal Jeevan Mission at the cost of Rs 18 lakh will be completed by March this year. Improvement of the water supply system to the Kadamba government employees’ housing society at Alto-Chimbel by laying a distribution network pipeline at a cost of Rs 32 lakh is in progress and will also be completed by March, the minister said. Similarly, the Rs 16-lakh interconnection to distribution pipelines — Har Ghar Nal Se Jal — in Chimbel under the Jal Jeevan Mission is under way and will be completed by March, Pauskar said. Laying of a pipeline at Kadamba Plateau and supplying of pumpsets to Chimbel have also been done. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-connections-to-kadamba-plateau-under-way-says-pwd-minister/articleshow/80524440.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||Rapid study on for Verna plant: Lobo||Panaji: The Goa Waste Management Corporation is in the process of conducting a rapid environment impact assessment for the proposed 250 tonne per day plus 20% solid waste management facility at Verna, as per the terms of reference and direction of the Goa state expert appraisal committee, waste management minister Michael Lobo stated in a written reply to a question tabled by Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rapid-study-on-for-verna-plant-lobo/articleshow/80524387.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Foundation stone laid for STP in Pali||Jaipur: Industries minister Parasadi Lal Meena on Thursday laid foundation stone for the central effluent treatment plant (CETP) No.6 at Punayata in Pali from the chief minister’s residence. This project of 12 MLD capacity costing Rs 100 crore will conserve about one crore litres of ground water everyday, besides improving water quality. Meena said under the leadership of CM Ashok Gehlot, industries department has taken all possible steps towards facilitating entrepreneurs. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/foundation-stone-laid-for-stp-in-pali/articleshow/80524363.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Erode||Erode: 63 sovereigns of gold recovered, man held||ERODE: The Erode district special police team on Thursday arrested a 41-year-old man who was involved in two burglary cases and seized 63 sovereigns of gold jewellery from him. The team led by inspector Jayakumar was on vehicle check at Sampath Nagar in the city when they intercepted a man who came on a bike. On questioning, police learned that he was R Suresh alias Suresh Kumar, of Pasupathipalayam village in Karur district, who was involved in two burglary cases that took place on January 16 and 23 in the city. "Suresh robbed 47 sovereign of gold jewellery from a house and 16 sovereigns in another house," Erode district SP P Thangadurai said. The accused confessed to the crime during inquiry. The accused sold a portion of the jewellery in a shop in Namakkal and mortgaged the remaining in two different banks at Pallipalayam in Namakkal district and Karur town. The SP said 14 cases were pending against Suresh in Karur, Erode and Salem districts. "He was in Salem central prison and came out on bail on December 20, 2020," the SP said, adding that he shifted his house to Erode district from Karur. The SP said the accused had recently purchased a piece of land at Othakadai near Kodumudi in Erode district by selling the stolen jewellery. The SP later handed over the recovered jewellery to the respective owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/63-sovereigns-of-gold-recovered-man-held/articleshow/80519877.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||CTU buses operate at full seating capacity||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has started operating buses at full seating capacity. The decision was taken on Wednesday after a notification was issued by the UT transport department, saying that adjoining states of Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh were operating their buses without restrictions on inter- and intra-state routes. Owing to seating capacity limitation, especially on long-route buses, the CTU was incurring heavy losses. “Now, it has been decided that inter-state as well as intra-state buses will be allowed to operate at full seating capacity by following preventive measures, such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Thermal scanning of passengers and sanitisation of buses will be duly done,” said the notification. A senior CTU officer said on many routes, they were running buses at only 50% occupancy and were hopeful that in coming days people would start using public transport more. On the intra-city or local routes being operated by the CTU, the fare is being charged as per the notification of January 15, 2020, instead of the flat rates charged earlier. Initially, the CTU had started buses in Punjab and Haryana, and later services resumed for Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and other states as well. The decision to restart bus services for Punjab and Haryana was taken on September 4 last and routes were finalised on September 10. The service resumed on September 16. The UT had resumed bus services on June 10 as well, but due to rise in coronavirus cases the decision was withdrawn within three days. CTU has fleet of over 500 buses  As per the official record, CTU has a fleet of over 500 buses, of which around 60% are past their prescribed life of eight years. These buses ply 75 routes with the waiting period varying from 20 minutes to over 1.5 hour. The low frequency of buses is said to be one of the main reasons behind residents staying away from public transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ctu-buses-operate-at-full-seating-capacity/articleshow/80519832.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 29, 2021||Delhi||National Green Tribunal dissolves panels on Yamuna revival||NEW DELHI: National Green Tribunal on Thursday dissolved the Yamuna Monitoring Committee, along with another committee led by former Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge Pritam Pal. It asked the NCR states to instead act on all previous judgments issued by the green tribunal and the Supreme Court over the last two decades. Taking the recommendations made by the YMC on record, NGT directed the chief secretaries of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to personally monitor the progress being made and submit periodical reports to the Central Monitoring Committee, which is headed by Jal Shakti Abhiyan secretary. “From the report of the committee, it is clear that the major problem of preventing pollution by discharge of sewage, industrial effluents and other pollutants remains unaddressed. Thus, on the part of concerned authorities in the states of Delhi, Haryana and UP, further actions in terms of the earlier orders of this tribunal as well as the current recommendations of the committee need to be taken. This may be overseen by the chief secretaries of the concerned states on regular basis by constituting a cell of experts on the subject for meaningful monitoring in coordination with authorities like DDA, IDMC, DPCC, DJB, etc,” said a bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel. “Non-adherence to timelines must result in adequate and stringent action against accountable people. Timely completion of projects must be ensured, otherwise for generations, the problem will remain untackled,” the bench added, stating interim measures like phytoremediation needed to be employed where permanent solution was being delayed. Asking the river rejuvenation committees of Delhi, Haryana and UP to ensure interdepartmental coordination for the execution of action plans, the tribunal said quarterly reports on these should now be submitted to the chief secretaries on a quarterly basis, who may thereafter give their own quarterly reports to the central committee. “We place on record our appreciation for the contribution of the YMC in the last more than two years. With the taking over of the further monitoring by the chief secretaries of NCT of Delhi (and other authorities of Delhi, including DDA, DJB and Municipal Corporations), Haryana and UP, proceedings of the committee constituted by this tribunal on the subject will stand concluded, subject to further monitoring by the concerned state authorities,” said the tribunal. The two-member YMC consisted of retired NGT expert member BS Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra. Delhi government had recently informed the tribunal that upgradation of sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to reduce foam formation in the Yamuna was likely to take another three to five years. Delays in getting tree cutting permissions, the Covid-19 lockdown, financial hardships and migration of labour had slowed down construction and upgradation of four major STPs — Kondli, Rithala, Okhla and Coronation Pillar — in Delhi, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ngt-dissolves-panels-on-yamuna-revival/articleshow/80524235.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Salem||2 masons die of asphyxiation in Krishnagiri||KRISHNAGIRI: Two masons who were involved in construction of a sump died of asphyxiation in the town on Thursday. The deceased were identified as K Periyasamy, 58, of Sathyasai Nagar in the town, and P Murugan, 52, of Keel Pudur village in the district. More than 10 construction workers were involved in constructing a sump at the house of A Saraswathi, 48, at Anand Nagar in the town. About 20 days ago, the workers constructed the water sump of the new house. Both Periyasamy and Murugan lowered into the sump to remove the wooden logs which were kept as support for the concrete structure on Thursday morning. When the duo lowered into the sump, they experienced suffocation and raised an alarm. Their co-workers alerted Krishnagiri town fire and rescue services personnel and Krishnagiri taluk police who rescued the duo from the sump. The duo was taken to the Krishnagiri district government hospital for treatment. "Doctors who examined them said both were brought dead," an officer from the Krishnagiri taluk police said. The Krishnagiri taluk police registered a case and initiated an inquiry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/2-masons-die-of-asphyxiation/articleshow/80519828.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Maid held for stealing valuables||HYDERABAD: A maidservant was arrested by Banjara Hills police for stealing valuables from the residence of a doctor. From the accused, police seized a stolen silver key chain, three gold chains and two gold bangles.  The accused had stolen the valuables in the absence of the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maid-held-for-stealing-valuables/articleshow/80524482.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Unemployed youth JAC organises ‘Chalo OU’||Hyderabad: A day after the state government released the pay revision commission report announcing 7.5 per cent fitment to employees and enhancement of retirement age from 58 to 60, the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of Unemployed Youth organised a ‘Chalo OU’ programme against the government’s decision on Thursday. Members of the JAC raised slogans against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government. “The government has betrayed the unemployed youth of the state by increasing the retirement age from 58 years to 60 years. Once again, the government has neglected the unemployed youth and has favoured those who already have jobs,” said Manavatha Roy, chairman, JAC of Unemployed Youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unemployed-youth-jac-organises-chalo-ou/articleshow/80519851.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Man jailed for life for raping disabled teen||Kota: A Pocso court in Kota on Thursday convicted a 45-year-old man to life in jail for repeatedly raping a 15-year-old mentally challenged girl to whom he had been acting as guardian after the death of her father in Kheda Rasulpura village under Kaithun police station of Kota district. The court also slapped penalty of Rs 50,000 on the convict. Pocso court no.-1 in Kota on Thursday convicted Balkishan, a resident of Khedarasulpura village under Kaithun police station of Kota district, to life in jail for repeatedly raping the teen in 2018, public prosecutor Premnarayan Namdev said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-jailed-for-life-for-raping-disabled-teen/articleshow/80524434.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Sanitisers, masks at all booths||Jaisalmer: Voting for local body polls went on till late in the evening in Pokhran on Thursday. Till 5pm, 90.5% polling was registered here. Additional SP Vipin Kumar Sharma, who was monitoring the security, said voting was peaceful and no untoward incidents were reported. SDO Rajesh Vishnoi was continuously inspecting polling centres and was taking feedback from voters. Sanitisers and masks were arranged at all booths. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanitisers-masks-at-all-booths/articleshow/80524399.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: A park for your furry friend down the road||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation is all set to construct the city’s first dog park. The project will come up on the lines of the one in Hyderabad, which a team of MC officers had visited to study its functioning. An agenda item on it will come up for discussion and approval in the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting on Friday. The MC has chosen Sector 42 for the project, which will be spread over 1.5 acres. A Mango Park is located at the site. The authorities have prepared its financial estimate of around Rs 49 lakh. “Aggressive dogs can be trained in a separate enclosure. Awareness activities on preventing dog bites and registration of pets, among others, can be conducted there. The Hyderabad park has such facilities,” the agenda item states. The project was planned the previous year, but could not be taken up due to the pandemic. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had asked the MC to explore the idea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-park-for-your-furry-friend-down-the-road/articleshow/80519793.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC declines to interfere in epidemic officer’s transfer||AHMEDABAD: An epidemic medical officer unsuccessfully moved the Gujarat high court against her transfer from Gandhinagar district to Mahisagar district alleging mala fide intent on the part of the authorities, after she claimed to have exposed irregularities by her colleague. Yogita Tulsian (45) told the court that she is the only doctor in Gujarat who has the qualification of ‘Epidemic Intelligence Service Training’. She did a two-year course in the US on this subject. Her advocate R R Bajpai argued that her expertise in these times of Covid-19 could be of utmost importance and in the larger public interest. Her services should be preferred in the main centre so the maximum people could benefit. However, the epidemic medical officer has been transferred four times in this pandemic year by the state government. The last transfer was effected on December 14, 2020, from the Gandhinagar district panchayat to the community health centre at Kothamba in Mahisagar district. She has been dumped in a remote place instead of availing services of her expertise because she exposed financial irregularities by her colleague and had approached the police, the lawyer argued. Justice A G Uraizee turned down her petition against the transfer on the ground that the transfer order made it abundantly clear that she was shifted in the public interest. The court observed that the doctor could not establish that her transfer was effected with ulterior motive. The judge further observed, “I am of the considered view that if the court starts to interfere with the transfer orders issued by the competent authority, same would cause hindrance in the administration which would not be conducive to public interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-declines-to-interfere-in-epidemic-officers-transfer/articleshow/80519866.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sukhna’s snow trees warmly host black birds||CHANDIGARH: Along the far shores of the Sukhna Lake, two unique “snow white” trees on adjacent isles are currently besieged by flocks of migratory birds in imposing black robes. They land on the branches to perch with a distinct grunt, let off copious white droppings rich in fish remains on the leaves and fly off after having basked in the sun to dry feathers drenched by dives into the Sukhna’s icy waters. The two trees, whose foliage is washed into a white discolouration by droppings of great cormorants, are an uncommon spectacle through the Tricity region’s wetlands. This is because wintering cormorants are hounded and chased away from wetlands, fish farms and Shivalik check dams as each cormorant gobbles up to 800g of fish a day and are perceived as competitors with human fisheries. Cormorants are not allowed to roost on trees near fisheries and such favourite roosting trees are even cut down by irate fishermen to drive away cormorants. Great cormorants are a global species and the largest of the cormorant species. They are among the most adept of fish hunters, who dive to hunt and one was found to have reached 75 metres in Lake Constance, Germany! “The fact that the Sukhna has two ‘white’ trees is an indication that cormorants find safety here, they are allowed to stay here during their winter migration and that food in the form of fish is available. Otherwise, cormorants are not allowed to settle at water bodies as they come into conflict with humans over fisheries. Profuse cormorant droppings can also ruin trees. This species has been historically persecuted to near extinction in some parts of the world. Even today, cormorants are culled in the United States,” said global award-winning ornithologist and co-chair, IUCN Stork, Ibis and Spoonbill Specialist Group, KS Gopi Sundar, who has spent decades conducting field research on wetland birds including the Sukhna. The Chandigarh Forests & Wildlife department recently constructed a “hide” in the jungles opposite the two “white” trees to facilitate discreet viewing and photography of these shy migratory birds. UT administrator and chairman of the Chandigarh State Wildlife Advisory Board VPS Badnore undertook a field inspection of the lake along with chief wildlife warden Debendra Dalai on Saturday to examine proposals to enhance the habitat for wetland birds at the Sukhna. The UT animal husbandry & fisheries department annually introduces farm-bred fish into the lake and regulates the size of the fish through commercial and angler fishing so as to provide smaller-size fish for migratory birds. “We welcome cormorants every winter to our lake with a warm heart. Along with other migratory birds such as ruddy shelducks and bar-headed geese, they feel safe here. We are consulting WWF-India to make a part of the lake more conducive for wetland birds by controlling the water level. Migratory birds like geese and shelducks prefer shallow waters rich in aquatic vegetation for food and they currently use the lake for safety during the day and fly off in the late evening to find food in agriculture fields and shallow wetlands in the region. We want to make a part of the lake more conducive for birds by providing food resources in addition to safety,” Dalai told the TOI. Amongst the most wary and stubborn of wild birds, cormorants play the cat-and-mouse game with fish farmers, who burst crackers, tether nylon lines/nets over water to ward off cormorants, cut trees where they roost, and sometimes kill them illegally with shotguns and poison. Fish farmers complain they spend an estimated Rs 20,000 per hectare to protect their stock from cormorants. But cunning and bold cormorants sometimes learn to dodge the defense systems and frustrate the farmers! An adult cormorant can hunt a fish upwards of 500g using their large beak with a fishing hook-like protrusion at the tip. Their hunting skills were evaluated in a research study published in 2015 titled, “The complexity of ecological impacts induced by Great cormorants”, authored by Piotr Klimaszyk & Piotr Rzymski. “Cormorants are characterized by high predation abilities resulting from their swimming speed (over 1 metre per second), great diving velocity (up to 4 metre per second) and depth (usually 2–5 m but occasionally even up to 20 m or more) as well as the ability to hunt socially (ie in groups to drive fish towards the flock),” the study stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhnas-snow-trees-warmly-host-black-birds/articleshow/80519890.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Batasingaram logistics park opened, govt plans more units||Hyderabad: The Telangana government on Thursday inaugurated the HMDA Truck Dock Logistics Park spread over 40 acres at Batasingaram. The park has been jointly developed by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) and Truck Dock in the public-private partnership (PPP) mode at an investment of Rs 40 crore. This logistics park will provide facilities such as warehouses with a capacity of 2 lakh sft, parking for 500 trucks, cold storage for 10,000 metric tonnes, dormitory, restaurants, office space, fuel stations, primary health centre and automobile service centre. Inaugurating the logistics park, Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao said the government plans to set up more logistics parks in the state to boost the manufacturing sector. Earlier during the day, he had tweeted that many more logistics parks are in the offing around the Outer Ring Road (ORR) and the goal is to make Hyderabad a premier logistics hub serving the growing manufacturing industry. Besides the logistics park in Batasingaram, a logistics park at Mangalpally, that has been set up in an area of about 22 acres at an investment of Rs 25 crore, is already operational. With high demand and activity being experienced in the logistics sector in and around Hyderabad, the state government, through HMDA, had initiated the development of logistic facilities around the Hyderabad Metropolitan Area (HMA). Under phase-I, HMDA had taken up development of logistics Parks at Batasingaram and Mangalpally on PPP basis to provide infrastructure to meet the rising demand for facilities related to freight logistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/batasingaram-logistics-park-opened-govt-plans-more-units/articleshow/80519932.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Polling peaceful in Bundi, Jhalawar||Kota: The local body polls in Bundi and Jhalawar districts concluded peacefully on Thursday. Polling in 190 wards of four municipalities — Nainwa, Keshoraipatan, Lakheri, Kapren, Indergarh — and Bundi municipal council in Bundi district and in 195 wards of four municipalities —Bhawanimandi, Pedawa, Jhalrapatan, Aklera — and Jhalawar municipal council in Jhalawar district ended peacefully at 5pm on with no untoward incident reported from any part of the districts, However, tussle among the local party leaders, both in Congress and BJP gave an opportunity to the independent candidates, particularly in Bundi, Keshoraipatan municipal areas. The turnout at 285 polling stations of six municipal areas of the district, including Bundi municipal council, was 79.69 %. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/polling-peaceful-in-bundi-jhalawar/articleshow/80524472.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||AAP to contest polls in UP, Gujarat, 4 other states||NEW DELHI: Spelling out Aam Aadmi Party’s national ambition, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced that the party would contest elections in six states, including UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Gujarat, which go to polls in the next two years. “We are not for AAP, we are for the country. AAP is just a vehicle to change the nation. Only we can give a vision for a 21st and 22nd century India,” said Kejriwal at the ninth national council of the party attended by functionaries from across the country. The AAP national convener added, “Delhi is a mini-India where people from across states come and live. They told us they had shown faith in the governments of their respective states, but had been constantly disappointed. Despite getting 325 seats, UP government has not worked. Residents of other states also want free electricity, medicines and water, good hospitals and schools, and road infrastructure.” “Since the state governments have not been able to provide the same despite getting a huge mandate, only AAP can save them. It’s you who has to get out on the streets. The people are ready. They only need to be shown that we have approached their state,” said Kejriwal. In the meeting, AAP’s constitution was amended to weed out some clauses to allow the party to grow fast. “We have decided that every member will have the full right to criticise the leadership and bring out organisational issues. But no one should bring such issues in the public domain,” said deputy CM Manish Sisodia. “People of other states have been discussing the manner in which the Kejriwal government has worked for all sections of the society and become a new model of governance,” added Sisodia. AAP has already increased its activities in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, which go to polls early next year. In these states, AAP will hard-sell its Delhi governance model. “People say that running a government for five years establishes anti-incumbency. We fought the third election on the basis of our work. We asked people to vote for us only if they thought we had worked. For the first time in the country, we established politics of work and development. No other party has ever asked people to vote for them for constructing schools and hospitals and providing free electricity and water. All parties play the religious and caste cards,” Kejriwal said. Mentioning that ministers from UP and Uttarakhand didn’t show up for a debate with Sisodia because they got scared, Kejriwal said, “They don’t have any basis to counter our politics of development.” Explaining how Delhi effectively tackled the Covid-19 pandemic even when the city had reported 8,500 cases in a single day, Kejriwal said, “Around 7,000 beds were vacant in the city’s hospitals as we had worked in the last five years to boost healthcare infrastructure, like opening mohalla clinics. The work done by the AAP government in Delhi is being recognised and appreciated across the country.” “AAP is respected and loved across villages in all states. But when it comes to voting, they say AAP does not have a strong organisation in the state. We have to cover this distance,” said Kejriwal, asking party workers to visit every lane and every village, meet people and form an organisation on a huge scale. Earlier, AAP’s constitution had a clause that if a vacancy of an office-bearer was created in any state or district due to the death of a person or for other reasons, then the post would stay vacant till the next organisational election. This clause has been amended and now the national executive in matters of national organisation and state executive in state organisation issues would have the power to appoint an interim person on the post. “Our constitution also mentioned that two people from the same family couldn’t fight the election. This rule will be valid only for the existing members. Many new leaders are joining our party, whose two family members have fought elections. In such cases, they can contest the polls,” Sisodia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-sounds-poll-bugle-to-spread-reach-in-six-states/articleshow/80524693.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||77% turnout in civic election for 90 bodies in 20 districts||JAIPUR: In all, 76.52% polling was recorded on Thursday as 90 municipal bodies across 20 districts went to election. There were 9,930 candidates in the fray. Of the 90 municipal bodies, there are 80 municipalities, 9 municipal councils and 1 municipal corporation. The highest polling was recorded at Pokhran Nagar Palika at 90.54% and the lowest was recorded at Dungarpur Nagar Parishad at 64.17%. The voter turnout for the elections to Ajmer Nagar Nigam was 66.17%. State Election Commissioner P S Mehra said of 29.85 lakh voters, 22.84 lakh voters exercised their franchise on Thursday. The counting of votes will be held on January 31 and the elections for the posts of chairpersons will be held on February 7. He expressed his gratitude to all the voters who came out to vote despite the cold weather. He informed that till 10 am, the turnout was 16.80%. At 1 pm, the voting percentage reached 48.89. The voter turnout reached 65.90% by 3 pm and till 5 pm, 75.35% voters cast their votes. The districts where election would be conducted are Ajmer, Banswara, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Bundi, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. In all 8,328 EVMs were used for elections at 5,253 polling stations in 3,035 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/77-turnout-in-civic-election-for-90-bodies-in-20-districts/articleshow/80524528.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 36% of healthcare workers vaccinated as Gujarat records highest single-day inoculation||AHMEDABAD: On Thursday, a total of 59,893 healthcare workers (HCWs) got vaccinated, making it the highest single-day vaccination for the state. As the state reached 1.55 lakh vaccinations for Covid-19, the day covered 38.4% of the total vaccinations so far. Against a target of 3.44 lakh inoculations of HCWs, the state has so far covered 36% of the beneficiaries. Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer, said that on Thursday the state recorded the highest vaccination centers at 1,268. “The boost is both from the private hospitals and expansion in the government healthcare infrastructure. The numbers in the future may fluctuate based on the vaccination days and participation of various districts and municipal corporations, but we have asked the authorities to increase the capacity,” he said. He added that so far there is no shot of Covaxin administered in the state, and the HCWs are vaccinated with Covishield. “No major side effects are reported in the state,” said Dr Jani. At Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, 762 HCWs got vaccinated on Thursday. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that so far 1,403 HCWs have been vaccinated at the hospital. “Three new vaccination rooms have been created to increase the capacity. Those vaccinated range from doctors, nurses and paramedical staff to security personnel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-36-of-healthcare-workers-vaccinated-as-gujarat-records-highest-single-day-inoculation/articleshow/80520003.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Tasmac shop salesmen caught taking bribe, jailed||COIMBATORE: Two Tasmac salesmen were caught taking a bribe of Rs 70,000 on Wednesday night from the manager of the bar attached to their outlet by threatening to cancel his licence if he didn’t oblige to their demand of selling liquor at a higher price. A sleuth attached to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) identified the accused as Lenin, 43, of Podhanur and Saravanan, 50, of Palathurai. The officer said the duo had approached the bar manager Vinoth, asking him to sell the Tasmac outlet’s liquor bottles at a higher price and demanding a monthly payout of Rs 70,000. “When Vinoth refused, they threatened to tarnish the name of the bar amid the customers and cancel the bar’s licence.” Vinoth lodged a complaint with DVAC sleuths, who gave him chemical-coated currency notes amounting to Rs 70,000, which they asked him to hand over to the duo around 10pm on Wednesday. “We arrested them while accepting the money,” the officer said. DVAC sleuths also checked the stock register at the outlet and seized Rs 8,600 unaccounted cash. “They made the money by selling liquor bottles at a higher price at the outlet itself,” the officer said. Since the salesmen were under the purview of government employees, Section 7(A) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, was invoked. They were produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody. “We have lodged them in Pollachi sub-jail. Public can contact us at 0422-2449550 for corruption-related complaints,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-shop-salesmen-caught-taking-bribe-jailed/articleshow/80519926.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||No meter seals in autos, passengers hit hard||Hyderabad: Nearly 50 new autorickshaws that were purchased in the last two months, including about 3,000 old vehicles that are plying in the city do not have the certificates from the Legal Metrology Department to prove that the vehicles have been inspected for meter seals, making it a major concern for passengers who want fare-regulated last-mile connectivity options. “Most autorickshaws, including the new ones, have no meters from past few days. I am now paying them anywhere between Rs 80 to Rs 100 instead of Rs 50 to travel just six kilometers every day. It is exhausting to bargain the prices with them every day,” said Razia Begum, who hires an auto from Begumpet railway station to Banjara Hills. “I purchased a second-hand auto and gave the meter for inspection at least two weeks ago. They have recently made the entire system online and since then none of us is getting the certificates or our meters back on time. We are afraid that we might have to pay fine or our vehicles will be seized by traffic or RTA officials if they catch us without meters,” said Mahesh Kumar, an auto driver. The annual inspection and sealing of the cover of auto meters that provide access to the fare calibration switch is also not allowing the auto drivers to get fitness certificates from the RTO’s. “The legal metrology department has not even released a statement saying that there is going to be a delay due to technical glitches. The auto drivers are now being forced to drive without meters or fitness certificates because of this issue,” said Satti Reddy, member of Telangana Auto Drivers Joint Action committee. It's shocking to learn that thousands of autos are plying without meter seals and certificates. Legal metrology department must immediately start inspections after sorting out their glitches. Also, the traffic department must penalise autos for running without meters and over charging passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-meter-seals-in-autos-passengers-hit-hard/articleshow/80519903.cms||Moulika.KV
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||UHBVN employee roobed of over Rs2L||Panchkula: Six masked men on two motorcycles robbed Rs 2.64 lakh, a laptop and a printing machine from a UHBVN contractual employee near Billa village after throwing red chili powder and attacking him with a sharp weapon on Wednesday.Satnam Singh, 19, a resident of Jatwada village in Ambala, said he was sent on duty by the senior officers for the collection of electricity bill amount from Billa village. The village falls under the Madanpur subdivision.He had collected the amount of Rs 2.64 lakhs and around 2.30 pm, he was going to deposit the amount at the SBI, Mattawala village branch.In the meantime, six persons on two motorbikes overtook him and threw red chilli powder in his eyes. They then kicked his motorcycle and he fell on the road. He then started running with the bag, but the accused nabbed him and snatched the bag containing cash, laptop and also attacked him with a sharp weapon.The accused then fled from the spot. The victim took help from passersby. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under sections 395 (punishment for dacoity) and 397 (Robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the IPC at Chandimandir police station.ASI Vinod, investigation officer, said, “We have registered a case and are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uhbvn-employee-roobed-of-over-rs2l/articleshow/80519938.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Puducherry||Cong ex-min signs up with BJP, vows to bring party to power in UT||Puducherry: Sacked Congress minister A Namassivayam and his supporter former Congress MLA E Theeppainthan from Puducherry joined the BJP in the presence of the party’s national general secretary Arjun Singh at Delhi on Thursday evening. Speaking to reporters later, Namassivayam vowed to strive hard to bring the BJP to power in the Union territory after the 2021 assembly polls. He charged that Puducherry has become a ‘backward’ territory under chief minister V Narayanasamy’s regime. It’s because of the poor decisions and policies of the CM. We decided to join the BJP to put Puducherry on the path of progress and will strive hard to bring the party to power. We will make it happen with the support of people and allies,” he said. He said he quit the Congress for the BJP after witnessing the emergence of a ‘strong Bharat’ under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. When asked whether he quit joined the BJP after he was given an assurance that he will be the chief ministerial candidate, he did not give a direct reply but said the BJP high command will decide on the CM candidate. Namassivayam later called on BJP president J P Nadda and other senior BJP leaders. Namassivayam resigned the ministerial and MLA posts on Monday and was moved from all party posts, membership by the Congress within minutes for indulging in anti-party activities. Theeppainthan also resigned MLA post on Monday. The two have been camping in Delhi since Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/cong-ex-min-signs-up-with-bjp-vows-to-bring-party-to-power-in-ut/articleshow/80519920.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 29, 2021||Ahmedabad||Community health workers move Gujarat HC against alleged harassment||AHMEDABAD: Paramedical practitioners with certificates from the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) approached the Gujarat high court alleging harassment from district health authorities by terming them quacks. They complained of not being allowed to work as community health workers during the critical time of Covid-19 pandemic, when there is a shortage of doctors in rural areas. Several practitioners having certificates of Medical Services and Essential Drugs from NIOS filed petitions through advocate Nauman Kureshi and claimed that they are permitted to carry out the restricted medical practice, as permitted by the governments and the programme is approved and recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO). Their clinics and workplaces have been raided and they are dubbed as quack by health authorities. Such health workers from different districts had made representations to the state health authorities to end their problem and allow them to carry out their work, especially as corona warriors in the time of Covid-19 epidemic. Their lawyers argued that these paramedical workers’ practice can reduce great burden from doctors in rural areas. However, the district health authorities continued to harass them by overlooking their certificates. It was submitted that it had been more than seven months but the authorities did not respond to their representations. They requested the HC to direct the government to take a quick decision and stop undue harassment at the hands of health officials. After hearing their case, the high court has ordered the government to decide by Friday on their demand to end their harassment by the district health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/community-health-workers-move-hc-against-alleged-harassment/articleshow/80519993.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM assets: BJP leader submits plaint to CEC||MUMBAI: Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya net chief election commissioner of India Sunil Arora at Nirvachan Sadan in New Delhi on Thursday and submitted/ discussed a complaint of false affidavits, concealment of assets by CM Uddhav Thackeray and Ravindra Waikar in their election affidavits, particularly about 9.34 acres of land and 19 houses at Korlai in Alibaug which had been purchased from Anvay Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-assets-bjp-leader-submits-plaint-to-cec/articleshow/80524586.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Business||FM will cook the books: Congress||NEW DELHI: Claiming that seven years of Modi government have wrecked the economy, Congress said on Thursday there were little expectations from the forthcoming Budget as the finance minister will cook the numbers to hide the disastrous state of the economy and come up with recommendations that will do little to reverse the negative spiral. Addressing a presser at the AICC headquarters, ex-finance minister P Chidambaram said the fall in the economy began at the start of 2018-19 and continued for eight quarters. “Even without the pandemic, the economy would have continued on the downward path... the pandemic pushed it into an abyss with (-)23.9% GDP in Q1 of 2020-21 and (-)7.5% in Q2. The current FM has the distinction of presiding over the first recession in four decades.” Chidambaram, along with Mallikarjun Kharge and Jairam Ramesh, claimed the Budget will hide the actual expenditure in the current year to build a “conjurer’s illusion” for 2021-22. He said the 2020-21 Budget began to unravel within months of the announcement last year because of the same problem. He said the worst aspect of the government’s economic mismanagement was a massive jump in inequality. He demanded that the government provide a belated fiscal stimulus to boost demand and stressed on direct cash transfers to 20-30% of the poorest families. He called on the Centre to abandon protectionist policies and sign as many bilateral trade pacts as possible and junk bias against imports||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fm-will-cook-the-books-congress/articleshow/80536336.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt may announce unemployment allowance for youth this week||Hyderabad: After speeding up the process for enhancement of salaries and pensions to the state government employees, the state government is likely to announce an allowance for the unemployed youth soon. The ruling TRS party had promised to give allowance to unemployed youth during the previous assembly elections. “CM K Chandrasekhar Rao may announce unemployment allowance to the youth in a day or two,” TRS working president and minister KT Rama Rao said while addressing a meeting of Telangana Rashtra Vidyut Karmika Sangam (TRVKS), electricity employees’ union, at Telangana Bhavan on Thursday. He said the state government had filled 1.31 lakh job vacancies in various departments in the past few years and another 50,000 vacancies would be filled soon. This includes 36,000 posts through Telangana Public Service Commission and vacancies in Telangana Transco, Genco and Singareni public undertakings. KTR, who is also the industries minister, said that when the state was formed in 2014, power generation was 7,000 MW but has now touched 14,000 MW. Criticising opposition leaders, he said they got the posts (Congress and BJP state chiefs)as KCR achieved Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-may-announce-unemployment-allowance-for-youth-this-week/articleshow/80520035.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||2,500 tonnes of bajri seized, 5 held in Chittor||Udaipur: In a joint raid by the district special team and the mining department, officials seized a huge stock of illegally mined sand near Bagreda village on the Neemuch-Nimbahera highway. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said the raid was held on a tip off illegal sand stocks kept secretly in two different places on the highway. The team led by Shivlal Meena, incharge of the special team, and Rakesh Meghwal of the mining department, seized 2,500 tonnes of bajri from the possession of Rajesh Dhakad, ChhaganLal, Kanwar Lal, Motilal and Rakesh Gurjar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2500-tonnes-of-bajri-seized-5-held-in-chittor/articleshow/80524580.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||Dengue makes comeback with 93 cases in 28 days||COIMBATORE: As many as 93 dengue cases have been reported from the district in the last 28 days. Six dengue patients, including two children, were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, dean in-charge Dr P Kalidas said. Most cases are reported from the corporation limit, from densely populated parts including Peelamedu, Singanallur, Nanjundapuram, Rathinapuri and Ganapathy. “We are seeing isolated cases from the east zone and north zone, but no clusters yet,” city health officer Dr A Raja said. “Whenever we see a case, we immediately check for fever cases in the neighbourhood, take up peridomestic anti-breeding activities like cleaning of stagnant drains and using bleaching powder,” he said. There is definitely a spike in dengue cases since December-end, said Dr Varun Sundaramoorthy, infectious diseases expert at Kovai Medical College Hospital. “When we get fever patients who tests negative for Covid-19, we test them for dengue because it’s the post-monsoon season.” With the pandemic situation persisting, people should be socially responsible and detect breeding sources and eliminate them, Raja said. “While we can look for breeding sources on streets, we can’t enter and search houses anymore exposing residents and our staff. People have to be aware of breeding sources and remove them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dengue-makes-comeback-with-93-cases-in-28-days/articleshow/80519986.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Two, including govt employee, held for syphoning off Rs 69 lakh||COIMBATORE: A month after the registration department suspended five employees for syphoning off Rs 68.93 lakh from sub-registrar offices in Tirupur district, the city police on Wednesday arrested two people in connection with the case. The arrested people were identified as R Shankar, 33, of Erode district, who was working as an assistant at the Tirupur joint sub-registrar office I and Jayasankar, owner of VB Online Typing Office, which was functioning near the sub-registrar office. Police had formed a special team headed by assistant commissioner of central crime branch K Balamurugan after receiving a complainant from district registrar R Ramasamy. The district registrar, in his complaint said that he received information from the heads of Tirupur joint sub-registrar I office, Tirupur joint sub-registrar II office, Thottipalayam sub-registrar office and Nallur sub-registrar office that the registration amount that needed to be submitted from their offices was misappropriated. Inquiry revealed that Rs 68,93,432, which was paid by the public for 47 registrations, were syphoned off by government employees, temporary computer operators and document writers. On December 15, the registration department suspended joint sub-registrar I Vijayashanthi, joint sub-registrar II Muthukannan, assistants R Shankar and P Panneerselvam and junior assistant Monisha. Shankar had purchased a property in the name of his parents at Surampatti in Erode district, a police officer said, “He had cancelled two registrations illegally without the knowledge of the public and used the money to register the property. He would register properties online and with the help of officials at the sub-registrar office, cancel registration. He would use the registration number to register properties of others and receive the registration amount in cash, which he used to split with the officials,” he said. The accused were arrested under sections of 409, 120 (B), 468, 471, 477 (A) of IPC and 66(c) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-including-govt-employee-held-for-syphoning-off-rs-69-lakh/articleshow/80519965.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||PMK Ramadoss hiding perks vanniyars got in DMK rule: M K Stalin||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday charged PMK founder S Ramadoss of hiding the benefits that vanniyars received during the DMK rule “for selfish reasons” and indulging in false propaganda against his party. “The more he criticizes the DMK, more and more PMK functionaries will leave him and join the DMK,” Stalin said while virtually addressing cadres who left the PMK and other parties for the DMK in Cuddalore district. “It is the DMK that has always stood for social justice. It is the DMK which offered the MBC status to vanniyars and gave 20% reservation to the most backward communities. It was only during the DMK rule that members of the most backward class went on to hold high posts in the state police, TNPSC and as vice-chancellor of University of Madras,” Stalin said. Turning his attention on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Stalin condemned the former for unnecessarily blaming the DMK for attempting to prevent the construction of Jayalalithaa memorial by approaching court through benamis. “The DMK does not believe in backdoor entry,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pmk-ramadoss-hiding-perks-vanniyars-got-in-dmk-rule-stalin/articleshow/80519977.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||House approves supplementary grants of Rs 774 cr||Porvorim: Amidst opposition pointing out government revenue leakages, the House on Thursday passed the Goa Appropriation Bill, 2021, empowering the government to withdraw Rs 774 crore from the state consolidated fund as supplementary grants for the fiscal year 2020-21. The Bill was passed by voice vote. CM Pramod Sawant said that the total state borrowing is Rs 20,000 crore against a debt of Rs 18,800 crore. He said that the state has repaid the borrowing with a higher interest rate. The borrowing for the current financial year may touch Rs 2,500 crore, the chief minister said, even as he assured the House of reducing borrowing the next financial year. Sawant said that more money would be spend on capital investment during the next financial year. The Bill provides for appropriation out of the consolidated fund of the state, for the money required to meet certain expenditure. The charges on the consolidated fund of the state for which the Bill was approved Thursday, include health services Rs 127 crore, public works Rs 55 crore and tourism Rs 15 crore and schools education Rs 50 crore. Madkai MLA Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said that the state government has not spend on capital investment this financial year. He also said that while the borrowing is done for capital investment, hardly any money is spent on it. Most of the borrowing was used for interest and loan payment, he said. Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte pointed out how the government had waived off Rs 40 crore construction licence fee for the Mopa airport and given casinos time to pay the over Rs 700 crore recurring fees. He also said that money is being spent on constructing bad toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/house-approves-supplementary-grants-of-rs-774-cr/articleshow/80524601.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||Non-biodegradable garbage bill passed||Panaji: The state legislative assembly on Thursday passed the Goa Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) (Amendment) Bill, 2021. As per the bill, cess will be levied at a rate not exceeding 2% of consideration received on outway supply of goods marketed in non-biodegradable packaging. Environment minister Nilesh Cabral said that intention of the bill is to ensure that segregation of waste is undertaken before collection. Cabral said that all types of plastic are defined. He also said that the bill has been introduced with an aim to keep Goa clean. The Opposition pointed out that this will impose additional tax on the people as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had introduced ‘one tax, one country’ concept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/non-biodegradable-garbage-bill-passed/articleshow/80524554.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Computer operator caught taking bribe||Hyderabad: A computer operator working at TSSPDCL office in Tandur was arrested when he demanded and accepted Rs 20,000 alleged bribe from the complainant on Thursday. The accused TSSPDCL employee, Sabeel Baba, a computer operator (Artisan Grade-II), was working at the office of the assistant divisional engineer, operations, TSSPDCL, Tandur. According to ACB officials, Sabeel Baba demanded the bribe from the complainant, Md Khalid of Tandur, to process file of Syed Gafoor Pasha Quarry Industry in Malkapur, Tandur, for deration (reduction) in industrial load from 74 HP to 49 HP. Sabeel Baba has been arrested and he would be produced before the special court in Hyderabad. In another case, mandal engineering officer, G Chandrasekhar, in the office of MPP, Adilabad, was caught red-handed in front of Revenue Guest House in Adilabad town when he demanded and accepted Rs 2 lakh alleged bribe from the complainant, Ramini Sunil from Teacher’s Colony, Adilabad, to record the measurements of works executed by the complainant in M-Books and forward the M-books and bills to deputy executive engineer for further process. The bribe amount was recovered from Chandrasekhar’s possession. The accused official was arrested and he would be produced before the ACB court in Karimnagar. ACB sleuths recovered Rs 20,000 bribe amount from the possession of Sabeel Baba at his office and an additional amount of Rs 13,900 unaccounted cash was also seized||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/computer-operator-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/80519954.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||2 govt officials, e-mitra director held for bribery||Jaipur: In two different cases, the Anti Corruption Bureau on Thursday arrested two government officers and a e-mitra Kendra director for accepting bribe. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-govt-officials-e-mitra-director-held-for-bribery/articleshow/80524607.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||Isro chief inaugurates Unity Sat ground stations||COIMBATORE: K Sivan, chairman of the Indian Space Research Organization (Isro), on Thursday said the Unity Sat - three academic satellites developed by as many educational institutions - would provide an overview of real space mission and how space players could revolutionize the Indian space sector with faster, better and cheaper access to the space. He was addressing a gathering virtually after remotely inaugurating the ground stations of Unity Sat on the premises of Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology in Coimbatore, JPR Institute of Technology in Chennai and GH Raisoni College of Engineering in Nagpur. The Isro is expected to launch the satellites in February. “They will be launched in a single deployer. Soon after the announcement of space reforms, the institutions took a bold step and have come out with satellite configurations,” the Isro chief said. Explaining that launching nano satellites in lower earth orbit (LEO) required a systematic approach, he said the institutions had succeeded in adopting the same and built the satellites with a unique objective of demonstrating inter-satellite communication technology. Pointing out all the parts and structures of the satellite were made locally, Sivan said it was the first step to develop capabilities for multiple satellite link system in a cost-effective manner. According to him, registration of satellites as national space objects is another exposure to understand how responsible behaviour is demanded for other space activities like addressing the liabilities, analyzing the trajectory of space object and potential threat operations. The Isro chief has asked the institutions not to stop with one satellite and assured to extend all support to them from his end. The Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology is all set to hand over its academic satellite, which weighs just 460g, to the Isro on February 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/isro-chief-inaugurates-unity-sat-ground-stations/articleshow/80520020.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 36-year-old held for cybercrime||HYDERABAD: A 36-year-old hardware engineer was arrested by cybercrime sleuths of Rachakonda, since he allegedly copied the personal photos of a female customer, who had given her tablet to the accused to repair it. Police said the accused misused her photos to create fake social media accounts in her name. He is also accused of not returning the device to the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/36-year-old-held-for-cyber-crime/articleshow/80524610.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Allegations on JMC of not prioritising important issues in budget||Jaipur: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater passed a budget of Rs 821 crore and eight other proposals on Thursday amidst allegations of not prioritising important issues. Laptops, hiked stipends and two skilled labourers in every ward are a few proposals that were considered to be a wastage. Many councillors raised objections on not giving sewerage of the city enough budget despite it being one of the prominent problems in the city. Congress councillors like Kishan Ajmera, Vikas Sharma and Ladu Ram said that sewerage is a major problem and only Rs 15 crore was allotted for it. Everyday, 20 complaints are filed with JMC Greater related to the sewerage of the city and in many places, the lines are choked. In Sanganer area, residents have to pay from their own pockets to get the septic tanks cleaned, as half of the areas do not have sewerage lines. Councillor Ladu Ram also asked to increase the budget for road construction instead of just focusing on useless issues, as the colonies’ roads are not proper. One of the proposals was to hike the salaries of councillors from Rs 3,000 to Rs 11,000 which was objected to by one Congress councillor who said, “Before delimitation, when the wards were bigger in size and population, the councillors had Rs 3,000 stipend and now, with smaller wards and population, a hiked stipend is just wastage of money of the already cash-crunched JMC.” To resolve the problem of funds, JMC passed the proposal of taking up a loan of Rs 500 crore from HUDCO for which in the first two years, nothing has to be paid and then every year, Rs 100 crore will be paid back. Congress councillor Divya Singh questioned how is the JMC planning to raise the revenue over the years to be able to pay back the loans. The question wasn’t answered clearly by anyone. A proposal for the purchase of 90 laptops for the councillors was also passed. JMC passed a proposal to appoint two unskilled labourers in every ward for which payment will be made by the JMC, to help the councillors in day-to-day work. A JMC official on condition of anonymity said that these labourers have no use and most of the councillors keep them in their offices instead of utilising them in the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/allegations-on-jmc-of-not-prioritising-important-issues-in-budget/articleshow/80520077.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||CMCH adds touch of luxury to ortho ward||Coimbatore: Patients who are admitted to the orthopaedic ward at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) could now feel at home – they could watch news, their favourite serial or latest movie songs on television, or listen to songs and other programmes on radios. They are also provided with other facilities, including normal or hot water for drinking throughout the day, to make their stay at the hospital comfortable. In short, patients could enjoy facilities that are on par with private hospitals.Taking a leaf out of the Covid care and quarantine centres, where patients were offered good amenities like food and entertainment to make their stay comfortable, the orthopaedic ward had improved patient amenities a month ago to elevate their mood.Dr S Vetrivelchezhian, director, Institute of Orthopaedics, says, “If the patients feel comfortable, we feel they will be more cooperative when nurses come to take blood samples, change the needles for drips or take them for scans and x-rays. This is especially crucial, because we get many severe accident patients, who require three to four surgeries in a span of 10 days to two weeks and stay here for several months.”The hospital has fitted a radio, which plays Rainbow FM for every 16 beds or per row, and a television each in the male and female wards, which have been equipped with racks for patients to store their things. “Now, their belongings won’t crowd the floor space between beds and give the ward a messy look that patients dread,” says Vetrivelchezhian.According to the hospital staff, it is very rare for a government hospital in a tropical area to provide hot drinking water to patients through the day.The ward had already created a benchmark by setting up seating space and bed for bystanders, who were otherwise sleeping on the floor or sharing the patients’ bed, often inconveniencing doctors on round and nurses in the ward.CCTV cameras were also installed to keep a watch on touts who entice and take patients to private hospitals and steal from wards. “Since we have begun performing surgeries within six hours of an accident victim’s admission, patients have stopped going to private hospitals,” says Vetrivelchezhian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cmch-adds-touch-of-luxury-to-ortho-ward/articleshow/80520017.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Invite all employee unions, says Bandi||Hyderabad: BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday alleged that the TRS regime is inviting employee unions that are friendly to the government for discussions on the PRC recommendations. Demanding that all employee and teacher associations be invited for discussions, he said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has put the fitment proposal to divert the attention of employees on other issues. He said the three-member committee should hear all concerns of the employees, including non-implementation of employee health scheme (EHS). “BJP is with the employees. They are being threatened if they raise voice against the recommendations,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/invite-all-employee-unions-says-bandi/articleshow/80520060.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||OTS for those who had availed of housing scheme||Porvorim: The Goa (Regulation of House Building Advance) Bill, 2021, discontinuing the housing loan scheme for government employees was passed in the house on Thursday. The bill was passed with 24 votes in favour and seven against. The opposition sought for the continuation of the scheme. CM Pramod Sawant said that the government would come out with a one-time settlement scheme for those government employees whose instalments are pending with the government. Sawant also said that the government will come out with a new scheme with banks. The House Building Advance (HBA) scheme was implemented when the sixth pay commission was in force and the government has now implemented the seventh pay commission, he said, adding that the HBA scheme was complicated. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that he spoke with the chief minister about continuing the scheme for those who have already availed of it. Stating that by stopping this scheme the government is only saving Rs 19.7 crore, Kamat said, “By stopping the scheme you are ruining the lives of 1,500 people.” Fatorda MLA Vijay Sardesai said that doing something in retrospective is breach of faith. Under the HBA scheme, government employees were entitled to a housing loan at 2% rate of interest, while the remaining 7% was borne by the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ots-for-those-who-had-availed-of-housing-scheme/articleshow/80524662.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court to hear Eknath Khadse's plea to quash land inquiry next week||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday adjourned to February 3 the hearing in a quashing petition filed by NCP leader Eknath Khadse of a probe being conducted by the Enforcement Directorate in an alleged money-laundering case connected to a Pune land grab complaint. The case dates back to 2016. The ED counsel continued an oral assurance against any coercive steps being taken till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-to-hear-khadses-quashing-plea-on-feb-3/articleshow/80524685.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Focus on sanitation, garbage collection in JMC Greater’s 1st GBM||Jaipur: Sewerage and door-to-door garbage collection were the main topics of discussion in the first general body meeting of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater. Councillors from BJP, Congress and independents raised the issue of inefficiency in door-to-door collection by the private firm and corruption among JMC officials due to which the sanitation condition in the city is deteriorating. Abhay Purohit, councillor from ward 84 said, “It is high time that the private firm should be removed from the function of door-to-door collection. Many a times, the hoopers do not take rounds in the entire ward and just collect garbage from the restaurants and depots.” Many councillors expressed discontent towards the degrading sanitation condition. A Congress councillor also said that JMC Greater officials, in connivance with the private firm and sanitation workers, do not perform their duties well. Looking at the allotment in budget, Kishan Ajmera, another councillor raised objection on allotting just Rs 15 crore on sewerage and said that Jaipur city is dealing with outdated sewerage lines and leakage, so the budget for sewerage should have been more.While the discussions were on, there were many tussles between the Congress and BJP councillors during the meeting. In the beginning of the meeting, two-minute silence was observed for the political leaders, army officials and people who died in accidents last year. Reacting to this, Vikas Sharma, a Congress councillor objected that condolences should have been given to the farmers who have died in the farmers’ protest. BJP councillors objected to this and said that Congress councillors are trying to divert the development issue towards national politics. Yelling and accusations started between the two sides and the councillors gathered in the middle of the meeting hall shouting at each other. Mayor Somya Gurjar had to adjourn the session once for 15 minutes. This happened again when independent councillors in support of BJP got into a verbal fight with the Congress councillors. When the issue was settled, other people raised their issues, like councillor Rakhi Rathore raised the issue of opening Indira Rasoi and JMC Greater zonal offices in community halls that have defeated the purpose of the halls which were to cater to the needs of the public. Bharat Meghwal, a councillor from ward 147 raised issues of neglected areas of kacchi basti in his ward and asked for special attention to be given to his ward as well. All the nine proposals were passed by the councillors with a lot of discussion on each of the points. Proposals - - Proposal of the budget of Rs 821 crore was passed by the board - Proposal to constitute committees in the JMC, Greater- Taking up loan of Rs 500 crore from HUDCO for which in the first two years JMC won’t have to pay anything. After that every year Rs 100 crore will be paid back- To make arrangements for two skilled labourers in each ward for improvement of working system- Approval of new building by-laws 2020- Proposal to increase the allowance of councillors from Rs 3,750 to Rs 11,000- Providing laptops to councillors- Discussion on the sanitation condition of the city- Approval to the land rates fixed by JDA and Housing board||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/focus-on-sanitation-garbage-collection-in-jmc-greaters-1st-gbm/articleshow/80520055.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||Covid care centre at Codissia closed||COIMBATORE: With the number of active Covid-19 cases falling below the 450-mark, the health department closed the main Covid care centre at Codissia complex on Tuesday. There were 1,400-odd beds at the centre, set up in July first week to host asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. As of now, only the Covid care centre at Karunya University in Madhampalayam is open, which has 17 patients. The department had taken over three halls in Codissia complex when the number of active cases was hovering around 5,000. “With active cases less than 10% of that number, we decided to temporarily close the centre. But we will retain the Karunya Covid care centre, which has 607 beds,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. Of the 429 active cases, hardly 40 are in government hospitals and care centres. While 35 of them are in the ESI Hospital, five are in CMCH. There are 1,328 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in government hospitals alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-care-centre-at-codissia-closed/articleshow/80520041.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Restaurant biz close to pre-Covid levels after lifting of night curfew||JAIPUR: Estimates vary, but on average the restaurant industry expects that 20% of outlets have shut shop due to the combined effect of lockdown and night curfew. But those who have survived are limping back closer to normalcy and have started hiring people back. Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan, said after the curfew was lifted about a week ago, people are coming back and the improvement is significant. But he said that those restaurants which were operating out of rented places, some of them have been hit hard. TimesViewThe hospitality business has been given industry status by the government but not the benefits. Many states like Maharashtra have offered many sops to hospitality units. These have helped them to bring down power tariffs and provided other advantages. Additionally, the state should also consider scrapping the fixed charge rule which had prompted many restaurants in the city to close down during the extended night curfew period.“A bigger portion of the business volume comes from dinner services. Many restaurants found it difficult to survive the extended night curfew period as they had to pay rentals, 18% GST on the amount, fixed electricity charges and other maintenance cost. But those who survived are very much on a strong recovery path,” said Chandela. Some restaurants have hit daily business volume they had during the pre-Covid days while others are clocking between 70-80% depending on the location and their clientèle profile. “For those businesses whose dependency was more on student category, will take some time as most of the students studying in Jaipur have not returned. But for an outlet like ours which depends of residents and families, we are actually doing more business than we did during pre-Covid days,” said Ashish Sharma of a new-age restaurant. Sharma said the industry has hired back 70% of the workers they engaged earlier. “With business increasing, the hiring will go up further,” added Sharma. Even parties are back in full swing. Some restaurants said that there is a sharp increase in new and postponed parties and get-togethers. “My restaurant is booked for parties and get-togethers till February 15. There is a pent-up demand. This shows people are now confident after the arrival of vaccine and reduction in new cases. My restaurant is back to normal,” said Abhishek Ashia, a restaurant owner. Ashia said after the night curfew was lifted, walk-ins have vastly improved and home delivery has come down. Before pandemic, Jaipur had witnessed a surge in new restaurants. According to a travel site, the count crossed over 4,000. But several shuttered their shops due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/restaurant-biz-close-to-pre-covid-levels-after-lifting-of-night-curfew/articleshow/80520029.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: HC relief for woman with disability sued by estranged hubby||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has quashed the defamation proceedings against a woman with disability moved by her estranged husband, an advocate. The case pending before a magistrate court was quashed based on an appeal by the woman, who contended that the man’s sister and father were misusing their positions as judicial officer and a retired police officer to prosecute her. The woman, left physically disabled in a polio attack, stated in her petition that she and the advocate got married in 1995 without the knowledge of their parents. Since they were childless for more than 15 years, their relationship got strained. The woman learned that her husband had remarried in 2010 and begot a child through in-vitro fertilization in 2014. The woman’s contention is that after she was thrown out of her matrimonial home, her husband’s sister and father used their official position to get him remarried secretly, after which she wrote a complaint to the registrar general of the Madras high court seeking justice. The advocate submitted that his estranged wife had circulated copies of her complaint to all his relatives, friends and neighbours and defamed him by calling him impotent. The advocate then moved the magistrate court in Saidapet initiating defamation proceedings against her, arguing that alleging impotency amounted to defamation. After perusing all submissions, the court observed that this was no run-of-the-mill defamation case and pointed out that the advocate had left the woman with disabilities in the lurch after marrying. The court read out her complaint and held that she had not made any direct imputation that her husband was impotent. It further noted that the advocate had not denied his secret marriage and a child born out of it. The court then allowed the appeal and quashed the case pending before the XVIII metropolitan magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-relief-for-woman-with-disability-sued-by-estranged-hubby/articleshow/80520067.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Considered 7th CPC proposals: Panel||Hyderabad: With the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommending the basic minimum salary for government employees at Rs 19,000 as against the Rs 24,000 demanded by the employees, the PRC on Thursday explained that a family of three would have the highest monthly food expenditure on meat at Rs 2,388, followed by expenditure on rice at Rs 2,082. The PRC said that the Director of Economics and Statistics had not taken into consideration certain expenditures on fuel, electricity, water charges, marriage, recreation, festivals and skill development, however, the 7th Central Pay Commission (7th CPC) has taken these into consideration, thus, keeping in view the recommendations of the 7th CPC, the basic salary comes to Rs 19,000. It added that without these additional considerations, basic salary would have been Rs 16,500 per month. Interestingly, the PRC estimated that a family of three would consume 18 litres of milk and would spend about Rs 993 on it monthly, which is the third highest spend after meat and rice. Expenditure on five meters of cloth, with a total expenditure of Rs 1,695 per month, was also considered. The basic estimation for food and cloth was Rs 12,464. After adding up the miscellaneous expenditure, the total expenditure stood at Rs 16,500. The least is spent on vegetables, it said. Although the employees agreed with the calculations of the PRC, they said that four members of a family, and not three, should be considered as one unit. While the PRC pegged Rs 19,000 as basic estimated salary for a family unit of three, employees wanted it to be Rs 24,000 for a unit of four family members. The PRC and employees’ unions in that way agreed on per day consumption calculation (how much each person consumes) but differed on total consumption units in a family (number of persons in family). However, the monthly basic expenditure was not calculated for any medical needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/considered-7th-cpc-proposals-panel/articleshow/80520089.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Cops crack murder mystery in two days||Jaipur: Two days after a 75-year-old man was murdered at Rakeshwari Shiv temple at Rakadi in Sodala, police solved the case and arrested a 20-year-old youth on Thursday. Police said the motive of the crime was to loot the cash from the office of the temple besides identifying two more accused. DCP (South) Harendra Mahawar thanked the locals and beat constable for solving the case promptly. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-crack-murder-mystery-in-two-days/articleshow/80524643.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||City student leaves her mark at national-level Kala Utsav||Coimbatore: A Class XI girl student of the government higher secondary school at Kinathukadavu in the district has won third place in the 3D visual art category at the national-level Kala Utsav that was virtually conducted by the human resource development ministry about two weeks ago. The results were announced on Thursday.S Kiruthika bagged the prize by sculpting the images of folk dance forms of therukoothu, mayilattam and karagattam in sand. “While I used to paint ever since I was in Class VII, I selected sand as a medium for the first time on December 10, 2020, a few days before the competition. I visited my art teacher’s house almost daily since then and practiced for more than seven hours a day,” she said. According to her, inspired by one of her seniors, who had sculpted images in clay a few years ago, the school management had decided to do sand sculpting when 3D visual art was introduced for the first time this year.“With the help of my teachers, I learnt the art by watching a number of YouTube videos, especially that of Sudarsan Pattnaik, a sand artist from Odisha. While I was a bit scared initially, now I am confident of sculpting any image in sand,” Kiruthika said. She said at least 12 sacks (each containing 25kg) of sand and two sacks of colour powder were required to sculpt an image. Kiruthika had sculpted an image of therukoothu at the district-level competition, one each image of therukootu and mayillatam for the state-level contest, and four images, including two faces representing karagattam, at the national-level competition.She said it wouldn’t have been possible without the help of her arts teachers S Kousalya and Rajalakshmi and her principal M Krishnamoorthy, who extended all support right from purchasing the sand to learning the art.S Kousalya said Kiruthika had learnt the art more quickly than expected, as she had prior knowledge in drawing images.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-student-leaves-her-mark-at-national-level-kala-utsav/articleshow/80520065.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 29, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore student leaves her mark at national-level Kala Utsav||COIMBATORE: A Class XI girl student of the government higher secondary school at Kinathukadavu in the district has won third place in the 3D visual art category at the national-level Kala Utsav that was virtually conducted by the human resource development ministry about two weeks ago. The results were announced on Thursday. S Kiruthika bagged the prize by sculpting the images of folk dance forms of therukoothu, mayilattam and karagattam in sand. “While I used to paint ever since I was in Class VII, I selected sand as a medium for the first time on December 10, 2020, a few days before the competition. I visited my art teacher’s house almost daily since then and practiced for more than seven hours a day,” she said. According to her, inspired by one of her seniors, who had sculpted images in clay a few years ago, the school management had decided to do sand sculpting when 3D visual art was introduced for the first time this year. “With the help of my teachers, I learnt the art by watching a number of YouTube videos, especially that of Sudarsan Pattnaik, a sand artist from Odisha. While I was a bit scared initially, now I am confident of sculpting any image in sand,” Kiruthika said. She said at least 12 sacks (each containing 25kg) of sand and two sacks of colour powder were required to sculpt an image. Kiruthika had sculpted an image of therukoothu at the district-level competition, one each image of therukootu and mayillatam for the state-level contest, and four images, including two faces representing karagattam, at the national-level competition. She said it wouldn’t have been possible without the help of her arts teachers S Kousalya and Rajalakshmi and her principal M Krishnamoorthy, who extended all support right from purchasing the sand to learning the art. S Kousalya said Kiruthika had learnt the art more quickly than expected, as she had prior knowledge in drawing images.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-student-leaves-her-mark-at-national-level-kala-utsav/articleshow/80520073.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||2.5L vaccinated, Raj ranks third||Jaipur: Rajasthan is at third place in the list of 13 states which have vaccinated more than 1 lakh beneficiaries of the Covid-19 inoculation drive which began on January 16.On Thursday, 385 sessions in 24 districts were organized in which 20,696 beneficiaries got vaccinated against the target of 30,809 with the achievement percentage of target remained at 69%.With 2.8 lakh beneficiaries, Karnataka is at the top in the list, while UP with 2.7 lakh and Rajasthan with 2.5 lakh beneficiaries are at the second and the third place in the list.On Wednesday, Rajasthan’s share of vaccination was quite high to the national figure of inoculation. On Wednesday, Rajasthan was among the five states having reported 79% of the country’s vaccination.Rajasthan had reported 24% of the country’s beneficiaries on Wednesday getting the Covid-19 job, while 20% were reported from Madhya Pradesh, 13% from Maharastra, 11% from West Bengal and 11% from Karnataka.“In the past few days, the state has witnessed beneficiaries opting for Covid-19 vaccine. We have increased our vaccination sites across the state to help the beneficiaries getting the vaccines without any difficulty,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunisation).The health department had started the drive with 167 vaccination sites but now the vaccination sites have been increased to more than 1,150 across the state. But, on Thursday, sessions were organized at 385 sites. The state has managed to organise 4,000 sessions of vaccination target 100 beneficiaries at each session till date from January 16. The overall achievement percentage of target has rose to 70%.The health department officials claimed that the 137 adverse events following immunization have been reported during the inoculation drive till date, which is just 0.05%. The health department officials say that the vaccine is found to be safe with negligible cases of adverse events have been reported, which are minor most of them are anxiety and nausea.GFXThe statsState Vaccination since Jan 16Karnataka2,84,979UP2,77,608Rajasthan2,44,204Maharashtra2,18,030Odisha1,94,058West Bengal1,84,596Andhra Pradesh1,70,910Madhya Pradesh1,67,838Gujarat1,54,234Telangana1,46,665Haryana1,15,968Bihar1,06,824Kerala1,06,393||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-5l-vaccinated-raj-ranks-third/articleshow/80520145.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||Bill diluting powers of Lokayukta passed, oppn promises movement||Porvorim: The House on Thursday passed the controversial Goa Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021, 23 votes to 7. The bill dilutes the powers of the anti-corruption authority, and leader of opposition Digambar Kamat demanded that it be referred to a select committee as there had been no discussion on the bill. With the amendment, the Lokayukta will become a toothless and paper tiger, the opposition said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, however, said that the state government’s act is based on the Lokayukta Act. Amid allegation that the bill was passed as the last Lokayukta had exposed the government, Sawant said that the Lokayukta’s report has been sent to the anti-corruption branch for investigation. Goa is a small state and the amendment has been done to facilitate the appointment of new Lokayukta, Sawant said. The state has been unable to find retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices willing to move to the state to take up the post and the bill has relaxed the criteria for the appointment of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta. Stating that a Lokayukta was appointed to weed out corruption and that the authority should be strong, Kamat said that there would be a movement against this amendment bill. Kamat referred to Gujarat’s Lokayukta Act and said that Goa’s act was the first and only weak act, and that with the new amendment it has been further weakened. “If you dilute so many sections then it is better to abolish the Lokayukta. What is the point of appointing a Lokayukta and spending money,” he said. Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said that the move to dilute the powers of the authority has been made because the last Lokayukta had exposed the state government. With this amendment no respectable judge will want to become Lokayukta, the Fatorda MLA said. “If you don’t send the bill to a select committee then you stand for thieves and robbers out to do corruption and rob the treasury,” Sardesai said. The bill amends several sections of the Goa Lokayukta Act, 2011, with a view to bringing the Act in line with provisions of the Constitution of India, the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, as amended vide the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bill-diluting-powers-of-lokayukta-passed-oppn-promises-movement/articleshow/80524705.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC employees demand 50% fitment||Hyderabad: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) employees staged a half-naked protest in front of the civic body head office at Lower Tank Bund for the second consecutive day on Thursday against the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report, which recommended 7.5% fitment. The employees demanded fitment of 50% as they got 43% fitment when pay hike was announced last time. Employees’ union leader Gopal warned that they will go on strike like Sakala Janula Samme (all-people strike), that was seen during the statehood movement. “Everyone should cooperate for the agitation,” he urged the protesters. Stating that the state government cannot run without the cooperation of employees, he said that after the formation of Telangana state, outsourced and permanent employees were not taken care of properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-employees-demand-50-fitment/articleshow/80520110.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: JJ Hospital receives more doctors keen on Covaxin rather than Covishield||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state-run JJ Hospital at Byculla received private consultants walking in to take shots of Covaxin though they were listed for Serum Institute's Covishield. By end of day, six doctors, originally allotted Covishield, took Covaxin. In all, 14 such doctors have taken the Bharat Biotech vaccine from JJ now. JJ is the city's only centre administering Covaxin while the other ten are dispensing Covishield. Overall turnout at JJ though is poor and, in fact, declined by a notch compared to Wednesday. Merely 17 took the vaccine on Thursday, down from 18 on Wednesday. Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer for the vaccination centre, hoped that the willingness shown by doctors from outside the facility to take Covaxin would rub off on JJ’s own hospital staff who have shown much hesitancy. Apart from private doctors walking in to take the vaccine, Dr Sankhe said there have been several queries from elsewhere. "We have got calls from Jaslok, Breach Candy and Hiranandani Hospital doctors. Groups of them want to take the vaccine. We do have enough doses for now, so that shouldn’t be a problem," he said. Plastic surgeon Dr Kalpesh Gajiwala was among the six who opted for Covaxin on Thursday. He said he had made the first visit to JJ on Monday but was told that beneficiaries cannot be given vaccines other than what they were allotted. "However, I later learnt that it has been allowed so I thought of visiting again. Logically, an inactivated vaccine is considered safer and there are many in the market. Though we don't know how effective this one would be, they have been known to be efficacious in the past," he said. Dr Gajiwala, though, cautioned that everyone taking vaccines should make an informed choice. Across Maharashtra, 232 took Covaxin on Thursday of the targeted 700. Amravati topped the list once again with 94 vaccinations out of the intended 100. Dr Satish Humne, nodal officer, said acceptance spread through word-of-mouth because there are no serious adverse events and that has motivated many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jj-receives-more-doctors-keen-on-covaxin-rather-than-covishield/articleshow/80520226.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Vax drive may slow down due to pulse polio on Jan 31||JAIPUR: While the health department is gearing up for the pulse polio immunization programme on January 31, Covid vaccination drive may slow down a bit in the state. Citing this, the state government has informed the Centre that the state may take more time to inoculate 4.5 lakh healthcare workers against the virus. Though state has done a remarkable job in vaccinating more than 2.4 lakh beneficiaries and stood at third place in the country in the list of state having vaccinated highest number of beneficiaries, it has informed the Centre that they might complete the process of giving first dose of Covid vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers by February 5 due to pulse polio vaccination. “We are taking all measures to ensure that the Covid vaccination drive should not get affected due to pulse polio programme. We have informed the Centre that the work of giving first dose of Covid vaccine will be completed by February 5,” said a senior health department official. The vaccination sessions will now be organized on three consecutive days- January 29, January 30 and January 31. While the vaccination drive has picked up pace, two persons died of Covid in the state while 85 others tested positive on Thursday taking its overall tally to 3,17,189. With two more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,763. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (17), Nagaur (12), Ajmer (10), Udaipur (9), Jodhpur (6), Karauli (6), Jhalawar (4), Barmer (4), Bhilwara (3), Alwar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Kota (2), Sriganganagar (2), Sikar (2), Banswara (1), Pali (1) and Rajsamand (1). Ajmer reported its 222nd Covid-19 death and Udaipur reported its 116th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/vax-drive-may-slow-down-due-to-pulse-polio-on-jan-31/articleshow/80551036.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Madras HC tells railways to consider caterers’ plea||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has directed the Union railway ministry to consider the representation by Indian Railways’ Mobile Caterers Association (IRMCA) to restore their services, which have been suspended since lockdown was announced in March 2020. The court observed that the authorities should give sufficient opportunity to members of the association to put forward their contentions and pass orders within four weeks. Justice Abdul Quddhose issued the directions based on a petition from IRMCA seeking to quash tenders floated by IRCTC and restore the mobile unit catering licences of the association members. While services of mobile caterers remain suspended, Railways has invited bids for catering services, which is arbitrary, the petitioner contended. In response, R Thyagarajan, senior counsel for IRCTC submitted that the tender pertains only to special trains and not to regular trains the petitioner association works for. After perusing the submissions, the judge noted that businesses struggled financially during the lockdown. “The predicaments of the association will have to be addressed expeditiously,” the court said, issuing the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-tells-rlys-to-consider-caterers-plea/articleshow/80520128.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Hall owners urge govt reopen screens||Jaipur: Even though the 50 per cent cap on cinema halls was lifted by the Union home ministry on Wednesday, more than 400 screens in Rajasthan are awaiting the state government’s nod to reopen the halls. Hall owners and distributors, who have been writing to the state government to allow them to open since November 2020, on Thursday requested the government again to allow operations.Central Circuit Cinema Association (CCCA), a body of the cinema exhibitors and distributors in Rajasthan, has written to the chief minister Ashok Gehlot to allow the opening of the halls. Cinema exhibitors are upset since in many states the cinema halls have already been running since November with 50 per cent capacity. “We have around 10,000 families across the state who are dependent on this livelihood,” said Raj Bansal, a film distributor of Rajasthan and secretary of Rajasthan Cine Association. CCCA in its letter has also urged the state government to waive their water bills and a rebate of 50 per cent in the Urban Development (UD) tax and waiving electricity bills. “As the Union government too has lifted the 50 per cent capacity cap, the state government should also encourage the cinema activities. We will follow every protocol as required,” said Sudhir Kasliwal, owner of Gem Cinema. Abdul Qureshi, a projector operator at a cinema in Alwar said, “No salaries have been given. I request the government to open cinemas so that I may get my job back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hall-owners-urge-govt-reopen-screens/articleshow/80520100.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 29, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Vax drive may slow down due to pulse polio on Jan 31||JAIPUR: While the health department is gearing up for the pulse polio immunization programme on January 31, Covid vaccination drive may slow down a bit in the state. Citing this, the state government has informed the Centre that the state may take more time to inoculate 4.5 lakh healthcare workers against the virus. Though state has done a remarkable job in vaccinating more than 2.4 lakh beneficiaries and stood at third place in the country in the list of state having vaccinated highest number of beneficiaries, it has informed the Centre that they might complete the process of giving first dose of Covid vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers by February 5 due to pulse polio vaccination. “We are taking all measures to ensure that the Covid vaccination drive should not get affected due to pulse polio programme. We have informed the Centre that the work of giving first dose of Covid vaccine will be completed by February 5,” said a senior health department official. The vaccination sessions will now be organized on three consecutive days- January 29, January 30 and January 31. While the vaccination drive has picked up pace, two persons died of Covid in the state while 85 others tested positive on Thursday taking its overall tally to 3,17,189. With two more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,763. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (17), Nagaur (12), Ajmer (10), Udaipur (9), Jodhpur (6), Karauli (6), Jhalawar (4), Barmer (4), Bhilwara (3), Alwar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Kota (2), Sriganganagar (2), Sikar (2), Banswara (1), Pali (1) and Rajsamand (1). Ajmer reported its 222nd Covid-19 death and Udaipur reported its 116th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/vax-drive-may-slow-down-due-to-pulse-polio-on-jan-31/articleshow/80551034.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Vax drive may slow down due to pulse polio on Jan 31||JAIPUR: While the health department is gearing up for the pulse polio immunization programme on January 31, Covid vaccination drive may slow down a bit in the state. Citing this, the state government has informed the Centre that the state may take more time to inoculate 4.5 lakh healthcare workers against the virus. Though state has done a remarkable job in vaccinating more than 2.4 lakh beneficiaries and stood at third place in the country in the list of state having vaccinated highest number of beneficiaries, it has informed the Centre that they might complete the process of giving first dose of Covid vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers by February 5 due to pulse polio vaccination. “We are taking all measures to ensure that the Covid vaccination drive should not get affected due to pulse polio programme. We have informed the Centre that the work of giving first dose of Covid vaccine will be completed by February 5,” said a senior health department official. The vaccination sessions will now be organized on three consecutive days- January 29, January 30 and January 31. While the vaccination drive has picked up pace, two persons died of Covid in the state while 85 others tested positive on Thursday taking its overall tally to 3,17,189. With two more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,763. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (17), Nagaur (12), Ajmer (10), Udaipur (9), Jodhpur (6), Karauli (6), Jhalawar (4), Barmer (4), Bhilwara (3), Alwar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Kota (2), Sriganganagar (2), Sikar (2), Banswara (1), Pali (1) and Rajsamand (1). Ajmer reported its 222nd Covid-19 death and Udaipur reported its 116th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vax-drive-may-slow-down-due-to-pulse-polio-on-jan-31/articleshow/80520121.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Vax drive may slow down due to pulse polio on Jan 31||JAIPUR: While the health department is gearing up for the pulse polio immunization programme on January 31, Covid vaccination drive may slow down a bit in the state. Citing this, the state government has informed the Centre that the state may take more time to inoculate 4.5 lakh healthcare workers against the virus. Though state has done a remarkable job in vaccinating more than 2.4 lakh beneficiaries and stood at third place in the country in the list of state having vaccinated highest number of beneficiaries, it has informed the Centre that they might complete the process of giving first dose of Covid vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers by February 5 due to pulse polio vaccination. “We are taking all measures to ensure that the Covid vaccination drive should not get affected due to pulse polio programme. We have informed the Centre that the work of giving first dose of Covid vaccine will be completed by February 5,” said a senior health department official. The vaccination sessions will now be organized on three consecutive days- January 29, January 30 and January 31. While the vaccination drive has picked up pace, two persons died of Covid in the state while 85 others tested positive on Thursday taking its overall tally to 3,17,189. With two more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,763. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (17), Nagaur (12), Ajmer (10), Udaipur (9), Jodhpur (6), Karauli (6), Jhalawar (4), Barmer (4), Bhilwara (3), Alwar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Kota (2), Sriganganagar (2), Sikar (2), Banswara (1), Pali (1) and Rajsamand (1). Ajmer reported its 222nd Covid-19 death and Udaipur reported its 116th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/vax-drive-may-slow-down-due-to-pulse-polio-on-jan-31/articleshow/80551038.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyberabad: Cyber fraud complaints filed||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police said they received complaints that conmen have been duping persons by siphoning their money using QR code. In the pretext of purchasing the victim’s articles put up for resale on e-commerce website, the accused are sending QR code to victims to scan it, so that money gets transferred into the accused’s account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-fraud-complaints-filed/articleshow/80524731.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||Balwinder Singh’s murder: Second shooter held from Mumbai airport||CHANDIGARH: Punjab police have arrested Inderjeet Singh, the second shooter in the murder of Tarn Taran’s Shaurya Chakra awardee Comrade Balwinder Singh on October 16 last year. He was arrested on Republic Day from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport hours before he was scheduled to board a flight to Dubai. Punjab police claimed that Inderjeet, along with Gurjit Singh alias Bhaa, shot dead Balwinder at his residence-cum-school at Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran district on October 16, 2020. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case probe on January 26 on the directions of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), considering the gravity of the offence and its inter-state and international ramifications. On MHA’s directions, NIA re-registered a case in Delhi on January 26. DGP Dinkar Gupta said on Thursday that since the investigations of the case are being taken over by the NIA, Inderjeet would be handed over to them once formalities of the case transfer are completed. The DGP said that Gurjit had been arrested by the Delhi police on December 7 last year along with his associate Sukhjeet Singh alias Bura. He claimed that while Gurjit and Inderjeet carried out the shooting, Sukhjeet stationed himself at a little distance from the spot. The DGP claimed that during preliminary interrogation, Inderjeet revealed that two foreign-based Khalistani activists contacted him last March through Facebook due to his radical posts. Inderjeet confessed that he was motivated by them to murder Balwinder. He also revealed that one of his two foreign handlers, who identified himself as Sunny from Canada, initially tasked him with conducting a reconnaissance of Balwinder’s residence and later helped him get in touch with Sukh Bhikhariwal, a notorious absconding gangster, to execute the plan. The state police head said the investigation also revealed that Sunny provided financial and logistical support to Inderjeet and his associates before and after the killing. After killing Balwinder, the three allegedly fled from Punjab and stayed at different locations. Gupta claimed that while Gurjit and Sukhjeet were nabbed by Delhi police in December, Inderjeet remained on the run and took refuge at different locations in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The Tarn Taran police received information that Inderjeet was going to Mumbai to board an international flight. Inderjeet confessed that he was called to Mumbai on January 25 by Sunny, who had arranged his e-Visa and a flight ticket to Dubai. The DGP also said the involvement of Gurjit and Sukhjeet in the shootout had been revealed after the arrest of Sukhraj Singh alias Sukha and Ravinder Singh alias Gyaan, both residents of Gurdaspur, and Akashdeep Arora of Ludhiana on October 31 and November 1, last year. The duo had also disclosed the name of Sukhmeet Pal Singh alias Sukh, who helped them plan and execute the killing. The state police head claimed that disclosures by the arrested suspects clearly revealed that the conspiracy to kill Balwinder was hatched by Pakistan based self-proclaimed chief of the banned terrorist outfit, International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), Lakhvir Singh Rode and his Pakistani ISI handlers. He said Rhode had tasked Sukh Sukhmeet Pal and Sunny with carrying out the killing. Sukhmeet, who was living in Dubai on a fake passport, was detained by the Dubai police and later deported to India. He was arrested by the Delhi police on his arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/balwinder-singhs-murder-second-shooter-held-from-mumbai-airport/articleshow/80524807.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||New education policy will open new avenues: Guv||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra on Thursday said the New Education Policy -2020 will redefine the role of teachers and students in the long term development of the country. He said after 34 years, the country has got such an education policy that nurtures the idea of nationalism, which will open new avenues for positive change in the field of higher education.Mishra said, “This is the first time in any education policy that special emphasis has been laid on developing research culture through the establishment of National Research Foundation. The new education policy calls for spending 6 per cent of the GDP on education, with the aim of identifying universities not with grand buildings but with their study-teaching and thinking traditions. I would suggest that the syllabus and textbooks that have been running in the universities for years should be updated as per the changing times.” Governor Mishra was addressing the Western Regional Vice Chancellor Conference organised by the Federation of Indian Universities and Jaipur National University on the topic ‘Teacher Education and Vocational Education Under the Implementation Strategy of the New Education Policy’ from Raj Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-education-policy-will-open-new-avenues-guv/articleshow/80520179.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kanpur||UP Metro completes 400 piers of Priority Corridor||KANPUR: UP Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has completed the construction of 400 piers that cover a stretch of almost seven kilometers, under nine kilometers long Priority Corridor. A total of 513 piers under the corridor from IIT to Motijheel were to be constructed when the project had commenced, of which 400 have been constructed now. Beside, Metro engineers have also completed the erection of all the double T-girders up to Gurudev Metro Station, starting from the IIT Metro station. The base for concourse level (first floor of an elevated Metro station) of all the five Metro stations — IIT, Kalyanpur, SPM, Kanpur University and Gurudev — under this stretch has now been completed. A total of 434 double T-girders are to be erected under the Priority stretch for nine Metro stations, out of which 332 double T-girders have already been erected.Appreciating the Metro engineers’ dedication and zeal, managing director of UP Metro, Kumar Keshav said, “The pace of construction work of Kanpur Metro has been excellent since the beginning. As a result, the team of UP Metro engineers and the civil contractor M/s AFCONS has been successful in approaching the set targets ahead of deadlines.” “Even after this, we are constantly striving to increase our limits and working capacity, as we have a herculean task of executing the trial run on the Priority Corridor by the end of November this year. We are quite confident that we will be able to achieve this goal, as we have promised,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-metro-completes-400-piers-of-priority-corridor/articleshow/80516216.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Goa||Goa assembly clears municipalities bill, opposition raises eyebrows||PANAJI: The state assembly on Thursday passed the Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Bill, 2021, paving the way to increase wards and to declare reservation of seats at least seven days before the date of notification of the general elections. In December, the government informed the high court of Bombay at Goa that the notifications for delimitation and reservation of seats will be issued by the appropriate authorities, at least three weeks prior to the date of the notification of the schedule for municipal elections. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that in five municipalities, there is an increase in voters, and that is the reason the bill was introduced. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that if voters have increased, then it would have increased in all municipalities. Kamat said that the high court has issued an order that the order of delimitation and reservation should be issued 21 days before the notification of election. “Are you trying to supersede the high court order,” he said. Replying to Kamat, Sawant said that the state government does not want to overrule the high court order. “Whatever high court has said, we will go by that,” he said. Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said that the state government should not challenge the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/house-clears-municipalities-bill-opposition-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/80524750.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Court summons Raj Thackeray in toll plaza vandalism case||NAVI MUMBAI: The Vashi JMFC court at Belapur on Thursday cancelled a bailable warrant issued to MNS chief Raj Thackeray and served summons to him to remain present in court on February 6 in connection with a FIR registered at Vashi police station after MNS activists vandalised the Vashi toll plaza. MNS activists vandalised the toll booth after being allegedly provoked by Raj Thackeray’s speech in Vashi in 2012. Advocate Akshay Kashid, one of the lawyers representing Raj Thackeray said, "The then Home minister late RR Patil had directed the Vashi Police to seek legal opinion on whether Thackeray's speech had provoked MNS workers for vandalism. The police report concluded that Thackeray's speech was provocative, and a FIR was registered against Thackeray." Kashid added, "The Vashi Police had filed a charge sheet. Last year, the Vashi JMFC court had served a bailable warrant to Raj Thackeray. We received the warrant after Covid lockdown. Hence, the lawyer told the court that Thackeray is a public figure and is not absconding. Therefore, the warrant should be revoked. The court then asked the lawyers representing Thackeray to produce him before the court on February 6 and accordingly served a summon." Vashi Police station senior inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said, "Our constable was sent to Raj Thackeray's residence and he has served the summons issued by the Vashi JMFC court."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bailable-warrant-cancelled/articleshow/80524880.cms||George Mendonca
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Per capita govt staff number low in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Pay Revision Commission (PRC) has revealed that Telangana is at number seven in terms of sanctioned strength in the country. However, the available cadre strength largely reduced the per capita personnel available in the state. If the entire sanctioned strength is working, the state will have 14 employees per 1,000 population (state’s population approximately 3.52 crore), but as the available cadre strength is only 61%, only 8.5 personnel are available for every 1,000 citizens. Among the states, Maharashtra has the highest sanctioned strength of state government employees with 19, 00,000 jobs as per latest data. Interestingly, Telangana is at the fourth place with high expenditure over salaries and jobs (2016- 17 data). The state spends Rs 30, 930 crore revenue expenditure on salaries and wages. Punjab is at the top having highest expenditure on salaries, Rs 81, 432 crore. Experts say that though there is no ideal parameter for the per capita staff for a state, developed countries have better ratio than countries like India. “Telangana is reasonable, considering Indian circumstances where there could be just one or two doctors per 1000 population,” Harsh Sharma, director, Centre For Public Policy Governance and Performance (CPPGP) of Administrative Staff College of India ( ASCI), said. In the US, they have over 600 personnel for every 10,000 population, while it is just 139 in India. “India cannot match up to that. Our states should at least meet domestical standards,” Sharma said. State government authorities say calculation of allocation of sanctioned posts of many departments (Telangana has 32 departments) was done years ago and mostly workload was taken into consideration for any kind of calculation. However, some departments like revenue have undergone changes, but the parameters have remained the same. Telangana has 3,00,178 employees of the 4,91,304 sanctioned posts. Education department has the highest number of employees, 1.13 lakh as against 1.37 lakh sanctioned strength. The next big department with a large human resource is the home department with 61,212 staff against the sanctioned strength of 98,394. The PRC report also revealed that the rainshadow areas development department has become defunct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/per-capita-govt-staff-number-low-in-t/articleshow/80520258.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Affordable chemo drug out of stock, alternatives costly||MUMBAI: There is an acute shortage of ifosfamide, an affordable chemotherapy drug, across the country, including Mumbai, mainly due to non-availability of raw material, say oncologists. Ifosfamide is widely used along with other chemotherapy drugs during treatment of cancers of the breast, lung, cervix, ovaries and bones. Medical oncologist Dr Ian Pinto from Breach Candy Hospital said, “At present, there is no stock of this drug in Mumbai. I have tried at many hospital pharmacies and central distributors. I have also contacted the companies that manufacture this chemotherapy.” He tweeted about the shortage, saying raw material from China is unavailable. “This product may not be available for at least the next three to four months. I have patients that need to be started on this chemotherapy and some who are already in the middle of a chemotherapy cycle using this medication,” he told TOI. A gram of ifosfamide would cost between Rs 400 and Rs 500, he added. A senior medical oncologist said while alternatives to this drug are available, they are expensive. As cancer treatment continues for long, pricing of drugs is an important factor that doctors have to consider while drawing up treatment plans for patients. At Tata Memorial Centre’s Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC) in Kharghar, stocks of the drug recently got depleted, said director Dr Sudeep Gupta. Dr Santosh Shetty at Kokilaben Ambani Hospital, Andheri, said the shortage has been felt for the past few weeks. Dr Prince Surana of MPCT Cancer Hospital in Sanpada said, “During the lockdown, we returned stocks of this drug to the manufacturer as chemotherapy cycles were reduced. But now the same drug is unavailable.” Mumbai-based distributor of ifosfamide, Hitesh Shah, said the shortage has been building for a month. “Raw material for this drug is not only sourced from China but also from within India. It should hence not be difficult to get the stocks shortly,” he said. It is not unusual for some drugs to be in short supply, he added. An official for one of the manufacturers, Celon Laboratories Ltd, confirmed that raw material was the cause for the outage. “We realize there is all-round concern and we will deliver stocks to Tata Memorial Hospital at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/affordable-chemo-drug-out-of-stock-alternatives-costly/articleshow/80520492.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to take a call on PRC recommendations next week||HYDERABAD: With several government employee unions unhappy with the 7.5% fitment recommended by the first PRC, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to take a call on the PRC recommendations next week. Currently, the three-member committee headed by chief secretary Somesh Kumar is taking opinions of various employee unions and organisations on the recommendations since Wednesday. The consultations are expected to be completed by Friday. Official sources said that once the consultations are over, the chief secretary will apprise the CM about the unions’ stand. The sources said that KCR may enhance the fitment to anywhere between 25% and 30% as the neighbouring AP government had announced 27% interim relief to its employees last year. “The PRC had recommended 7.5% fitment but the state government may enhance it. The last PRC committee headed by PK Agarwal in the united AP recommended just 29% fitment, but the TRS government had given 43%, which is much higher than the recommendation,” a senior official in the Chief Minister’s Office told TOI. Various employee unions have been seeking more than 43% fitment, but the government may not agree in the present fiscal conditions. “We hope the chief minister will consider our demand for more than 43% fitment as was given last time,” said V Mamata, president, Telangana Gazetted Officers Association. The committee met representatives of five employees’ unions— PRTUTS Union, Telangana Class IV Employees Association, Telangana State United Teachers Federation, Telangana Revenue Employees Service Association and Twin Cities Telangana Government Drivers Central Association at BRKR Bhavan. The chief secretary assured them that the issues pertaining to the PRC recommendations raised by the unions would be brought to the notice of the CM for necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-take-a-call-on-prc-recommendations-next-week/articleshow/80520199.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Farmer leader from Maha dies of cold in city||Jaipur: A farmer leader from Nandurbar district in Maharashtra died due to cold weather in Jaipur on Thursday morning after a day’s stay here. She was supposed to catch a train on Thursday morning as she was returning to her native place from Shahjahanpur’s Alwar.The deceased has been identified as 56-year-old Sita Bai Tadvi, a resident of Ambabari village. She has been part of the farmers’ movement at Shahjahanpur border in Alwar since January 17.“They (a group of 124 Adivasi farmers) missed their morning train on Wednesday as they were delayed by almost two hours. So, they stayed for a night at one of the shelters near Jaipur railway station. She passed away on Thursday morning and the body was taken to her village (in an ambulance) by the family for last rites. According to her husband (Ram Das), she woke up, brushed her teeth and had an apple. He said she was feeling a bit weak in the morning,” said Kavita Srivastava of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL).“They had an early morning train to catch. But, it is unfortunate that she passed away before catching the train. She was very committed towards the movement, participated in the Republic Day tractor rally and was part of the Maharashtra tableau. Her martyrdom will not go in vain,” she added.According to a statement issued by Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha, Sita Bai had been at the forefront of farmers’ and forest rights’ movements for the past 26 years as the founder member of Lok Sangharsh Morcha.“She has been at the forefront of every campaign against the three farm laws. She also led a protest march from Nandurbar to Mumbai, covering 480 kms on foot along with 5,000 protesters. She spearheaded the farmers’ agitation at Shahjahanpur border from January 17 to 27,” read the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmer-leader-from-maha-dies-of-cold-in-city/articleshow/80520219.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Business||Game-changer Budget will usher in new era: BJP||NEW DELHI: BJP on Thursday maintained that the Union Budget this year will be a game-changer and usher in a new era of economic growth in the country. On the eve of the commencement of the Budget session of Parliament, the party cited a recent International Monetary Fund (IMF) report which projected India to grow at 11.5% in 2021. “The country’s economy has witnessed a V-shaped recovery after being hit by the pandemic,” said BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishan Agarwal at a press conference. Agarwal along with another party spokesperson Zafar Islam said the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) figures and labour force participation also point that the economy is witnessing a Vshaped recovery. “Good economics is good politics has been the motto of the Narendra Modi government. Working with the same theme, the Union Budget 2021 will be a game-changer,” Agarwal said. Echoing similar sentiments, Islam said the Budget will mark an important step in making India self-reliant. Both said that all economic parameters are pointing that the country’s economy has gained momentum and is set to move to another level under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/game-changer-budget-will-usher-in-new-era-bjp/articleshow/80536619.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Lockdown effect: Accident calls to 108 dipped by 47% in 2020||Nagpur: Just like people got used to dial 100 in case of crime, it is becoming a common to dial 108 for ambulances in case of medical emergency, especially road accidents. Since its launch in 2014, the 108 ambulance service has served more than 4 lakh accident victims in Maharashtra. But, the year 2020 was a different.A study done by Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services (MEMS), under which 108 ambulances are run in the state, indicated reduction in calls for road traffic accident (RTA) cases up to 47% in 2020 as compared to an average RTA victims served by 108 ambulances in Nagpur division for the last 5 years. “Since the launch, the 108 ambulance service has successfully treated and transported 54,774 accident victims in Nagpur division. Accident victims account for 7 to 8 % of total cases served by 108 ambulances,” said Dr Deepakkumar Ukey, operations head, East Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services. In Nagpur division, Gondia district has highest number of accident cases in general, he added. “In 2020, Nagpur district registered highest reduction in accident case calls, followed by Wardha and Bhandara. In Nagpur division, there is massive 47.6 % reduction in the number of accident victims catered to by 108 ambulance service compared to the last 5-year average,” said Dr Ukey.While the accident calls in 2020 were nearly 50% less than the average in the last five years, the month-wise comparison of 2019 and 2020 shows that road accident cases dipped during the Covid lockdown, but started increasing after the restrictions were eased and community movement began. While the number of accident cases in Nagpur was comparatively very low since March 2020 to September 2020, the numbers went up in November and December.“India is observing a National Road Safety Month from January 18 to February 17. The theme of this year is Sadak Suraksha - Jeevan Raksha (Road safety is life saver). With increased traffic movement, accident may happen. But we must know the standard operating procedure (SOP) in such cases,” said Dr Ukey, appealing to people to use the 108 call centre, which is free from all mobile and landline numbers. Well-equipped ambulances are available free of cost on 108.“Doctors are available in these ambulances, so, the treatment starts at the accident scene only. Proper handling and transportation of the victim help reduce further damage. We also ensure integration of medical, police and rescue agencies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-effect-accident-calls-to-108-dipped-by-47-in-2020/articleshow/80514922.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Boy dies of rare disease, nat’l policy yet to come into force||Jaipur: A three-year-old boy who was suffering from gaucher, a rare disease, died on January 15 without getting expensive enzyme replacement therapy.Mohammad Shahid, cousin of the deceased, said, “My brother was among the 10 children suffering from gaucher who needed treatment. We made all the attempts to get the enzyme replacement therapy. Our matter reached Rajasthan High Court. We appealed to chief secretary, officials in health department and SMS Medical College, J K Lon Hospital, but my brother died without getting the required treatment which is expensive. We couldn’t afford the cost of it.”Attendant of one of the 10 children knocked on the door of the HC mentioning that the petitioner filed writ petition praying for direction to the non-petitioners to provide financial assistance to the petitioner for getting treatment of his son who is suffering from gaucher.The petitioner informed the court that Lysosomal Storage Disorder Support Society presented that 17 children are suffering from rare diseases. Out of those seven are receiving treatment under industry-sponsored charitable access programme, while 10 persons are in dire need to get the treatment through state intervention immediately till National Policy for Rare Diseases 2020 become effective nationwide.In April 2020, the Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society – a national patient support group set up to mobilise support for rare disease patients – had submitted a list of 10 children to the Rajasthan government.While nine of these children have been diagnosed with gaucher disease, the 10th child was diagnosed with MPS I, another form of Lysosomal Storage Disorders. The three-year-old was among these 10 children whose details were submitted to the government, seeking immediate support for treatment.Another parent, Rafiq Mohammad from Kota, who has already lost his two-year old daughter to gaucher disease, and is now awaiting treatment support for his five-year-old son, said the untimely deaths is a grim reminder for the state to immediately announce treatment support for these patients.Chief secretary had issued ‘urgent’ directions to principal secretary health to comply with the High Court issued on January 31, 2020 regarding treatment of 10 children suffering from Gaucher.Rare Diseases are serious chronic, debilitating and fatal disorders, often requiring long term, specialised treatment and chronic management and often causing severe handicap and a catastrophic impact on the entire family. These group of rare diseases particularly impact children, causing 35% of deaths before age 1, 10% between the ages of 1-5 and 12% between 5-15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boy-dies-of-rare-disease-natl-policy-yet-to-come-into-force/articleshow/80520277.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Rs 5 lakh fine for provocative social media messages||RAJKOT: The Kolis and Bharwads in Surendranagar have mutually decided to slap Rs five lakh as penalty from any person from either community who circulates provocative messages on social media or rumours that could lead to violence and spread animosity between the two communities. This was one of the rules framed in the momentous truce struck between the two communities after years of bitter animosity, which saw murders, mass exodus of people and perpetual tension in 11 villages around Thangadh town. Around 200 people from both communities gathered at Gebi Ashram near Thangadh on Thursday and decided to end the enmity and live in harmony. Notably, the compromise has been brokered ahead of the district, taluka and municipalities elections scheduled next month. The panch comprising Kathi Darbars, a neutral caste, met on Thursday with five members from each of the three castes -Chuvaliya Kolis, Talpada Kolis and Bharwads - and the peace was brokered in presence of local religious leaders. Two persons from three castes will exclusively hold the responsibility of ensuring that no member of their communities resort to inciting enmity by using social media as a tool. “If anyone is found indulging in such action, the responsible members will have to cough up Rs five lakh as penalty. The amount will be used for religious activities,” Versi Dethaliya, a Chuvaliya Koli leader, told TOI. "This is a historic day for all of us as the warring communities have come on one platform and decided to live in peace and harmony. The penalty on their representatives will work as a deterrent against all those elements who try to foment trouble,” he added. The hostilities between the two communities bgan with a minor fight over the road leading to a farm in Chandrodia village in 2014. The incident, however, snowballed into a bitter caste conflict which later led to frequent clashes. Such was the situation that people were scared to even venture into each others’ areas. Sources said some local politicians belonging to one of the communities milked this enmity for their personal gains, which only deepened the caste divide. In 2019, the Gujarat high court had asked the state DGP to initiate rehabilitation of Bharwads, who had migrated from Koli-dominated villages for their safety. Then DGP PC Thakur had also visited these villages in October 2015 and directed police to ensure peace between the two estranged communities and bring back people who had migrated out of fear. "All the Bharwad community people who had migrated have returned to their natives, thanks to constant efforts of police and the local community leaders,'' Deepak Dhol, police inspector, local crime branch, Surendranagar, told TOI. Dinu Kathi, a panch member, said, "We have decided to bury all differences and live in peace now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-5l-fine-for-provocative-social-media-messages/articleshow/80514926.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Locals protest against farmers’ agitation in Alwar||JAIPUR: Nearly 500 people, including locals from the nearby villages of Haryana, transporters, dhaba owners, businessmen and petrol pump owners gathered at Shahjahanpur border on Thursday and protested against the farmers’ movement. They demanded that the farmers’ agitation at the border must be brought to an end and urged the Rajasthan government to clear the Jaipur-Delhi national highway. According to sources, the protesters said that their businesses were badly hit due to the farmers’ agitation while adding that hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort was an insult to the national flag. “The barricades (at Shahjahanpur border) have not been removed. They expressed anger over the continuing farmers’ protest at the border and protested against the incident that took place at the Red Fort (hoisting of a religious flag),” said Bhiwadi SP Ram Moorty Joshy. “The face-off (between the farmers and the locals) was prevented as the buffer zone was already in place and both Haryana and Rajasthan police forces were present at the site. So, they (the protesters) couldn’t cross over. But, the situation is still tense,” he added. Meanwhile, farmer leader Rampal Jat said though his group – Kisan Mahapanchayat- has separated itself from Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha on January 21, its struggle against the farm laws and in support of minimum support price (MSP) will continue. He further said, “The fact that the person (Deep Sidhu), who instigated the farmers on the Republic Day in Delhi, has not been arrested, it reveals that the conspiracy was hatched by the central government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locals-protest-against-farmers-agitation-in-alwar/articleshow/80520247.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bareilly||Truck on way from Delhi with 65 quintals of e-waste seized, four held||BAREILLY: Police in UP's Moradabad seized a truck laden with around 65 quintal of discarded e-waste and arrested four persons on Wednesday. According to police, a vehicle checking drive was on and the 12-tyre container truck on the way from Delhi with illegal e-waste was intercepted under Katghar police station. Four persons were held at the spot, while one managed to flee. An FIR has been registered. The truck loaded with e-waste containing discarded electronic material was moving from Delhi towards Moradabad without a government licence, police said. The accused have been identified as Haseeb (50) and Faizan (27) of Nakhasa, Sambhal, and Saif (25) and Shaan (18) of Galshaheed, Moradabad. According to police, a routine vehicle checking drive was being conducted in the area, in which a heavy truck was intercepted by the police team. Moradabad SP Amit Kumar Anand said, “Police teams were deputed under Katghar police station late on Wednesday. During the inspection, a heavy truck was intercepted and it was found that the truck was carrying around 10 large bags of 65 quintal of e-waste. The vehicle was impounded.” Police said that the team nabbed four accused from the spot while one Furqan managed to flee. Katghar SHO Gajendra Singh said, “An FIR has been registered against five accused persons under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other relevant acts of IPC. The truck was impounded under section 207 (power to detain vehicles used without certificate of registration permit, etc.) of the MV Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/heavy-truck-on-way-from-delhi-with-65-quintal-of-e-waste-seized-4-held/articleshow/80513414.cms||Maria Khan
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 27% Covid-19 vaccine coverage||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 27% Covid-19 vaccine coverage in the ongoing drive on Thursday. No case of hospitalisation was reported in the last 24 hours. Of 23,160 beneficiaries on the list, only 6,258 were immunised. Till date, 50,966 medical professionals have been jabbed. Punjab has identified 1.74 health workers to be vaccinated in the first phase. Lowest turnout of 3% was recorded in Muktsar where only 20 out of 800 health workers were vaccinated. The turnout was 5% in Mansa and Barnala, 7% in Kapurthala, 9% in Sangrur 10% in Fazilka and Moga, 11% in Fatehgarh Sahib and 15% in Gurdaspur. The highest coverage of 57% was in Ludhiana, followed by 44% in Hoshiarpur,34% in Jalandhar, 20% in Mohali and 29% in Pathankot and Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-27-covid-19-vaccine-coverage/articleshow/80524831.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Vid now has vaccine doses for all 1.6L health care workers||Nagpur: Vidarbha has received another 1.57 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, taking the total to 3.45 lakh doses. This is likely to be sufficient for all 1.60 lakh registered health care workers. Till Thursday, 46,912 (29.42% of registered) doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc from government and private hospitals have been administered the vaccine.Six districts of Nagpur division received 96,000 doses of Covishield on Thursday. The office of deputy director of health services received the doses and distributed it to all districts.On January 14 and 15, these six districts had received 1.16 lakh doses, of which 1.14 lakh were Covishield and remaining 2,000 were Covaxin for Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur. Total number of doses in the division has now increased to 2.12 lakh.The office of deputy director of health services, Amravati division, received 61,000 doses of Covishield for five districts on Wednesday. Total number of doses in this division increased to 1.33 lakh, as it had received 72,000 doses, 70,000 Covishield and 2,000 Covaxin for district general hospital, Amravati, on January 13 and 15.Thus, the region has together received 3.45 lakh doses. There are a total of 1,59,427 registered health care workers. TOI had on January 15 highlighted that doses received in first lot were sufficient for 53% registered health care staff.If one excludes wastage of 10% (34,500 doses), 1,55,250 health care workers can get first and second dose from the currently available quantity of doses.Officials told TOI, “Government is likely to send more doses of Covaxin for GMCH Nagpur and Amravati district general hospital. All registered health care workers can be covered from available doses even if Covaxin doses are not received. Wastage is below 7% and around 40% health care workers did not turn up for inoculation till now. Those who did not come for the vaccination will be covered in last stage. But chances of all taking the jab seem bleak.”With receipt of second lot of vaccines, first dose can be completed within deadline of February 14 and round for second dose can commence from February 15.On Thursday, 8,038 health care workers took the jab in the region. The authorities claimed 72.41% of targeted vaccination, as they are calculating for 100 beneficiaries per centre despite scheduling 120-150 per centre. None of the 11 districts could achieve 100% vaccination. In earlier sessions, 3-4 districts had achieved 100% or more every day.In city, the turnout at eight private hospitals was 94.75% as 758 took the jab out of total target of 800. On the first day on Wednesday, the turnout was 61.25%.Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) and CIIMS covered 120 each, going beyond target and also ensured no wastage of doses. OCHRI had vaccinated 130 a day ago while 108 took the jab at Jafri Hospital.At 10 centres situated in NMC and government-run hospitals, 518 turned up for the inoculation. It was a turnout of 51.8% as target was 1,000. Thus, 1,276 (70.89%) were administered vaccine in the city as against target of 1,800.The wastage of doses continued in the district. Vials comprising 2,440 doses were utilized and 2,317 vaccinated, resulting in wastage of 123 doses. Wastage was 5.04% and well below permissible limit of 10%. Of these, 64 doses were wasted in city and 59 in Nagpur Rural.Not a single case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was registered in the region as per data of Nagpur and Amravati divisions submitted to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-now-has-vaccine-doses-for-all-1-6l-health-care-workers/articleshow/80514898.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 29, 2021||Jaipur||Family of a 35-year-old woman gives nod for organ donation||JAIPUR: Family of a 35-year-old woman, who is undergoing treatment at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, gave consent for her organ donation after doctors declared her brain dead on Thursday. “The woman belongs to Alwar and her family has given consent for donating her organs,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital.Her heart, after being retrieved, will be transplanted into a patient at a private hospital. The SMS Hospital officials said her organs will be retrived at night. The woman was brought to the hospital in a critical condition after an accident but she did not regain consciousness. Brain dead declaration committee of SMS Hospital examined her health twice and after that she was declared brain dead. The doctors at the hospital provided her treatment but all their efforts went into vain, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/family-of-a-35-year-old-woman-gives-nod-for-organ-donation/articleshow/80520315.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Roads got safer for commuters in 2020’||Chandigarh: Roads in Haryana became safer in 2020, say police. A total of 9,431 road accidents were reported in the state in 2020, which is 13.82% less than the number reported in the corresponding period in 2019. As many as 30 accident cases were reported every day in 2019, which fell to 26 last year. Also, there was a 10.87% reduction in the number of people who died and 18.19% reduction in cases of injury caused by accidents. In 2020, Haryana reported 9,431 accidents, down from 10,944 reported in 2019. In terms of fatalities, 4,507 people died in 2020 as compared to 5,057 in the corresponding period in 2019, a drop of 550 cases. Cases of injuries caused by accidents came down by 1,703. A total of 7,659 cases of injuries were reported in 2020 as compared to 9,362 in 2019. Manoj Yadava, director general of police (DGP), attributed reduction in road accidents and casualties to better traffic management, enhanced safety measures, improved enforcement of traffic regulations and continuous awareness drives about road and traffic safety. The lockdown enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19 also contributed to the significant dip in numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/roads-got-safer-for-commuters-in-2020/articleshow/80524873.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chandigarh||6k more workers vaccinated in Hry||Chandigarh: A total of 6,186 healthcare workers were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Haryana on Thursday. With this, total of 1,16,481 healthcare workers in the state have been vaccinated so far. Meanwhile, Haryana registered 97 Covid-19 positive cases, but no death due to the deadly virus was reported. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has reached 2,67,601. As far as deaths are concerned, already 3,014 persons in the state have lost their lives due to the virus. While 2,63,347 persons in the state have been discharged after treatment, and 1,240 cases are currently active. The recovery rate in the state is 98.41% and the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state is 114 days.As far as sampling is concerned, a total of 51,27,807 persons have been tested till date. As many as 35 persons in the state are currently on oxygen support and six are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6k-more-workers-vaccinated-in-hry/articleshow/80524853.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt, north corporation fight over councillor fund hike plan||NEW DELHI: The AAP government has directed the BJP-run North Delhi Municipal Corporation to suspend its proposal to enhance the councillor development fund from Rs 25 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore. Mayor Jai Prakash, however, said Delhi government could only give a suggestion, and not an order, as a decision on allocation was taken by the House of councillors of a municipal corporation, an autonomous body. According to a letter dated January 27 that has been sent to the commissioner of the north corporation by the directorate of local bodies of Delhi government’s urban development department, “At a time when the MP and MLA development funds have been suspended due to unprecedented economic crises being faced by the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it is beyond imagination that such a proposal is being mooted by the North DMC.” The letter also mentions that the proposal has been initiated though the three municipal corporations have repeatedly cited financial crunch as the reason for their inability to pay salaries. In view of this situation, urban development minister Satyendar Jain has directed the north corporation to “suspend the said councillor development fund altogether till the economic situation becomes normal”. Jai Prakash, however, said that decisions on such allocations in autonomous bodies like municipal corporations were taken by the House of councillors, which included representatives from all political parties, including AAP. He further clarified that no proposal for a separate discretionary fund of Rs 1.5 crore for councillors had been moved. “This fund includes day-to-day works in a ward like sanitation services, waterlogging solutions etc. Councillors will guide this routine work. Does Delhi government not want that routine work like garbage removal be carried out in a ward?” he asked. “Nevertheless, the decision will be taken by the House.” AAP’ corporation in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, alleged that the BJP-run corporations were interested in increasing the councillors’ funds, but had no intention to pay their staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-north-corpn-fightover-councillor-fund-hike-plan/articleshow/80524938.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Couple steals Rs 71 lakh from pal’s home, got information in casual chat||MUMBAI: A man and a woman have been arrested for allegedly stealing Rs 71 lakh from the home of a Nagpada resident, Mumtaz Shaikh (50). One of the accused is a friend of Shaikh’s daughter. The money was from sale of property. The friend, Tabrez Ansari (30) had roped in Samarjahan Shaikh (30), a Mumbra resident, said an official of JJ Marg police station. On January 2, Shaikh’s family was away from home. When they got back the next day, the money missing. As the lock was not broken, the police suspected that a spare key used to enter the house. From CCTV footage around the house, a woman was seen coming to the house. Footage also showed that she had met Ansarisoon after leaving the house with a bag. From call records of all family members, the police found one number (Ansari’s) switched off after the theft. He had fled to Uttar Pradesh and got a new phone and new SIM card. Calls from his old number led the cops to Samarjahan who was nabbed. She told them of Ansari’s role. He confessed he had got information of the money during a casual chat and clandestinely got a copy of the key made by whisking away the original from his friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/couple-steals-rs-71l-from-pals-home-got-info-in-casual-chat/articleshow/80514981.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Budget sanctioned for ESIC hospital in Butibori||Nagpur: The long pending budgetary provision for the 200-bedded hospital in Butibori has been sanctioned in the recent standing committee meeting of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) held in New Delhi. The hospital is to be established by ESIC for the benefit of more than 1.5 lakh labours working in the Butibori area, which is Asia’s biggest industrial estate.Local ESIC officials said that the hospital proposal is of Rs180 crore but the exact amount of budgetary sanction is not yet clear as the minutes of the meeting are yet to reach the regional office in Nagpur. According to ESIC officials, the 221st meeting of the standing committee was held on Wednesday in which revised estimates for 2020-21, budget estimates for the next fiscal and performance budget for 2021-22 of the ESIC were approved.The hospital was proposed in 2016 as Nagpur has only one ESIC hospital, that too in Somwaripeth which is 25kms from Butibori industrial estate. The 50-year-old hospital has its own limitations and problems. Moreover, it becomes difficult logistically to commute a patient to this hospital from Butibori in emergency condition. A land for the hospital was marked in 2017 and the foundation stone for it was laid at the hands in July 2018. As per the previous plan, it was about to complete by September 2020. Employees of private firms, companies, factories, etc drawing wages up to Rs. 21000 per month are entitled to health insurance cover and other benefits under the ESIC. As per an estimate, more than 1.5 lakh such beneficiaries are there in Butibori industrial estate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/budget-sanctioned-for-esic-hospital-in-butibori/articleshow/80514941.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana inter exams to be held from May 1||HYDERABAD: The education minister of Telangana, Sabitha Indra Reddy on Thursday announced that board of intermediate (BIE) public examinations will be held from May 1. As per the schedule, exams for intermediate first year will be held between May 1 and May 19. For intermediate second year, exams will be held from May 2 to May 20. Timings of the examination will be from 9 am to 12 pm. Practical exams will be conducted from April 7 to April 20. Ethics and human values exam will be conducted on April 1 and the environmental education exam will be conducted on April 3. Every year, exams are conducted in the month of March. However, due to the pandemic exams have been postponed by two months. Physical classes for intermediate students will begin on February 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-inter-exams-to-be-held-from-may-1/articleshow/80524955.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Smart City plans 18km cycling track in city, marking work starts on Walkers’ Street||Nagpur: Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have finally started creating dedicated bicycle track on city’s roads.The NSSCDCL has planned 18km of cycling track in the city. The track would be mostly concentrated in lanes surrounding main roads in west part of the city, completing a loop at Law College Square.The 18km track will cover one stretch from Law College Square to Bole Petrol Pump, VIP Road, Alankar Square, Swargiya Annabhau Sathe Chowk, Neeri Chowk and back to Bole Petrol Pump. It will then cover Maharajbagh Square, Akashwani Square, VCA Square, Mason Lodge Square, Japanese Garden Square, Seminary Hills (via WCL ghat road), Vayusena Nagar, Hanuman Tekdi Road, Walker’s Street, Ladies Club Square, Ahimsa Chowk and up to Law College Square.Under the first phase, NSSCDCL will mark bicycle track on four km stretch which will start from Ramgiri to Ladies Club, Law College Chowk, Maharajbagh, VCA ground, Japanese Garden and back to Ramgiri. The work of marking remaining track will be taken up later.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and chief executive officer (CEO) of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) Bhubaneswari S performed bhoomipuja for the bicycle track on Walkers’ Street in Civil Lines on Thursday. Cold plastic paint is being used to paint the track on Walkers’ Street. It will be about 1.5 metre wide along the footpath on either side of the road. The main motive for developing the track is to reduce the carbon footprint. “The track would also promote bicycle riding,” said Radhakrishnan B. The track at Walkers’ Street is likely to be completed early in February, said Bhubaneswari S. The track lies between the newly laid footpaths and the CC Road at WHC Road.Many cycling enthusiasts use the Walkers’ Street every day. The track will function as a safety net by keeping them away from the speeding traffic.“Motorists and hawkers will be barred from entering the track. In case hawkers encroach the track, they will be immediately removed by the NMC authorities concerned,” said NSSCDCL’s deputy CEO and deputy municipal commissioner Mahesh Moroney. NSSCDCL’s general manager (environment) Dr Pranita Umredkar, GM (mobility) Rajesh Duphare among others were present at the bhoomipuja function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smart-city-plans-18km-cycling-track-in-city-marking-work-starts-on-walkers-street/articleshow/80514959.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||Jaripatka residents demand change in ROB alignment||Nagpur: A group of residents in Juni Jaripatka and Mecosabagh Road staged demonstration on Thursday and demanded change in alignment of railway overbridge (ROB), bhoomipuja for which was recently performed by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari.The residents said as per the present alignment, the ROB will connect CMPDI Road side with Mecosabagh Road side. “This design should be scrapped and ROB should connect Itarsi bridge side with Ginger Mall side,” said a resident.If the ROB is constructed as per the present alignment, a large number of people will be inconvenienced. “There are shops and residences along the ROB. When the ROB comes up, these people will not get space to park their vehicles,” said the resident.“A cemetery lies near the proposed ROB. As there are two roads adjoining the cemetery, those who come to attend funeral park their vehicles on them and locals don’t face any problem. However, if the ROB comes up, one road will be blocked and people will park their vehicles on the other road only, causing problems to the locals,” said another resident.Residents of Mohan Nagar and Gaddigodam had protested against the design of Kamptee Road double decker flyover being built by MahaMetro. The ramp was starting bang opposite SFS Cathedral. The locals wanted the flyover to be extended up to LIC Square.The locals led by priest of the Cathedral met Gadkari and pointed out the problems with the design. Gadkari agreed to extend the flyover till LIC Square and after several months, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is funding the flyover, sanctioned the new design of MahaMetro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jaripatka-residents-demand-change-in-rob-alignment/articleshow/80514967.cms||Ashish Roy
January 29, 2021||Ludhiana||Facing SKM attack, combative Deep Sidhu threatens to spill farmer leaders’ ‘secrets’||JALANDHAR: Facing all-out attack from Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders who called for his social boycott, Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu hit back saying if he started revealing their secrets they won’t find place to hide, but he was holding himself back as farmers’ protest needed to attain victory. He said people followed calls given by the Morcha leaders to enter Delhi and asked how could “he alone take lakhs of farmers there”. In a Facebook live around 2am on Thursday, Sidhu appeared combatant and claimed that “had the farmers leaders taken a stand to celebrate the people who reached Red Fort and put up Sikh and farmers flags they would have been able to put more pressure on the government”. “They shamelessly blamed me. People had come with a resolve after you had given the decision (for tractor parade inside Delhi). People followed your words. How lakhs could be in my control. If I could provoke lakhs then where do you stand? Earlier you have been saying Deep Sidhu has no following and no contribution, then claim I could take lakhs of people there,” he asked SKM leadership. “Will RSS or BJP stooge would fix Nishan Sahib there or somebody who wishes to contest election? You are in fact calling traitors all those who reached there. It brings out your bad intention. Either you don’t understand or don’t want to understand. Tomorrow no one would follow emotions as you give certificates of being traitors. In place of standing behind people (who reached Red Fort), you have started targeting just one person. You are full with ego and are not listening to anybody. This is style of the government (not listening to anybody),” he said. “We woke up the government on November 26 when we broke the barricades, and now also we have woken up the government on January 26, but you don’t understand,” he argued while adding that he did not damage the Morcha. He also claimed that he was still near Singhu. About the incident of being chased by some people, he claimed that persons of a particular farm union targeted him and he was asked by the people there to leave and he thought it better to avoid any confrontation. That video is being shared without knowing the context, he added. He claimed there was no violence and everything was peaceful at Red Fort even as thousands were already there when he reached. “People at Red Fort in fact greeted me and I also delivered a short address from a tractor. It was the Sangat which went inside the Red Fort. RSS agents were outside,” he said taking a dig at farmers unions leaders.  He said that he would bring out the truth with logic on everything. He said that after all the hate spread against him, government would follow him for getting killed. Addressed from tractor at Red Fort On Thursday afternoon, Deep Sidhu posted a 4.31-minute-long video in which he could be seen addressing people from a tractor at Red Fort with people packed around him. In the video, he can be heard saying that leaders of the agitation should come there and give the next direction. “People have created history. It is a great symbol that you are on tractor here to demand your rights. You have done something which could not have been imagined,” he says, adding that all would follow the decision of the leaders and all would remain united.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/facing-skm-attack-combative-deep-sidhu-threatens-to-spill-farmer-leaders-secrets/articleshow/80524960.cms||IP Singh
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||‘BMC will earn Rs 10 crore less this year, but expenses up’||MUMBAI: BJP alleged that BMC will collect Rs 10,000 crore less the financial year, while its expenses are rising. The party alleged that BMC’s financial condition is deteriorating, despite which the civic body has been granting relief to builders-hoteliers, with regards to licence fees. BJP claimed there was no coordination between the ruling party and the administration. Party group leader in BMC Prabhakar Shinde said, “BMC earnings till December was just 25% of the estimated.” BMC released a press note stating that till December, its income was Rs 11,161 crore. The civic body’s collection increases towards the end of the financial year, but this it is struggling to achieve the target due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-will-earn-rs-10cr-less-this-yr-but-expenses-up/articleshow/80525025.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Affordable chemo drug out of stock, alternatives costly||Mumbai: There is an acute shortage of ifosfamide, an affordable chemotherapy drug, across the country, including Mumbai, mainly due to non-availability of raw material, say oncologists. Ifosfamide is widely used along with other chemotherapy drugs during treatment of cancers of the breast, lung, cervix, ovaries and bones. Medical oncologist Dr Ian Pinto from Breach Candy Hospital said, “At present, there is no stock of this drug in Mumbai. I have tried at many hospital pharmacies and central distributors. I have also contacted the companies that manufacture this chemotherapy.” He tweeted about the shortage, saying raw material from China is unavailable. “This product may not be available for at least the next three to four months. I have patients that need to be started on this chemotherapy and some who are already in the middle of a chemotherapy cycle using this medication,” he told TOI. A gram of ifosfamide would cost between Rs 400 and Rs 500, he added. A senior medical oncologist said while alternatives to this drug are available, they are expensive. As cancer treatment continues for long, pricing of drugs is an important factor that doctors have to consider while drawing up treatment plans for patients. At Tata Memorial Centre’s Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC) in Kharghar, stocks of the drug recently got depleted, said director Dr Sudeep Gupta. Dr Santosh Shetty at Kokilaben Ambani Hospital, Andheri, said the shortage has been felt for the past few weeks. Dr Prince Surana of MPCT Cancer Hospital in Sanpada said, “During the lockdown, we returned stocks of this drug to the manufacturer as chemotherapy cycles were reduced. But now the same drug is unavailable.” Mumbai-based distributor of ifosfamide, Hitesh Shah, said the shortage has been building for a month. “Raw material for this drug is not only sourced from China but also from within India. It should hence not be difficult to get the stocks shortly,” he said. It is not unusual for some drugs to be in short supply, he added. An official for one of the manufacturers, Celon Laboratories Ltd, confirmed that raw material was the cause for the outage. “We realize there is all-round concern and we will deliver stocks to Tata Memorial Hospital at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/affordable-chemo-drug-out-of-stock-alternatives-costly/articleshow/80516881.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 29, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Body of boy found in septic tank of his house, uncle booked for murder||PILIBHIT: The autopsy report of an eight-year-old Class II student who had gone missing on Monday afternoon and whose body was found in the septic tank of his house in Bisalpur city on January 26 disclosed that the minor boy died due to asphyxiation. Based on the autopsy report and findings of additional superintendent of police (ASP) Pavitra Mohan, who had inspected the spot, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav ordered an FIR and a case was registered in this connection on Thursday evening. According to the boy’s father, a resident of Asra House Colony in Bisalpur, his son was playing with his friends outside the house on Monday afternoon. When he did not return home by late in the evening, family members started searching for him, but in vain, said the father, adding that they then approached police. Police sources said while inspecting the surrounding area of the boy’s house, police found the boy’s sleeper lying outside an uncovered septic tank in the backyard, and they fished out the body from the tank. Project manager, Construction and Design Services (C&DS) of UP Jal Nigam, which had constructed the Asra houses, RN Pandey claimed that they had covered the septic tanks before handing over the flats to the district administration. The father alleged that his brother, who lives in the same colony, had killed his son over a property dispute. SHO Sunil Kumar Sharma said the boy’s uncle was booked under section 302 (murder) 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 201 (causing disappearance of offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused was absconding, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-boy-found-in-septic-tank-of-his-house-uncle-booked-for-murder/articleshow/80513435.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 29, 2021||Nagpur||4 cars detained after stunt driving video goes viral||Nagpur: City traffic police on Thursday confiscated four high-end cars after youths driving them indulged in performing dangerous stunts on the newly constructed Wanjari Nagar elevated road on Republic Day. The police action followed after a video clip of the stunt driving went viral, DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad told TOI.In the clip, occupants of the speeding cars could be seen standing through the sunroof and performing stunts. The vehicles have been detained by the police and owners were issued challan for various traffic related violations, including dangerous driving, under the Motor Vehicles Act, said the DCP. The traffic police traced owners of the cars with the help of CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity, said Awad. On Thursday morning, the traffic police team detained the vehicles bearing registration numbers MH31 FA 8669, MH31 EU 4292, MH15 CM 3636 and MH31 FR 1847. The police have identified the drivers as Aman Singh (20), Qamin Ansari (20), Aniket Mahule (19) and Sohail Khan (25). Parents of three of the accused own hardware shops, while Khan’s parents run a pay and park facility at Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, said the police.All the detained cars have Team-47 stickers pasted on them and on that Instagram page these youths used to upload videos of their stunts. The DCP said all the four youths and their parents were summoned by the commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar, who took the matter very seriously. He also did counselling of the youths and their parents. Soon after this, Simran Kaur, who is mother of Aman Singh, objected to electronic media videographing the detained cars on the DCP traffic premises in Civil Lines.The DCP said all the drivers have been booked under sections 184/177 of Motor Vehicles Act for driving dangerously and overboarding the car, using black films (Section 100/102), alteration of vehicles (Section 52/192), without valid papers (Section 130/127), without licence (Section 3 (10) 181 and fancy number plates (Section 50/51). A collective fine of Rs4,200 was imposed on all the violators, said Awad.The DCP warned strict action against drivers and riders performing stunts on city roads. “Apart from traffic police deployed at busy intersections on city roads, CCTV cameras are also keeping an eye on such violators,” he pointed out.The traffic police will also launch a special drive to nab two-wheeler riders performing stunts on city roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-cars-detained-after-stunt-driving-video-goes-viral/articleshow/80514974.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 29, 2021||Chennai||TN: Chidambaram institute is now a government medical college||CUDDALORE: Nearly 50 days after students of Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital attached to Annamalai University in Chidambaram began their protest demanding the state to reduce fee to bring it on a par with other government medical colleges, TN on Wednesday brought it under the health and family welfare department to treat it as a government medical college for Cuddalore district. Fresh order to be issued on status of staff, fee structureThe college management had suspended classes and closed hostels from January 21 and told students to vacate the hostels. institution premises demanding the government to reduce the fees for undergraduate and postgraduate courses on par with other government medical colleges in the state and bring the institution under the ambit of health and family welfare department from higher education department.The state government on Wednesday handed over the Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital (RMMCH) attached to Annamalai University in Chidambaram to the health and family welfare department to treat it as a government medical college for Cuddalore district. Other RMMCH institutions Rani Meyyamma college of nursing and Rajah Muthiah dental college and hospital too were handed over to the department. The order issued by principal secretary Apoorva said the health and family welfare department will issue a separate order on fee structure, filling up of seats, status of existing staff members and changing the affiliation to Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University from Annamalai University after obtaining concurrence from the state finance department. Hitherto, the institutes were under the control of TN higher education department. The students of RMMCH and related institutions have been staging a protest for the past 50 days on the institution premises demanding the government to reduce the fees for undergraduate and postgraduate courses on par with other government medical colleges in the state and bring the institution under the ambit of health and family welfare department from higher education department. The order passed on Wednesday brought the institutions under the health and family welfare department, but did not give any information on the reduction of fees. However, it mentioned that the health and family welfare department will issue a separate order on fees structure, filling up of seats, the status of the existing staff members and changing the affiliation to the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University from Annamalai University after obtaining concurrence from the finance department. There were 332 teaching faculty, 1,426 non-teaching faculty members, and 287 pensioners and family pensioners as on November 30 last year. The students strength for the academic year was 2,293. The value of movable and immovable assets of the institutions spread across 113.21 acres was Rs 249.99 crore while liabilities, including salaries, pension, stipend, PF and loans, was Rs 840.93 crore. The protesting students pointed out that RMMCH charged Rs 5.6 lakh per annum for MBBS course and Rs 9.6 lakh per annum for MD/MS while private unaided self-financing medical colleges charge Rs 3.8 lakh per annum for MBBS and Rs 3.5 lakh for MD/MS courses. Similarly, Rajah Muthiah dental college and hospital charged Rs 3.5 lakh per annum for BDS course and Rs 7.8 lakh per annum for MDS course whereas private unaided self-financing medical colleges charge Rs 2.5 lakh per annum for both BDS and MDS courses. Other TN government colleges charge Rs 13,000 per annum for MBBS course, Rs 30,000 per annum for MD/MS and Rs 11,610 per annum for BDS and Rs 30,000 per annum for MDS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chidambaram-institute-is-now-a-govt-med-college/articleshow/80516543.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||South Railway to build multi-level parking at Chengalpet station||CHENNAI: In a bid to improve commuter patronage, railways will build a multi-level parking at Chengalpet and modify the building of the Kancheepuram station. Around 2.35 lakh commuters use the suburban trains daily. With Chengalpet developing as a suburb for people to stay and work in Chennai, railways is planning to add facilities. This is more significant as Tambaram is going to become a second terminal for Egmore. This means that more trains will be run from Tambaram and they need to have stops at Chengalpet. Work is on to build a parking facility for two-wheelers. The parking will have three buildings, each having a capacity to hold 500 vehicles. The first building is expected to be completed by March. The project is expected to be completed on time though train services are yet to return to normal. Chengalpet railway station has exit/entry at one side alone, the way towards the stations is badly in need of more parking area for hassle-free movement of two-wheelers, said an official. As the number of suburban commuters have been on the rise, authorities say the railways is planning to develop areas with better access but lacks the wherewithal to develop immediately. An official said the work was part of the move to ensure that suburban stations would develop depending on the patronage. Chengalpet and Kancheepuram have been having commuters and railway passengers board express trains. The parking facility was among the infrastructure work carried out during the shutdown. General manager John Thomas inspected the work on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/s-rly-to-build-multi-level-parking-at-chengalpet-stn/articleshow/80520632.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Bareilly||Seven booked for kidnapping minor girl; girl says she ‘eloped willingly’||PILIBHIT: Seven people — including the key accused, a 20-year-old youth, his parents, relatives and a friend — were booked on Wednesday night for allegedly kidnapping a 16-year-old girl of a village under Puranpur kotwali, following a written complaint filed by her father. Station house officer SK Singh said the girl claimed that she eloped with the youth willingly and they got married. Police have, meanwhile, sent the girl for a medical examination. In his complaint, the girl’s father stated that his daughter was kidnapped around 7 pm on January 21 by the youth, who had repeatedly been threatening to kidnap her and outraging her modesty, with the help of his parents, brother, two maternal uncles and a friend. “When I failed to find my daughter after searching for her for a long time, I took up the matter with the youth’s parents, but they abused me and threatened to kill my daughter,” alleged the complainant. The SHO said that the youth and six others were booked under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (abduction of a woman with intent to compel her to marry a man), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Puranpur circle officer Pramod Kumar said police had not booked the accused for sexual assault and under the POCSO Act as they were waiting for her medical report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-booked-for-kidnapping-minor-girl-girl-says-she-eloped-willingly/articleshow/80513454.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 29, 2021||India||Two more farm unions quit stir, want solution via discussion||NEW DELHI: A day after two farm outfits withdrew from the ongoing protests against the agri laws, two more organisations — BKU (Ekta) and BKU (Lok Shakti) — on Thursday announced their withdrawal from the agitation and urged the Centre to find a solution through discussion. Both groups cited violence during the tractor rally on R-Day as the reason for ending their protest. Leaders of these two outfits met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and urged him to consider their demands, including legal guarantee to purchase at MSP. These two western UP-based outfits are not part of the group of 40 unions involved in talks with the government. BKU (Lok Shakti) had last month moved the Supreme Court, challenging the constitutional validity of the three laws. Members of both factions of BKU were protesting at Ghazipur and Chilla borders. On Wednesday, two unions from western Uttar Pradesh — Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (RKMS) and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) — had withdrawn from the agitation. These two, also, are not part of the group of 40 unions involved in talks with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-more-farm-unions-quit-stir-want-solution-via-discussion/articleshow/80536902.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Discrepancy in engineering certificates leaves Anna University’s students confused||CHENNAI: Discrepancies in dates mentioned in course completion certificates and provisional degree certificates have left many engineering graduates and their parents confused. While colleges have mentioned in the course completion certificates that students appeared for their final semester exam in September 2020, Anna University’s provisional degree certificates mention the month of passing the year as May 2020. “How can a student pass the exam in May if he appeared for it only in September?” a parent asked. The discrepancy has left many students worried, particularly those who planned to continue to study abroad, as they fear foreign universities may reject their applications due to this. Some professors from engineering colleges reiterated this and said this won’t be an issue if the employer or higher education institute the graduate is applying to verifies the document. Odd semesters always end in December and even semesters in May. “Even in years when the state faces elections, the semester exams are conducted in June and July. But the month of passing is always mentioned as May,” a professor from a city college said. “If an employer or higher education institute wants to verify the genuineness of the certificate, they can verify it only with the university. So, students will not face any issues,” he added. When contacted, university officials said the provisional degree certificates were issued for the academic session that ended in May 2020. “The academic year ended in May. Only the exams were conducted in September in view of the pandemic. If the university mentions that the academic session ended in September, students may get into trouble in the future as recruiters and foreign universities may consider them to be arrear candidates. The course duration is only four years and it cannot be extended,” an official from Anna University told TOI. Anna University is preparing to conduct the November-December 2020 exam in February. “In the mark sheets, we would only mention that it’s the November-December 2020 exam and not February exam.” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/discrepancy-in-engg-certificates-leaves-students-confused/articleshow/80520698.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolhapur||Almost 30,000 new voters added in Kolhapur dist||KOLHAPUR: The Covid-19 crisis may have put voter enrolment on the back-burner over the past 10 months, the Kolhapur district still has added 29,964 new voters to its tally. Of them, 8,000 new voters have been added in the Kolhapur city alone. In January 2020, the district had 30,91,962 registered voters. The list has now expanded to 31, 21,906. The male-female voter ratio is almost equal in the district. According to the data released by district election office, there are 16,00,538 male voters and 15,21,290 female voters. The data shows that two assembly constituencies, which form the Kolhapur city, have increased the number of registered voters. Kolhapur South has enrolled 8,884 new voters — the highest in the district. With this, the total number of voters in Kolhapur South has increased to 3,32,650. Kolhapur North, on the other hand, added 4,686 new voters, taking the total to 2,91.008. Both the constituencies are part of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the names will be retained for the civic election expected to be held in summer. Kagal taluka has added 2,048 new voters. The number of voters in Chadgan has come down by 218. Similarly, the tally of voters in Shirol taluka has dropped by 4,207. All other talukas in the district have added an average 2,000 to 3,000 voters. In rural Kolhapur, Radhanagari taluka has total 3,28,861 voters. Shahuwadi now has 2,92,007. It added 4,369 new voters in the past year. Ichalkaranji, a major urban pocket in the district, has 2,96,958 registered voters, of whom, 3,676 were added in the past one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/almost-30000-new-voters-added-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/80516623.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Surat||Surat Diamond Bourse to start operations from September||Surat: From the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre, Surat is set to become the largest diamond trading hub. Come September, the diamantaires from Surat will no longer have to go to Mumbai to trade their diamonds at the Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) with the Surat Diamond Bourse (SDB) starting operations at the Diamond Research and Mercantile (DREAM) city in Khajod.The diamantaires from Surat, Mumbai and Antwerp have their offices in the SDB for trading the polished and rough diamonds.Mathur Savani, spokesperson of BDB told TOI, “It is going to be a win-win situation for the diamantaires in Surat. From the manufacturing hub, Surat will become the diamond trading hub of the world with the SDB starting operations from September.” Savani added that office allotment would begin from February.This initiative, according to Savani, is expected to bring in a turnover of over Rs 2 lakh crore annually. “SDB will be the biggest market for rough and polished diamonds. Diamond merchants will be able to deal directly with international merchants, without having to travel abroad,” Savani said. Surat manufactures more than 90% of the diamonds in the world with the annual turnover pegged at Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Majority of the diamond companies have their offices at Mumbai’s BDB for the trading of diamonds to their international clientèle.The diamond industry in Gujarat employs more than 7 lakh people, with the majority in Surat. An estimated 1.5 lakh more jobs are likely to be created with the commencement of the SDB. Govind Dholakiya, chairman of Shri Ramkrishna Exports (SRK) told TOI, “The international buyers will now come to Surat and this will increase the overall economy of the city. Hotels, realtors, transportation among many others will be hugely benefited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-diamond-bourse-to-start-operations-from-september/articleshow/80514996.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||NDMC to conduct survey of vendors||New Delhi: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to conduct a survey of vendors under the Delhi Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme, 2019, as notified by Delhi government. The decision was taken during the meeting of the town vending committee on Thursday and two agencies empanelled by the government will help NDMC in the survey. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-to-conduct-survey-of-vendors/articleshow/80525001.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Divide assets, liabilities of Telugu Academy in 2 mnths: HC to T, AP||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday directed Telangana and AP to divide assets and liabilities of Telugu Academy within two months as per the AP Reorganization Act. The bench comprising Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud pronounced this order after hearing the pleas of some aggrieved AP employees whose services were converted into outsourcing mode. The bench set aside this conversion and directed the authorities to pay them on par with regular employees and directed the hastening of the division process. The assets and liabilities of Telugu Academy, Hyderabad as on June 2, 2014, should be distributed in the ratio of 41.68: 58.32 between the erstwhile Telugu Academy, which is under the Telangana state, and the newly formed Telugu Academy by the government of AP respectively, the bench said. Hearing the petition filed by the Data Entry Operators and Hamalies, who are working in AP after the formation of Telangana, but are under the administrative control and salaries are paid from Telugu Academy, Hyderabad, the bench directed the academy to pay petitioners wages on par with those employed at a similar capacity in Telangana within six months from the date of receiving this order and continue to pay the same until the assets and liabilities are divided. Alleging discrimination towards them on grounds of the nativity, the petitioners alleged that Telugu Academy, Hyderabad refused to pay enhanced wages to petitioners from 2013. The court also declared proceedings issued by the academy as illegal. It directed both academies to discuss and agree on the guidelines for allocation of employees of the erstwhile Telugu Academy as on June 2, 2014 within two months from the date of receipt of a copy of this order and then allocate staff as per the said norms within one month of finalization of guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/divide-assets-liabilities-of-telugu-academy-in-2-mnths-hc-to-t-ap/articleshow/80520790.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||Panel set to discuss Shakti bill in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The 21-member panel led by state home minister Anil Deshmukh, which has been formed to review the proposed Shakti law, will be holding a meeting in Aurangabad on Friday. The panel comprises members of legislative assembly and constituency from across all the parties. As per the schedule, a couple of more ministers from the state cabinet are likely to join the meeting.The stringent bill, drafted on the lines of Disha Act passed by the Andhra Pradesh government as a deterrent against crime against women and children was tabled in the Maharashtra assembly in December 2020. The bill, after suitable revision, is expected to be presented in the budget session scheduled for March 2021.The authorities said that Deshmukh would reach the city in the morning and the meeting of the panel members along with members of women’s organisations has been scheduled for 2 pm. This will be followed by a meeting with the representatives of high court and district court lawyers’ associations.Later in the evening, Deshmukha will visit the offices of the Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police and city police commissioner and interact with women beat marshals. A detailed crime review meeting will be held with senior police authorities later.According to highly-placed sources, the bill proposes severe penalty, including death, for the convicts of rape, acid attack and serious sexual assault of children. It also proposes setting up of special courts and police teams across the state for swift trial.The proposed act’s two interconnected bills seek to amend sections of the IPC and CrPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and introduce offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/panel-set-to-discuss-shakti-bill-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80515003.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 29, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Missing boy’s body found in lake in suburb||CHENNAI: Three days after he was reported missing, the body of a 14-year-old boy was found floating in the Ayapakkam lake on Wednesday. The Tirumullaivoyal police are investigating whether it was a case of accidental drowning or a murder. Police said the deceased, M Ganesh, had completed Class VIII and had dropped out of school during the lockdown. His father had succumbed to an illness in October last year and Ganesh and his brother Kalidas were being cared for by their mother Shenbagam. On Sunday, Shenbagam left for Bengaluru to attend a family function. Kalidas had left for work on Monday morning and when he returned in the evening, Ganesh was missing. While Kalidas assumed his younger brother was over at some friend’s place initially, he began searching for him when he failed to return despite nightfall. After his attempts to locate Ganesh turned futile, Kalidas lodged a complaint at the Tirumullaivoyal police station on Tuesday. Inquiries by police in the locality placed Ganesh last at the canal meant for excess water to drain from the Ayapakkam lake. Soon after, Ganesh’s body surfaced in the lake. On being alerted, the Tirumullaivoyal police retrieved his body and sent it for post-mortem. A case has been registered and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/missing-boys-body-found-in-lake-in-suburb/articleshow/80520771.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara adds 54 new Covid patients||KOLHAPUR: Satara district reported 54 new cases of Covid and no deaths since Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 56,197. The death toll stands at 1,812. Except for Satara and Maan tehsils, all the other tehsils added new patients in single digit. As many as 53,672 patients have recovered while 713 are undergoing treatment. Solapur district, covering city and urban areas, reported 92 Covid cases while 71 patients were discharged after recovering since Wednesday late night. The district also reported two deaths. Of the fresh cases, Solapur rural added 57 cases and Solapur city recorded 35 cases. The rural parts of Solapur have 39,475 Covid patients, of them, 1157 have died, 397 are undergoing treatment and 37,921 have recovered. Solpaur city has 11,718 Covid cases, including 631 deaths, 320 active cases and 10,767 recoveries. Kolhapur district added 15 new cases while five patients were discharged on Thursday. The only death reported in the district was from Kolhapur city. The district has reported 49,889 cases so far, which includes 1,721 deaths and 48,105 recoveries. Sangli district reported 15 new cases and one Covid death on Thursday. The district has 48, 061 cases, including 46,187 recoveries, 1749 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-adds-54-new-patients/articleshow/80516669.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolhapur||Woman, son die in road accident on Bengaluru road||KOLHAPUR: A woman and her 8-year-old son were killed when the motorcycle they were travelling in, was knocked down by a truck on the Uchgaon flyover bridge on Bengaluru road on Wednesday. The woman identified as Aasharani Sagar Mhaisale (32) was taken to the hospital where she died, while her son, Aayush, died on spot. The woman's husband Sagar and their daughter Anushka (6) also sustained injuries.  They are residents of Miraj and were going for a pilgrimage on the motorcycle. Sayyed Mansoor Ali (29), a resident of Gulbarga in Karnataka, has been arrested by the police. Thirty-two-year old woman and her eight-year-old son were killed on the spot when the motorcycle, on which they were travelling was knocked down by a truck on Wednesday on Uchgaon fly over bridge on Bengaluru road on Wednesday. Aasharani Sagar Mhaisale was taken to the hospital where she died while her son Aayush died on the spot. Her husband Sagar and daughter Anushka (6) sustained injuries. They are all residents of Miraj and were going for a pilgrimage on a motorcycle. Sayyed Mansoor Ali (29), a resident of Gulbarga in Karnata has been arrested by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-son-die-in-road-accident/articleshow/80516703.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolhapur||Three of a family die in accident on Lonanad-Khandala road||KOLHAPUR: Three members of a family got killed in an accident on Thursday morning on the Lonanad-Khandala road after they were knocked down by an unidentified vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Baban Dhaygude (70), Shantabai Dhaygude and Sarika Dhaygude (34). Baban and his wife Shantabai died on the spot while their daughter-in-law Sarika succumbed to the injuries while undergoing treatment in the hospital. According to police, the mishap took place few meters away from their residence. The trio had left home at 6 am for walk. Preliminary investigation has revealed that an unidentified vehicle came from the opposite direction and knocked them. Police has also found a number plate (MH 20 BN 9428) from the spot. As per probe, a white coloured car had knocked them down. A man, who was suspected to be driving the vehicle, was detained by police late in the evening. He was picked up from Malegaon near Baramati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-of-a-family-die-in-accident/articleshow/80516735.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Forest guard from SGNP suspended over graft charge||MUMBAI: A forest guard of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Satish Jadhav, has been suspended and an inquiry initiated against him after an audio clip has surfaced in which he is allegedly seeking bribe from encroachers at Appapada else their hutments would be razed. The action was taken after activist Hemand Chhajed complained to the forest authorities. Chief conservator of forests and director of SGNP G Mallikarjun said that action will be taken against Jadhav based on the inquiry report. —Vijay Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/forest-guard-from-sgnp-suspended-over-graft-charge/articleshow/80525305.cms||Vijay Singh
January 29, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city reports 103 new cases, 1 death||Nashik: Nashik city reported 103 Covid-19 positive cases during last 24 hours, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 75,651. A 38-year-old man from the Jail Road area of the city succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the city. At present, the death toll in the city stands at 1,014. As many as 107 patients were discharged from various facilities in the city on Thursday. As of now, the city has 675 active patients. The city has recorded the recovery rate of 97.76% — highest since the outbreak of the Covid-19 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-reports-103-new-cases-1-death/articleshow/80516762.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Former TDP councillor hacked to death in Jangaon||JANGAON/HYDERABAD: A 53-year-old former TDP councillor was chased and hacked to death by his relatives allegedly over a property dispute, while he was returning home from morning walk in Jangaon on Thursday. The victim, P Swamy, a former councillor of Jangaon municipality, secured a judgment in favour of him two days ago and the attack could be a fallout of the legal dispute, Jangaon police said. As the TDP leader-turned-realtor was walking on the road, two motorcycle-borne youth rammed the vehicle into him. As he tried to run, they chased and attacked him with a sickle and an axe from the rear. Swamy died on the spot. The accused tried to sped away on their bike, but the vehicle broke down. Immediately, in their attempt to escape, they abandoned the bike and fled from the spot. During the investigation, police came to know that Swamy had property dispute with a few persons and the issue was in court. DCP, West Zone, B Srinivas Reddy said 22-year-old Gaddam Nikhil and 19-year-old Praveen Kumar hatched a conspiracy and attacked Swamy. Police said Swamy had two acres and 30 guntas of land abutting Yashwanthapur highway and it was in legal dispute. His rival, Gaddam Narsimha Swamy, died in the recent past and his grandchildren reportedly planned the murder. Soon after the incident, a special party and police teams launched a manhunt and arrested Nikhil and Praveen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-councillor-hacked-to-death/articleshow/80521029.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Hyderabad||IOB officials booked for siphoning off police funds||Hyderabad: Central Bureau of Investigation has registered the case against Indian Overseas Bank officials for siphoning off Andhra Pradesh police Arogya Bhadrata scheme funds. CBI booked FIR under criminal conspiracy, criminal misappropriation, cheating and criminal breach of trust against six officials of the IOB, Mangalagiri for withdrawing AP police deposits worth more than Rs 4 crore without the knowledge of the department. FIR was booked against IOB Vijayawada regional resource manager Heli Veepuri, IOB Mangalagiri assistant manager V Suresh, IOB Mangalagiri branch clerk M Adinarayana, IOB Mangalgiri assistant manager D Narasimha Murali, clerk M Praveen Syam and assistant manager K Sireesha. AP Police Arogya Bhadrata secretary Chandrasehkar opened the account and had four term deposits of Rs 90 lakh each and Rs 68 lakh in the SB account totalling Rs 4.2 crore. It is alleged that the bank officials closed the account without the request of the account holder. The accused withdrew the money by transferring them to various accounts through a chain of transactions. The accused misappropriated funds to the tune of Rs 4.5 crore, including the interest amount. CBI alleged that the cash was withdrawn without requests and the original term deposit receipts. The alleged offences took place in 2019. The amount was transferred into the accounts of Shantamma Handlooms, Cargo Footwear, SDN Telecom and L Vandana Kumari. There are no physical vouchers for all these transfers in the bank and the entries were made digitally by clerk Shyam and were approved by Heli Veepuri. CBI said the accused are involved in a wrongful transfer of funds. The complaint was filed by IOB chief regional manager B Venkata Narayana. CBI has decided to question the accused and record the statement. CBI Vishakapatnam unit is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iob-officials-booked-for-siphoning-off-police-funds/articleshow/80520950.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 29, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city records 25% drop in per day Covid cases||Nashik: Nashik city has registered 25% drop in the number of per day coronavirus cases in the last week. The number of per day cases have reduced to 77 between January 22 and January 27 as against 105 cases per day reported between January 15 and January 21. The city had recorded 158 cases per day between January 1 and January 7 and 126 cases per day between January 8 and January 14. “There has been a continuous drop in new cases during the last few days. Moreover, the recovery rate has also increased. This is the reason the number of new cases has dropped significantly in the city during the last few days,” said medical superintending officer of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Bapusaheb Nagargoje. “Measures like early detection and timely treatment has yielded good results in reducing new Covid-19 cases and, at the same time, increasing the recovery rate of patients,” added Nagargoje. Meanwhile, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the city has increased to 97.76% — the highest ever recovery rate since the outbreak of the Covid-19 in the city on April 6. Nashik: January 28 2021 The city has registered a significant drop of 25% in the number of per day new cases of Covid-19 during last week. The number of per day cases Nashik city has reduced to 77 cases per day between January 22 and 27, against 105 cases per day reported between January 15 and 21. The per day new cases are low since June last year. The city had recorded 158 cases per day in the first week of this month between January 1 and 7, and 126 cases per day in the second week of this month between January 8 and 14. “There has been a continuous drop in new cases during the last few days. Moreover, the recoveries have also increased. Hence, this is the reason the number of new cases have dropped significantly in the city during the last few days,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). “The measures like early detection and timely treatment to patients yielded good results in reducing the new Covid-19 cases and increasing the recoveries of the patients,”” added Nagargoje. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the city has increased up to 97.76%, which is the highest ever recovery rate since the outbreak of the Covid-19 in the city on April 6. The Covid-19 pandemic was under control even by May, but the cases started increasing from June. There had been a spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the month of September as the city reported over 850 cases per day in this month, but the cases later started reducing from the month of October. There had been around 61% drop in new cases in the month of October as the city reported 338 new cases per day on an average this month. The new Covid positive cases were further reduced to 181 new cases per day on an average in the month of December. Now, the per day cases have reduced to 77 new cases per day on an average during the last six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-records-25-drop-in-per-day-covid-cases/articleshow/80516793.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 29, 2021||Surat||I-T to release 10L rough diamonds||Surat: The Surat income tax department has agreed to release 10 lakh pieces of rough diamonds, belonging to 818 small and medium diamantaires, which were seized during the search operation conducted at the city-based diamond company involved in the polishing and cutting job-work. The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) office-bearers had called upon the senior officials of the investigation wing of the I-T department on Thursday. During the meeting, the I-T officials agreed to release the rough diamonds belonging to the 818 diamond firms seized during the raid at the Deora and Bhanderi Diamond Company in Kapodara last week.The I-T officials said that the goods will be released only after the diamond firms furnish legitimate documents showing that the rough diamonds were given to the company in question for job-work. SGCCI office-bearers said that about 10 lakh pieces of rough diamonds have been seized by the I-T department. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI said, “There is an amicable solution reached with the I-T officials. They (I-T) have agreed to release 10 lakh pieces of diamonds seized during the raid. The diamond firms will have to furnish necessary documents for getting their goods back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-t-to-release-10l-rough-diamonds/articleshow/80515021.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nashik||Ahmednagar gets 3 new vaccination centres||Nashik: With an aim to speed up the immunization programe in Ahmednagar district, the health officials have started three more vaccination centres in the district taking the total number of such centres to 24. P B Gandal, the deputy director of health for Nashik division, said the three more centres have been opened to fasten the vaccination programme, the first phase of which would have to be wind up by February 14. “Thereafter, the vials will be sent back and the second phase of vaccination will begin. It is important that all the listed beneficiaries get vaccinated in the first phase,” said Gandal. The vaccination in Ahmednagar — which is geographically one of the biggest districts in north Maharashtra — is yet to gain momentum. Only 64% of the total beneficiaries have been inoculated in Ahmednagar compared to 69% in Jalgaon, 71% in Nashik, 73% in Nandurbar and 105% in Dhule. “We are identifying the vaccination centres by focusing on the postal address and pin codes provided by the beneficiaries so that those enlisted will not have to travel long distances to take the vaccine,” said Gandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-gets-3-new-vaccination-centres/articleshow/80516835.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ reaches Aurangabad city||Aurangabad: The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ that marks the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s win over Pakistan in 1971 war reached Aurangabad city amid patriotic atmosphere on Thursday. Decked up in three modified military vehicles, the procession with nearly three-feet tall Victory Flame at the centre was received by Major General AS Jakhar of the Agnibaaz division of Aurangabad cantonment board among other officials. The felicitation of total seven war veterans and war widows was one of the highlights of the event which saw enthusiastic participation of civilians from different walks of life, including senior bureaucrats. The slogans of “Bharat Mata Ki Jay” and “Vande Mataram” reverberated in the air as participants expressed their solidarity and support towards the war heroes. Aurangabad: The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ that marks the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s win over Pakistan in 1971 war, reached Aurangabad amid patriotic atmosphere, on Thursday. Decked up in three modified military vehicles, the procession with nearly three-feet tall Victory Flame at the centre, was received by Major General AS Jakhar of the Agnibaaz Division of Aurangabad cantonment board among other officials. The felicitation of total seven war veterans and war widows was one of the highlights of the event, which saw enthusiastic participation of civilians from different walks of life including senior bureaucrats. The slogans of “Bharat Mata Ki Jay” and “Vande Mataram” reverberated in the air participants expressed their solidarity and support towards the war heroes. “The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ arrived at Aurangabad from Nagpur and will head towards Ahmednagar on Friday. The Victory Flame was a tribute to the martyrs who made supreme sacrifice for the country,” an official release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-reaches-aurangabad-city/articleshow/80516878.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Some recovered Covid-19 patients suffer due to inflamed thyroid gland||MUMBAI: Every month since the Covid-19 pandemic began in Mumbai, endocrinologist Dr Sweta Budyal has been noticing a strange pattern. At least four recovered Covid-19 patients returned within four to eight weeks after discharge with complaints of fever, neck pain, body ache and difficulty in swallowing, among others. “Some have lost five to 10 kilos in that period,” she said. The diagnosis, as doctors around the world have been discovering after doing a battery of tests, is subacute thyroiditis, a painful inflammation of the thyroid gland. The gland plays a major role in regulating the body’s metabolism and growth. “Viral infections affecting the respiratory system are known to cause inflammation of the thyroid gland. And Covid-19, which is caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, is no different,” said Dr Budyal who practises at Fortis Hospital, Mulund. The pandemic has already wreaked havoc on people’s mental and physical health. The emergence of post-Covid symptoms such as subacute thyroiditis are a cause for greater anxiety among patients and their families. Subacute thyrioditis, though, is self-limiting and the patient does not need life-long anti-thyroid medication. While thyroid disorders are common, with some estimates that it roughly affects every third Indian, the link between subacute thyroiditis and Covid-19 is not fully understood. Dr Budyal said it is possibly caused by the body’s immune response to Covid-19. In December, doctors from RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Kolkata wrote in BMJ Journals about subacute thyroiditis in a 58-year-old patient presenting with a painful swelling in the neck who was subsequently detected to be positive for SARS-CoV-2. “We seek to highlight the broad clinical spectrum of the Covid-19 by reporting probably the first case of subacute thyroiditis possibly induced by SARS-CoV-2 infection from India,” the doctors wrote in BMJ. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said its effect on the thyroid gland is known. “We have noticed it in several patients. However, these patients don’t need specific medicines for thyroid disorders and it is self-limiting.” Patients only need pain medicines and beta blockers. In some cases, doctors give steroids. The symptoms disappear within 12 weeks and the thyroid gland resumes its normal work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/some-recovered-covid-19-patients-suffer-due-to-inflamed-thyroid-gland/articleshow/80516872.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal govt starts process to fill up vacant principals’ posts||KOLKATA: Eighty candidates attended the counselling session for the post of principals in 111 colleges in the state on Thursday afternoon. They are expected to take over the reins of the colleges by the beginning of next month. The candidates were called in two batches of 40 each at 11am and 2pm, respectively. The successful candidates will be appointed as heads of colleges affiliated to several universities in the state, including Calcutta University. Professors from top-ranking colleges and universities had applied for the posts that fell vacant over the past few years. West Bengal College Service Commission had directed colleges to send them the details pertaining to the vacancy at the top, which included the duration of the vacancy and the reason why vacancy was created. The commission drew up a list of 80 candidates after conducting interviews of over 150 applicants in December. “The candidates get to opt for the colleges of their choice depending on their position on the merit list. The lower the position the lesser the options,” said one of the applicants who teaches statistics in a Kolkata college. There are over 550 colleges in the state, out of which 111 do not have a principal. According to a senior official of the higher education department, it was hampering the academic and administrative activities of those colleges. “A teacher in charge has limited powers compared to a permanent principal who can allot budget for infrastructure expansion or lobby with the affiliating university to start new courses that are in demand,” said the official. Students’ body elections are due in almost all colleges in the state and this could be one of the reasons the government has sped up the process of appointing principals in colleges. “The party that controls the students’ unions controls a big part of the young brigade. It helps a ruling party to a have a principal at the top who is “friendly” to the ruling dispensation,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college. Some of the colleges where the principals will be appointed are affiliated to universities like Calcutta University, Burdwan University, Rabindra Bharati University, West Bengal State University, Vidyasagar University and Kazi Nazrul University. Some of the Calcutta University colleges like Rani Birla Girls’ College, Bangabasi Morning College, Surendranath College and Seth Soorajmull Jalan Girls’ College do not have a permanent principal currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-starts-process-to-fill-up-vacant-principals-posts/articleshow/80516857.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Surat||3 super-heavy reactors flagged off||Surat: Three super-heavy reactors manufactured at the Larsen & Toubro’s (L&T) Hazira plant in Surat for India’s first Residue Upgradation Facility (RUF) of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) were flagged off to Vishakhapatnam on Thursday.Three LC-MAX reactors, weighing 2,313 metric tonne each, will enable HPCL’s RUF at Visakh Refinery to convert the heaviest oils to high-quality BS-VI diesel, as well as increase feedstock and improve product flexibility. The reactors sailed in ‘single piece’ directly to Visakhapatnam from L&T’s manufacturing facility located at Hazira near Surat. M K Surana, chairman & MD, HPCL, said, “L&T has been our valuable partner in our journey to modernize and upgrade our refineries. We thank L&T team for early delivery of these reactors.”S N Subrahmanyan, CEO & MD, L&T said, “Our heavy engineering shops are the only ones in the country to have consistently dispatched the largest, heaviest, longest and most complex process plant equipment to the global clients ahead of schedule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/3-super-heavy-reactors-flagged-off/articleshow/80515046.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses plea seeking compassionate appointment||MADURAI: Observing that the dependents of a deceased employee cannot be permitted to convert a tragedy into a bonanza, the Madras high court dismissed a plea by a man seeking compassionate appointment as his father who was a government employee died during service. The court was hearing a petition filed by D Sivakumar challenging the order which had rejected his application for compassionate appointment. The petitioner’s father R Devaraj, who was working as a helper in Tangedco, died during service in 2001. At the time of Devaraj’s death, the petitioner was 10 years old and no other eligible people were available in the family to apply for compassionate appointment. The petitioner submitted an application seeking compassionate appointment in 2009, however, the same was rejected by the authorities on the ground that the application was not submitted within three years from the death of his father. Justice M Dhandapani observed that the electricity board had made it clear that legal heirs who have completed 18 years of age alone are to be treated as eligible for appointment on compassionate grounds. The judge said that in the present case, the petitioner was a minor during the time of death of his father and submitted an application seeking compassionate appointment after attaining majority. The judge observed that the purpose of providing employment on compassionate basis is to mitigate the hardship of the family which has arisen due to the death of the employee and such appointment therefore has to be provided immediately to ensure that the family tide over the sudden crisis which has arisen due to the death of the employee. If the compassionate appointment is treated as one more source of recruitment, then it will be violative of Article 16 of the Constitution, observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-compassionate-appointment/articleshow/80521013.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses plea against TRB’s decision to cancel exam||MADURAI: Taking into account that the Supreme Court had already upheld the decision of the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) cancelling the written exam held in 2017 for the recruitment of lecturers in government polytechnic colleges, due to malpractices, the Madras high court has dismissed a plea moved by candidates challenging the cancellation. TRB had issued a notification, calling for direct recruitment of lecturers (engineering/non-engineering) in government polytechnic colleges. Written examinations were conducted during September 2017 and 1,33,568 candidates had appeared. The OMR answer sheets were retained by the board, and the scanned images were outsourced to a private agency for evaluation and preparation of the final list. Subsequently, the results were published during November 2017. Since TRB found out that nearly 196 candidates were involved in certain fraud and malpractices, it cancelled the examination in 2018. Few candidates filed a batch of petitions at the HC Madurai bench and at the principal seat. While the single judge at Madurai bench had allowed the petitions, the single judge at principal seat had dismissed the petitions. Subsequently, appeals against these orders were filed before a division bench at the principal seat which was ordered with a finding that the candidatures of the 196 should be rejected and the selection process should continue for the other successful candidates. Challenging this order, TRB had filed an appeal before Supreme Court. Justice M S Ramesh observed that the petitioners seek this court to interpret the findings and the order of the Supreme Court, in a manner convenient to them. The judge observed that any attempt by the court to consider the plea, would amount to ignoring or interpreting the ratio behind the decidendi of the apex court’s order and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-against-trbs-decision-to-cancel-exam/articleshow/80521288.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Madras HC directs police to appoint man rejected for hiding facts||MADURAI: Relying on a Supreme Court judgment which had held that an employer can ignore the fact about suppression of facts about a case of trivial nature and could condone the lapse, the Madras high court has directed the authorities to appoint a man in the Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade (TSPYB), whose candidature was rejected for suppressing the fact about a criminal case against him. The court was hearing the petition filed by M Arun Kumar challenging the order. The petitioner was provisionally selected for the post of grade II constable in TSPYB after clearing the written examination and thereafter, he had also passed the physical efficiency test and medical test in 2017. Subsequently, certificate verification was also conducted. It came to light that the petitioner was implicated in a criminal case registered under sections of the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, which was closed by the Mudukulathur judicial magistrate in Ramanathapuram district for non-filing of final report. Since the petitioner had suppressed the fact about the criminal case, his candidature was rejected. Justice M S Ramesh said that when his candidature was rejected in 2017, he filed a petition before the high court, which in 2018 was of the view that suppression of facts will not automatically disentitle a candidate for consideration but a reformative principle could be adopted and the lapse could be condoned. The judge said that the court had given such a finding, by relying on the Supreme Court verdict in Avtar Singh’s case, and thereby remanded back the matter to the third respondent. Since his candidature was once again rejected, the petitioner had filed the present petition. The judge said that the offence for which the petitioner alleged to have committed, is punishable with imprisonment not exceeding three months or fine not exceeding Rs 100. Such an offence can be termed as a petty offence. Apart from being a petty offence, the case itself could be termed to be trivial in nature. “While the case itself was closed, it cannot be claimed that a mere implication of the petitioner in a criminal case for a petty offence, would render him unfit for the post,” observed the judge. Observing that the petitioner has qualified himself, he should not be deprived of selection and hence, directed the authorities to declare him selected to the post of grade II police constable in TSPYB, and further directed to issue the appointment order within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-police-to-appoint-man-rejected-for-hiding-facts/articleshow/80521046.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra still has over 25% of India’s active Covid cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra added 2,889 Covid-19 cases and 50 deaths on Thursday. With this, the state’s tally reached 20,18,413 and toll 50,994. Cases in Mumbai dipped on Thursday (394) and fatalities (7) continued to be consistent; the city’s Covid-19 tally reached 3,07,569 and toll 11,330. Mumbai’s all seven new deaths were among people with comorbidities; five were above the age of 60 years and two aged 40-60 years. Civic officials said the city's doubling rate is 531 days while the overall growth rate of cases is 0.13%. Active cases in the state further dropped on Thursday to 43,048, including 5,521 in Mumbai. Maharashtra has over 25% of the country’s active cases. Over 19.2 lakh people have been discharged in the state so far. In the state, the Mumbai circle reported the highest cases (839) and deaths (11), while Pune circle reported 713 cases and 18 deaths. State officials said that of the 50 deaths, 24 occurred in the last 48 hours, 13 in the last seven days and the remaining 13 in the weeks prior to that. Within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, there were 88 positive cases from NMMC areas on Thursday, taking its Covid count to 52,858. One death took the toll to 1,083. PCMC areas reported 35 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 28,646; with two deaths, the toll reached 624. Thane city saw 74 new positive cases, taking its tally to 58730.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-still-has-over-25-of-indias-active-covid-cases/articleshow/80521176.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Covid vaccination: Hospitals in Kolkata cross day’s target but Bengal’s turnout drops to 70%||KOLKATA: On Thursday, 29,177 more healthcare workers (HCWs) were inoculated at 420 sites across the state. While the target for the day was 42,000, the turnout percentage of 70 has been one of the lowest during these nine rounds of vaccination. In Kolkata, however, some medical colleges had an overwhelming turnout with the number overshooting their targets for the day. “A total of 1,87,394 have been vaccinated in the state during these nine days of inoculation out of a target of 2,52,772. An overall turnout of 74% is reasonably good,” said director (health services) Ajay Chakraborty. Sources said the CoWIN system continued to cause teething issues throughout Thursday. The turnout percentage had shot up to 87% last Friday. Currently, all vaccination sites across the state are operating for four days a week. On Thursday, eight AEFI cases were reported from the vaccination centres. One among them has been admitted to the hospital for observation. The other seven who complained of dizziness and nausea were sent home from the observation rooms of the vaccination sites. “One vaccine recipient who complained of hot flushes have been admitted to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital for observation,” said Chakraborty. “Out of the target of 300 recipients at our three sites on Thursday, we vaccinated 320 HCWs. We will continue the inoculation at three sites on Friday as well,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice-principal (MSVP) at Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCH). While IPGMER and MCH, where close to 9,000 and 7,000 HCWs are enrolled for the vaccination respectively, are the two medical colleges with the highest targets, NRS follows closely with around 6,500 HCWs registered. “By 4.30pm, we had finished inoculating 400 recipients on Thursday, with a few more queued up at the four sessions sites. So by the end of the day, we had achieved more that our target for the day,” said Raghunath Misra, MSVP at IPGMER.  While most medical colleges are yet to cross the half-way mark of vaccinating HCWs, many teaching hospitals with smaller targets have completed vaccinating 50% of their HCWs. “We have covered about 60% of our HCWs enrolled in our institute,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, vaccination site supervisor at Beliaghata ID Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-hosps-cross-days-target-but-bengals-turnout-drops-to-70/articleshow/80516988.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||Latur top cops to work from Udgir once a week||Aurangabad: Latur superintendent of police Nikhil Pingale has decided that he and some of his colleagues will work from the Udgir town once a week to prevent travel-related hardships faced by complainants. Udgir is located 63 km away from Latur district headquarters. Due to the poor road condition between the two places, it takes close to three hours to travel one way.Latur district has 23 police stations divided into seven sub-divisions, with Udgir being the smallest in terms of geographical area. It, however, has got the second highest number of cases after Latur city division. Pingale told TOI, “Udgir sub-division has the second highest registration of criminal cases in the district and is important from the law and order point of view. Unless it is an emergency, people may consider meeting us during the scheduled day each week in Udgir.”When asked about the reason behind the decision, he said that the road work between the two destinations is likely to take another eight months. He did not want people to face travel-related challenge for that long.Pingale said that the five-hour travel for a meeting that usually lasts just five minutes appeared unjust. Moreover, often, those seeking an audience with the senior police officers have to skip their day’s work.As per the arrangements, the SP will work from Udgir each each Tuesday or Wednesday. Additional SP will function from Udgir on Thursday or Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/latur-top-cops-to-work-from-udgir-once-a-week/articleshow/80515054.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 29, 2021||Meerut||UP police clears protest site in Baghpat, farmers allege brutality, cops deny use of force||Meerut: About 30km off the Ghazipur protest site, a little before Wednesday midnight, a large group of farmers camping on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Baghpat suddenly found itself outnumbered by the men in khaki. A strong contingent of policemen, followed by earthmovers and ambulances, surrounded the protest site and allegedly started "chasing" the farmers. Those who were sleeping were caught off the guard and were beaten. Several farmers were allegedly injured.Within minutes, the camps were uprooted, bonfires snuffed and protest banners crushed under the leather boots. Some of the farmers found shelter in nearby sugarcane fields while others took the highway and ran towards the city.The administration claimed that the dispersal was “peaceful and no force was used”. The videos which started surfacing on the social media platforms a few hours later suggested otherwise. Policemen were purportedly seen chasing and beating the farmers in their bid to clear the protest site which came up on the highway on December 19 last year.Kisan Union’s national vice-president and khap leader Brijpal Singh said, “They (police) not only attacked 50-60 farmers with lathis but even took away our tents, Rs 1 lakh in cash and other belongings. We had been protesting peacefully. Several farmers were injured.” The charges were denied by the police.Another farmer, Jaiveer Singh, who was also present at the site, said, “It was all of a sudden. We were sitting near fire and some elders had gone to sleep when a huge contingent of police force arrived. They started beating us without any provocation. I was hit on my waist. They were well prepared for a crackdown and had even brought earthmovers with them.”An FIR was also filed against the farmers under IPC sections 283 (obstruction in public way), 341 (wrongful restraint), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (spread infection of disease) and under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act. When contacted, additional district magistrate Amit Kumar said, “We had received a request from National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to clear obstruction at several spots on National Highway 709-B (Delhi-Saharanpur) which is nearing completion. So, we cleared it in a peaceful manner and no force was used.”When asked why ambulances were called, he replied, “To drop the farmers home.”The FIR was filed in the early hours of Thursday on behalf of the project implementation unit of NHAI. It stated, “It has come to notice that some unknown people/elements are creating obstruction in executing the work of this highway near toll plaza and other areas in Baghpat. Accordingly, it is requested to provide necessary support so that the project of national importance can be completed at the earliest.”Superintendent of police (SP) Baghpat Abhishek Singh said, “It is true that the force was in anti-riot gear. But we found only a handful of people at the protesting site. Elderly were moved to their homes using ambulances and leader of the protest, Brijpal Singh, was respectfully transported to his home. Since there was music going on at the site we had to shout to be audible. No one was injured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-clears-protest-site-in-baghpat-farmers-allege-brutality-cops-deny-use-of-force/articleshow/80515056.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 29, 2021||Meerut||BKU digs in heels, gives call to intensify stir||Muzaffarnagar: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Thursday stood its ground, as it slammed the violence in Delhi but refused to relent against the three contentious farm laws brought by the Centre. In the evening, BKU issued a statement asking farmers to reach Ghazipur protest point, where a stand-off was building up as the Ghaziabad administration had asked the protesters to clear the site by Thursday night.The Ghazipur border was shut and traffic was diverted to other routes.BKU chief Naresh Tikait asked farmers across Uttar Pradesh to erect tents on roads. Another prominent BKU leader and its spokesperson, Rakesh Tikait, has said he will commit suicide instead of ending the protest. The statements came a few hours after the BKU president slammed the January 26 violence.On Wednesday night, Naresh said that those who stormed Red Fort were “wolves in the guise of farmers”. “Red Fort incident is a blot on the country. Those who were part of it were wolves in the guise of farmers. They should be identified and punished,” he said. In the same breath, the BKU chief had criticised the FIRs registered against union leaders.“Filing of FIRs and arresting the union leaders will not solve anything. They will get bails sooner or later. If not in this government, then in the next one. Let us talk about the welfare of the farmers without getting distracted,” Naresh had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bku-digs-in-heels-gives-call-to-intensify-stir/articleshow/80515051.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||Bird watching among other events planned on World Wetlands Day||Aurangabad: Nature-lovers will get an opportunity to visit parts of the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary and observe different kinds of birds as a part of World Wetlands Day celebration organised by the Aurangabad forest department on February 2.Vijay Satpute, the divisional forest officer, said the bird sanctuary, which is situated around 50 km from Aurangabad, is one of the ideal wetlands in Maharashtra. He said, “To mark the World Wetlands Day, public orientation programme has been organised at Mauje Vijaypur village in Paithan taluka. There will be bird watching and other sessions. The environmentalists and forest department officials will guide participants during the event.” A webinar on the importance of wetlands will be held in the second half of the day along with a special event for students. This year, the theme for the World Wetlands Day is ‘Wetlands and Biodiversity.’ The World Wetlands Day marks the date of the adoption of the Convention on Wetlands on February 2, 1971, in the Iranian city of Ramsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bird-watching-among-other-events-planned-on-world-wetlands-day/articleshow/80515091.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Covid effect: North Kolkata science fair goes hybrid, focuses on virus||KOLKATA: A two-decade-old science fair in north Kolkata, which sees participation from hundreds of young innovators from schools and colleges in the city every year, is going virtual this time, courtesy Covid-inflicted restrictions on mass gathering. The four-day fair — Acharya Satyendra Nath Bose Smarak Bigyan-o-Projukti Mela — held at Hedua Park was inaugurated on Wednesday. This year, all the displays and innovations are themed around Covid-19. Students from multiple schools and colleges have displayed their science models and are participating in science quiz over an online platform by logging on to the website www.asnbosebijnanmelahedua.in. “Every year, several scientists and students participate in the fair along with a number of organizations who work on technology and innovations. But this year, we are organizing the fair virtually where all the participants will be partaking in the quiz, model displays and seminars on the online platform. The fair is still open for public but we are making all attempts to restrict the number as low as possible to ensure social distancing protocol on the fair premises,” said Sanjay Ghosh, secretary of the fair committee. Keeping in view the pandemic, all the discussions, seminars and innovations on display are themed around Covid-19. “Stuck at home during lockdown, I have made six models. I have made a solar-powered UVCRT Covid disinfection tunnel gate, a solar-powered automatic total sanitizer machine that kills germs through infrared electron beams and a pocket-fitted machine to disinfect gadgets like mobile phones, power banks and watches without using any chemicals or water. I also displayed an eco-friendly solar-powered biometric bike that switches on with fingerprint, runs up to 400kms once fully charged and can be tracked on cell phone anywhere around the world,” said Subhamoy Biswas, a final-year MSc student at Kalyani University. Professor Bikash Sinha, former the director of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics and Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre, who has been closely associated with the fair since its inception in 2000, said the fair has only increased its ambit as a national event by going virtual. “In spite of all the challenges, we have had response from all over the country this year. I have been associated with the fair since its first day and have found it grow bit by bit every year. This year, those who cannot attend the fair physically can participate and watch it live virtually. Fairs like these are very important. India’s future rests upon science and technology and fairs like these nurtures young and innovative minds,” Sinha said at the virtual inauguration of the fair on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-effect-north-kol-science-fair-goes-hybrid-focuses-on-virus/articleshow/80517047.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Third lot of Covishield to arrive in Kolkata today||KOLKATA: The fourth lot of Covid-19 vaccine and the third consignment of Covishield will arrive in Kolkata on Friday. The latest consignment of 2.5 lakh doses would be ferried in a SpiceJet flight from Pune that is scheduled to reach Kolkata around 2.35pm. “We are ready to receive the vaccine and transfer them on to the state health department van in the apron area itself,” an airport official said. The state had earlier received 14 lakh doses of Covishield for health workers. In addition, it has received around 1.6 lakh doses of Covaxin from Hyderabad. With recipients required to receive two shots each, the required quantum of doses to cover health workers has already arrived. The Covaxin consignment that arrived last Friday and the latest Covishield consignment will be kept at the store in Bagbazar and used to inoculate police personnel and civic workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/third-lot-of-covishield-to-arrive-today/articleshow/80517014.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Rajkot||AAP to showcase Delhi’s good governance in Rajkot||RAJKOT: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is contesting civic body elections from all the 72 seats of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), has promised to replicate the New Delhi model in Saurashtra’s financial hub to make people understand the true definition of good governance. The AAP had started preparing for the municipal elections early and had even declared names of its candidates before the poll dates were announced. They have been distributing pamphlets and calendars since last two months, highlighting the work done by the Delhi government like the quality education in government schools, 200 units of free electricity, government services like income certificate, election card and others, at the doorstep. Shivlal Barasia, vice president of AAP in Rajkot said, “In our campaign, we are trying to convince people that we will serve them better (than BJP). Building overbridges is not the criteria for development. We are trying to make them understand the true definition of good governance that our party is practising in Delhi.” He also took dig at ruling the BJP and the opposition Congress for making the general board proceedings chaotic and not discussing real issues. “The general board meeting gets over in just half an hour without any discussion. Real issues affecting people is never discussed or taken up. We will allow all civic issues to be discussed if voted to power,” said Barasia. AAP has given tickets to new candidates who are well educated and professionals. AAP Rajkot president Rajbha Jhala said, “There is an anti-incumbency wave against BJP which has been power since 2005. They have failed to serve people during the pandemic and collected a penalty of Rs 150 crore in Rajkot. BJP’s voters are from the middle-class and upper-middle class. Our candidates are also from the same background. People will vote for change this time.” During the previous election in 2015, BJP got 38 seats in 72 member board. Unlike other municipal corporations, in Rajkot it has always been BJP or the Congress. No third party has been able to make a dent so far. Also, in the history of civic polls in Rajkot, no independent candidate has ever won in a single seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/aap-to-showcase-delhis-good-governance-in-rajkot/articleshow/80515077.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Sakinaka cops nab online fraud accused in Raj jungle||Mumbai: Sakinaka police on January 24 solved two online fraud cases with the arrest of two men from a jungle in Rajasthan. In the first case they allegedly siphoned Rs 20,500 from the credit card of a Marathi actress on September 27, 2019, after she tried to order wine by calling a number she found on the Internet. In the second case, a 22-year-old man lost Rs 33,000 that he paid to buy a bike on sale on OLX in June 2020 by a person posing as an Army man. While tracking phone details in both cases, sub-inspector Sunita Bhosale found a common link: The fraudsters were operating from Khohra Karmali village, Ramgarh (Alwar) Rajasthan. They upload their numbers on the Internet and with the help of an app communicate with victims to avoid arrest. They duped several persons of lakhs of rupees, police said. Bhosale travelled to Rajasthan with constable Sangram Jagtap and a cyber detection team and camped there for almost eight days before they caught Unnas Kammruddin Khan (38) on the night on January 23 for duping Harishwar Yadav by posing as an Army man. They took custody of Barkat Sahabbuddin (28) after he got bail in an attempt to murder case of December 2020. “The challenging part was to return safely after nabbing the two as there have been cases of cops from Mumbai being attacked by villagers with stones and weapons in Rajasthan,” Bhosale told TOI. The case in which actress Ruchita Jadhav (31) lost money was solved 14 months after she placed the order by calling Poly Wines in Andheri (E) in September 2019. Yadav lost money during lockdown when he tried to buy the bike. “The villagers tried to lure the team with money,” said a police officer. Zonal DCP Mahesh Reddy supervised ACP Ramesh Nangare, senior inspector Balwant Deshmukh, Bhosale and the team. “Bhosale and her team stayed in the locality with no proper food and toilet for almost a week, pretending to be locals. The officer nabbed Khan from a jungle after collecting information on his daily schedule. With the help of technical analysis and through sources Bhosale nabbed the accused,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sakinaka-cops-nab-online-fraud-accused-in-raj-jungle/articleshow/80518254.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Mini book fair a big draw on first day||Kolkata: The mini book fair that has been organized by the West Bengal Publishers Co-ordination Committee was inaugurated at Hrishikesh Park on Thursday. It is a special initiative of about 50 publishers. Christened Boimela 2021, this book fair has about 40 stalls and a special zone for little magazines. On Thursday, people started trooping in to browse and buy books much before the inauguration started. People of all age groups were seen at the fair and expressed their happiness about finally being able to attend a book fair in the heart of the city. Take the case of chartered accountants Indrani and Bijoy Chakraborty. They had come all the way from Salt Lake just to browse and buy books. Same was the case with poet Shubhojit Das, who bought a special edition of Gopal Bhanr and Badal Sircar’s ‘Natoker Bhasha’. The fair was inaugurated by MoS for science and technology Indranil Sen and state minister of consumer affairs, Sadhan Pande. Poet Subodh Sarkar, writers Himadri Kishore Dasgupta and Pracheta Gupta were present at the inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mini-book-fair-a-big-draw-on-first-day/articleshow/80517074.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata cop force Covid toll hits 23||KOLKATA: The city police lost one of its constables to coronavirus yet again on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in the force to 23. The death came on the same day when a senior deputy commissioner of police, leading a division in the added areas, had to be admitted to hospital after being detected with Covid. The deceased has been identified as Shankar Chakraboty (55). The constable was admitted to a private hospital on January 20 with chest pain and he suffered from a heart ailment, said Lalbazar. Kolkata Police took to Twitter to express its condolence: “We deeply mourn the untimely demise of Constable Sankar Chakraborty, who was posted in @KPSouthDiv, deputed to @KPNorthDiv and presently working at Bankshall Court. He was affected with #Covid19 and was at the forefront of our #FightAgainstCorona.” However, there finally seems to be some respite for Kolkata Police that has recorded around 4,900 Covid cases in the past nine months. The number of active cases dropped to just 11 on Thursday. Only three of them — including the DCP — are hospitalized. The rest are all recovering in home quarantine. The daily average of fresh cases now stands at two-three per day and the cops are hoping that the active cases will drop to a single digit by next week. There were 56 active cases in the force till the end of December. “Almost 37,500 cops from Kolkata Police are likely to be vaccinated soon. The recovery rate has been noteworthy,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-cop-force-covid-toll-hits-23/articleshow/80517104.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 29, 2021||Trichy||New Covid cases rise to 73 in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts altogether reported 73 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest in the last five days, but no death has been recorded in the region for the fourth day in a row. The central region recorded 51 new cases taking the overall tally of cases to 75,763. The region recorded one death with the overall toll in the eight districts adding up to 942. The number of active cases has come down further to 387 in the region According to the health department bulletin, in the southern region, Dindigul with 15 cases had the highest cases on the day followed by Kanyakumari (14), Madurai (13) and Tirunelveli (10). The six other districts recorded less than 10 cases each. There was a marginal increase in the number of active cases too from 548 on Wednesday to 555 on Thursday. Madurai (111) and Kanyakumari (107) have over 100 active cases each while the nine other districts have lesser. Among them, Dindigul (78) and Tirunelveli (58) have more than 50 each. Of the six districts with less than 50 active cases, Ramanathapuram (16), Virudhunagar (23) and Sivaganga (25) have 25 or lesser active cases. Other districts with less than 50 cases are Theni (42), Tuticorin (47) and Tenkasi (48). Trichy district topped Thursday’s new cases with 19 while Nagapattinam reported nine, Thanjavur six, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur five each and Karur and Perambalur two each. Ariyalur district reported three positive cases on Thursday. Trichy continues to have the highest number of active cases of 112 followed by Tiruvarur (77), Nagapattinam (71), Thanjavur (57), Karur (32), Pudukottai (22), Ariyalur (13) and Perambalur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-covid-cases-rise-to-73-in-south-tn/articleshow/80551434.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||New Covid cases rise to 73 in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts altogether reported 73 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest in the last five days, but no death has been recorded in the region for the fourth day in a row. The central region recorded 51 new cases taking the overall tally of cases to 75,763. The region recorded one death with the overall toll in the eight districts adding up to 942. The number of active cases has come down further to 387 in the region According to the health department bulletin, in the southern region, Dindigul with 15 cases had the highest cases on the day followed by Kanyakumari (14), Madurai (13) and Tirunelveli (10). The six other districts recorded less than 10 cases each. There was a marginal increase in the number of active cases too from 548 on Wednesday to 555 on Thursday. Madurai (111) and Kanyakumari (107) have over 100 active cases each while the nine other districts have lesser. Among them, Dindigul (78) and Tirunelveli (58) have more than 50 each. Of the six districts with less than 50 active cases, Ramanathapuram (16), Virudhunagar (23) and Sivaganga (25) have 25 or lesser active cases. Other districts with less than 50 cases are Theni (42), Tuticorin (47) and Tenkasi (48). Trichy district topped Thursday’s new cases with 19 while Nagapattinam reported nine, Thanjavur six, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur five each and Karur and Perambalur two each. Ariyalur district reported three positive cases on Thursday. Trichy continues to have the highest number of active cases of 112 followed by Tiruvarur (77), Nagapattinam (71), Thanjavur (57), Karur (32), Pudukottai (22), Ariyalur (13) and Perambalur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-covid-cases-rise-to-73-in-south-tn/articleshow/80521386.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Stop attacks on TN fishers in AP: TTV||MADURAI: Attacks on deep sea fishermen from Tamil Nadu by local fishermen of neighbouring states has become an issue of concern. On Thursday, AMMK founder T T V Dhinakaran tweeted that 180 TN fishermen were attacked and taken into custody by fishermen in Andhra Pradesh. He said the AP fishermen questioned TN fishermen for fishing off their coast. Dhinakaran pointed out that there is no restriction on Indian fishermen to fish off the coast of any state. The state government should intervene and put an end to the highhandedness of AP fishermen. He also recalled that such attacks have been happening time and again and they should be brought to an end through dialogues with the AP government. In a related incident, fishermen from Kanyakumari were attacked at Kochi fishing harbour on January 22. P Justin Antony of International Fishermen Development Trust said that on December 13 Tamil Nadu fishermen were also attacked off the Goa coast and their catch and belongings robbed. South Asian Fishermen Fraternity general secretary Churchil recalled an attack on 10 TN fishermen by nearly 400 men off the Malpe Coast in Karnataka on October 23. There also allegations of local enforcement and fisheries department authorities not extending support to the TN fishermen in distress. One such incident was in Karnataka of police extending support to the attackers and registering cases against the victims.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stop-attacks-on-tn-fishers-in-ap-ttv/articleshow/80521415.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||Maratha outfits demand Wadettiwar’s resignation||Aurangabad: Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) and other outfits on Thursday staged a protest, seeking the resignation of Maharashtra minister for relief and rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar over his recent comment on SEBC quota. During a state-level OBC meeting in Jalna, the minister had raised doubts over the Gaikwad commission report that formed the basis for SEBC quota, on which an interim stay has been granted by the Supreme Court. The outfits accused Wadettiwar of showing disrespect to the legal procedure followed by the state government while declaring reservation for the Maratha community and said he has no moral right to remain in the state cabinet. The statement by Wadettiwar was highly irresponsible, said community leader Rajendra Datey-Patil while addressing the protesters. “A distinct constitutional process was followed by granting reservation to the Maratha community. It is utterly wrong on the party of the minister to raise doubts over the laid down procedure, which included a nod to SEBC quota from both the Houses of the state legislature,” he said. The nine-member Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission, headed by Justice M G Gaikwad, had submitted its 1,035-page report to the government in November 2018 to recommend reservation for Marathas. Asserting that the report of the Gaikwad commission was scientific and accurate, Maratha Kranti Morcha questioned the motive of Wadettiwar behind questioning the reliability of the report. “The baseless and irrational comments made by the minister has not gone down well with the Maratha community and have evoked angry reaction amid the delay in implementation of SEBC quota due to legal issues. We will step up our protest against the minister if he does not resign and apologise,” Date-Patil said. Jalna on January 24 witnessed the first-of-its-kind state level meeting of OBCs along with VJ-NT and SBC categories, drawing public and political attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-outfits-demand-wadettiwars-resignation/articleshow/80515110.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Surat||Minor allowed to end rape pregnancy||Surat: The district and sessions court on Thursday allowed a 13-year-old rape survivor to undergo medical termination of her seven weeks’ foetus looking at the girl’s fragile physical and mental health. The parents’ plea for termination was decided within 24 hours.The girl’s parents, natives of Rajasthan and working as agricultural labourers in villages near Olpad of Surat, had approached the court seeking permission for termination. The girl was raped by by one Kanu Damor against whom the father had lodged a complaint with the Olpad Police Station in Surat.The petitioners, who were present in the court, prayed that the minor would not be in a position to maintain the child as her mental condition is not fit after the assault. “Being an unmarried woman and continuing with the pregnancy would also put a social stigma on her. The victim be permitted under the law to terminate her pregnancy,” petitioner’s advocate S V Modi argued.Investigating officer AB Mori submitted medical papers of the victim and stated that termination of pregnancy is advisable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/minor-allowed-to-end-rape-pregnancy/articleshow/80515112.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||Polio still a threat to children: AMC health officer Padalkar||Aurangabad: Stating that polio has not been completely eradicated across the globe, health authorities have appealed to parents and guardians to ensure that their children below the age of 5 years undergo the necessary immunization during the nationwide drive on January 31.Citing the World Health Organization (WHO) data, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health officer Neeta Padalkar on Thursday said neighbouring countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan have reported cases of polio even in 2020.“The threat of the spread of the disease still looms large due to tourism and globalization. The polio virus spreads from person to person and can infect a person’s spinal cord, causing paralysis. An effective immunization against the disease is available. It needs the administering of only two drops of vaccine to the children,” she said. Padalkar said lack of awareness and misconceptions were some of the hurdles in achieving 100% target for immunization programme against polio. “The mass immunization has many benefits associated with it, including development of heard immunity against the disease,” she said. Health authorities said the pulse polio drive will be carried out by following Covid prevention norms this year as the pandemic situation is still continuing .“The drive will cover market places, religious places, bus-stands and railway stations. The ground-level health staff will also arrange door-to-door visits in order to ensure maximum success of the drive,” Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/polio-still-a-threat-to-children-amc-health-officer-padalkar/articleshow/80515116.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Sasi thwarted Modi plan on CM: Karunas||Tuticorin: Showering encomiums on V K Sasikala, aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, MLA and founder of the Mukkulathor Pulipadai, S Karunas credited her as a leader who thwarted the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who wanted to make someone else as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, after the death of Jayalalithaa. “Sasikala broke it and went against the interests of the PM and made another man (Edappadi K Palaniswami) as CM,” he said and added that her release should not be taken lightly. Speaking to reporters in Kovilpatti on Thursday, Karunas said that while there is no denying the fact that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Jayalalithaa did great things in their capacities, Sasikala proved to the world that without any political power one can do such a great deed (thwarting the BJP’s attempts). Karunas also said that he is backing the AIADMK government as his party was given recognition by Jayalalithaa with the support of Sasikala. Those speaking against Sasikala now should have a conscience, he said, and asked them to recall how they had praised her earlier. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sasi-thwarted-modi-plan-on-cm-karunas/articleshow/80521471.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Solatium to kin of two AIADMK workers||Madurai: The AIADMK on Thursday announced solatium of Rs 3 lakh each to bereaved families of two party cadres who died after taking part in the inaugural function of the memorial built for former chief minister Jayalalithaa in Chennai on Wednesday. K Mookan of Dindigul district died of a cardiac arrest after the event while A Mariappan of Trichy district, got killed in an accident while returning home.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/solatium-to-kin-of-two-aiadmk-workers/articleshow/80521435.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Commuters call for speedy widening of roads near Vaigai||MADURAI: Commuters have urged the Madurai corporation to speed up the road widening works taken up on the sides of the Vaigai river to end their misery. Widening work is part of Vaigai River Front Development project is taken up at the cost of Rs 81.41 crore under the smart city scheme. Commuters say that it has been a year since the widening works were initiated, but the work is yet to be completed. S Rajesh, a commuter said “the roads are in unmotorable condition for several months now. People have completely stopped using the road recently. We now have limited options as we have to either take Kamarajar Salai or Panagal Road despite being busy roads,” he said. Nizam Ali, a resident of Ismailpuram said that the corporation should have given more importance to the road works and could have completed it first for a hassle-free movement. Residents have difficulty in reaching the river’s northern part now. With the Kuruvikkaran Salai bridge being reconstructed, a temporary causeway in the river was being used by people. Due to the water flow in the river, it could not be used now. They could not use the causeway at the Obula Padithurai either due to badly damaged Vaigai North Bank Road. With the road to reach Puthupalam also cut off due to ongoing work, they have to take a circuitous route to reach the northern part of the city, Nizam Ali added. An official from Madurai corporation said that construction of the two check dams, which is a major part of the project, was completed long back. The construction of retaining wall on both sides of the river has been also completed except for 150 metres. The project will be completed in two months’ time, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/commuters-call-for-speedy-widening-of-roads-near-vaigai/articleshow/80521498.cms||V Devanathan
January 29, 2021||India||Farmers' protests: On back foot, farm unions may seek political support||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: Farmers unions agitating for repeal of the central agri laws may continue to publicly resist the presence of politicians at their platform but they are now looking for their support to take the protest forward. The development comes at a time when the chances of resuming talks with the Centre appear quite bleak and they need to keep up the spirits of their supporters. News of Delhi police’s investigation against farm leaders since the Red Fort violence on R-Day has sent the agitation’s leadership searching for a new plan. Discouraging news from the Chilla and Ghazipur borders on Wednesday night, of cane charge and disconnection of power supply, has increased the anxiety at Singhu and Tikri camps. Confronting the taint of being called "anti-nationals", the frontline unionists face the challenge of lifting the protesters’ morale to keep the stir going. The circumstances had changed and the new plan must be more calculated, with marches ruled out, farm leaders said. The talks option, however, would be difficult unless unions consider forgoing the repeal demand. Though unions, barring those linked to Left parties, are weighing their words at this juncture, there are some who want to explore the option of consultations at the political level while broaching the idea of a demand of joint parliamentary committee to probe the Red Fort incident during the tractor rally. "The movement can no longer be apolitical. After all, the demands are political in character where members in Parliament will have to step in either to repeal the farm laws or to enact a law to give legal guarantee to purchase at minimum support price (MSP). Farmers’ unions will have to take political support to reach their goals," P Krishna Prasad, secretary of the Left-aligned All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), said. The AIKS is represented in talks with the government by its leader and former CPM Lok Sabha member Hannan Mollah, who is also working group member of the AIKSCC, a platform which plays a key decision-making role in the farm unions’ umbrella body Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). The entire process of talks, however, has taken a peculiar turn where most leaders who have been part of the negotiations will now have to join the police probe on the violence issue as they have been named in the FIRs. "Talks option is always open if the unions reconsider the government’s proposal to take forward the discussion through a joint committee after putting implementation of the laws on hold for 18 months. Police probes can happen simultaneously. The law will take its own course," an official said. The farm leaders, however, want to tread carefully, given their options might be limited. They can engage in talks with the government independently but it remains to be seen if those who had, in internal discussions, expressed the desire to consider the government’s proposal of deferring implementation of the laws find the space to push their suggestions. Sensing the undercurrent of differences in opinion which may harm their unity, the national working group of the AIKSCC, which represents around 500 farmer organisations from across the country, on Thursday issued a statement, appealing to all the farmer leaders of the country "to unite and not give-in to the desperate diversionary and divisive attempts." Seeking to keep its flock together, it said, "The AIKSCC represents the interest and concerns of its constituents and thus firmly stands with the demands of the farmer organisations agitating in unison for repeal of three anti-farmer acts, legal guarantee of MSP and withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020. These are non- negotiable." The 19-member working group of the AIKSCC includes Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav, Kavitha Kuruganti, Hannan Mollah, Avik Saha, Kiran Vissa, Medha Patkar and Raju Shetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-back-foot-farm-unions-may-seek-political-support/articleshow/80537192.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 29, 2021||Aurangabad||Woman booked for torching vehicles||Aurangabad: Unidentified people torched vehicles parked in front of the house of one Ravindra Kulkarni in Ranjangaon Shenpunji area, falling within the limits of MIDC Waluj police station, sometime between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. A car and three two-wheelers were damaged. Police said they have registered a case against a woman residing in the neighbourhood. As per the complaint, Kulkarni and other residents in the locality woke up around 4am on Wednesday for the water supply when they saw the vehicles burning in front of his house. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-booked-for-torching-vehicles/articleshow/80515123.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Rajkot||Four labourers die in road accident||RAJKOT: Four labourers from Rajasthan died and one other was injured after they were hit by an unidentified vehicle near Maliya railway crossing on the outskirts Morbi town early Thursday morning. According to police, the incident occurred at around 4 am when Dinesh Koli, who worked at a hotel on the Maliya highway was crossing the road after receiving four persons who had arrived from Rajasthan. An unidentified vehicle hit the motorcycle killing four persons on the spot, while Koli, who was injured in the incident was rushed to the civil hospital in Morbi town. The deceased were identified as Shivaji Gameti (19), Suresh Gameti (17), Mannalal (19) and Tejaram Gameti (17). The deceased are all residents of Mokhi village in Gogunda taluka of Udaipur district in Rajasthan. Shivaji, Suresh, Mannalal and Tejaram had come from their native village to Morbi town to work at Yamuna hotel where Koli was working. “The four deceased had come from Rajasthan in a bus and had just got down near the railway crossing at around 3.50 am. Dinesh had come on his bike to take all four to Yamuna Hotel. This is when an unidentified vehicle hit them,” said a police official. “We are trying to ascertain whether they were hit when they were walking on the road or they were on the bike when the vehicle hit the bike,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-labourers-die-in-road-accident/articleshow/80515136.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||‘Will insist Tamil Nadu CM to announce Thirumalai Nayak anniversary as govt holiday’||MADURAI: Efforts are on to celebrate the birth anniversary of King Thirumalai Nayak, one of the key architects of Madurai city, as a government holiday, state information minister Kadambur C Raju said on Thursday. Kadambur Raju and state minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju paid tributes to the king’s statue on his 438th birth anniversary on Thursday. Addressing reporters, Kadambur Raju said that former chief minister J Jayalalithaa had announced the birth anniversary to be celebrated as a state function, and is being celebrated since 2016. He added that he will insist chief minister Edappadi K Palanisami to announce it as a government holiday. Kadambur Raju said that the present statue was installed by former chief minister MGR and there was a demand to install a bronze statue which has been taken up with the chief minister. “He has ordered the installation of a life-size bronze statue,” the minister said. It was during Thirumalai Nayak’s reign in the 17th century that various construction activities to define the city took place. Earlier in the day, a large number of people,especially from the Naidu community turned up at the mahal to pay tributes to the king. Youths came on processions with musical bands, while women took milk pot processions and carried out abhishekam to the statue. Former chief secretary of Tamil Nadu and founder and president of RMR Pasarai, P Rama Mohana Rao also paid respect. Members of the Telugu Jana Seva staged a protest in front of the mahal urging the central government to name the Madurai airport after King Thirumalai Nayak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/will-insist-cm-to-announce-thirumalai-nayak-anniv-as-govt-holiday/articleshow/80521557.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Hundreds throng Teppakulam in Madurai for float festival||MADURAI: Hundreds of people thronged the Vandiyur Mariamman Teppakulam to watch the float festival in Madurai on Thursday. The deities of Meenakshi and Sundareswarar were kept in the pedestal of the float and it was taken around the waterbody. It is the culmination of a 12-day festival and is celebrated on Thai Poosam, the birth star of the King Thirumalai Nayak. The tank was filled to its brim as water was brought to the tank through Panaiyur Channel from the River Vaigai after five decades. Around 1,000 police personnel were deployed by the city police for the crowd management and traffic regulation. Fire and rescue teams were stationed along with boats to rescue people in case of untoward incidents. While a large number of people in and around Madurai took part in the festival, many did not wear a mask and ignored social distancing. Both the Muktheeswar and Mariamman temples located respectively in the western and northern side of the tank witnessed good crowds. The float was taken around the tank two times, first in the forenoon and in the evening. G Kallanai, a devotee, said that the float being taken around the brimming tank is a sight to behold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hundreds-throng-teppakulam-in-madurai-for-float-festival/articleshow/80521528.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: NIA opposes bail for P Varavara Rao as charges are ‘serious’||MUMBAI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday opposed Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao’s bail on medical grounds given the seriousness of allegations against him, but said the high court may impose conditions on the state to ensure adequate medical care and facilities to him in Taloja prison. The additional solicitor-general (ASG) said, “...instead of imposing conditions on him, impose conditions on the state. On how he must be kept in the prison ward, we will be bound by the conditions.” A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale said, “We must consider law and humanity and then strike a balance.’’ HC is hearing Rao’s plea for bail on medical grounds and his wife’s petition for his liberty on grounds of violation of his fundamental rights, including right to life. Rao (81) said the care recommended was “not available at Taloja prison”. He said family doctors were available if he was sent home to Hyderabad. The matter has been adjourned to next week. Nanavati Super Specialty private hospital, where Rao is admitted since November 2020, in its report on Thursday said his “vitals are stable’’ and “fit for discharge’’. HC had on Wednesday sought a fresh report on Rao, who complained of chest pain earlier this month. The report said, “At present no active intervention is required for the patient. As of January 27, 2021, the patient has no fresh complaints… medical treatment is continued as is’’ and listed 12 medicines he is on. The ASG said, “He certainly must not be granted bail’’ and asked HC to consider the seriousness of the charges against him, stating, “The allegations are so serious.’’ Justice Shinde said, “That is why there is a distinction between regular and medical bail.’’ Singh, persisted. “But this is a matter of national security.’’ That is why, the judges said, they had asked him to spell out what the “apprehension’’ was. Rao, alleged to have Maoist links, faces stringent charges under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The judges asked Singh that since Rao is an octogenarian, can the court not take it a step further and ask “what the quality of life’’ of such a person can be. The court observed, “when it comes to fundamental rights of prisoners, it is not an adversarial litigation... it is for the state and investigating agency if something happens…it is a matter of concern.’’ Singh said, “The health of a person will not remain the same every time’’ and gave the example of the much younger Sourav Ganguly’s recent brush with a health scare. He also said the court cannot consider a “hypothetical’’ future situation to grant bail. He cited a Bombay HC judgement by a bench led by Chief Justice which in a PIL by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) had directed that the state scrupulously follow guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research. That judgement during Covid-19 lockdown had also noted that inmates have a right to life with human dignity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nia-opposes-bail-for-varavara-as-charges-are-serious/articleshow/80518261.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||Nabard proposes Rs 5.9L cr annual credit plan for Maha||Mumbai: National Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has proposed an annual credit plan of Rs 5.9 lakh crore for Maharashtra in 2021-22, which is 8% higher than last year. It includes a credit projection of nearly Rs1.3 lakh crore for agriculture sector, nearly Rs 3.5 lakh crore for MSME sector and Rs 1.1 lakh crore for other sectors like education and housing. NABARD presented its annual credit plan focus paper on Thursday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who presided over the event, urged it to make maximum credit available for backward regions. He suggested a three-monthly review of the credit plan. He said although the state government had provided a loan waiver scheme, a large section of nationalized and private banks had not met their targets for crop loan disbursal. He urged banks to meet targets and provide crop loans in time to farmers. Cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil said farmers who had benefited from MVA government’s loan waiver scheme were finding it difficult to get fresh loans, and banks should pay attention to this. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nabard-proposes-rs-5-9l-cr-annual-credit-plan-for-maha/articleshow/80518268.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Nashik||Nashik panel okays 39 cases under SC/ST Act||Nashik: The district-level vigilance and monitoring committee, meant to monitor the implementation of the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, approved 39 cases on Thursday, in which relief will be extended to the people who have allegedly faced injustice as prescribed under the Act. The panel was chaired by district collector Suraj Mandhare. Members of the panel discussed the cases registered under the Act with the local police stations and processed the demand for the grant from the state that is given to the victims.“There were 39 cases that were approved by the panel. These are cases registered by members of SC/ST communities and against whom the casteist remarks were made. The government provides them mental and economic support by filing cases and defending the rights of victims,” said Sundarsing Vasave, an officer with the social justice department. The panel has okayed the process of making a demand of Rs 68 lakh from the state government for victims. The panel has asked lawyers to expedite the case hearings so that the compensation is given at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-panel-okays-39-cases-under-sc/st-act/articleshow/80515152.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Abandoned 16th C hero stones found in Virudhunagar district||VIRUDHUNAGAR: Two hero stones dating back to the 16th century have been found at Moolipatti near Chenkundrapuram in Virudhunagar district. The stones were inspected and studied by a team of archaeologists and enthusiasts from Pandiya Nadu Cultural Foundation led by archaeologist D Muneeswaran earlier this week. The stones at a slightly elevated piece of land were covered by thorny bushes in the four acre land belonging to Ravi, 35. Ravi noticed the stones when he cleared the place two months ago. “One of the hero stones with the soldier atop a horse is three feet tall and 1.5 feet wide. The other stone is that of a soldier holding a sharp weapon and measures two feet in height and one foot wide,” Muneeswaran said. Moolipatti was under chieftain rule and those depicted in the hero stones could have been brave soldiers from their cavalry and army who died defending their chieftain or area. Not much could be inferred from the stones as there was no supportive inscriptions that could help interpret more details on it, he added. However, he said that the man on the horse may not be a chieftain as hero stones depicting rulers are much different from those of soldiers and other war heroes in many ways. “Very few hero stones are worshipped as deities to this day. Worship of most hero stones stopped when the British came to power. These two hero stones look like they were worshipped by the villages once. The government should preserve the hero stones at the government museum in Virudhunagar,” Muneeswaran said. The team comprising Devadass Pandi, Nagapandi, Palanimurugan and Mani also said that the stones could stand testimony to the rich culture and heritage of Moolipatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/abandoned-16th-c-hero-stones-found-in-virudhunagar-district/articleshow/80521625.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Chennai||An anchor for stranded sailors||CHENNAI: The first SOS of the day to Manoj Joy comes from a group of four sailors from West Bengal stuck on a ship docked at the Mumbai Port. As of January, they have been living on the ‘dead’ ship for two years after the owners filed for bankruptcy. They still haven’t been given the requisite legal documents to leave the ship. There’s no electricity on board; a couple of weeks ago one of them got bitten by a rat, another showed Covid-like symptoms. "We have not received our wages for a few months now," Sahabaz Khan, one of the crew members, updates Joy. "We haven’t got food and water either." Read the entire story on TOI+This 202-year-old sailors' society helps distressed seafarers, families||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/an-anchor-for-stranded-sailors/articleshow/80521632.cms||Kamini Mathai
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Madurai-Villupuram train from February 1||MADURAI: The railway board has approved a daily express special train connecting Madurai and Villupuram from February 1. Train No. 06867 Villupuram - Madurai daily express special will leave at 4.25pm and reach Madurai at 11.45pm. In the return direction, train No. 06868 Madurai - Villupuram daily special will start at 3.35am and reach Villupuram at 11.25am. Services of the train will begin on February 1 and 2 respectively. The trains will have stoppages at Kandambakkam, Tiruvennainallur Road, Parikkal, Ulundurpet, Poovunur, Vridhachalam Junction, Vridhachalam Town, Pennadam, Mathur, Sendurai, Kallakkudi Palanganatham, Pullambadi, Lalgudi, Valadi, Srirangam, Tiruchirappalli Town, Ponmalai, Tiruchirappalli, Kolathur, Manaparai, Valyampatti, Dindigul, Ambaturai, Kodaikanal Road and Sholavandan. The trains with 12 coaches will run as fully reserved specials and will continue till further advice. Due to remodelling work under way at Chengalpattu station yard, railways has announced changes in the services of the following trains connecting Chennai and the southern districts on January 31 (Sunday). Train No. 02635/02636 Chennai Egmore - Madurai - Chennai Egmore Vaigai special trains will run only till Villupuram on that day. According to a statement from the Madurai railway division, train No. 02605 Chennai - Karaikudi Pallavan special, train No. 06101 Chennai - Kollam special and train No. 02633 Chennai - Kanyakumari special will have late start from Chennai Egmore by 90, 120, 70 and 60 minutes, respectively, on that day. Meanwhile, as per the extant instructions, parcel loading is permitted by express trains at stations that have five minutes stoppage to facilitate loading without losing punctuality. For the convenience of small scale traders such stoppages are provided at the below mentioned railway stations for the said trains. At Virudhunagar for train No. 02662 Sengottai - Chennai Egmore Podhigai special and train No. 06235 Tuticorin - Mysuru special. At Rajapalayam for train No. 06182 Sengottai - Chennai Silambu special train. At Sattur for train No. 02694 Tuticorin - Chennai Pearl City special. At Kovilpatti for train No. 06724 Kollam - Chennai Anantapuri special and at Oddanchatram for train No. 02652 Palghat - Chennai Central special.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-villupuram-train-from-feb-1/articleshow/80521585.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police: Six farmer leaders to be questioned today||NEW DELHI: Going after the leaders of the farmer unions for the violence in the city on Republic Day, Delhi Police has got lookout circulars (LOCs) issued against 44 people to prevent them from leaving the country. The immigration authorities have been requested to "detain and hand over to police" the people on the list, including Darshan Pal Singh, Satnam Singh Pannu, Boota Singh Burjgil, Joginder Singh Ugraha, Rakesh Tikait, Rishipal Ambawata, Balbir Singh Rajewal and VM Singh. Lookout circulars have also been issued against Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav and Narmada Bachao Abhiyan activist Medha Patkar apart from gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana and actor Deep Sidhu. All these people have been named in the FIRs filed by Delhi Police and their passports are being collected. The LOC request filed by DCP (crime branch) Joy Tirkey states that these people are required in connection with the probe into the FIR filed on the rioting at Red Fort and other places on Republic Day and that they may try and leave the country to avoid joining the investigation. Police have also started serving notices on the farmer leaders to join the probe and are pasting them on their tents if they refuse to accept. As many as 37 people have been served notices to join the probe investigation. Six farmer leaders have been summoned for questioning on Friday, said sources. They are Boota Singh Burjgil, Rakesh Tikait, Darshan Pal Singh, Satnam Singh Pannu, Shamsher Pandher and Pannu Pandher. As first reported by TOI, nine of the 33 cases lodged till Thursday for rioting, robbery and unlawful assembly have been transferred to the crime branch and an SIT formed to probe them. Delhi Police also confirmed TOI's report that the mayhem at Red Fort and the flag- related incident will be probed under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sections of IPC dealing with sedition. On Thursday evening, the FIR registered on January 14 by the northern range of special cell in the aftermath of the threats given by Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) was transferred to the New Delhi Range by special commissioner Neeraj Thakur. SFJ had announced a reward for hoisting the Khalistani flag atop India Gate and other monuments. Delhi's encounter specialist, ACP Lalit Mohan Negi, has been made the new investigating officer, said Thakur. In a statement released on Thursday, Delhi Police said “a preliminary assessment of the events on Republic Day suggests there was a preconceived and well-coordinated plan to break the agreement reached between Delhi Police and the leaders of the farmers' organisations in order to indulge in a violent confrontation with the security forces, to breach the sanctity of iconic and historic structures and monuments and to create an international embarrassment for the government on the occasion of Republic Day." It said the Special Cell was probing the conspiracy and criminal designs behind these events. "The role and conduct of organisations and individuals based in India and those out of the country are being probed," it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/six-farmer-leaders-to-be-questioned-today/articleshow/80526073.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 29, 2021||Pune||PMC focus on staff strength before merger of 23 villagers||Pune: The civic administration has initiated a detailed study on the additional manpower it will require to manage the increased areas and population after the merger of 23 villages in its limits. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration has told all its departments and ward offices to submit a report on the manpower requirement, based on which it will decide its further course of action and approach the state government for consultation on recruitment of staffers. The state government had last month issued a notification related to the merger of the 23 villages. The PMC’s general administration department, which is overseeing the manpower related study, has stated that data collection will be over in a month. “Some departments have come forward with the basic details. We are expecting other departments to furnish data at the earliest. This is the basic preliminary stage of the study. We will come to know more about the actual requirement of manpower only after detailed study,” said Sunil Indalkar, deputy commissioner at general administration department of PMC. The population in the PMC limits is expected to go up by at least 5 lakh and the area is likely to be increased by 120 sq km following the merger of 23 villages. A PMC official said some departments in the civic body were short of staff and the merger would put additional burden on the administration. “Besides the new recruitments, the state government and the PMC will have to take a call on the employees currently working at the gram panchayat offices in villages that are being merged,” the official said. An employee attached to the solid waste management department said, “In 2017, 11 villages were merged in the city limits. Now more villages are being added. The process of hiring new staffers should not be delayed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-focus-on-staff-strength-before-merger-of-23-villagers/articleshow/80517902.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||BMC issues new circular on transfers||MUMBAI: BMC on Wednesday issued a circular directing department heads to transfer officials and engineers who had completed more than three years in their departments and those who have been holding plum posts for several years. The circular stated that the transfer and posting policy was not being followed and some officials were being shuffled within prime departments for years. The circular came weeks after Congress’s Aslam Shaikh, Mumbai city’s guardian minister alleged that officials holding plum posts for several years operate in BMC. In a letter to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, Shaikh, an MLA from Malad, said the officers should be transferred and their departments reshuffled. The circular stated that often officials refuse to take up new postings and exerted political pressure to get their transfers stayed. “Officials transferred must be relieved from posts within five days, and as far as possible, on the same day. If they are not relieved, their salary and allowances will not be drawn from the old department. If the official is not relieved in five days, he must join the new department on his own. Senior officials in such cases will face disciplinary action for not relieving employees despite transfer orders,” the circular stated. It also stated that many officials were exerting political pressure to bag plum postings and getting transfers cancelled if they were moved out of prime departments. “If there is any attempt to get a transfer stayed or cancelled by using political pressure or pressure from senior officials either in writing or orally, such officials will also face disciplinary action. All transfers must be done between October 12-15 unless there is an emergency,” the circular said. Shaikh said the circular must be implemented in letter and spirit. “It’s a good move to issue the circular but there must be visible action. Dozens of engineers and officers in the building proposal department have not been transferred for decades. They must be shunted out immediately. I have requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to implement the policy in SRA and Mhada. There is a transfer and posting nexus in these departments too, like BMC,” Shaikh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-issues-new-circular-on-transfers/articleshow/80518275.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 29, 2021||Madurai||Madurai: MUTA seeks pay hike for teaching assistants||MADURAI: Demanding the implementation of pay hike of Rs 25,000 for teaching assistants working at the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) College, the Madurai Kamaraj, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Mother Teresa and Alagappa University Teachers’ Association (MUTA) has been staging a demonstration since January 21. “Some of the teaching assistants working at MKU College have done more than 15-20 years of service. They are working on consolidated pay of just Rs 15,000 till now. In November 2019, a resolution was passed in the MKU syndicate to hike their salary. However, citing delay due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it is yet to be implemented,” said A C Senthamarai Kannan, treasurer, MUTA. Though MKU authorities had told the office-bearers of MUTA Unit, MKU College that the teaching assistants’ salary will be hiked in January 2021, sufficient steps were not been taken so far even as the month is almost ending. The MUTA unit had suspended the demonstration on Thursday since it was a government holiday and are set to continue the protest on Friday. If their demands are not met, they will be considering further plan of action. The MUTA unit is demanding for a minimum salary of at least Rs 25,000 for teaching assistants. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/muta-seeks-pay-hike-for-teaching-assistants/articleshow/80521687.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Madurai||More ‘session sites’ to open in Madurai as vaccine numbers rise||MADURAI: After almost two weeks since the Covid-19 vaccination drive was inaugurated in the state, as many as 4,242 healthcare providers have been vaccinated as on Thursday in Madurai district and the numbers are set to go up further with more session sites opening starting this week.  Local health officials said that the district’s numbers have been improving over time. In Madurai district, currently, there are five session sites including two private hospitals. On Thursday alone, a total of 502 people were vaccinated. “The district is among the top-performing districts in the state in vaccination drive. All Block Primary Health Centres (BPHCs) are to be made session sites and in Madurai city limits as well, one session site is to be added for each of the corporation zones,” said Dr K V Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services. The official also added that additional sessions may be added to the already-functional session sites, Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and the two other government hospitals in the district, allowing for more beneficiaries to get vaccinated. Out of the total beneficiaries to be vaccinated in the district, a major share (67%) of beneficiaries got vaccinated at GRH. At the start of Covid-19 vaccination drive, officials had reported very low turnout at the other government hospitals and BPHCs. An average of around 300 beneficiaries per day was reported to be vaccinated, while the maximum number reported in a day has gone up to more than 500. On Thursday, Apollo Hospitals, a private hospital had been newly-added to the list of session sites in the district. Efforts are also actively on to create awareness and encourage healthcare workers to get vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-session-sites-to-open-in-madurai-as-vax-numbers-rise/articleshow/80521653.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Chain thief traced through phone number||RAJKOT: City police successfully traced and arrested a chain thief through his mobile number, which was incidentally switched off.According to the police, owner of Shree Nathji jewellers near Mavdi chowkdi, Paresh Fichadiya, registered a complaint of chain theft with Rajkot taluka police station on Wednesday. In his complaint, Fichadiya stated that the accused had placed order for a gold chain weighing 19 gram worth around Rs 1 lakh. He came to the shop on Wednesday evening to collect the chain and said he would want to see the design first. Fichadiya gave him the box containing the gold chain and while he was attending to other customers, the accused managed to slip the chain from the box. He returned Fischadiya the empty box and said that he will return with the money. After sometime when Fichadiya opened the box, he saw it was empty. However, he had no other information about the accused except his mobile number and approached cops with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chain-thief-traced-through-phone-number/articleshow/80515162.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Confidence in jabs picking up across country: Experts||PUNE: Both the state and the country might have had a slow start to Covid-19 vaccination, but some key developments — such as opening of more centres and positive word-of-mouth — boosted its pace and the overall confidence, experts said. They noted that the second week of vaccinations, after the launch on January 16, saw a substantial uptick in the number of beneficiaries. According to data released by the Union health ministry, a total of 23,28,779 beneficiaries had been vaccinated for Covid (till January 27) through 41,599 sessions. In the state too, vaccinations were up with Thursday registering 73% turnout. It had recorded just over 65% on January 16. Public health experts stated that the pace of vaccinations would continue climbing. “Confidence levels have improved nationwide as most sites are reporting more than 100% attendance. This confidence will carry on into phase 2 of the programme as well,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and a member of the national Covid-19 task force. Others said the government immediately needed to publicize positive word-of-mouth and create more awareness to ease vaccine hesitancy, especially among lower-rung healthcare workers who have been involved in Covid treatment. “Vaccine hesitancy, or lack of vaccine confidence, have multiple drivers. Clear, complete communication is one way to build trust,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, the vice-chair of the board of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). There’s also focus now on individual accounts of beneficiaries. State health minister Rajesh Tope has directed local officials to make and circulate small video clips of vaccine recipients to encourage others. A medical worker who took the jab at Baramati last week said he sent videos to friends at other hospitals stating he was fine. “I was doing these videos on my own. But we have now been asked to do so officially,” he said. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhara Babu said more than hesitancy, healthcare workers had, early on, adopted a wait-and-watch approach. “This was partly because of confusion and a lack of clarity at the start. Coverage will improve,” he said. Dr Babu added that niggles in CoWIN were also responsible for the slow start. “To boost coverage, we need efficient technology, along with good communication.” State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunke, earlier this week, said the Centre should have rolled out “vaccine confidence” initiatives before January 16. “That should have been done first before the actual vaccination rollout,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/confidence-in-jabs-picking-up-across-country-experts/articleshow/80521669.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 29, 2021||Surat||Two accountants of A’bad firm held in GLDC farm pond scam||Surat: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested two accountants of Pipara & Co, an auditing firm in Ahmedabad, in connection with the farm ponds, on Thursday. The police arrested Mitesh Trivedi and Bhaumik Gandhi for alleged negligence in physical verification of farm ponds that were financed by Gujarat Land Development Corporation (GLDC). The accused had approved the work completion claims of GLDC officials following which the payments were released. The accused were appointed to physically verify completion of farm ponds in Baroliya and Kachhigam villages of Valsad. Police are also investigation who else from the chartered accountant firm was involved in the racket. In past couple of years, ACB had registered multiple offences in GLDC farm pond scam across the state. Several such cases have been registered in different districts of south Gujarat too. GLDC used to finance farmers to develop farm ponds to deal with water scarcity for irrigation. The GLDC officials involved in the racket used to release payments without physical verification. Some ponds were never built, the investigation had revealed. The accused officials and contractors shared the earnings, informed ACB officials. “Pipara & Co was appointed to audit accounts of GLDC and their officials were supposed to physically verify at least 10% sites of farm ponds. Only after physical verification, they were to approve the work. But in this case, they approved it even when no work on the farm pond was done,” said N P Gohil, assistant director, ACB, Surat. ACB is yet to find out which CA had audited the accounts of GLDC in Valsad. After the report of the accused accountants, the work was considered completed and the accounts were certified by CA of the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-accountants-of-abad-firm-held-in-gldc-farm-pond-scam/articleshow/80515216.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Meerut||Daughter of ‘garbage seller’ honoured for Wushu feat||Meerut: In a moment of pride for Meerut, the daughter of a ‘garbage seller’ has been honoured with the state's coveted Rani Laxmibai Award by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Sakshi Johri, 21, who was born to a garbage seller, has several medals to her name in Wushu. She began her Wushu journey at the age of 10.The thought of learning self-defence first came to her after her father got injured when a neighbour attacked him once. And she pledged to learn the art ever since.“When I was young, I remember that my father got injured after a neighbour attacked him. It was then that I decided to learn the art of self-defence and give a fitting response to those who take advantage of their power," Sakshi said."I started learning Wushu at the age of 10. And there has been no looking back.”Sakshi was honoured with UP’s coveted Rani Laxmibai Award and also given a cash of Rs 3.11 lakh by the CM. Her parents, Naresh Johri and Geeta Johri, are proud today.Sharing the details of how she started her Wushu journey, Sakshi said, “I started learning Wushu at school and ever since there has hardly been any competition or championship from where I returned without a medal.”While Sakshi has 13 national medals till date, she also has two international medals to add to her feat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/daughter-of-garbage-seller-honoured-for-wushu-feat/articleshow/80514217.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 29, 2021||Mumbai||‘Mumbai belongs to Maharashtra, Karnataka claims baseless’||MUMBAI: Maha Vikas Aghadi government partners criticised Karnataka deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi for stating that Mumbai should be made a part of his state. Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar said Savadi’s remarks should not be given importance and must be ignored. Pawar said his statement was baseless and Mumbai had no connection with Karnataka. “The deputy CM of Karnataka has made this comment to please people of Karnataka, and it is best to ignore such baseless comments,” Pawar said. He said Mumbai belonged to Maharashtra and will continue to do so. Shiv Sena spokesperson and MP Sanjay Raut said, “Some mad people keep blabbering like this.” He said Savadi should first understand the history and issue between the two states.” Kannadigas have not been forced [to change language] in Maharashtra. We run Kannada schools in Maharashtra, and we give them subsidies. But the situation is not the same in Karnataka,” said Raut. He said the fight was to conserve Marathi and our culture there. “Even Kannadigas staying in Mumbai would agree that Belgaum should be in Maharashtra,” said Raut. Congress leader Sachin Sawant said Savadi’s demand was part of BJP-led central government’s plot to weaken Mumbai and Maharashtra, and was part of a sinister design. “They have made attempts to shift the international financial centre and business to Gujarat. UP CM Yogi Adityanath tried to take Bollywood to his state. Centre is using central agencies like ED and CBI to harass businessmen and Bollywood. It is part of a design to weaken Mumbai,” he said. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray had on Wednesday said areas dominated by Marathi-speaking people on the state’s border with Karnataka should be declared as a Union Territory till SC gives its final verdict. Savadi replied that until Mumbai was made part of Karnataka the Centre should declare it a Union Territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-belongs-to-maha-karnataka-claims-baseless/articleshow/80518309.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Easy-to-use nasal vaccines against Covid may become ‘game changers’||PUNE: Leading public health experts believe intranasal vaccines against the coronavirus can be potential game changers in the fight against the pandemic. But they added that such vaccines would need to generate good immune response data. Earlier this year, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul had said one nasal vaccine candidate has come in for phase 1 and phase 2 trial approvals. He described it as an “exciting development”. “If it works, the shot will definitely be a game changer,” Dr Paul said. Dr Lalit Kant, a former head of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s epidemiology department, said while intramuscular vaccines mainly produce systemic immunity, intranasal vaccines produce local mucosal immunity as well. He said, “Intranasal vaccines mimic the natural infection. And it is mucosal immunity that provides protection at the site of coronavirus entry. Putting a vaccine directly into the nose offers immunity that occurs primarily in the cells that line the nose and throat. It can block person-to-person transmission — a critical requirement for pandemic control.” Dr Kant added that even small amounts of such a vaccine could trigger an effective protective response. “An intranasal vaccine provides better cross-protection from other variants of the virus, and longer immunity. It can even be self-administered. Also, easier mass production means mass vaccinations on a larger scale.” He said Serum Institute is working with US-based biotech firm Codagenix to produce an intranasal vaccine, and has started phase 1 human studies. In September, Bharat Biotech signed a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine for a single-dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19. In releases, the company said its vaccine — codenamed BBV154 — would need only two drops each in each nostril to work. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) that advises the Indian drug regulator recently asked the Hyderabad-based firm to conduct phase I trials of the vaccine on 75 volunteers to ascertain its safety and immunogenicity before seeking approval for phase II trials. Worldwide too, governments are warming up to the idea of a nasal shot against Covid. In December, Codagenix received approval from the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to conduct a phase I study of its vaccine. The study is set to start next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/easy-to-use-nasal-vaccines-against-covid-may-become-game-changers/articleshow/80521757.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 29, 2021||Chennai||More MCQs in Class X, XII exams: Tamil Nadu schools||CHENNAI: Teachers are batting for more weightage for multiple-choice based questions and asked for more choices in Class X and Class XII board exams. The school education department is in consultation with schools to simplify the question papers for Class X and XII state board students. Schools said a majority of students have forgotten what they learned during online classes and may need at least one revision on the 60% of prioritized content on which they would be quizzed for the exams. Citing lack of writing practice for students, teachers wanted to cut the duration of the exam with fewer descriptive-type questions. R S Shanthi, a postgraduate teacher from a city school, said the state board can give more weightage to objective-type questions. “As per the existing pattern, fifteen multiple choice based questions will be asked in Class XII physics and chemistry exams. With limited writing practice, the state board can increase such questions to 25 and reduce descriptive-type questions in the five marks section (Part-IV),” she said. “Question papers should have limited creative or analytical based questions. Students will be comfortable in answering only knowledge-based or direct questions,” another teacher said. Some headmasters wanted question papers with just one-mark and two-marks questions. “Even Anna University opted for objective-type questions for semester exams and reduced exam duration for online tests. School education department also can think of board exam question papers with just one-mark and two-marks questions. It would psychologically help the students to prepare for board exams,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. Teachers asked the directorate of government exams to release the revised model question papers well ahead so students can be better prepared. “While simplifying the question paper, basic learning should not be compromised. They can increase the number of questions to give more choices for students in all sections,” said B Purushothaman, senior principal of Everwin Group of Schools. A Peter Raja, president of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Headmasters’ Association said students cannot write an exam for three hours while wearing masks. “They have to reduce the duration of the exam. Students will find it difficult to answer long questions. So they have to remove three-marks and five-marks questions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-mcqs-in-class-x-xii-exams-schools/articleshow/80517529.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Civic body to reconsider recruitment of doctors with hefty salaries||Pune: The civic body has decided to review the appointment of doctors at civic hospitals during peak pandemic with hefty salaries and float fresh tenders to hire physicians with reduced remuneration.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had to pay nearly double the salary to recruit doctors when the pandemic was at its peak, as many medical practitioners did not respond to repeated appeals to join the municipal services in the salary range of Rs1lakh to Rs1.5lakh. The health department had to pay as high as Rs2.15 lakh per month to the doctors for providing medical care for Covid-19 affected patients. Now, with reduction in coronavirus spread, the civic officials are reviewing the payment for doctors. Fresh tenders will be issued for recruitment of physicians with scaled-down salaries, officials said. — Prasad Kulkarni||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-reconsider-recruitment-of-doctors-with-hefty-salaries/articleshow/80521838.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Pune||Infection tally at six-day high, exceeds recoveries||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday recorded six-day high 557 new cases of Covid-19 as compared to 322 recoveries. The Pimpri Chinchwad area’s caseload increased above 1 lakh on Thursday, making it the second after Pune municipal limits to exceed the one lakh-mark in the PMR. With this, the total infections and discharges in PMR increased above 3.77 lakh and 3.63 lakh, respectively. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 224 cases were added in the Pune municipal limits in the last 24 hours, followed by the rural areas (223) and the PCMC limits (110). As many as 6,401 tests were conducted in the region on Thursday, which included over 3,600 tests from the PMC limits, 2,252 from the rural areas and just 515 from the PCMC limits. The region continued to report single-digit deaths on Thursday, with nine patients succumbing to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours. With this, the death toll in PMR increased to 9,036. The caseload of active patients increased to 5,073 on Thursday, including 2,071 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 3,002 patients in home isolation. In total, Maharashtra added 2,889 Covid-19 cases and 50 deaths on Thursday. With this, the state’s tally reached 20,18,413 and toll 50,994. Cases in Mumbai dipped on Thursday (394) and fatalities (7) continued to be consistent; the city’s Covid-19 tally reached 3,07,569 and toll 11,330. Mumbai’s all seven new deaths were among people with comorbidities; five were above the age of 60 years and two aged 40-60 years. Civic officials said the Mumbai's doubling rate is 531 days while the overall growth rate of cases is 0.13%. Active cases in the state further dropped on Thursday to 43,048, including 5,521 in Mumbai. Maharashtra has over 25% of the country’s active cases. Over 19.2 lakh people have been discharged in the state so far. State officials said that of the 50 deaths, 24 occurred in the last 48 hours, 13 in the last seven days and the remaining 13 in the weeks prior to that. (With inputs from Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/infection-tally-at-six-day-high-exceeds-recoveries/articleshow/80521798.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 29, 2021||Jamshedpur||Decision on reopening of schools, cinemas in Jharkhand next week||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government on Thursday said it will take a call on reopening schools, coaching centres, cinema halls and other places of recreation, like swimming pools, on February 5, a day after the Centre issued fresh guidelines on the issue. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal said, “A meeting will take place on February 5 under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren to decide upon the relaxations needed to be applied in the light of the new guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).” On Wednesday, MHA issued an order in which it further eased guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, allowing states and Union Territories (UTs) to decide on the extent of attendance at social, cultural and religious gatherings, rescinding the 50% occupancy limit for cinema halls and throwing open swimming pools to all. The relaxations will apply to areas outside of containment zones. The order also directed the chief secretaries of all states and UTs to issue guidelines in this regard in their respective areas of jurisdiction. As per the last order issued by the state disaster management department in December last year, a maximum of 200 people can attend social and religious gatherings in an enclosed space while 300 can attend an outdoor event. The order had allowed schools to reopen only for Class X and XII board examinees while coaching centres, cinema halls, theatres, swimming pools and parks were to remain shut. Meanwhile, the MHA order has provided some relief to owners of cinema halls and coaching centres, who are now anticipating relaxations from the state government. The general manager of Fun Cinemas in Ranchi, Vimal Kumar, said, “We have been requesting the government to allow us to reopen for months now. Besides Rajasthan, Jharkhand is the only state which hasn’t allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to resume their business after the lockdown was lifted. Bihar has already allowed cinema halls and theatres to reopen albeit with restrictions. I would request the state government to take a decision which will benefit us all. We have to pay hundreds of employees and we can’t do that if we continue to remain shut.” Sunil Jaiswal, who is the president of Jharkhand Coaching Institutes’ Association, said, “Since July last year, we have met several ministers and government officials and pleaded them to allow us to reopen but no action has been taken so far. Now, I hope that the government will allow us to go about our business with specific guidelines which we are ready to comply with.” He added, “A majority of our students come from outside Ranchi and they put up in rented accommodations here. We want clarity as to when can we reopen so that our students can also make necessary arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/decision-on-reopening-of-schools-cinemas-in-jharkhand-next-week/articleshow/80572143.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||Private tutors already taking classes, reopen coaching centres: Congress||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district Congress committee has urged the state government to take immediate steps to reopen the coaching institutes in the Steel City, which were closed down during the lockdown in March last year. Talking to TOI on Thursday, district vice-president of the party, Babloo Jha said the convener of the coaching institutes in the city, Sujit Jha, has requested to take up the matter with chief minister Hemant Soren and other authorities concerned. "All coaching institutes are shut and the students are not getting quality education, putting their academic future in the dark. Moreover, over 10,000 teachers, who are directly involved with the coaching institutes in Jamshedpur, are jobless for nearly one year now and are leading a miserable life," Babloo quoted Jha as saying. Babloo further said the Jharkhand government should also allow these institutes to reopen as done in other states. He also urged local MLA and health minister Banna Gupta to extend help in the matter for the good of both students and teachers. Earlier, Jamshedpur (East) MLA Saryu Rai had also requested the state government to reopen the institutes. Meanwhile, members of the coaching institutes' association alleged that even though the state government is yet to give a green signal for their reopening, many private tutors and schoolteachers have already started their own classes from last year itself by calling the students to their homes in small batches. The association rued that the administration is turning a "blind eye" to such practices. Sarmistha C, the mother of a Class IX student, said, "I have no option but to send my kid for private tuition for chemistry and maths, otherwise, my son may be denied the pass marks for the subjects." Similar is the case of many parents who said they were "forced" to send their wards to their schoolteachers concerned during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvt-tutors-already-taking-classes-reopen-coaching-centres-cong/articleshow/80518704.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||Rims to reserve 20% of vacancies for male nurses||Ranchi: The management at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) has decided to recruit male nurses in the coming months. The decision was taken at a meeting on Thursday convened by the hospital’s governing body where it approved the reservation of 20% of its overall vacancies for male nurses. The governing body also approved four other proposals related to infrastructural development and strengthening of services at the state-run hospital. Talking to TOI, state health minister Banna Gupta said, “Rims had put out an advertisement for recruitment of 370 nursing staff, of which 20% will be male nurses. The decision to reserve seats follows a similar one being followed in AIIMS, New Delhi.” The governing body has also decided to equip the dental institute at Rims with all the necessary equipment and fill up the vacant faculty at the earliest. This comes after the Dental Council of India refused to give its approval for the final year course of the first batch of 50 students, citing absence of required faculty and equipment. “We have decided to fill up all the vacant faculty positions and purchase necessary equipment at the earliest so that the students do not face any problems. The hospital’s director has been directed to expedite the process and it will be completed before the next inspection by DCI,” Gupta said. The decision to digitise all departments by installing computers for patient care records was also taken in the meeting. The hospital also approved proposals submitted by the finance and accounts committee. Rims also approved the strengthening of on-campus infrastructural facilities as per the new National Medical Commission (NMC) regulations issued in October last year. According to the new regulations, every medical institute should have a skills laboratory where students can practise and improve skills specified in their curriculum. As per the decision taken by Rims, the skills laboratory will have a total area of at least 600sq metres for intake of 150 MBBS students. “The purpose of a skills laboratory is to provide a safe and non-threatening environment for students to learn, practise and honing their skills in a simulated environment, thereby mitigating the risks involved in direct patient exposure without adequate preparation and supervision,” a senior doctor at Rims said. The new regulations also state that the libraries should have trainers required for inculcating skills outlined in the competency-based undergraduate curriculum document. Banna also directed the hospital director to ensure that all the required medical equipment for cardiac diagnosis are in place. He has also asked him to make sure there is proper arrangement for dialysis of kidney patients and asked him to purchase radiological equipment, which has been lingering for more than a year, soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-to-reserve-20-of-vacancies-for-male-nurses/articleshow/80516999.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||9 locations in Bokaro to become free wi-fi zones||Bokaro: As many as nine locations across Bokaro will become free wi-fi zones, Bokaro DC Rajesh Singh said on Thursday. “Free wi-fi with 10mbps speed will be made available to all in those nine locations,” Singh said. This comes after Singh made an announcement in this connection on the occasion of Republic Day where he said that common people will benefit from a secure and integrated internet service since they are spending more time indoors glued to their smartphones and laptops in the aftermath of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the district administration, along with BSNL, has already begun work in this regard. “Six locations have already started providing free wi-fi from January 26 while service in the remaining three areas will begin within the next few days,” district information officer Dhananjay Kumar said. The six locations currently providing the service are the DC’s office, the SP’s office, the sub-divisional offices at Chas and Bermo, Bokaro General Hospital and the Sector-4 branch of Bank of India. In order to avail the service, a person needs to enter his/her mobile number and date of birth in the network to register, following which an OTP will be generated. The OTP will be the wi-fi network’s password. “A registered user can use up to 500mb in 24 hours,” an official said. In case of overuse, the person concerned can be easily tracked through the IP address in his/her the phone. A district official said that the administration is conducting a survey of places that have electricity supply 24/7 so that the free internet service can also be started there. “We plan to convert the entire city into a free wi-fi zone by next year,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-locations-in-bokaro-to-become-free-wi-fi-zones/articleshow/80516721.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||3 Cov deaths, 62 cases, 112 cured||Ranchi: The state reported 3 Covid-19 deaths, 62 new cases and 112 recoveries on Thursday. Of the three deaths, one was reported from Ranchi and the rest from Dhanbad, taking the total nThe number of active cases stands at 670. As per government data, 1,18,557 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,16,818 have recovered, taking the recovery to 98.53%. umber of casualties to 1,069. The casualty rate in the state stood at 0.90%. As many as 13 districts reported new cases on Thursday, of which the majority of infections came from the state capital (43), the rest reported cases in single digit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-cov-deaths-62-cases-112-cured/articleshow/80518306.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||Rlys announces 2 spl trains from Tatanagar||Jamshedpur: The South Eastern Railways (SER) has launched a special south India-bound bi-weekly train — Tatanagar-Ernakulam Express — which will run every Thursday and Sunday from Tatanagar and every Sunday and Wednesday from Ernakulam. The special train will prove to be a boon for passengers from Tatanagar who were facing problems while travelling to southern states after the services of Tatanagar-Alleppey express train were shut in the wake of the Covid-induced lockdown. “The new special train will help those travelling to Kerala and other southern states,” a divisional railway official in Chakradharpur railway said. The express train will have one AC-2 tier coach, four AC-3tier coaches, 11 sleeper class and two general second-class seating coaches. Jamshedpur Yatri Sangh member S N Pathak said it would have been better had the new train travels via Visakhapatnam and Chennai stations. “Considering the number of passengers that travel to Visakhapatnam and Chennai, it would have been better had the new the train passed through Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.” SER has also started another special express train – Puri-Rishikesh Express — that will pass through Tatanagar for devotees travelling to Haridwar for the Mahakumbh Mela. The special express train, which has already started operating from Puri on Wednesday, will run seven days a week. It will start running from Rishikesh on Saturday. The train has four AC-3 tier coaches, one AC-2 tier coach, 11 sleeper class and three second-class seating coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rlys-announces-2-spl-trains-from-tatanagar/articleshow/80516644.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant attacks BJP in his first pre-poll rally in Bengal||RANCHI: Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren trained guns at BJP and its government at the Centre in his maiden pre-poll rally in West Bengal on Thursday. Addressing a gathering of a few thousand tribal audience, who came from Bankura, Purulia and West Midnapore districts at the Uttarayan Club ground in Jhargram’s Jamda, Soren spoke in Santhali and called for a fight against the saffron brigade, which is vying for power in West Bengal. “The tribals, minorities and backward communities are being crushed. The way new laws are being formulated, it will become tough for the poor to survive,” Soren said. Lending solidarity with the farmers who are protesting in New Delhi to demand total repeal of the Centre’s controversial farm laws, Soren said there seems to be no place for farmers in India. “India is a country of farmers. Our ancestors coined the slogan Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan. And look at what is happening with the farmers now,” he said. Soren claimed that the BJP is trying to win elections on its financial muscle. “It is because of the money that they are trying to change the land acquisition laws, farm laws and trying to sell the nation’s assets,” Soren said. Recalling his father Shibu’s struggle against money lenders and for tribal rights later on, Soren said: “When Guruji dreamt of a separate state for tribals, every one laughed at him.” Soren, the working president of JMM, told the audience that the party will rekindle the old workers from the 1970s so that they can fight for the rights of the tribal population of Jhargram. While JMM leadership had predicted a heavy turnout, Thursday’s gathering did not surpass a few thousand. Unfazed by the low turnout, Soren said: “We do not care about crowds but believe in filling up a pitcher with drops.” JMM had contested in 27 seats in the 2016 West Bengal assembly polls, the party said. Besides Soren, state transport minister Champai Soren was also present at the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-attacks-bjp-in-his-first-pre-poll-rally-in-bengal/articleshow/80518419.cms||---
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||Left workers to fast in support of farmers on Mahatma death anniv||Ranchi: Left parties and the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Samanvaya Samiti (JRKSS) will observe a day-long fast in front of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Ranchi’s Morhabadi on January 30 in support of the agitation against the new farm laws. JRKSS state convener Sufal Mahto said the agitators would also take an oath of peace and non-violence during the day. The JRKSS had recently held a three-day dharna in front of the Raj Bhawan to oppose the farm laws. Mahto said, “The farmers were carrying out an agitation peacefully for the past several months. However, groups led by Deep Sindhu and Satnam Singh Pannu gave a violent turn to the protest. We condemn the violence that took place on Republic Day in Delhi. Farmers are deeply patriotic and would not do anything to tarnish the image of the nation.” Meanwhile, Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC) leader Sushanto Mukherjee said his party would also observe a fast on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The MCC also held a dharna in front of the Raj Bhawan on Thursday as part of the serial agitation conducted by the Left parties and their affiliated units to oppose the farm laws. MCC president Anand Mahto said, “The Centre should withdraw the farm laws as soon as possible or else we would further intensify our agitation from next month.” The MCC submitted a memorandum addressed to Governor Droupadi Murmu claiming that the Centre brought the laws when the entire country was struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic. The laws would facilitate grabbing of farm land and destroy the farmers, the MCC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/left-workers-to-fast-in-support-of-farmers-on-mahatma-death-anniv/articleshow/80518868.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||Entrepreneurs sceptical about Jharkhand CM’s pvt quota plan||Ranchi: Entrepreneurs and industrialists in Jharkhand have taken chief minister Hemant Soren's Republic Day announcement about reserving a large chunk of jobs in the private sector for locals with a pinch of salt. In a hire-local trend fast gaining ground across regions, Jharkhand's JMM-led government has started working on a new domicile policy focused on reserving 75% of all private-sector employment for residents of the state. While many welcomed the announcement, others said they believed it was another political rhetoric. “It is refreshing to hear the CM talk about employment generation. While we welcome the announcement, there needs to be careful planning and a roadmap to implement such a step," Ram Bangar, vice-president of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), told TOI. City-based industrialist and former FJCCI president Deepak Kumar Maru said the announcement brings a silver lining to the industries and the local economy battered in the previous year. “However, the government needs to create an elaborate methodology based on skill sets of the local workforce and sit down with the stakeholders for its implementation,” he said. At the same time, many termed the announcement as political rhetoric. “How will the government ensure that companies are provided with skilled manpower from the local pool? During the lockdown, lakhs of migrant workers returned home in the state. Months later, most of them have had to return to bigger cities again because they did not find employment here. The government had claimed it will create a database of skilled workers, but it failed to do so," a city-based entrepreneur said. An industrialist from Jamshedpur added: “Where will the government accommodate the local workers if industrial units close down? The lockdown has pushed many units across different industrial areas of Jharkhand to the brink of closure. But there has been no effort from the government to revive them. For instance, nearly 15,000 persons employed in apparel factories in Ranchi are staring at job losses as the units plan to close down." Another entrepreneur in Ranchi said, "At present, officials from the labor and industries department are harassing entrepreneurs on petty issues. With this announcement, the heckling will only increase.” State labor minister Satyanand Bhokta did not respond to calls when contacted. Notably, the a hire-local trend fast gaining ground across regions. Hemant's Republic Day announcement came less than three months after Haryana passed a bill that provides for 75% reservation of factory and other blue-collar jobs for the local population. BJP-governed Madhya Pradesh has already reserved all state government jobs for "children of the soil" while Karnataka, another saffron turf, announced last September that it would ask all industries to recruit only Kannadigas for group C and D jobs and give preference to them while hiring for category A and B posts that require specialisation. In MP, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet's decision to go fully local in hiring for government departments marked an unprecedented scale-up in protectionist measures. No other state has yet completely shut out candidates from outside when it comes to government recruitment. Haryana's move in November came on the back of the BJP-led government's argument that an influx of immigrants competing for limited job opportunities was adding to the stress on infrastructure and creating more slums. The bill has no bearing on existing employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/entrepreneurs-sceptical-about-jharkhand-cms-pvt-quota-plan/articleshow/80516849.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 29, 2021||Ranchi||Decision on reopening of schools, cinemas in Jharkhand next week||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government on Thursday said it will take a call on reopening schools, coaching centres, cinema halls and other places of recreation, like swimming pools, on February 5, a day after the Centre issued fresh guidelines on the issue. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal said, “A meeting will take place on February 5 under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren to decide upon the relaxations needed to be applied in the light of the new guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).” On Wednesday, MHA issued an order in which it further eased guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, allowing states and Union Territories (UTs) to decide on the extent of attendance at social, cultural and religious gatherings, rescinding the 50% occupancy limit for cinema halls and throwing open swimming pools to all. The relaxations will apply to areas outside of containment zones. The order also directed the chief secretaries of all states and UTs to issue guidelines in this regard in their respective areas of jurisdiction. As per the last order issued by the state disaster management department in December last year, a maximum of 200 people can attend social and religious gatherings in an enclosed space while 300 can attend an outdoor event. The order had allowed schools to reopen only for Class X and XII board examinees while coaching centres, cinema halls, theatres, swimming pools and parks were to remain shut. Meanwhile, the MHA order has provided some relief to owners of cinema halls and coaching centres, who are now anticipating relaxations from the state government. The general manager of Fun Cinemas in Ranchi, Vimal Kumar, said, “We have been requesting the government to allow us to reopen for months now. Besides Rajasthan, Jharkhand is the only state which hasn’t allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to resume their business after the lockdown was lifted. Bihar has already allowed cinema halls and theatres to reopen albeit with restrictions. I would request the state government to take a decision which will benefit us all. We have to pay hundreds of employees and we can’t do that if we continue to remain shut.” Sunil Jaiswal, who is the president of Jharkhand Coaching Institutes’ Association, said, “Since July last year, we have met several ministers and government officials and pleaded them to allow us to reopen but no action has been taken so far. Now, I hope that the government will allow us to go about our business with specific guidelines which we are ready to comply with.” He added, “A majority of our students come from outside Ranchi and they put up in rented accommodations here. We want clarity as to when can we reopen so that our students can also make necessary arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/decision-on-reopening-of-schools-cinemas-in-jharkhand-next-week/articleshow/80517109.cms||Gaurav Pandey
