January 30, 2021||World||Indian doctors campaign for right to bring elderly parents to live in Britain||LONDON: Medical organisations representing Indian and other overseas-trained doctors are campaigning to change the adult dependant relative rules that make it virtually impossible for doctors who have settled in Britain to bring their elderly parents over to live with them. The British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO), together with the British Medical Association and other bodies representing settled migrant doctors, have penned a joint letter to UK home secretary Priti Patel calling on her to review the restrictive rules of the Immigration Act. The rules were changed in 2012 under former home secretary Theresa May so that settled overseas-trained doctors can only bring elderly parents over to live with them if they can demonstrate they need a level of long-term personal care which can only be provided for in the UK. Indian doctors complain the application process is burdensome and it is virtually impossible to “prove” the same level of care is not available in India, even if it isn’t. The letter urges Patel, herself of Ugandan Indian roots, to make the rules more flexible to allow elderly parents to be granted indefinite leave to remain, as they can do in other countries such as Australia and Canada. “This will give doctors working on the frontline the reassurance they need to stay working for the NHS whilst fulfilling their personal caring responsibilities to their elderly parents,” the letter states. Prior to the rule change, 2,325 applications were made a year to bring adult dependents over to the UK. This fell to just 162 applications in 2016, the majority of which were unsuccessful. Many Indian parents have died whilst their children are going through the application process. The letter warns of the potential loss to the NHS if these doctors, many of whom worked on the frontline during the pandemic, feel “forced out of the country”. India-born Dr Kamal Sidhu, a family doctor in Durham who is from Ludhiana, Punjab, and who trained at Dayanand Medical College, has been in the UK since 2003, raised a family in the UK, and is now a British citizen, but has been unsuccessful in bringing his parents, in their mid-60s, who live in Jagraon in Ludhiana, to Britain. “We feel like an incomplete family. Our parents invested all their lives into us and we want to be able to be there to make their lives more comfortable and to live with them and look after them,” he said. His mother has delayed an operation by nearly a year so that he can travel back to help with her post-operative care, but has been unable to owing to the lockdown. “Now she is in more pain and we are stuck so she may have to have it without us. Imagine the amount of guilt that comes with that. As her son, it is my filial obligation to be with her. These rules are not recognising the right to live and die with dignity. It’s a human right to be able to stay with your parents and it’s very inhumane that you cannot be there for them in hour of need." “The UK government asks for evidence you cannot find care in India, so you have to prove you employed carers and they didn’t turn up, how much you paid them and where else you tried, and what went wrong. They want so much detail,” he said. “We want them to be more flexible and realistic. They are asking us to prove something next to impossible to prove.” Barrister Usha Sood, who represents hundreds of Indian doctors in Britain, said many have had to fly out on emergencies to India as a parent had a fall or was found unconscious. This has a knock-on effect of operations and clinics being cancelled on the NHS in the UK. “One doctor’s mother collapsed and was not found for two days as the maid didn’t turn up. Another got a call from his dad, who is in his late 80s, saying his mum has fallen and that he needed to come and help”, Sood said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/indian-doctors-campaign-for-right-to-bring-elderly-parents-to-live-in-britain/articleshow/80591378.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 30, 2021||World||Pakistan terror outfit chief, minor daughter among 4 killed in Afghanistan blast||ISLAMABAD: Mangal Bagh Afridi, chief of Pakistan’s proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Islam, was killed along with his 13-year-old daughter and two others in an explosion in Achin district in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province on Thursday. Nangarhar governor Zia-ul-Haq Amarkhel confirmed the deaths on Twitter. Afghan officials said Bagh, in his mid-50s, had gone to his son’s house in Achin’s Bandar Darra. When he was leaving the place around noon, a bomb placed at the doorstep exploded, killing Bagh, his daughter and two security guards. No terror group or individual had yet claimed responsibility for the attack. Bagh’s organisation, operating in (erstwhile) Khyber Agency (Pakistan), had unleashed a deadly reign of terror along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border region. He had once in the past become an ally of Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the country’s biggest terrorist group, before joining hands with the ISIS, or Daesh. According to the US State Department’s Reward for Peace, he carried up to $3 million bounty on his head. “Bagh has led Lashkar-e-Islam since 2006 and has routinely shifted alliances to protect illicit revenue streams while enforcing an extreme version of Deobandi Islam in the areas of eastern Afghanistan and western Pakistan that he controls, particularly Nangarhar province, Afghanistan,” it stated. “His group earns revenue from drug trafficking, smuggling, kidnapping, raids on NATO convoys, and taxes on transit trade between Pakistan and Afghanistan,” it added. Born in the erstwhile Khyber Agency, Bagh was a member of the Afridi tribe. He studied at a madrassah for several years and later fought alongside militant groups in Afghanistan. According to locals, Bagh used to wash cars at a taxi stand in Peshawar’s cantonment area during his youth. He then became the conductor of a bus operating between Bara tehsil and Peshawar before turning its driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/pakistan-terror-outfit-chief-minor-daughter-among-4-killed-in-afghanistan-blast/articleshow/80591430.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 30, 2021||World||'Full confidence' that India will ensure safety of Israelis: Benjamin Netanyahu on embassy blast||JERUSALEM: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday expressed "full confidence" in the Indian authorities in ensuring the safety of Israelis and Jews in India following a blast close to the country's embassy in New Delhi. A minor improvised explosive device (IED) blast took place outside the Israeli Embassy in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi on Friday evening. India's National Security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval spoke to his Israeli counterpart Meir Ben-Shabbat and updated him on the situation and ongoing investigation into the bombing near the Israeli embassy, officials said here. The update was conveyed to Prime Minister Netanyahu, they said. Netanyahu asked to convey to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi that Israel has "full confidence that the Indian authorities will do a thorough investigation of the incident and ensure the safety of Israelis and Jews who are there", the officials said. The two sides agreed to continue full cooperation through all channels, they said. India's External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also spoke to his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi and assured him of "fullest protection" to diplomats and the mission. In a tweet, Jaishankar said India has taken the incident "very seriously". "Spoke just now to Israeli FM Gabi Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats," he said. The minister further added that the matter was under investigation. "No effort will be spared to find the culprits," he said. Earlier, the Israeli foreign ministry said all its diplomats and embassy staff are "safe and sound" following the blast. "An explosion occurred a short while ago, close to the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi. There are no casualties and no harm was done to the building. All Israeli diplomats and embassy staff are safe and sound," a foreign ministry release said. "The event is being investigated by the Indian authorities who are in contact with Israeli officials," it said, adding that the foreign minister is frequently being updated on the situation and has directed to take all necessary precautions. "We will report further developments as they occur," the release said. Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal has said the blast was of "very low intensity". "No injury to any person was reported and nor was there any damage to property except the glass panes of three vehicles parked nearby," he said. Initial impressions suggest it could be a mischievous attempt to create a sensation, Mittal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/full-confidence-that-india-will-ensure-safety-of-israelis-netanyahu-on-embassy-blast/articleshow/80591610.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||EAM Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Blinken hold telephonic talks, resolve to expand ties||NEW DELHI: In their first telephonic conversation, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday resolved to "consolidate and expand" the India-US strategic partnership and reaffirmed commitment to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region. In a tweet, Jaishankar said it was agreed to build on the "solid foundation" of bilateral ties. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said Jaishankar and Blinken appreciated the robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive healthcare collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages between the two nations. The MEA said Jaishankar and Blinken agreed to work together to address global issues, including safe and affordable vaccine supply while recognising the challenges of a post-Covid world. Warm conversation with Secretary of State @SecBlinken. Congratulated him on his appointment. Look forward to workin… https://t.co/lYtGfTIiSq— Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) 1611934762000"The external affairs minister and Secretary Blinken expressed their commitment to consolidate and expand the multi-faceted strategic partnership," it said. "They appreciated the robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive healthcare collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages as its important pillars," the MEA said in a statement. It said Jaishankar and Blinken also reiterated their commitment to peace and security, especially in the Indo-Pacific region. I was delighted to speak today with my good friend @DrSJaishankar to discuss U.S.-India priorities. We reaffirmed t… https://t.co/FHlnS1HRKa— Secretary Antony Blinken (@SecBlinken) 1611944125000The US Secretary of State has already indicated that Washington will stand with the South Asian countries in the face of China's growing assertiveness in the South China Sea region. "Warm conversation with Secretary of State @SecBlinken. Congratulated him on his appointment. Look forward to working with him again. Agreed that we could build further on the solid foundation of our partnership. Also discussed our efforts at combating the Covid-19 pandemic," Jaishankar tweeted. The Joe Biden administration began formal engagement with top Indian leaders on Wednesday with Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan holding telephonic conversation with their Indian counterparts, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and NSA Ajit Doval. The issue of cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region figured in a telephonic conversation between Austin and Singh on Wednesday. "The external affairs minister warmly congratulated Secretary Blinken on his appointment and wished him success in his new responsibilities," the ministry said. The overall Indo-US strategic ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. Both India and the US have been expressing concerns over China's growing military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific as well as in the South China Sea. Strategic affairs experts believe that common concerns over challenges and threats emanating from China including in the Indo-Pacific is expected to result in expansion of overall strategic and defence cooperation between India and the US under Joe Biden's presidency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eam-jaishankar-and-us-secretary-of-state-blinken-hold-telephonic-talks-resolve-to-expand-ties/articleshow/80591612.cms||---
January 30, 2021||World||EAM Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Blinken hold telephonic talks, resolve to expand ties||NEW DELHI: In their first telephonic conversation, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday resolved to "consolidate and expand" the India-US strategic partnership and reaffirmed commitment to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region. In a tweet, Jaishankar said it was agreed to build on the "solid foundation" of bilateral ties. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said Jaishankar and Blinken appreciated the robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive healthcare collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages between the two nations. The MEA said Jaishankar and Blinken agreed to work together to address global issues, including safe and affordable vaccine supply while recognising the challenges of a post-Covid world. Warm conversation with Secretary of State @SecBlinken. Congratulated him on his appointment. Look forward to workin… https://t.co/lYtGfTIiSq— Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) 1611934762000"The external affairs minister and Secretary Blinken expressed their commitment to consolidate and expand the multi-faceted strategic partnership," it said. "They appreciated the robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive healthcare collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages as its important pillars," the MEA said in a statement. It said Jaishankar and Blinken also reiterated their commitment to peace and security, especially in the Indo-Pacific region. I was delighted to speak today with my good friend @DrSJaishankar to discuss U.S.-India priorities. We reaffirmed t… https://t.co/FHlnS1HRKa— Secretary Antony Blinken (@SecBlinken) 1611944125000The US Secretary of State has already indicated that Washington will stand with the South Asian countries in the face of China's growing assertiveness in the South China Sea region. "Warm conversation with Secretary of State @SecBlinken. Congratulated him on his appointment. Look forward to working with him again. Agreed that we could build further on the solid foundation of our partnership. Also discussed our efforts at combating the Covid-19 pandemic," Jaishankar tweeted. The Joe Biden administration began formal engagement with top Indian leaders on Wednesday with Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan holding telephonic conversation with their Indian counterparts, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and NSA Ajit Doval. The issue of cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region figured in a telephonic conversation between Austin and Singh on Wednesday. "The external affairs minister warmly congratulated Secretary Blinken on his appointment and wished him success in his new responsibilities," the ministry said. The overall Indo-US strategic ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. Both India and the US have been expressing concerns over China's growing military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific as well as in the South China Sea. Strategic affairs experts believe that common concerns over challenges and threats emanating from China including in the Indo-Pacific is expected to result in expansion of overall strategic and defence cooperation between India and the US under Joe Biden's presidency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/eam-jaishankar-and-us-secretary-of-state-blinken-hold-telephonic-talks-resolve-to-expand-ties/articleshow/80591723.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: FIR registered against R Ashoka’s former secretary||BENGALURU: Sringeri police on Friday registered an FIR against the former personal secretary of revenue minister R Ashoka for allegedly demanding bribe from a sub-registrar during the minister’s visit to the temple town. HS Chaluvaraju, 46, Sringeri sub-registrar, in his complaint stated that Gangadhara B, who claimed to be the minister’s personal secretary, demanded money from him during their visit to the taluk. Chaluvaraju who declined to pay the bribe, took the matter to police and a non-cognisable report was filed. After getting legal opinion and nod from higher-ups, Sringeri police filed a case against Gangadhar. Sources said he was reportedly in Sringeri on Friday to register his statement before police. Sources said Gangadhar, an employee in the Vidhana Soudha secretariat office and deputed as personal secretary for Ashoka, has been transferred after the incident. Interestingly, police have registered a case under IPC section 506 (criminal intimidation) against Gangadhar. “We are probing and if we get evidence for demanding money, we will include other sections,” said a police officer. Chaluvaraju in his complaint said on January 24, he received a call from a person who identified himself as Gangadhar, working as PS to the minister. “He asked me to meet the minister at Adichunchanagiri Convention Hall in Sringeri after 6pm. The caller asked me, ‘Bartheera?’ (are you coming?) Then he said, ‘Tartheera?’ (will you bring?) I asked him what should I bring? He said that ‘we will speak’ about it later. On Sunday, when the minister was attending an event in the hall, Gangadhar took me to a room and sought money. I said I don’t have the habit of taking/giving money. On Monday, he asked for cash on the phone. I asked him whether his conscience permits him to demand bribe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fir-registeredagainst-ashokasformer-secretary/articleshow/80591756.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Toddler’s body exhumed, mom held for murder in Karnataka||HASSAN: A woman has been arrested for allegedly killing her child, whom she considered a hindrance to her affair with a man. The incident took place at Hullenahalli village of Channarayapatna. The accused Suma, 24, and her husband Nanjappa had a son who was nearly two years old. As per Nanjappa’s complaint, Suma had a relationship with another man and used to meet him during her husband’s absence. But since the child was always with her, she considered him an obstacle. So she decided to eliminate the toddler. On January 19, when Nanjappa had gone to the farm, Suma banged her son’s head against the wall. The child slipped into a coma. She called her husband and said he fell unconscious. They rushed him to hospital, but doctors declared him as brought dead, said DySP Lakshmegowdru. However, Nanjappa, who had noticed a wound on his son’s head, began doubting his wife’s version. He complained to police, following which the child’s body was exhumed and an autopsy conducted. The report indicated severe head injuries. The same evening, police took the mother into custody. During interrogation, she confessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/toddlers-body-exhumed-mom-held-for-murder/articleshow/80591759.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mangaluru||Won’t vacate for Coast Guard Academy, says Mangaluru gaushala||India’s first Coast Guard Academy, proposed in Mangaluru, has run into a stumbling block. A gaushala sheltering 300 cows has refused to vacate riverfront space for the project, saying it will not come in the way of the institution. Kapila Park Gaushala has reached out to MP and environmentalist Maneka Gandhi, and appealed to the BJP governments at the state and Centre to fulfil their commitment to protection of cattle. Coast Guard Academy has been planned on 158 acres of Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board land near Kenjar, at an approximate cost of Rs 1,000 crore. Following Maneka’s intervention, Prakash Shetty, trustee of the gaushala, met deputy commissioner KV Rajendra on January 25 but no headway has been made. “We are looking at an amicable solution. We have given the park trustee an opportunity to propose a solution and are awaiting his response,” Rajendra said. Shetty claimed that land adjacent to the gaushala is in possession of KIADB and the park itself is not part of this parcel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/wont-vacate-for-coast-guard-academy-says-mluru-gaushala/articleshow/80591762.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rajdeep Sardesai, Shashi Tharoor among seven booked for sedition||BENGALURU: Parappana Agrahara police on Friday registered a criminal case for sedition among other charges against seven people, including senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai and former Union minister and MP Shashi Tharoor, based on a complaint filed by a private firm employee. The complainant, Rakesh BS, 37, alleged that tweets by the accused incited hatred among the public and endangered national integrity. Rakesh stated he had heard that journalists Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Ananth Nath and Vinod K Jose and MP Tharoor had tweeted saying that a farmer had died in police firing during the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26. He alleged their tweets resulted in hatred, creating enmity among religions and hurting emotions of the religious. Rakesh asked police to take necessary action against the accused for posting false information in their tweets. Police have registered a case under IPC sections 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc), 153b (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 295a (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 298 (uttering, words with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings), 506 (criminal intimidation), 124a (sedition), 504 (whoever intentionally insults and gives provocation) against the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sardesai-tharoor-among-seven-booked-for-sedition/articleshow/80591764.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Aero India 2021: HAL to have Atmanirbhar Formation Flight; DRDO will showcase over 300 technologies||BENGALURU: Defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Limited on Friday said a unique flying display of its indigenous platforms — both fixed and rotary wing — titled Atmanirbhar Formation Flight will be part of the flying display at Aero India 2021, while Defence Research and Development Organisation said it would showcase more than 300 products and technologies. “HAL will showcase its prowess in defence and aerospace centred on the theme ‘Conceive. Indigenise. Collaborate’, at the world’s first hybrid exhibition. The Atmanirbhar Formation Flight consisting of LCA trainer, HTT-40, IJT, Advanced Hawk Mk 132 and Dornier-228, will fly in a special formation showcasing the spectrum of trainers and signifying self-sufficiency in the trainer segment,” the defence PSU said. Other then these aircraft, Su30-MKi, advanced light helicopter (ALH) Dhruv, light combat helicopter (LCH) and light utility helicopter (LUH) will also take part in the flying display. Static displays will include Dornier-228, HTT-40 and LUH and ALH Mk III. “HAL’s major attraction will be the Combat Air Teaming System (CATS) simulator. It will have Tejas–Max cockpit as the mother-ship platform with the embedded air teaming intelligence concepts to demonstrate the fully integrated as well as autonomous wingman platforms and swarming of drones to engage in the mission. Immersive mission visualization will be projected over a wider screen apart from the command and display at Tejas-Max cockpit,” HAL added. DRDO, stating that it will exhibit its latest defence technologies and demonstrate many systems, said it is developing technologies for all major defence domains and has been participating in this exhibition in a big way in all its editions. The organisation with its vast defence design and development capability has been working towards Atmanirbhar Bharat and has taken up many policy initiatives to work closely with all stakeholders in the ecosystem. More than 30 laboratories of DRDO connected to aeronautical development are exhibiting their products and technological achievements at this mega event. “More than 300 products, technologies and innovations are being presented at the show in indoor, outdoor, static and flying displays. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will release DRDO export compendium, among other things,” DRDO said. The major attraction of DRDO’s participation is the flying display of Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) system, LCA Tejas and LCA Navy. “While the air display will show the aerodynamic capabilities of the aircraft, LCA-Navy will also be on the tarmac for static display. The highlights of indoor systems include Combat Free Fall System, models of the advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA), ABHYAS - High-speed Expendable Aerial Target, Twin Engine Deck Based Fighter (TEDBF), FCS System for LCA and Aerostat Systems,” DRDO officials explained. Aside from this, the organisation will display Nirbhay missile, P-16 Heavy Drop System, AWACS’ India aircraft model, Pilotless Target Aircraft Engine (PTAE), etc. It will also showcase missiles, electronics and communication and other technologies and products, including ASTRA (missile).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hal-to-have-atmanirbhar-formation-flight-drdo-will-showcase-over-300-technologies/articleshow/80591767.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Pulwama twin encounter: Hizbul trio killed in Tral, another gunfight starts in Kakapora||SRINAGAR: Three Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were killed in an anti-terror operation in Tral belt of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday afternoon, while another gunfight broke out in the district’s Kakapora belt in the evening where at least two to three terrorists were believed to be trapped till the filing of this report. Identified as Waris Hassan from Naibugh, Aarif Bashir of Monghama and Ahtishamul Haq from Awantipora, the slain Hizbul ultras were part of groups involved in several terror crimes, as per police records. On January 2, Bashir had lobbed a grenade on security personnel near Tral bus stand, leaving a jawan and eight civilians with splinter injuries. Hassan, along with some others, had fired at a patrolling party of Awantipora Police on October 5, 2020. They were also wanted for putting up threat posters at Dadsara on December 2 last year, warning citizens to refrain from voting, IGP (Kashmir Range) Vijay Kumar said. In the afternoon, a joint team of Army’s 42RR, CRPF and J&K Police launched a cordon-and-search operation in Tral’s Mandoora village based on intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists there. As the security personnel approached the suspected hideout, the holed up terrorists were given a chance to surrender but instead of yielding, they opened fire at the search party, triggering an encounter, Kumar said. During a subsequent search of the area, the bodies of the slain ultras were retrieved along with arms, ammunition and other incriminating material, the IGP said. Residents were advised against venturing near the vicinity to prevent injury or loss of life due to live ammunition, the IGP added. Later in the evening, a joint team of Army’s 50RR, CRPF and J&K Police launched a cordon-and-search operation in Kakapora’s Batpora Lelhara village based on intelligence inputs about terrorists’ presence there. Hiding terrorists fired at the search party, triggering a gunfight, a senior police officer confirmed. In an appeal, the IGP asked parents of misguided Kashmiri youths to come forward and help the force in bringing their children back to the mainstream. He also urged guardians to keep a tab on their wards’ activities as young minds are susceptible to systematic indoctrination by anti-national elements through social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pulwama-twin-encounter-hizb-trio-killed-in-tral-another-gunfight-starts-in-kakapora/articleshow/80591514.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 30, 2021||India||Farmers' protest: Singhu turns war zone as farmers fight ‘locals’ seeking end to stir||NEW DELHI: Three days after the widespread violence in the capital on Republic Day, the farmers protesting against the farm laws at Singhu border clashed with a group of people on Friday. The latter claimed they were locals and accused the farmers of having insulted the national flag. This led to a pitched battle with stone-pelting from both sides and injuries to many. These included the Alipur SHO, Pradeep Paliwal, who was badly wounded when a sword-wielding protester from among the farmers attacked him. “Forty-four people, including Ranjeet Singh, a resident of Nawanshahr who assaulted Paliwal with a sword have been arrested. Three other officials who were trying to control the mob were also injured,” said Sanjay Singh, special commissioner of police, Western Zone. “To contain them, we fired around 15 tear gas shells. The sword was also seized.” A group of over 200 people arrived at the protest site around noon on Friday holding placards and flags. They claimed they were facing economic hardship and wanted the farmers to leave the area. This was just a day after another group had raised slogans against the farmers and promised to return on Friday. Read AlsoDelhi Police ask people to share information about Republic Day violenceThe Delhi Police has urged people to share any evidence or information about the Republic Day violence in the national capital, officials said on Friday.After shouting slogans for an hour, these protesters broke through the police cordon around 1:30 pm and managed to enter the protest site. They then began damaging tents, langars and several other items belonging to the farmers. This led to a massive confrontation between the two groups despite a call from Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee stage asking the farmers not to react with the Satnam Jaap being played on a loop to defuse the situation. The farmers then retaliated with sticks and swords. The police had to order a lathi-charge and fire tear gas shells. “They destroyed our langar and broke our washing machines,” recalled a farmer, Hardeep Singh. “When they were attacking us, we showed restraint. I was inside the tent which is closest to the barricades put up by the police. As soon as I heard the commotion, I put two blankets over me as there were stones flying all around,” he recalled.Another protester, Gurjeet Singh, said: “One of them even threw a petrol bottle in our direction and damaged our stock of food.” SHO Paliwal said he was trying to control the mob when a man, later identified as Ranjeet Singh, charged at him with a sword. Paliwal sustained injuries on his arm, from his wrist up to his elbow, and was admitted at a hospital for surgery. By 2 pm, the cops had managed to control the situation which remained tense with the protesters and the farmers confronting each other from a distance. The protesters, who were stationed near the Singhu toll booth, began shouting slogans once again and another brief round of stone-pelting followed. They were finally pushed out by the police. Read Also44 arrested in Singhu border violenceThe Delhi police arrested 44 people including the man who attacked SHO Alipur in the violence that broke out on Friday afternoon at Singhu border.Police sources said they had to allow the protesters as they were residents of the area and free to move around. They said in the past too, they had been moving freely in the area and could not have been stopped. They said that when this group went to meet the leaders of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee at the Alipur traffic signal, they were rebuffed. The farmers disturbed the police barricades following which the stone-pelting started. Speaking to TOI, one of the protesters, Raj Sharma, said: “These people do not respect our national flag, so why should we tolerate them?” Another protester, Sukhvir, who claimed to be a resident of Chandpur village, said “40 villages are angry with the Singhu protesters. These people are all traitors and Khalistanis. When we went to speak to them, they started to throw stones at us. We are not related to any political party and just want the road to be reopened.” Another protester, Manish Kumar, who was holding a placard which asked the farmers to call off their protest, said he ran a mobile store in Alipur village and had turned up for the protest because “these farmers have caused employment loss to many of us and have attacked our police brothers. We wanted to speak to them but they threw stones at us.” However, Harwinder Singh from the farmers’ camp, who belongs to Taran Taran, and was injured in the attack, alleged that the men were not locals. "The locals are supporting us by providing us amenities and are with us in our struggle. We also feed them at our langars. They would never do this to us,” he said. Watch Farmers' protest: Clashes at Singhu border as 'locals' ask agitators to leave area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-singhu-turns-war-zone-as-farmers-fight-locals-seeking-end-to-stir/articleshow/80592746.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||Consider economic impact of infra projects rather than financial returns: Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train chief||NEW DELHI: The government may have to provide more viability funding to bid out any High Speed Rail or bullet train project to private players considering high capital cost, the chief of the country’s first such project Achal Khare said. He said projects such as highways, railways, Metro Rail, dedicated freight corridors (DFCs) and bullet trains should not be weighed on the parameter of “financial returns” but on “economic consideration”. Speaking at a webinar on Future of Railways by industry body FICCI, Khare, who is MD of Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail project, said there are certain projects which are developmental in nature and such projects are essential for the society such as highways, Metro Rail, DFC, high speed rail and railways. “These projects should not be seen from a financial return point of view. Had there been a lot of financial returns from these projects, then the private players would not have been putting investment in steel and petrochemical plants. They would have been building roads and railways. They need profit whereas the society needs infrastructure development and then other things will come up. So, we have to make a proper mix of the two,” he said. Though he said there can be various options for executing the future bullet train projects, which require high capital investment, the government has to do the hand holding. Citing the example of Taiwan High Speed Rail and the Paris Bodeo high speed rail, Khare said the government support was almost 50-60%. He said in such capital intensive projects, these cannot be executed with purely private investment. He added that the private sector may get some kind of attraction for some routes. “But the typical norm of 20% viability gap funding (VGF) may not work,” Khare said. He said even in Japan, the high speed rail is largely supported by the government while the private players have taken up operation, maintenance and further development. Giving details of the railways plan to monetise the assets of two DFCs to attract private investment, Pradeep Kumar, member (infrastructure) of Railway Board said it may take some time to firm up the roadmap. “One option could be monetisation of train paths as we are doing in the case of passenger trains operated by private players on 150 routes. Private players can invest in wagons, pay user charges and can run trains on the DFCs. We are also developing freight terminals and these can be monetised. There is also talk of DFC asset monetisation using the infrastructure investment trust (InvIT) it model. But that will take some time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consider-economic-impact-of-infra-projects-rather-than-financial-returns-mumbai-ahmedabad-bullet-train-chief/articleshow/80593080.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 30, 2021||India||44 arrested in Singhu border violence||NEW DELHI: The Delhi police arrested 44 people including the man who attacked SHO Alipur in the violence that broke out on Friday afternoon at Singhu border. Criminal case under various sections including attempt to murder has been registered in Alipur police station, Delhi and investigation has been initiated. "Accused Ranjeet Singh, a resident of village Kazampur, Distt Naya Shehar, PS Rahu, Punjab, age 22 years who attacked SHO Alipur with sword has been arrested from the spot," a senior police officer said. Situation at Delhi's Haryana border at Singhu deteriorated on Friday afternoon as villagers clashed with protesting farmers after one thing led to another and the mob was seen armed with stones, lathis, swords. A police officer among others was injured. Group of men, who claimed to be from nearby villages and wanted to get the over two-month old road blockage cleared came to blows with the farmers after heated arguments and then locals damaged tents, leading to stone pelting from both sides. The situation was controlled an hour later. Watch Farmers protest: Clashes at Singhu border, paramilitary forces to control situation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/44-arrested-in-singhu-border-violence/articleshow/80592909.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Arnab Goswami’s culpability to be fixed in TRP case if nexus found: Police||MUMBAI: The probe into the TRP manipulation scam is at a “crucial stage” and if any nexus is found between Arnab Goswami of Republic TV, ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd and the other accused, “then criminal culpability may be attributed to them,” the Mumbai police said in an affidavit submitted to the Bombay high court. The affidavit further said, “Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has confirmed” “suspicious activity with regard of (sic) the TV channels in which Petitioner No. 2 (Arnab Goswami) is a director.” So far, the probe “prima facie indicates collusion of BARC officials with others to manipulate ratings,” it said. BARC India measures viewership of TV channels. The police sought dismissal of the petition filed by Goswami and ARG Outlier (which operates the channel) to quash or transfer the probe to CBI. The police said the petition is not maintainable and should be dismissed “with exemplary cost” as neither ARG Outlier nor Goswami have been named as accused yet. Read AlsoTRP case: Mumbai police deny claims of Republic TV, GoswamiMUMBAI: The Mumbai police has denied allegations of malice made by Republic TV and its editor-in- chief Arnab Goswami in the TRP scam case. In two affidavits filed on Monday before a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale, the Mumbai police said it had not falsely implicated anybody,The trial court has taken cognizance of the offences against the accused named in the chargesheet, said the police. The ‘WhatsApp chats’ (between Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta) which form part of the November 24 chargesheet need further investigation and cannot be shut out through the petition, the affidavit said. Read AlsoTRP scam: Crime branch files supplementary chargesheetMumbai police crime branch filed a 3600-page supplementary chargesheet in the TRP scam case on Monday. The chargesheet has been filed against Republic TV officials Vikash Khanchandani, former CCO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Romil Ramgadia and former CEO Partho Dasgupta.The affidavit by assistant police commissioner, Shashank Sandbhor, also said it has not found any material indicating culpability of India Today TV channel. “Further investigation is being carried out with regard to many TV channels including India Today.” Read AlsoSerious evidence against Arnab in TRP case: Maharashtra govtMUMBAI: The state government through its counsel told the Bombay high court on Wednesday that it has found “serious evidence” against Arnab Goswami of Republic TV in the TRP manipulation scam and cannot provide an assurance of no coercive action. The counsel, however, said it will not take anyPolice alleged Goswami “has been holding debates in TV channels owned by ARG Outlier” to make baseless charges against Mumbai police and have a “media trial” to ensure they “are given a clean chit.” Police said Goswami is giving the entire investigation a colour of political vendetta, when the facts would disclose otherwise. Police also denied that the arrest of Ghanshyam Singh, distribution head of Republic TV, was malicious. He is in judicial custody. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeMeanwhile, at the hearing on Friday, the HC bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale posted the matter for hearing till February 12. Counsel for state Kapil Sibal said he would not take any coercive action against owners/operators of Republic TV. Goswami’s counsel Malvika Trivedi said they had to answer the chargesheet contentions and wanted a longer date. She said she was trying to bring on record documents of “unimpeachable nature.” The police also denied allegations that its probe is “unfair, premeditated to rope in the petitioners as accused” or “frivolous or politically motivated,” or that the “ruling dispensation in Maharashtra set the criminal machinery in motion.” It denied the case was an “attempt to muzzle the media.” Transfer to CBI has to be done “sparingly,” the SC has held, police said, adding that “6 percent of the bar-o-meters installed in India are in Mumbai and presently the TRP scam seems to be a localized scam” which Mumbai police has jurisdiction over. A separate affidavit filed Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh denied as “totally baseless” all allegations made against him by ARG Outlier and Goswami of bias, malice and malafides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-goswamis-culpability-to-be-fixed-if-nexus-found-police/articleshow/80593488.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 30, 2021||India||Centre hits out, says SC sitting on 23 judge names for months||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday said before blaming the government for delay in appointment of high court judges, the Supreme Court would do well to set its house in order by expediting a decision on 23 names proposed by HCs which have been pending consideration of the SC collegium for periods between nine months to 33 months. A bench of Chief Justice of IndiaS A Bobde and Justices S K Kaul and Sanjiv Khanna had told attorney general K K Venugopal on Wednesday that as many as 103 names sent by various HCs to the government were yet to be processed and forwarded to the SC collegium for consideration. The bench had also told the AG that 47 fresh proposals were pending with the SC collegium as also 23 cases in which it has deferred a decision. A chart prepared by Justice Kaul, who is not a collegium member, showed that 16 recommendations of the collegium for appointment of judges were pending with the government. Law ministry sources pointed to the 23 proposals pending with the SC collegium and said five of these concerned Calcutta HC. It said one advocate’s name was recommended by the HC collegium and was pending consideration of the SC collegium since May 11, 2018, when Justice Diapk Misra was the CJI. Even after a lapse of 33 months, there was no final decision on the proposal. The other four advocates’ names have been pending with the SC collegium since July 24, 2019, that is for more than 18 months. Similarly, an advocate’s name for appointment as judge of Madras HC was pending with the collegium for 23 months, a proposal for elevation of two judicial officers as judges of Andhra Pradesh HC and two judicial officers as judges of Telangana HC were pending for 22 months, ministry sources said. An advocate’s name, recommended by Delhi HC, was repeatedly deferred by the SC collegium for the last 18 months. Proposals for appointments as HC judges pending for one year included one each for the HCs of Karnataka, J&K and Punjab; two each for Kerala and Rajasthan. Proposal for appointment of an advocate to Karnataka HC has been pending with the collegium for nine months. The 25 HCs, with a sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges, are functioning with 663 judges, leaving a vacancy of 417 posts (39%). With the case load touching nearly 45 lakh, HCs with depleted judge strength find it extremely difficult to deal with pendency, which would still be a Herculean task even with full strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-hits-out-says-sc-sitting-on-23-judge-names-for-months/articleshow/80593525.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 30, 2021||India||A year after first Covid case, India’s toll drops to 4th in world||India completes one tumultuous year of the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday, with the virus outbreak appearing increasingly under control in most parts of the country with each passing day. On Friday, India dropped to the fourth place in deaths from the virus, with fatalities in Mexico overtaking India’s cumulative toll. With more than 1,500 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, Mexico’s Covid toll topped 1,55,000, going past India’s total recorded deaths from the virus so far (1,54,184). India has been recording less than 200 Covid deaths per day for more than a fortnight now, at a time when daily fatalities have been over 500 in at least eight countries. Four of these countries have been reporting more than 1,000 daily deaths over the past few days, with the daily toll in the US hovering around 4,000. The US has registered by far the most deaths from the infection, with the toll of more than 4.4 lakh till Thursday, as per data from worldometer.info. Brazil has the second highest toll at over 2.2 lakh. The UK is the only other country, in addition to Mexico and India, where the Covid toll has topped 1 lakh. With the exception of India, all the other four countries are currently witnessing over 1,000 daily fatalities. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusIt was on January 30 last year that the first Covid-19 case was recorded in India, that of a Kerala student who had returned from Wuhan, China, from where the virus is believed to have originated. Incidentally, it’s Kerala where the pandemic continues to rage a year down the line while clearly retreating in most other parts. Read AlsoUP, Karnataka, Bihar top the list in fortnightly Covid testsNEW DELHI: Testing and tracing are key to containment of the coronavirus pandemic, but are states screening enough people for Covid-19 infections? A TOI sample study shows Kerala, which had added more than 70,600 cases in just 14 days, has conducted a total 7.42 lakh tests during the same period While India led the world in daily Covid case counts from late August till October last year, it has since fallen to the eighth spot. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases in India is currently around 13,500, lower than the averages in the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, France, Spain and Mexico. Two other countries, Indonesia and Portugal, both seeing a spike in infections, are likely to overtake India in the next few days.In terms of the total caseload, however, India still stands at the second spot after the US. While the US has so far recorded more than 26.3 million cases, India’s count is over 10.7 million, ahead of Brazil (9 million), Russia (3.8 million) and the US (3.7 million). In the last 24 hours, India recorded over 13,000 fresh cases and at least 133 deaths. While has pandemic has certainly receded in the country, it is not over yet, as several experts have repeatedly pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-year-after-first-covid-case-indias-toll-drops-to-4th-in-world/articleshow/80594390.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
January 30, 2021||India||Supreme Court seeks govt response on framing uniform adoption laws||NEW DELHI: After entertaining a PIL seeking uniform legal provisions for grant of divorce, maintenance and alimony, the Supreme Court on Friday sought the Centre’s response on a PIL seeking enactment of uniform adoption and guardianship laws, thus bringing the issue of the framing of a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) under its scrutiny. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought responses from Union ministries of home, law, and women and child development on the PIL seeking uniform adoption laws filed by advocate-petitioner Ashwini Upadhyay, who was also the petitioner for a uniform law on divorce and maintenance. The bench tagged the two petitions for a joint hearing on the issues, which form the core of UCC. On December 16, the same bench had warily entertained two PILs seeking uniform divorce laws and uniformity in grant of maintenance and alimony to women. The CJI-led bench had expressed fear that the PILs might ruffle the sensitivities of religious communities, who have for decades resisted a uniform personal law for the country. It had asked the counsel, “You want all the personal laws to be abolished? How else can your prayers be granted? You are asking the court to go in a direction that will involve encroaching upon or demolishing personal laws. Can we remove discriminatory practices against women in various religious communities without encroaching into their personal laws?” However, the petitioner pointed out that the SC had done it by declaring instant divorce in the Muslim community through triple talaq as unconstitutional. Upadhyay had engaged senior advocates Pinky Anand and Meenakshi Arora for the PIL on uniform divorce, maintenance and alimony. On Friday, senior advocates Anjana Prakash and Geeta Luthra argued his PIL on uniform adoption and guardianship laws. The petitioner contended that over the years, the SC had nudged the Centre to move towards promulgation of a UCC, but to no avail. In the Shah Bano Begum case, the SC had said in 1985, “A common civil code will help the cause of national integration by removing disparate loyalties to law which have conflicting ideologies.” Ten years later, in the Sarla Mudgal case, the SC had said, “Where more than 80% of citizens have already been brought under codified personal law, there is no justification whatsoever to keep in abeyance, any more, the introduction of uniform civil code for all citizens in India.” The apex court, yet again in 2003 in the John Vallamattom case, highlighted the desirability of achieving the goal set by Article 44 of the Constitution. Again, on September 13, 2019, the SC in Jose Paulo Coutinho case reiterated the need for a uniform civil code by citing the example of Goa but the Centre did not take any steps to even provide uniform grounds of maintenance and alimony for all Indian citizens, Upadhyay said in his earlier PIL. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought responses from Union ministries of home, law, and women and child development on the PIL seeking uniform adoption laws filed by advocate-petitioner Ashwini Upadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-seeks-govt-response-on-framing-uniform-adoption-laws/articleshow/80594527.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 30, 2021||Goa||None of us are going to survive if we disturb Mollem: Vijai Sardesai||PANAJI: The three contentious linear projects that cut across Mollem’s biodiversity hotspot came in for intense discussion in the assembly on Friday as Goa Forward Party president and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai tore through the government claims while moving a private member’s resolution to scrap the projects. Armed with a series of TOI reports, Sardesai said: “Yesterday’s (Thursday’s) edition of The Times of India says there is a direct co-relation between the havoc these three linear projects are going to cause in the biodiversity hotspot and Goa’s water security issue. This (forest at Mollem) is a unique ecosystem and if this ecosystem is disturbed, none of us are going to survive.” He said if the government could shift the IIT project from Melauli after people’s protest and scrap Marina project, then “there is nothing wrong in reviewing a project which is damaging the state. This is the jewel of our environment and these three linear projects will permanently damage it,” he said. Sardesai said public sentiment and scientific reason is crucial for taking a good U-turn. “If you do what people want, we will continue to remain in opposition,” he said. TOI has highlighted how the three contentious linear projects could create havoc with the world’s biodiversity hotspot and how important it is to preserve the thick green cover including for Goa’s water needs. Sardesai also brought to attention of the House a report that appeared in TOI on how urban development minister Milind Naik was a beneficiary of coal transportation. “If you read this (report), it is a shame. If I was in their place, I would have resigned. Have some conscience and save Goa,” he said, pointing to Naik. Opposition members expressed apprehension that the double-tracking and NH widening was for coal handling and all three projects would damage the flora and fauna of the region. Coming back to Friday’s report in this paper, Sardesai said double-tracking would be disastrous and it would even impact Dudhsagar. “They ( TOI) say that Dudhsagar won’t be there and this is not a simple newspaper. This is The Times of India,” he said. Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar also asked the government to read The Times of India to understand the gravity of the situation and how the three linear projects would damage the environment. Sardesai said whatever he was speaking in the House reflected 100 villages passing resolutions against the project and 3,000 people having signed a petition against it. “The government has been in an undue haste to pass these projects,” he said. Sardesai questioned the government on how these projects would benefit the wildlife in the forest that is home to 20% of butterfly species, rare birds and medicinal plants and is also a tiger habitat. “Despite all these facts, nobody is able to tell us the purpose of the project or how it is going to benefit Goans other than coal handling,” he said. Sardesai also countered the government’s statement that double-tracking would bring in more passenger trains from the current 5. “It will be a disaster when Railways do cutting and blasting for construction of 23 tunnels. It looks like somebody sitting in Delhi is pursuing these projects,” he said. Sardesai said he had brought the resolution to save Goa for posterity. “Why are these linear projects in the direction of Karnataka? That is the reason people have doubts over it and the way it has been cleared,” he said. Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao opposing the projects said there are a lot of ports and industries in the neighbouring state, but they don’t want to handle coal. “If we want to store coal in Goa, then we are finishing our future generation. Many people are dependent and get benefit of tourism, but only one person is benefited from coal handling,” Alemao said and asked the government to keep this project on hold for five years to clear doubts in the minds of people. Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro said there was no need for these projects. “Why did we need additional railway tracks and for whom. I don’t want to have an imbalance with regards to our population and this is not sustainable development,” Faleiro said. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said the government wants double-tracking and road widening to transport 136 million tonnes of coal. He also said the cutting of 40,000 trees will destroy the environment in the state. “Agitations are not religious, but it is the sentiment of the people to save Goa. Don’t play with the sentiments of the people. Goans have opposed these projects and people will stand against it,” he said. Senior member of the House Pratapsingh Rane, in his written message, said there is no need for double-tracking when Konkan railway is there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/none-of-us-are-going-to-survive-if-we-disturb-mollem-vijai-sardesai/articleshow/80594370.cms||Murari Shetye
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Mounted cops beat lockdown hurdles to stay on saddle||The contingent of 20 trained and well-groomed horses of the Kolkata Mounted Police was a sight to behold as their riders proudly rode them in formation along Red Road during the Republic Day parade last Tuesday. There was no way to tell that the force had recovered from a major crisis catalysed by the nationwide lockdown early last year. They are also ready for the upcoming Commissioner’s Cup. No wonder, their triumph over the insurmountable odds the lockdown threw their way has become a matter of pride for the entire police force. Challenge1: Food and manpower shortage The ordeal began soon after imposition of the nationwide lockdown. On one hand, most of the force’s civilian workforce couldn’t make it to work and on the other, they were fast running out of horse fodder. This created major problems, as the horses were facing the risk of either starving or falling sick due to a lack of proper exercise. When a horse doesn’t get enough exercise for even a couple of days, it becomes restless and can also fall sick. That’s because a horse’s body creates a toxin that it needs to run and burn. So, all the 78 horses of the Kolkata Mounted Police undergo a strict exercise routine every day. A lot of civic volunteers are engaged in getting that done. But when the lockdown was announced, more than 40% of them including a majority of stable boys couldn’t come to work. “In the initial phase, there was extreme panic among the common people and our civic volunteers gave in to that fear,” said Abhra Chatterjee, the officer-in-charge of Kolkata Mounted Police. Around the same time, the head trainer warned that they were running dangerously short on horse fodder. The fodder is a complex mixture with 16 ingredients and several contractors supply it to the force. “After several failed attempts and sleepless nights, the officers had run out of options. Thankfully, the contractors stepped in and somehow managed to procure most of the raw material,” said Abhra. Challenge 2: COVID-19 strikes Things started looking positive from around end-May, as fodder supply was back on track and most of the workers had rejoined work. Then suddenly in July and August, 16 police riders and officers in the unit tested COVID-19 positive. Along with them, 18 more officers were put in isolation. “Most of these 34 officers were riders and we didn’t have any clue how to manage the situation,” Abhra told us. The daily workout of the horses was sacrosanct, but there were not enough people to do the job. “According to norms, one person usually handles one horse. But during that time, one man had to handle up to four horses,” said ACP Arvind Mishra. During that time, not just Arvind or Abhra, but all Kolkata Police officers who knew riding came forward to help. “Riding is an important exercise for the horses. Out of three hours of training every day, a horse must be exercised and ridden for at least an hour,” said a senior police officer. So, from morning till evening, the 14 available officers would ride all the 78 horses and also take care of their food and grooming. Challenge 3: Nine novices There was another growing concern — nine new horses procured from the race course. Racehorses need training for police duties and that can usually take months. Arvind explained that police horses should be accustomed to loud noises and crowds. They should also know different styles of walking and how to carry themselves in special events like a parade. Racehorses don’t have this skillset. The skeletal workforce had no way of training these horses. All they could do was to give them enough exercise. The training sessions finally began after the lockdown was relaxed properly and more men could rejoin duty. Then began a race against time to prepare them for events in January, which is considered the second most hectic time for the police horses after IPL and football season. To speed up things, the new horses were put with trained ones and according to Abhra, four of the new horses improved enough within a few weeks to be included in the Republic Day contingent. “A few of the new horses are part of the team for the Commissioner’s Cup,” he added. The lockdown blues Even while tackling one challenge after another amid the lockdown, the force had to continue their regular policing duties in the Maidan and Esplanade areas. “The horses behaved strangely during that time. They are accustomed to the noise and crowds in the area and we could sense their astonishment on seeing the deserted streets. They seemed to be feeling lonely,” Abhra said, adding that the animals became much more relaxed after the daily crowd started swelling post the lockdown. “It was not just us humans, even these poor animals were eagerly waiting for the tough period to get over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fodder-and-manpower-shortage-mass-covid-infectionskolkata-mounted-police-surmounts-lockdown-hurdles-to-stay-on-the-saddle/articleshow/80594666.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Punishing teens in love not aim of Pocso, says Madras HC||CHENNAI: Punishing an adolescent boy who enters into a relationship with a minor girl by treating him as an offender was never the objective of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, observed the Madras high court. It also recommended to the legislature to swiftly bring necessary amendments to the act. The court made the observations while quashing criminal proceedings pending before a magistrate court against an auto driver who was booked under the Pocso Act for marrying a minor girl. The case was filed in 2018, when both the boy and the girl were a few days short of 18. The girl’s family moved the HC to quash the criminal proceedings, saying the family wanted to get the girl married and that the criminal proceedings caused them mental agony. On her part, the girl also deposed before the court through video-conferencing and said she was in a relationship with the boy. The prosecution argued that the court has to consider whether an offence of this nature could be quashed on the ground of compromise between the parties. Justice N Anand Venkatesh, after perusing the submissions, noted that there can be no second thought as to the seriousness of offences under the Pocso Act and the object it seeks to achieve. "However, it is imperative for the court to draw a thin line that demarcates the nature of acts that should not be made to fall within the scope of the act, for such is the severity of sentences provided under the act, if acted upon hastily, it could lead to irreparable damage to the livelihood of youth whose actions would have only been innocuous." The judge said the law meant to protect and render justice to victims of child abuse can become a tool in the hands of certain sections of the society. The court also pointed out that it is crucial to be aware of the science and psychology of adolescence and young adulthood and cited various studies and to the definition by the UN, which categorises adolescence as 10-19 years of age and young people as 10-24 years in the Southeast Asia region. "This court is not turning a blind eye to cases where victims or survivors may, under the effect of trauma, convince themselves that the element of consent was present nor is the court justifying the genuineness of the accused in every case where the accused and minor girl were in a relationship. That will depend on facts and circumstances of each and every case," Justice Anand Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/punishing-teens-in-love-not-aim-of-pocso-says-madras-hc/articleshow/80594663.cms||Srikkanth D
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Controversial Pocso rulings cost Bombay high court judge her confirmation||NEW DELHI: Back-to-back controversial decisions relating to child sexual offences forced the Supreme Court collegium to take the unprecedented step of withdrawing its recommendation to the Centre to make the author of the judgments, Justice Pushpa Virendra Ganediwala, an additional judge in Bombay high court, a permanent judge of the HC. Ganediwala stunned many with her January 19 judgment acquitting a 39-year-old man from the charge under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on the ground that pressing the breasts of a 12-year-old girl without removing her top did not entail skin-to-skin contact and, hence, was not an offence under the Act. A day later, the collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, disregarding serious objections from two senior SC judges, "approved the proposal for appointment of Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge of Bombay HC". The SC sent this approval to the law ministry. As public criticism mounted against the specious “skin-to-skin contact” logic that reflected the judge’s insensitivity towards minor girls subjected to sexual harassment or assault, senior judges of the SC, Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud, both hailing from Bombay HC, reiterated their strong reservations against making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge of the HC in closed door conversations. Both had reservations even against her initial appointment as an additional judge in Bombay HC in February 2019. Justices Khanwilkar and Chandrachud, who are not members of the three-member collegium that decides appointments, confirmations and transfers of HC judges, convinced one of the members of collegium to withdraw his consent to the resolution approving appointment of Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge. When the CJI was deliberating on the embarrassing move of recalling the proposal that had already been sent to the Union government, Justice Ganediwala made his task easier by giving a second controversial judgment on January 28, by which she acquitted a 50-year-old man by ruling that holding the hand of a five-year-old girl and unzipping his pants in front of her could not be categorised as a sexual offence under Pocso Act. It proved to be the last straw and the collegium withdrew its January 20 resolution approving her appointment as a permanent judge. The collegium is now of the view that she would continue as an additional judge of Nagpur bench of Bombay HC for another year or two. The SC judges are of the opinion that she needs to be sensitised about the aim and object behind enactment of Pocso Act. Justice Ganediwala was appointed as a district judge in 2007 and was named an additional judge of Bombay HC on February 13, 2019. She was due for appointment as a permanent judge after completing two years as an additional judge. It was approved by the collegium, but her two controversial judgments threw cold water on the decision. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala was appointed as a district judge in 2007 and was named an additional judge of Bombay high court on February 13, 2019. She was due for appointment as a permanent judge after completing two years as an additional judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/controversial-pocso-rulings-cost-hc-judge-her-confirmation/articleshow/80594664.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 30, 2021||Business||Tata Motors Q3 net jumps 65% to Rs 3,222 crore on JLR||Mumbai: Profit at Tata Motors, the flagship of the Tata Group, rose 65% to Rs 3,222 crore in Q3FY21 due to higher earnings from Jaguar Land Rover. Revenue increased 5% to Rs 74,879 crore, the company said on Friday after market hours. Expenses remained flat at Rs 71,776 crore as it controlled costs. Tata Motors said, despite continued Covid-related uncertainties, supply bottlenecks and commodity inflation, it expects to end the fiscal on a strong note. Operating profit of JLR, the biggest contributor to earnings, rocketed 84% to Rs 5,014 crore even though the luxury car unit’s revenue dropped a bit to Rs 58,606 crore.  JLR sales in China jumped 19%, while in the UK it was weak. Commercial vehicles (CVs) saw a turnaround, making an operational profit of Rs 368 crore. It had made an operational loss of Rs 301 crore a year ago. Operational losses at passenger vehicles (PVs) narrowed to Rs 291 crore from Rs 620 crore in Q3FY20. Revenue from CVs and PVs increased 21% to Rs 10,388 crore and 80% to Rs 4,933 crore. The company said that its promoter Tata Sons exercised warrants worth Rs 2,600 crore in January and, as a result, the Tata Group’s stake in the flagship increased to 46%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-motors-q3-net-jumps-65-to-rs-3222-crore-on-jlr/articleshow/80593725.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||HipBar only Indian co in new global liquor coalition||Chennai: City-based alcohol delivery startup HipBar is representing the country in a first-of-its-kind global coalition to help set standards for home delivery of alcoholic beverages. 12 global beer, wine, and spirits companies who are part of the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD) have partnered with 12 e-commerce platforms operating worldwide to develop and enhance safeguards to prevent the online sale and delivery of alcohol to minors and reduce harmful drinking among adults.Diageo, Kirin, AbInBev, Glovo, Grab, Uber Eats, JD.com, Jumia, Drizly and others are among the 24 companies part of the global coalition. As the first and only member from India and with over six years of experience in this sector, HipBar said they emerged as a “natural partner” for IARD’s effort to evolve the global standards, and are keen to adopt it for India. HipBar currently delivers alcohol in West Bengal and Orissa through its platform. “As a country with the hangover of colonial laws on the one hand and a fast growing population entering the legal drinking age on the other, we at HipBar believe that technology assisted home delivery of alcoholic beverages with adequate checks and balances can foster responsible consumption,” HipBar CEO Prasanna Natarajan said. The online home delivery channel can be used to introduce digital ID checks, implement digital quotas and disseminate public health messaging, he added. The standards will especially address issues around security measures to prevent minors and individuals showing visible signs of intoxication from buying alcohol beverages online “We are excited about the promise of this partnership to develop powerful tools to help prevent minors from buying and consuming alcohol and to help reduce harmful drinking among adults. By building on safeguards that have already proven effective in certain countries and sharing new solutions and best practices, we can raise standards globally, from the point of purchase through to delivery,” Albert Baladi, president and CEO of Beam Suntory and Chair of IARD CEO Group, said in a statement. The IARD is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to addressing harmful drinking worldwide and promoting understanding of responsible drinking, among those who choose to drink.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hipbar-only-indian-co-in-new-global-liquor-coalition/articleshow/80591850.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal: Covid vaccine enrolment drive for 50+ citizens in your ward soon||KOLKATA: Encouraged by the overwhelming response of citizens to get registered for Covid-19 vaccination at a special help desk at the Mayor’s Clinic in Chetla, KMC has decided to open similar registration desks in all 144 wards to enlist vulnerable citizens for the inoculation drive. A notice has been sent to all ward medical officers to open registration centres at the earliest. Some KMC urban primary health centres in central, north and south Kolkata started the registration on Thursday. Civic health officials said more centres would gradually join the drive to enlist citizens above 50 years, particularly those with co-morbidities. Though no timeline or policy has yet been announced for vaccination of the general population, KMC is keen to keep the data ready for uploading in the Co-Win app to enlist vaccine recipients. “Anyone above 50 years and with history of co-morbidity like hypertension, diabetes and respiratory problems can get themselves enlisted. They need to furnish medical documents to support their claim,” said an official. At the Chetla clinic, where registration for the jab began on Monday, more than 400 citizens have already enlisted themselves. They include people from other parts of the city. Among them was Kaberi Bose, a retired government teacher and a resident of Kasba. She has registered herself and her husband at the Chetla clinic. “I don’t want to miss out on the dose when the vaccination begins for citizens. Now that we have registered, I am sure KMC will give us a call when our turn comes,” said Bose, adding that the shot was needed to ward off the fear that had gripped the minds of elderly since the outbreak of the pandemic. According to plans, the civic body will open vaccination registration camps at each of the 144 KMC ward health clinics in phases. “In the first phase, we will open centres in the boroughs. Depending on the response and availability of healthcare professionals, we will then begin registration at our clinics at the ward level,” a senior official in the KMC health department said. Sharmila Dasgupta, a state government employee and a resident of Bansdroni, is eagerly waiting for the registration facility to start near her residence. “I am waiting for the registration counters to open at my neighbourhood KMC health clinic. I will register myself and my family. This is crucial for my peace of mind,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vax-enrolment-drive-for-50-citizens-in-your-ward-soon/articleshow/80591415.cms||Saikat Ray
January 30, 2021||Patna||Bihar shows resilience in Covid fight||PATNA: With a recovery rate of 98.92%, nearly 3% higher than the national average, the state has come a long way in fighting Covid-19 pandemic. State’s infection and death rates have also plunged below 1% as they stood at 0.15% and 0.57%, respectively, on Friday. The state recorded just 121 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours, a significant drop from nearly 3,000 daily cases being registered in July-August last year. The downward trend in the number of positive cases started from August-end as 1,324 cases were reported on August 31 and it plunged to around 1,200 daily cases in October and further came down to less than 1,000 daily cases by the end of October. Plunge in rate of infection has, in turn, led to rise in recovery. As per the daily bulletin issued by the health department on Friday, 278 people recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 2,57,669 people have defeated the virus in the state since its outbreak in March last year. Though the state’s overall Covid tally has risen to 2,60,479, there were just 1,315 active cases on Friday. Three fresh deaths in the last 24 hours have taken the state’s Covid toll to 1,495. Experts, however, have suggested people not to let their guard down. “In several European countries as well as in the UK, other strains of the virus emerged when the cases plunged. The cases have come down in India, including in Bihar, but that does not mean that people stop taking precautions,” AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. He added around 30% population of Bihar is estimated to have been infected with the virus so far. “As per rough estimates, around 25-30% people in Bihar have already been infected with Covid. This includes majority of people from urban areas. The spread of the virus in rural areas has remained almost static over the past few weeks,” he said. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said the rate of infection remained significantly lower in the rural areas of the state. “Despite the fact that more than 20 lakh migrant workers returned from across the country during the lockdown, the infection rate in villages and rural areas remained quite low. Another reason for low infection rate in Bihar is stronger immunity in people. Several general antibodies are already present in the people in the state owing to frequent viral diseases,” he said, adding caution is still necessary till more people are vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-shows-resilience-in-corona-fight/articleshow/80590008.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Edu dept to start classes at Atal Adarsh Schools||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department is planning to start classes at the Atal Adarsh Schools in the upcoming academic year. State education minister Arvind Pandey has recently given orders to complete all the pending work regarding the establishment of the model schools and start classes. Instructions have also been given to fill the vacant posts of principals and teachers in various government-aided schools. Besides, the minister also ordered the reopening of the state’s sports colleges from February 1, 2021, by implementing the SOPs issued by the Government of India. The guidelines for the appointment of teachers in the Atal Adarsh Schools will be different and are yet to be finalised. Notably, the department is yet to complete the process of getting affiliation from the CBSE for these model schools. Meanwhile, elections for different posts in the state teachers’ association have been postponed and will take place after the completion of the state board exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-start-classes-at-atal-adarsh-schools/articleshow/80590216.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 30, 2021||Patna||Paddy procurement deadline extension evokes mixed response in Bihar||PATNA: The state government’s decision to extend the deadline for paddy procurement from January 31 to February 21 has evoked mixed response from farmers. While a majority have claimed that the extension will allow the left out farmers to sell their yield to Primary Agriculture Co-operative Societies (PACS), a few rued slow procurement and involvement of middlemen in the process. Sudhanshu Kumar, a progressive farmer from Nayanagar village in Samastipur district said paddy procurement has been good through PACS. “Majority of farmers in the district have sold their paddy yield to PACS at the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. The deadline extension for paddy procurement will allow the leftover farmers as well to sell their yield. It is a welcome step by the government,” he said. As per data available on the website of the state cooperative department, 22.2lakh metric tonnes of paddy has been procured from 2,99,673 farmers through PACS in all 38 districts to date. The target for Kharif (monsoon) paddy procurement for 2020-21 has been fixed at 45 lakh metric tonnes. Bandana Preyashi, secretary (cooperative department), said the paddy procurement quantity, as well as farmers selling their yield through PACS for the current season, has already surpassed last year’s figures. “The paddy procurement in the state last year stood at around 20 lakh metric tonnes, while we have procured 22.23 lakh metric tons this year so far. And we are certain to procure from maximum willing farmers based on our assessment,” Bandana told TOI, adding the number of farmers registered for paddy procurement through PACS increased from 2.72 lakh last year to 2.99 lakh this year so far. According to the cooperative department’s figures, the highest paddy procurement has been done in Rohtas district, where 2.16 lakh metric tonnes of the crop yield has been procured to date. However, Yashwant Kumar Singh, a farmer from Sasaram, the district headquarters of Rohtas district claimed that direct procurement from farmers is less. “Though 2.16 lakh metric tonnes paddy procurement through PACS is being shown in official records, but it is not more than 15-20% of the total yield of paddy in the district. Owing to the slow process in PACS and involvement of middlemen, large numbers of farmers are still selling their paddy yield to middlemen at prices lower than the MSP,” Singh said. Another farmer in Gopalganj claimed that many farmers are selling their paddy yield at Rs1500-1600 to the middleman. “Though extending the deadline for paddy procurement is a welcome step, but not more than 20% of the farmers in the district are selling their yield through PACS. Majority of farmers are selling to middlemen at the rate of Rs1500-1600 per quintal, who are in turn selling it to PACS at the MSP fixed by the government,” the Bhorey block-based farmer said. Preyashi, however, claimed that the involvement of middlemen has been minimised to a large extent. “The government has taken several measures to ensure farmers don’t go to middlemen. We started early procurement this year as it started almost one and a half year ahead than last year. Besides, Kisan Selhakars were roped in and more than 2 lakh farmers have been registered with their assistance. The process of registration has also been eased,” she said. Devendra Yadav, a farmer from Madhubani said paddy procurement through PACS has increased in the district, especially after the new farm bills were passed by the Centre. “Farmers are now more alert in selling their yield at MSP after PM Narendra Modi emphasised it and the Centre introduced the new farm bills,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/paddy-procurement-deadline-extension-evokes-mixed-response/articleshow/80589806.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 30, 2021||Patna||PU to develop south campus at Saidpur for academic purposes: VC||PATNA: Space-starved Patna University (PU) will soon develop its south campus at Saidpur for academic purposes, said PU vice-chancellor (VC) G K Chaudhary. Addressing the annual meeting of PU senate at the Wheeler Senate House here on Friday the VC said that as the present university campus on Ashok Raj Path was congested, an entirely new academic complex would be developed at Saidpur where Vanijya Mahavidyalaya and some postgraduate (PG) departments would be shifted. “Some other academic and administrative centres of the university will also be developed there,” he said. Chaudhary announced that efforts are being made to digitize all the workings of the university by resorting to complete automation of its admission, examination and accounts. “All the admissions have been managed online this year and even the hostels are being allotted to the scholars online to combat impersonation and unauthorised entry of outsiders,” the VC said, adding that the University Management Information System (UMIS) would also be implemented soon and CCTV cameras installed at all strategic points on the campus. He further pointed out that the construction work of a first-of-its-kind Dolphin Research Centre on PU campus is likely to be started soon and a new building of Population Research Centre would also be constructed at a cost of Rs 6.9 crore. “The networking of PU will also start soon as the job has been entrusted to ERNET (Education and Research Network),” Chaudhary said and added that the ministry has already sanctioned a sum of Rs 8 crore for the purpose. The university has already created a full-fledged IT cell on the campus which would establish a link between all its colleges and PG departments. PU has also urged the state government to sanction necessary funds for the construction of its new (G+10) administrative block with a state-of-the-art auditorium on the top floor. “A proposal for this has already been submitted to the chief minister,” the VC said. Commerce teacher and syndicate member S B Lal presented the 2019-20 annual report. Another syndicate member Navin Kumar Arya presented scores of ordinances and regulations of various courses all of which were approved by the senate. Those, who participated in the deliberations, include B N College principal Raj Kishore Prasad, Women’s Training College teacher Munnawar Jahan, commerce teacher Chandrama Singh, psychology teacher Sheo Sagar Prasad, Patna University Students’ Union president Manish Yadav and former president Ashish Sinha, employees’ representative Subodh Kumar, senate members Abhijit Kashyap, Pappu Verma and Nitish Kumar Tantan and former VCs L N Ram and Rash Bihari Prasad Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vc-pu-to-develop-south-campus-at-saidpur-for-academic-purposes/articleshow/80589885.cms||B K Mishra
January 30, 2021||Patna||AIMIM, LJP MLAs’ meeting with Bihar CM triggers speculations||PATNA: The surprise meeting of all five MLAs of Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM and the lone MLA of Chirag Paswan-led LJP with Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday has triggered strong speculations in political circles that they might change their loyalty and join the ruling JD(U) in days to come. Political analysts are giving more weightage to the speculation this time after the Bahujan Samaj Party’s lone MLA in Bihar, Mohammad Zama Khan, joined JD(U) last week following a “similar meeting” with the CM. Though AIMIM state president and MLA Akhtarul Iman, who led the party’s legislators to the CM residence on Thursday, claimed that their meeting was on the issue of “development of Seemanchal region”, the party’s youth wing president Aadil Hasan told TOI on Friday that the AIMIM conveyed it to Nitish that “Owaisi’s party will support him only when he (Nitish) comes out of the shadow of BJP”. “Our party has a clear stand on the issue of extending support to Nitish Ji. We will not support him until he leaves BJP. AIMIM chief had also made it clear during an election rally in Seemanchal last year,” Hasan said. Iman claimed their meeting with the CM was to seek a special package for Seemanchal from where all the five AIMIM MLAs won in the last assembly elections. However, a senior JD(U) leader preferring anonymity told TOI that Seemanchal development was just an alibi. “Wait for some more days. Everything will be known to the public,” he said and added: “During his initial meetings with the JD(U) leaders, Zama also had given similar excuses.” Hours before their meeting, lone LJP MLA from Matihani (Begusarai) Raj Kumar Singh had met Nitish. Singh also told the reporters that the meeting was for “some development works” in his constituency. Singh had visited the residence of JD(U)’s state working president Ashok Choudhary during a book launch event four days back and had categorically told the reporters that Nitish was the NDA leader in Bihar. JD(U) had won 43 seats in the 2020 assembly polls. With Zama on its side, the party’s tally in the 243-member assembly has reached 44. If the 5 MLAs of AIMIM and the one of LJP join JD(U), it will not only increase its tally in the assembly, but also scuttle the RJD’s plan to form government with the support of the smaller parties like AIMIM, HAM(S), VIP and LJP. The RJD-led Mahagathbandhan has a total 110 MLAs. RJD’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will require at least 13 more MLAs’ support to reach the majority mark of 122. If the five AIMIM MLAs change loyalty, it will be very difficult for Tejashwi to reach the magic figure of 122, political analysts say. “Thus, by luring the AIMIM MLAs, Nitish would scuttle Tejashwi’s plan to become CM at least for the next four years,” a JD(U) leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-ljp-mlas-meeting-with-cm-triggers-speculations/articleshow/80591511.cms||Madan Kumar
January 30, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav urges farmers to join human chain||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday said the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) would continue supporting the agitation launched by the farmers against three farm bills passed by the Centre recently. Tejashwi said all preparations have been for Saturday’s human chain formation in the state in support of farmers. “Coordination committees have been set up in the districts to make the programme a success,” Tejashwi said. He added senior GA leaders discussed the issue related to the farmers at Friday’s meeting and decided to stand firmly with them. “The government is trying to pit the farmers and jawans against each other to suit its vested interests,” he alleged. Tejashwi appealed to people and farmers of the state to join the human chain on Saturday. Taking a dig at CM Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi said when the RJD was in power, crops were being purchased at a higher rate than minimum support price. “The CM, who comes from the socialist background, has become insensitive towards farmers,” he said. Congress legislature party leader Anil Sharma was also present at the press conference. Earlier, leaders of the Left parties and the Congress took part in the meeting to review preparations for Saturday’s human chain formation. Many farmers unaware of protest: Farmers are unlikely to hold any large-scale protest against the newly enacted farm laws in Katihar, Gaya and other districts on Saturday. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj said he has no information about any hunger strike by farmers on Saturday. Some farmers present on the collectorate premises too said they have no knowledge about the agitation. “We don’t know about any protest in the district,” said Krishna Kumar Singh (32) of Kushwaha Tola in the town. Ram Bahadur Singh (45), another farmer, echoed Krishna’s tone. In Gaya, the RJD-led opposition has made all necessary preparations for human chain formation on Saturday. Congress district president Chandra Prasad Yadav said the human chain would be formed from Dobhi to Belaganj in the district. “We have requested the common people too to join the human chain,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-urges-farmers-to-join-human-chain/articleshow/80589703.cms||Ramashankar
January 30, 2021||Patna||Eastern Railways introduces smart switch windows in AC coaches||BHAGALPUR: Smart switch windows and opaque doors are new features of Delhi-Howrah Rajdhani Express as the Eastern Railways (ER) ramps up its efforts to improve the travel experience for passengers. The new smart feature is available in the first AC coaches of the Rajdhani train. In fact, amid increasing demands of railway passengers to put back curtains in the air-condition coaches for privacy as well as for filtering the lights, ER is endeavouring to install smart switch windows in air-conditioned coaches of all trains. In the ‘switched off mode’, the smart window turns opaque, preventing UV radiation and also ensuring passenger privacy. This feature will replace the curtains that the trains had earlier. It may be mentioned here that the curtains in air-conditioned coaches of Rajdhani, Shatabdi, other mail and express trains were removed to prevent spread of Covid-19 virus in April last year. As train services resumed, long distance passengers’ complaint regarding constant light from the window, privacy issues and other hassles due to removal of curtains started pouring in and hence the ER took up this new initiative. ER CPRO Kamal Deo Das said though removal of curtains was inevitable due to Covid-19, the need of putting curtains on to the windows of air-conditioned coaches were felt as passengers faced inconvenience due to constant light from outside. “This problem exists on pan India basis. The ER, has thus introduced Polymer Dispersed Liquid Crystal (PDLC)-based smart switc windows in the First-AC coach of 02301 Howrah–New Delhi AC Special, erstwhile known as Rajdhani Express, as a pilot project,” Das said. He added, “The newly-installed window glass based on this technology will help the passengers to enjoy privacy, whenever they want and will also cut the ultra-violet (UV) radiation through the window glass. The PDLC-based smart switchable windows will be introduced in other air-conditioned coaches of different trains in future as a solution which will also help in tackling the menace of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/er-introduces-smart-switch-windows-in-ac-coaches/articleshow/80589913.cms||Kumar Rajesh
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Number of sites goes up in Bengal, but turnout dips to 67%||KOLKATA: On a day the state scaled up its vaccination sites to the highest so far, the turnout dipped to 67%. On Friday, vaccination was carried out at 518 centres across the state with a target of 100 recipients at each. But only 34,509 turned up against the target of 51,800. This was the 10th round of vaccination in the state. Around 6.5 lakh health workers have been enrolled to be vaccinated in the first phase. “There has been no serious AEFI case on Friday till reports last came in. So far, a cumulative of 2,21,903 people have received the shot, with an overall turnout of 73%,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director health services. Six persons complained of minor issues on Friday, but none required hospital care. The second highest number of vaccination sites in the state was 475 on January 25 and it saw an 80% turnout. Sources said that most medical colleges and teaching hospitals had an overwhelming response on Friday, but primary health centres and rural healthcare facilities saw poor attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-of-sites-goes-up-but-turnout-dips-to-67/articleshow/80591422.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 30, 2021||Business||Swedish co SSAB drops plans to buy Tata Steel’s Dutch biz||MUMBAI: Swedish major SSAB has “withdrawn” its interest to buy Tata Steel’s Netherlands business citing “technical reasons”, dealing a blow to the Indian company’s restructuring efforts. The breakdown in talks has brought Tata Steel’s more than Rs 1 lakh crore of debt into focus, with no immediate resolution for its European portfolio in sight. The deal would have transferred some of Tata Steel’s debt to SSAB, allowing the Indian company to focus more on its home market, which accounts for two-thirds of its business. In November, Tata Steel said it would split its European portfolio to pursue separate strategic paths for the UK and Netherlands units. Under the plan, it said it was in talks with SSAB to sell its IJmuiden, Netherlands unit, a deal which analysts valued at $2-3 billion. And for the Port Talbot, UK unit, it said it was looking to make it “self-sustaining”. On Friday, SSAB said that after deeper analysis and discussions, it became clear that there were limited possibilities to integrate IJmuiden into its sustainability strategy. The Swedish major is pivoting towards a more environment-friendly, fossil-free steelmaking business model, and it was reportedly concerned about IJmuiden’s carbon footprint. “The synergies that we saw in the transaction would not fully justify the costs and investments required for our desired transformation (of becoming a fossil-free company),” said SSAB CEO Martin Lindqvist. This is the second time Tata Steel has suffered a setback in its European restructuring efforts. In 2019, its attempt to form a joint venture with Germany’s Thyssenkrupp for the European portfolio failed after resistance from the region’s anti-trust regulator that the transaction would push up prices and reduce competition. The latest development comes at a time when the European steel industry is facing demand challenges amid the Covid pandemic and the economic slowdown. After the recent turn of events, Tata Steel said it remains committed to finding a sustainable solution for its European assets. It added that IJmuiden is among the most environmentally efficient and cost-competitive steel producers in Europe. Tata Steel has been trying to find a solution for its European portfolio for some years now. It has sold bits and parts of the portfolio, but continues to hold the bulk of the European assets. It gained the European portfolio through the acquisition of Corus for $13 billion in 2007. At that time, India accounted for less than a third of Tata Steel’s business. Tata Steel said that it remains committed to undertake significant de-leveraging in fiscal 2021 and beyond. It is looking at other non-core asset sales as it plans to bring its debt to Rs 75,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swedish-co-ssab-drops-plans-to-buy-tata-steels-dutch-biz/articleshow/80593650.cms||Reeba Zachariah
January 30, 2021||Vadodara||Six cars, Rs 50 lakh cash seized from accused||VADODARA: Investigations into the Statue of Unity (SoU) cheating case has revealed that the accused bought six cars from the siphoned Rs 5.24 crore along with some properties. The Narmada police said that they have seized all the cars and are in the process of identifying ownership details of the properties purchased by the accused. The Narmada police had in November last year arrested four persons for siphoning off Rs 5.24 crore from the revenues generated by the SoU. All the accused worked for a cash management agency, Writers Business Services Pvt Ltd (WBSL) that used to collect cash from SoU and deposit it at HDFC Bank. The money was siphoned off between November 2018 and March 2020. An FIR was registered by HDFC Bank against WBSL on November 30, 2020 at Kevadia police station. Two more accused were arrested later by the cops. “The cars bought by the accused were given on rent to the firm that they were working for and the vehicles were also used as taxi. We have seized all the cars along with cash amounting to Rs 50 lakh,” said Vani Dudhat, DySP, Kevadia. Cops also identified a property that the accused had purchased near Vadodara. “They have invested in some other properties in Gujarat. We are trying to gather ownership details of such properties as they may have bought it in some other person’s name,” Dudhat told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-cars-rs-50l-cash-seized-from-accused/articleshow/80590022.cms||Tushar Tere
January 30, 2021||Patna||Patna University senate okays Rs 545-crore deficit budget||PATNA: The Patna University (PU) senate passed a Rs 545.15-crore deficit budget for the 2021-2022 financial year on Friday. It will now be submitted to the government for its inclusion in the annual state budget. Presenting the budget, PU pro-vice-chancellor (VC) Ajay Kumar Singh pointed out that it envisaged an expenditure of Rs 583.98 crore against an income of Rs 38.83 crore from all sources. “The expenditure is likely to be met with grants from the education department (Rs 557.03 crore), science and technology department (Rs 4.42 crore), directorate of distance education (Rs 5.53 crore), and vocational and self-financing courses (Rs 17.20 crore),” he said and added, “Due to non-receipt of statutory grants from the government for the last 16 years, PU has been facing difficulties in clearing its outstanding liabilities, including payment of electricity charges, municipal taxes and maintenance of laboratories and other infrastructural facilities.” Singh observed that PU had been facing acute dearth of teachers and non-teaching staff. “There are only 291 teachers working in the university against 869 sanctioned posts. The academic work is being managed with the help of 87 guest faculty members. Similarly, only 619 non-teaching staff are working against 1,506 sanctioned posts. A sum of Rs 51.10 crore has been proposed for the appointment of non-teaching staff on contract basis through outsourcing,” he said. The pro-VC also pointed out that a sum of Rs 57.6 crore had been provided in the budget for the payment of arrears of revised pay to the teachers and non-teaching staff. He added, “Another sum of Rs 77.21 crore has been provided for construction of employees’ quarters and repair of existing quarters, construction of elevators at the PU office, library, and Darbhanga House. The budget also includes a sum of Rs 22.55 lakh for strengthening the placement cell.” PU VC Girish Kumar Chaudhary presided over the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-senate-oks-rs-545-crore-deficit-budget/articleshow/80589849.cms||B K Mishra
January 30, 2021||Patna||Bihar pins hopes on Budget for revival||PATNA: Trade and industry bodies as well as common people in the state have high expectations from the Union Budget to be presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1. Since this will be the first Budget after the Covid onslaught on the country’s economy, all eyes are on the finance minister. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are hopeful that the finance minister will bring in reforms and present a favourable Budget. “We are expecting concessions for small businesses which bore the brunt of Covid pandemic. Reduction in loan interest will go a long way in helping the MSMEs,” Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan said. The pandemic-hit common people too expect relief from the government. “Special incentives to facilitate establishment of business units are a must. It will also generate employment in the state. The Centre should also accord special category status to Bihar for its overall development,” said Ashok Kumar, a resident of Kankarbagh. Preeti Rathore, a schoolteacher, said, “The pandemic was an eye-opener for the healthcare sector in India. The priority right now should be effective distribution of Covid-19 vaccine among all sections of people.” Political leaders too have kept their fingers crossed as far as the Budget is concerned. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the picture that has emerged from the President’s address to the joint session of Parliament is very encouraging. “We are hopeful that there will be budgetary allocations for Bihar. Funds might be allocated for completion of railway projects in the state,” he added. BJP general secretary Devesh Kumar said one should not forget that the world has gone through a lot due to Covid pandemic and economies have taken a hit across the globe. “However, I am sure that the finance minister will come out with a Budget that will fulfil the expectations of all sections of people. It seems public expenditure and infrastructure projects will get a big boost,” he said. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said considering the track record of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre, one should not expect much this time too. “Let’s pray that the government does something for the farmers, daily wagers and youth,” Tiwari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-pins-hopes-on-budget-for-revival/articleshow/80591418.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||IndiGo official’s murder: Dipankar Bhattacharya seeks CBI probe||PATNA: CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya on Friday said the state government should recommend a CBI probe into the murder of IndiGo’s station manager at Patna airport Rupesh Kumar Singh, who was shot dead in front of his apartment at Punaichak here on January 12. Bhattacharya, who is here to take part in Saturday’s human chain in support of farmers, said he was shocked to know that the police were yet to make a breakthrough in the IndiGo official murder case. Taking a swipe at the state government for issuing a directive to initiate action against those making comments against ministers and bureaucrats on social media, Bhattacharya said it was a deliberate attempt to suppress the voice of the people. He appealed to all non-NDA political parties and social organisations to take part in the human chain to be formed from 12.30pm to 1pm on Saturday to protest the three farm bills recently passed by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indigo-officials-murder-dipankar-seeks-cbi-probe/articleshow/80589759.cms||Ramashankar
January 30, 2021||Business||Volatility on Street ahead of Budget, bear grip on sensex||MUMBAI: Falling for the sixth consecutive session, the sensex lost 589 points, or 1.3%, to close at 46,286 on Friday. The slide came as investors preferred to offload their holdings ahead of the Budget on Monday. The sensex is now down about 3,900 points, or 3.8%, from its all-time intraday peak of 50,184 recorded on January 21. Traders expect next week to be volatile too because of the Budget. The news about the continuing spread of the virus in several countries also weighed on market sentiment during Friday’s session, brokers and analysts said. Just like the sensex, the Nifty on the NSE too closed sharply lower with the index down 183 points, or 1.3%, at 13,635. Market players feel that the government has to do a tightrope walk in terms of higher expenditure due to the fragile economic condition on the one hand and restricted revenues (expected to remain low due to the same reason) on the other. In such a situation, it remains to be seen what proposals the finance minister puts forward to support the economy and the market, they said. According to Emkay Wealth Management head (research) Joseph Thomas, the domestic market is awaiting the Budget on Monday, and it is quite likely that some positions have been pared ahead of the event. “Speculations about likely public sector bank recapitalisation based on the observations in the Economic Survey helped PSU banks to hold well, while the broader market was gradually declining during the day. The survey presents an optimistic picture of the economy, which has recovered from the economic distress caused by the pandemic and is poised to register positive growth numbers as we move into the new financial year. The fiscal, as well as monetary measures, are likely to be normalised over the next couple of years as the sustenance growth is the key objective that needs to be pursued.” The day’s slide was led by foreign fund selling, which has intensified in the past few sessions. On Friday, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) recorded a net outflow of Rs 5,931 crore, BSE data showed. There were reports that one of the largest exchange-traded funds in the world sold large chunks of some leading Indian stocks. So far this week, foreign funds have taken out about Rs 12,000 crore from the stock market, BSE and CDSL data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/volatility-on-street-ahead-of-budget-bear-grip-on-sensex/articleshow/80593563.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||EOU letter for legal action on online posts challenged in Patna HC||PATNA: The letter by Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of Bihar police for effective legal action against people or organizations making objectionable or misleading comments on social media platforms against government, ministers, MPs, MLAs and officers has been challenged in the Patna high court. A writ petition, in the nature of public interest litigation (PIL) and urgent matter, has been filed before the high court by Sushma Kumari and Siddharth Satyam on Thursday. The petitioners have sought stay order on the operation of the EOU letter dated January 21 this year till the pendency of the case. The letter, issued by EOU ADG Nayyar Hasnain Khan, was addressed to all principal secretaries and secretaries of the state government, asking them to inform them about any such incident for inquiry and legal action as such acts came under the purview of cybercrime. Opposition parties had criticised the letter saying it was like curbing freedom of speech. Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had even dared the state government to arrest him. Petitioners’ counsel Alka Verma said the letter is not backed by any law or notification of the state government. “Moreover, it is in violation of the provisions of the Constitution. The action mentioned in the letter is somewhat like Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, which curbed freedom of speech on internet and was struck down by the Supreme Court around five years back after being declared unconstitutional,” she said. Verma said the EOU letter is in violation of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution which has all the provisions of freedom of speech. “The letter is also not in consonance with Article 19(2) of the Constitution, which has provisions of reasonable restrictions. Under such provisions, only those speeches which cause danger to sovereignty of the nation or spoil relation with neighbouring countries are not allowed,” she added. The counsel said the letter talks about action for speech on online platforms but is silent on other media platforms. “This is like using different yardsticks for the same matter. The letter is vague and may end up in action against innocents,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eou-letter-for-legal-action-on-online-posts-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/80590205.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 30, 2021||Rajkot||Stalwarts to make space for minions in BJP this civic polls||Rajkot: This civic polls may turn out to be contest for the newbies in BJP in Rajkot as the older faces of the municipal corporation (RMC) may not contest this time. According to party officials, the party has more than 700 ticket aspirants in Rajkot only on 72 seats of RMC. BJP city president Kamlesh Mirani told TOI “Nitin Bhardwaj and Jaiman Upadhyay have explicitly expressed unwillingness to contest election this time.”Brother of late Rajya Sabha member Abhay Bhardwaj, Nitin’s family is very close to chief minister Vijay Rupani and going by sources, his supporters are lobbying for a RS ticket on the seat left vacant by the sudden death of his elder brother. Abhay Bhardwaj had succumbed to Covid-19 recently. Dr Jaiman Upadyay, a former mayor said, “I have been contesting the RMC elections for the past six terms. I served as health committee chairman, construction committee chairman. I served as standing committee chairman for three times, and also served as mayor so now the party should give chance to other workers.” Standing committee chairman, Uday Kangad, too expressed his unwillingness to contest election. “I told the party leadership that I contested elections for five terms so far and now, other workers too should get an opportunity. I have expressed my desire, it’s upto the party to decide,” said Kangad who served as deputy mayor, mayor, standing committee chairman for two terms.Mayor Bina Aacharya said that the day she filed the form for ticket, she was given the responsibility as state-level secretary in the party. “So, now the party will decide about my future role,” she said. According to sources Arvind Raiyani won assembly elections from Rajkot east constituency so he is not likely to get the ticket. The parliamentary board meeting on February 2 will discuss the names of ticket aspirants.In the RMC, BJP remained in power since the establishment of corporation except for one term from 2000 to 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stalwarts-to-make-space-for-minions-in-bjp-this-civic-polls/articleshow/80591028.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||Winter blues throw life out of gear in Patna||PATNA: People in Patna and most parts of Bihar are braving biting cold and windy conditions for the past few days, which has thrown life out of gear at a time when the cold weather is normally expected to start departing. Weather forecast: The lower temperature and cold winds have led to shivery conditions, which worsened on Friday with light showers at a few places in southwestern parts of the state. Officials at the Patna Meteorological Centre claimed that Rajauli, Sherghati, Aurangabad and Garhi were among the places that reported showers on Friday. The maximum temperature in Patna on Friday was recorded at 15.5 degrees C, which was eight notches lower than the corresponding normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 7 degrees C, which was three notches lower than normal. The minimum temperature at Valmikinagar in West Champaran was recorded at 5.5 degrees C. Weather Gods are unlikely to show much mercy till the weekend gets over. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday stated that cold to severe cold day conditions is very likely at a few places in Bihar over the next five days. Sudhanshu Kumar, an official at Patna met centre said the maximum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 15-20 degrees C at most places, while the minimum is likely to be in the range of 6-10 degrees C. “Majority places in the state are likely to witness cold day conditions along with windy condition,” he said. DMD advisory: The Bihar State Disaster Management Authority (BSDMA) has issued guidelines to 10 lakh people to take a slew of measures under the prevailing cold-day conditions. BSDMA’s vice-chairman Vyas Ji said, “We have issued an advisory through mass messaging to about 10 lakh people, which include members of the village panchayat, urban local bodies, teachers, officers and others, who have been trained in disaster management on how to cope up with the decreasing temperatures. Besides, blanket distribution by social welfare department and bonfire arrangements for the homeless by the government will be made.” Fog hits train operations: Rajesh Kumar, the CPRO of East Central Railway said, “There have been some delays and rescheduling of trains. However, the fog has yet not severely disrupted the train movements, which is also because a device named ‘fog pass’ has been provided to the drivers, which assists them in locating the signals even when the visibility due to fog is low.” Flight operations hit: The foggy conditions in the morning affected flight operations from Jai Prakash Narayan International Airport, Patna. Airport director Bhupesh CH Negi told TOI on Friday evening that flight operations started from around 10.30 am and few morning flights were delayed. The minimum visibility required for flight operations at the city airport is 1000m. Animal care at Patna zoo: Zoo authorities have placed additional heaters besides covering the floors straw and hay in the night houses. Zoo officials claimed that changes have also been made in the diet of animals. Satyajit Kumar, director of Patna zoo said: “The zoo is equipped with proper incubation, temperature control, diet and electricity supply to ensure animal safety and protection against the cold weather.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/winter-blues-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-patna/articleshow/80589652.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Allahabad||HC: Putting up names of accused on display sans proclamation is derogatory||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Friday held that the practice of putting names of the accused persons on the flysheet board at police stations without issuance of proclamation is derogatory to the concept of human dignity and privacy enshrined under Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. Further, the action of police officers in disclosing the identity of criminals in police stations in public gaze is absolutely unwarranted and uncalled for as being violative of Article 21 of the Constitution. Hence, the court directed the director general of police (DGP) to forthwith remove the names/identities of top- 10 criminals along with their criminal antecedents from the flysheet board from all the police stations. In addition, the court also directed the DGP to ensure that a circular in the light of this judgment is sent to all the police heads of the districts so as to ensure strict compliance. However, the court clarified that the benefit of the judgment will not be given to any “claimed offenders and fugitives in law”. The court further held that there is nothing wrong in preparing a list of top criminals in a district for surveillance. While allowing the writ petition filed by Jeeshan alias Jannu, Balveer Singh Yadav and Doodh Nath Yadav, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal observed, “It is apparent that neither socially nor politically it is desirable to curtail human dignity, which is infringed when names of the accused persons are displayed on the flysheet board of the police station concerned or anywhere else without there being any proclamation issued against them under section 82 of Criminal Procedure Code. Thus, this practice of putting the names on the flysheet board is derogatory to the concept of human dignity and privacy.” The three petitioners were aggrieved by the publication of their names in the list of top 10 criminals displayed at various police stations at districts of Prayagraj and Kanpur Nagar. The petitioners being real brothers, are also relatives of an ex-member of Parliament from Allahabad constituency. They contended that it was because of political vendetta that the police authorities published their names in criminal list. According to the petitioners, only one case was registered against each of them and it was on the basis of one case their names were included under the top 10 criminals. Therefore, the petitioners contended that personal enmity was being taken to illogical ends so as to harass them and that the act of police authorities publishing their names was in violation of right to life and right to privacy as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Regarding violation of right to life and right to privacy due to the said publication, the court relied on the judgment of Supreme Court in KS Puttuswamy Vs Union of India, and observed that “the judgment focusing on the aspect of privacy as a right to life has in fact insulated an individual from exercise of authority either by the legislation or the state so to prevent a person being made an object of ridicule or scorn”. While also relying on the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Private Limited Vs Union of India AIR 1986 SC 515, the court observed that “the validity of a subordinate legislation can be challenged on the grounds of unreasonableness”. Therefore, the court held that the policy regulation does not suffer from any lack of competence and cannot be held as ultra vires of the Constitution, Police Act or the UP Police Regulations. The court f held that there is nothing wrong in selecting top 10 criminals in a district for surveillance and observed, “The circular of DG, Police, U.P dated July 6, 2020 envisaging a criteria to select top 10 criminals in a district and in each police station is in exercise of power to maintain surveillance, to which no illegality could be attached. We also hold the circular dated July 6, 2020 to be lawful and valid. However, there is nothing in the circular which enables the police to disclose the identity of an accused and his criminal antecedents in public gaze.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-putting-up-names-of-accused-on-display-sans-proclamation-is-derogatory/articleshow/80590479.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 30, 2021||Business||Indian Oil board clears Rs 29,000 cr Nagapattinam refinery plan||Chennai: The board of directors of state owned Indian Oil Corporation on Friday cleared an investment of Rs 29,361 crore to construct and implement a 9 million tonne refinery in Nagapattinam through a special purpose vehicle. Indian Oil and its refining subsidiary CPCL will own 25% each in the SPV while the rest will be held by strategic or financial investors, the company said in a regulatory filing. The project needs regulatory approvals and nod from Niti Aayog, Indian Oil said. CPCL already owns 650 acres in the area as it already has a one million tonne refinery which is operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-oil-board-clears-rs-29000-cr-nagapattinam-refinery-plan/articleshow/80591944.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||Chinese phone manufacturers continue their India march||Chennai: Even as India bans Chinese apps on grounds of data privacy, Chinese smartphone makers continue to remain insulated from the escalating tensions between the two countries. Value conscious Indian buyers helped Xiaomi, Vivo, Oppo, and Realme collectively made up more than three-fourth of the Indian smartphone market in 2020, estimates from industry researchers show. Though Indian smartphone brands including Micromax, Karbon and others are taking efforts to capitalise on the anti-China sentiment, they face challenges on the supply front and it’s still early days for them, analysts said. 77% of total smartphone shipments in India in 2020 were by Chinese smartphone makers as against 72% in 2019, data from research firm Canalys shows. As per Canalys’ estimates for October to December 2020, the top four out of five smartphone vendors in India were Chinese brands. Xiaomi led the market with 27% share. Vivo, Oppo and Realme stood in third, fourth and fifth spots with Samsung at second spot being the lone non-Chinese maker. “Political headwinds between China and India is having little to no impact on the momentum vendors like Xiaomi, Oppo and Vivo gathered in 2020…On the other hand, Indian consumers are aware of cost and other advantages Chinese vendors are offering, which takes precedence when it comes to their gadget buying decision making,” Varun Kannan, research analyst at Canalys said. India’s smartphone market closed the pandemic year with shipment of almost 145 million units, a decline of just 2% YoY from 148 million units in 2019, after a strong recovery in the second half of the year, Canalys said. Counterpoint Research noted that while Chinese brands were largely insulated by the tensions between India and China, the vendors faced a slight dip in the second and third quarter of 2020. “This was not completely due to the geopolitical tension but other factors like supply chain issues, components, and operational issues, and the OEM’s had to redefine their supply and sales strategies,” Shilpi Jain, research analyst at Counterpoint said. Consumer sentiments may be impacted if tensions escalate, Jain added. Korean major Samsung stood best poised to gain from the anti-China sentiment and also managed to capitalise on it, to an extent, Counterpoint said.Navkendar Singh, research director at IDC India said Chinese smartphone makers led the transition from 3G to 4G technology in India and are well poised to lead the country into the 5G era as well. “They [Chinese OEMs] have dominated the market in terms of marketing, distribution, product specs and other factors for almost five years now, and have delivered value for money to the buyer. Indian smartphone brands can do well, but will need to do more in terms of branding, marketing, and product innovation to beat competitive pressures, Singh added. Xiaomi and Vivo did not respond to queries sent by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-phone-manufacturers-continue-their-india-march/articleshow/80591749.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 30, 2021||Surat||Surat: 30 workers saved in major mill fire||SURAT: As many as 30 workers, including women were rescued in a major fire, which broke out at the Labdhi Dyeing and Printing Mills at Bhawani circle at Varachha’s Ashwani Kumar Road on Friday. No casualty was reported. However, four people received minor injuries when they tried to come down from the third floor. The area houses many diamond cutting and polishing units, engineering units, residential and commercial apartments and is bustling with activity during day time. Chief Fire Officer (CFO) of the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), Basant Pareek, who had gone to rescue few women lost balance and fell on the hot oil spilled on the ground, too sustained burns injuries on his leg and arms and was immediately rushed to the Mahavir Hospital, where his condition is said to be normal. About 10 fire tenders and foam extinguishers were pressed into service to put out the blaze that erupted at 2.24 pm. The exact reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained. Sources said that the fire led to the thick black smoke due to carbon dioxide emission, which was visible from 10 kilometres. There was commotion among the residents in the area. Fire officials said that huge quantity of grey fabric, oil and chemical drums were stored inside the factory premises, which caught fire. The fire broke out in the processing and finishing section of the mill. Sources said that along with the highly inflammable polyester material, there were hazardous chemical drums inside the mill. The chemical drums burst due to the major fire. Meanwhile, the Torrent Power had shut the electricity supply in the entire for a couple of hours as part of precautionary measures. NV Upadhyay, deputy municipal commissioner told TOI, “As many as 30 people including few women workers were rescued safely from the textile mill. There are no casualties. Our CFO has sustained 10% burns injuries as he fell on the hot oil spilled inside the premises when he had gone to rescue the women trapped inside the mill.” “The fire could have erupted due to the short circuit or blast in the chemical drums stored in the factory. However, it took more than three hours for the fire fighters to douse the fire. We will start investigation to know the exact cause of the fire,” added Upadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/30-workers-saved-in-major-mill-fire/articleshow/80590679.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||Patna: Rise in number of flyers, train passengers in 2 months||PATNA: The number of flyers and train passengers has surged in the last few weeks following gradual relaxation in restrictions imposed earlier in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ratio of people flying from the Patna airport is higher than those coming from outside everyday. When asked, Patna airport director BCH Negi on Friday said the count of outbound flyers is higher than inbound passengers compared to the pre-Covid era. He said almost 80% of the air traffic has been resumed compared to period before the Covid-19 pandemic. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) sources said a large number of the outbound flyers are daily wagers, who had returned home after the lockdown and have been returning to different locations across the country for working in factories and other places. “The movement of daily wagers at large scale started after domestic flight operations resumed following the relaxations in the lockdown restrictions last year,” an AAI source said. He said more than 4,600 flyers left the city airport for different locations across the country on Thursday. “This figure could be compared to around 3200 inbound flyers,” he said. The officer said each outbound flight has been carrying 180 to 190 passengers on an average. He said more than 40 flights on an average are being operated daily from the Patna airport. As far as train movement is concerned, the number of passengers travelling has considerably gone high at different railway stations under the East Central Railway (ECR). Altogether 230 special passenger trains are either originating from or passing through the ECR jurisdiction these days. According to ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar, about two lakh passengers are travelling per day in the reserved coaches while about 15 lakh passengers are travelling in the unreserved coaches daily from different places under the ECR jurisdiction in Bihar. The number of passengers who travelled by the special trains in November was about 35 lakh while it increased to 48.2 lakh passengers in December last year, he said. Railways has, however, registered a sudden surge in the number of passengers this month. About 33 lakh passengers till date travelled from stations under ECR in January so far, yielding an impressive revenue of Rs179 crore. This figure is about 53.3% higher as compared to previous months, Kumar said, adding that the occupancy rate has been full in most of the long-distance special trains originating from Bihar. Railways has also earned about Rs1.99 crore from unreserved passengers in January so far, he said, adding that railways is earning Rs175 to 180 crore per month after restoration of special passenger train services in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rise-in-number-of-flyers-train-passengers-in-2-months/articleshow/80590039.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 30, 2021||Patna||Shaibal Gupta cremated with state honours in Patna||PATNA: Noted economist and founder secretary of Asia Development Research Institute (ADRI), Shaibal Gupta, was cremated with full state honours at Gulbi Ghat in Patna on Friday. His daughter Ashmita Gupta lit the funeral pyre. All his family members and close friends and associates besides several intellectuals and political workers were present at the cremation ghat. Shaibal died after protracted illness at a private city hospital on Thursday evening. Earlier on Friday, chief minister Nitish Kumar accompanied by water resources minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and education minister Ashok Kumar Choudhary visited Gupta’s Bank Road residence and paid floral tributes to the departed soul. Nitish consoled the family members and asked them to have patience and courage to bear this irreparable loss. Talking to reporters, Nitish recalled his old association with Shaibal and eulogized his valuable contribution to the state’s socioeconomic development. Shaibal’s idea about economic development was unique in many respects, he said. It was due to him that the state’s economic survey was done smoothly and he was also instrumental in raising the demand for special status to Bihar, the CM added. Former assembly Speaker Uday Narain Chaudhary, RJD leaders Jagdanand Singh, Mrityunjay Tiwari and Shyam Razak and former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey also paid their tributes to the departed soul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shaibal-gupta-cremated-with-state-honours/articleshow/80590186.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Clean fuel, green future: Kolkata to get CNG next week||KOLKATA: After a wait of more than two decades since the green fuel started being used in the country, the city will finally have CNG from next week. Bengal Gas company, a JV between GAIL and state-owned Greater Calcutta Gas will market CNG through its maiden station for now. CNG will be supplied by Essar from its Durgapur field by compressing CBM. The first outlet that will sell CNG commercially will be a BPCL outlet in Greenland, Garia. Essar Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Ltd (EOGEPL) said it had filled and dispatched the first Compressed Coal Bed Methane (C-CBM) Natural Gas cascade truck for Bengal Gas Company’s CNG station. “This will help fulfil our promise of providing clean energy and green fuel to Kolkata, paving the way for reduction of vehicular pollution,” the company said. Bengal Gas CEO Satyabrata Bairagi told TOI that they need permission from the state to start operation of the CNG station. Bairagi indicated that things will fall in place in the next eight-ten days. According to him, Bengal Gas will invest Rs 7,000 crore for setting up the gas grid in Kolkata and adjacent areas in the next few years. The GAIL JV with the state is planning to set up 186 CNG stations in the Kolkata area depending on CNG demand and conversion of existing vehicles into CNG-run ones. Besides Kolkata, BGC has city gas distribution rights for areas in Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and North and South 24 Parganas. Santosh Chandra, CEO of EOGEPL, pointed out that his company will be the upstream supplier of gas while the GAIL-state JV will market it. “We will supply 3.5 lakh cubic metres per day. In the next six months, it will go up to 10 lakh cubic metres per day. As per EOGEPL estimates, it is good enough to take care of half of the commercial fleet of the city or generate 450 MW power,” he said. “This is a momentous occasion for us at EOGEPL as we take the first step towards fulfilling our promise to the people and the government of Bengal. Our Coal Bed Methane gas, a clean and green fuel, is a turning point towards helping the state in its journey towards reduce air pollution. In line with the country’s vision, as we transform into a gas-based economy, we are committed to increasing the indigenous clean energy share in our energy mix, address issues of climate change and support an ‘aatma-nirbhar Bharat’,” said Chandra. He added that the GAIL Urja Ganga gas pipeline, when commissioned next month, will eventually become the energy lifeline of homes and industries in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clean-fuel-green-future-city-to-get-cng-next-week/articleshow/80591426.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man robs Rs 86,000 phone with toy gun, held||MUMBAI: Oshiwara police arrested a 23-year-old gym trainer for allegedly robbing mobile phone worth Rs 86,000 within 12 hours of the crime. Accused Danish Khan allegedly pointed a ‘toy gun’ at a shopowner in Oshiwara on Thursday and steal the phone. He claimed to have committed the offence after his phon, that was gifted to him by his father a few days ago, got damaged. Around 6pm, Khan he walked into Style Shop, a mobile showroom, and pointed a ‘gun’ at shopowner Jagdish Jetu (27). He robbed the phone, while there were three other people in the shop, and fled. “Khan was tracked with the technical help, and it was revealed that the gun was a toy,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-robs-rs-86k-phone-with-toy-gun-held/articleshow/80594020.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Shahnawaz Hussain, Mukesh Sahani take oath as MLCs||PATNA: BJP’s national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain and animal & fisheries resources minister Mukesh Sahani on Friday took oath as members of the Bihar Legislative Council before its acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh. Both Hussain and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Sahani were elected unopposed in the recent byelection for the two seats, which were vacant following the election of Sushil Kumar Modi to the Rajya Sabha and Vinod Narayan Jha to the state assembly. CM Nitish Kumar, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, state’s parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, education minister Ashok Choudhary were present on the occasion. With Hussain and Sahani entering the council, the total number of MLCs in the 75-member upper house rose to 59. Sixteen seats are still vacant. With Hussain’s entry, the number of BJP MLCs in the state rose to 18. However, it still has five members less than its ally JD(U)’s 23 MLCs. Similarly, RJD has 6, Congress 4, CPI 2, Independents 2 besides LJP, HAM(S) and VIP each have their members in the council. Of the 16 vacant seats, 12 are to be filled through nomination by the governor on the advice of the state council of ministers. The rest four vacant seats are of the local body authority category. Of the four, Darbhanga seat fell vacant following the untimely death of BJP member Sunil Kumar Singh due to Covid-19 in July 2020. The three other seats of Patna, Sitamarhi-Sheohar and Bhagalpur-Banka fell vacant after their last representatives Ritlal Rai, Dilip Rai and Manoj Yadav, respectively, were elected to the Vidhan Sabha in the 2020 polls. Sources in the council said no byelection will be held to fill up the four vacant seats as the six-year term of the outgoing members will expire in July. The governor will nominate the 12 MLCs only after the state cabinet sends the names to the Raj Bhavan. Sources said the ruling JD(U) and its main ally BJP are mulling over the names of 12 persons for nomination as MLCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shahnawaz-sahani-take-oath-as-mlcs/articleshow/80589674.cms||Madan Kumar
January 30, 2021||Patna||Railway doctors and workers being vaccinated: ECR||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has launched Covid-19 vaccination drive in railway hospitals and health centres falling under its jurisdiction in coordination with the state health department. In the first phase, railway doctors, paramedical staff and frontline healthcare workers are being vaccinated. While the drive has already begun at Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya divisional railway hospital, Samastipur divisional railway hospital and Sonepur divisional railway hospital, the other hospitals falling under the jurisdiction of ECR are also ready to follow suit. Medical director of railway superspecialty hospital at Karbighaiya in Patna Dr R K Verma said about 299 railway doctors, paramedical staff and health workers have been shortlisted for taking vaccine jabs in the first phase. “The drive will be carried out on Saturday and Monday,” he added. About 52 beneficiaries, including 17 women, were vaccinated at the Pt Deendayal Upadhaya divisional railway hospital on Thursday and 47 on Friday, hospital’s chief medical superintendent Dr R K Mishra said. At Sonepur divisional railway hospital, 500 have been shortlisted for vaccination. Of them, 26 were vaccinated on Friday. “All possible arrangements have been made at the hospital for the vaccination in consultation with civil surgeon of Sonepur,” said hospital’s chief medical superintendent Dr A K Sinha. Similarly, 80 railway healthcare personnel were vaccinated at the Samastipur divisional railway hospital on Friday, Samastipur divisional railway hospital chief medical superintendent Dr Subodh Kumar Mishra said. Dr Adya, a senior medical officer at Dhanbad divisional railway hospital, said 356 people have been registered for inoculation at the hospital in the first phase. “In the second phase, RPF personnel and other frontline staff will be vaccinated,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railway-doctors-and-workers-being-vaccinated-ecr/articleshow/80590172.cms||Kumod Verma
January 30, 2021||Patna||No decision yet on contesting WB polls: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday clarified that the party has not yet taken a decision on contesting the assembly polls in neighbouring West Bengal. Tejashwi said the top leadership of the party would take a call on the matter in the next couple of days. “If the top leadership of the party decides to contest the election, we will try to forge alliance with all like-minded parties, including Congress, left and even Trinamool Congress.” Rumours were doing the rounds that a delegation of the RJD would meet West Bengal CM Mamta Banerjee and her nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee to discuss the poll strategy to keep the saffron party at bay in that state. In the past, the RJD had contested a few seats in north Kolkata and even won Bura Bazar assembly segment in 2006. “The RJD may contest three-four seats in Kolkata and Kharagpur region in south Bengal,” a senior party leader said. Congress incharge for state affairs Bhakta Charan Das hoped that though every political party looks for a better option, the RJD will not move out of the coalition. In Bihar, the RJD is in alliance with the Congress and the left parties and had contested the assembly polls together. Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha said the RJD might contest three-four seats in alliance with the left parties in West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-no-decision-yet-on-contesting-wb-polls/articleshow/80591574.cms||Ramashankar
January 30, 2021||Patna||‘Plan to beautify Gogabeel lake & bird sanctuary area’||MANIHARI (KATIHAR): The state government plans to develop the Gogabeel lake and its important bird area (IBA) in Manihari subdivision of Katihar as a major tourist spot for birdwatchers, nature lovers and researchers. Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who visited the oxbow shaped lake on Friday, said the time has come to give a facelift to the largest bird sanctuary in the state. “First, we will try to save the lake and then beautify the area,” he said. Expressing gratitude to the farmers and villagers living near the lake, he said, “I am thankful to the farmers and villagers for providing land so that this lake could be saved from extinction.” The lake is spread over an area of 87 hectares, in which 57 hectares are notified community reserve and the rest 30 hectares as conservation reserve. This lake is the 15th protected area. The members of Janlakshya, a local tribal community, takes care of the community reserve area while a guard has been deputed by the forest department for the lake’s upkeep. Three boats are used for boating purpose when tourists and birdwatchers visit the lake. Boats are used for lake patrolling by the members of Janlakshya. Arvind Mishra, a conservationist and wildlife expert, said, “After the opening of a branch of the Bombay Natural History Society in the state, nature lovers and birdwatchers from abroad have started showing interest in Bihar wetlands and water bodies.” He said migratory and Indian birds dot the lake landscape. Some of them are Pallas Fish Eagle, Western Marsh Harrier, Northern Lapwing, Asian Open bill, Great Black Cormorant, Red-wattled Lapwing and Red-crested Pochard, said Mishra. This place is home to several migratory birds, Purnia DFO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plan-to-beautify-gogabeel-lake-bird-sanctuary-area/articleshow/80591588.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||Severe cold in Patna leads to 25% rise in patients||PATNA: The severe cold weather condition prevailing in the state for over a week has led to nearly a 25% rise in the number of OPD patients arriving in the big hospitals of the state capital. “The majority of patients reaching the PMCH have come with high fever, upper and lower respiratory tract infections, brain stroke and diarrhoea,” said the hospital superintendent Dr Bimal Karak on Friday. He further said about 2,500 patients usually visit the OPDs of PMCH but the number has increased by nearly 25% in the last few days with people of all age groups falling sick due to the extreme cold conditions. “We are making all arrangements to provide the healthcare to all reaching the hospital and also admitting those with serious symptoms of stroke and other related ailments,” he said. A similar situation was reported at the NMCH. Deputy superintendent Dr Satish Kumar said while the number of non-serious patients and those scheduled for follow up checking has declined in the cold weather condition but that of cold-hit patients registered a 25 to 30 per cent rise. “Marked changes in the blood pressure, stroke and diarrhoea cases were pouring in the hospital,” he said adding some patients required emergency indoor treatment while others with mild cold conditions were recommended medicines and precautionary measures. The telemedicine department of AIIMS- Patna has received about 100 calls from places such as Siwan, Saharsa, Chapra, Bhagalpur and Madhepura seeking medical advice for the symptoms developed in the cold weather. “Brain stroke, neurological problems, joint pain and aggravation in asthmatic conditions are more frequent in this weather condition,” said Dr Anil Kumar, head of trauma and emergency and in charge of the telemedicine department. He said doctors are working round the clock at the telemedicine wing to diagnose ailments by video calls and suggested treatment. Dr Anil advised patients with hypertension and asthma to take more precautions in this cold. “At AIIMS-P, too, the number of cold-affected persons has increased in the last few days,” added Anil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/severe-cold-leads-to-25-rise-in-patients/articleshow/80589664.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||Union Bank Q3 profit falls 37%||Mumbai: State-owned Union Bank of India has reported a net profit of Rs 727 crore for the quarter ended December — a drop of 37% from Rs 1,159 crore in the year-ago period. The profit was lower despite an improved performance as the bank had registered one-time gain following the sale of Essar Steel to ArcelorMittal, which resulted in a large recovery.The bank’s net profit was up 41% compared to Rs 517 crore in the previous quarter. Bad loans (non-performing assets) shrunk 18% on quarterly basis to Rs 3,036 crore. Deposits grew 3% to Rs 8.9 lakh crore up from Rs 8.6 lakh crore at the end of December 2019, while advances were marginally higher at Rs 6.51 lakh crore as compared to Rs 6.47 lakh crore a year ago. “This has been a very good quarter, the total provision the bank is holding for Covid impact is Rs 3,500 crore, which should be able to take care of the hit on asset quality for the quarter. The capital position of the bank has also improved,” said Union Bank MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai. He said the lender had completed the integration of Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank with itself and this merger would lead to gains of Rs 3,600 crore in a few years. Meanwhile, the bank was merging branches that are close to one another after the amalgamation. This exercise is expected to result in the rationalisation of 460 branches, of which 100 would be during the current fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-bank-q3-profit-falls-37/articleshow/80593761.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||Patna, other districts speed up vaccine drive with daily immunisation||PATNA: The frequency of Covid vaccination has been increased to all seven days in Patna and a few other districts to speed-up the immunization process. Patna DM Dr Chandrasekhar Singh confirmed that the vaccination is now being done every day to fulfil the target of immunisation. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said though there was a target of 200 to be vaccinated on Friday, the hospital gave the shots to 239 people. Among those vaccinated were doctors, nursing staff and other employees. Dr Vaibhav Shandilya, of the dental department, who got the vaccine shot on Friday, said it was a great relief to get immunised against the Covid-19 pandemic. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari also said all vaccination centres in the district are now carrying out the immunisation every day. Bhojpur district immunization officer Dr Sanjay Kumar Sinha told this newspaper on Friday that the vaccination drive will now be held daily from Saturday at all 16 centres, including the Ara Sadar Hospital =and the Sunilam Hospital Ara. Sinha said the target in the first phase of the drive, the target is to inoculate about 9,000 beneficiaries, out of whom 2,500 have got the vaccine. “Our target is to finish the first phase of the targeted vaccination at the earliest as it has to be completed by February 8. At some centres, just 200 targeted beneficiaries are yet to be vaccinated, which can be completed in two days. At other centres where 300 to 500 beneficiaries remain to be vaccinated, are also likely to be inoculated in a couple of days .” Manish Kumar, Katihar district programme manager said, “We have been told to secure target either in one day or seven days, but finish the target as early as possible.” He added, “Till January 23, we have achieved 66 % of the target which means 11,880 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far. Around 6,120 people will remain for vaccination. The total target for vaccination in the district for health workers is 18,000 and we have been asked to complete the task before February 9.” Begusarai civil surgeon Krishna Mohan Verma on Friday said he has so far not received any directive to carry out Covid vaccination on all seven days of the week. However, as per DIO Hareram Kumar altogether 4,597 people were given the jabs till Thursday covering about 70% of the target. In Gaya, the vaccination of Covid-19 is already being done all seven days in a week at ANMMCH, civil surgeon Kamal Kishore Rai said. Superintendent Harish Chandra Hari, too, confirmed that vaccination being done on all seven days at the hospital. However, at other centres, vaccination is being done only twice a week, Rai said. A total of 5,924 people have been vaccinated against the target of 11,937, which is 50℅ of the target. At Bhagalpur, the vaccination centre at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) will provide vaccination on all working days (Monday to Saturday). The vaccination at JLNMCH will be in addition to the provisions at the other 17 vaccination centres in the district that provide Corona vaccines to the health workers on Mondays and Thursdays in every week since the vaccination drive started on January 16. (With inputs from Praveen, Sanjeev Mishra, Rajiv Kumar and Kumar Rajesh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-other-districts-speed-up-vax-drive-with-daily-immunisation/articleshow/80590072.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||Man kills niece’s husband, attempts suicide in Siwan||PATNA: A 55-year-old man killed his maternal niece’s husband over an alleged illicit relation in Siwan and drove his SUV into Saryu river in a bid to commit suicide on Thursday. The accused, Chandrama Pandey of Mahaul village under Mazharul Haq Nagar police station area of Siwan, was sent to jail on Friday. The deceased, identified as Manjeet Pandey (25), belonged to Dumri village under Manjhi police station area of Saran. He was shot in his head near village Gyaspur Tolapur under Siswan police station area of Siwan, police said. Manjeet had married a 22-year-old girl from Deoria in Uttar Pradesh on December 13 last year. Siwan SP Abhinav Kumar told TOI that it was still not clear whether Chandrama had an illicit relation with his niece or another woman in his relation about which the girl knew. He said police were investigating the case from both angles. Siswan police station SHO Kumar Vaibhav told TOI that Manjeet was shot dead in Chandrama’s SUV, which was still 80 feet deep in the Saryu river. “Efforts are on to pull out the SUV to recover the pistol used in the crime or any other material evidence,” he said. He said Manjeet and his wife had reached Chandrama’s residence around four days back. “They had planned to return on Thursday. Chandrama offered the couple to drop them at their residence,” he said. Vaibhav said while the three were on way to Saran, Chandrama suddenly picked up a fight with Manjeet on petty issue related to their marriage. “All three were sitting on the front seat. Manjeet begged for mercy but he didn’t listen and shot him in his head. Chandrama pushed the body and his niece out of the SUV and drove it into the river flowing beside the road,” he said. The SHO said Chandrama was rescued and arrested. He said the niece lodged an FIR against him in connection with her husband’s murder. Vaibhav said further investigation was going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-nieces-husband-attempts-suicide-in-siwan/articleshow/80591554.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Patna||Patna: One held for Covid victim’s kin||PATNA: A 17-year-old girl’s complaint to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) led to the arrest of an ayurvedic practitioner from a private hospital at R K Puram under the Danapur police station area in Patna on Friday. The accused, Jay Prakash (32), had allegedly duped the girl’s family of Rs 40,900 on the pretext of providing expensive drugs to her Covid-infected father who was undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. The girl’s father had later succumbed to the virus. The girl had lodged an FIR against Jay at Phuwarisharif police station on January 24 after being asked to do so by the central government. She had approached the PMO on July 23 last year, following which an internal inquiry was conducted at AIIMS-Patna. “Jay holds bachelor of ayurveda, medicine and surgery (BAMS) and master’s degrees. He works at a private hospital in R K Puram from where he was arrested on Friday,” the SHO said, adding the accused had somehow managed to procure details of the treatment of girl’s father at AIIMS-Patna and started duping the family on the pretext of providing required medicines. The SHO said in its inquiry, the Union ministry of health and family welfare found that Jay was getting medical details of the girl’s father from a senior AIIMS-Patna doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-held-for-covid-victims-kin/articleshow/80591442.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 30, 2021||Business||After Covid relief, banks will need clean-up, recap||MUMBAI: The economic survey has called for an asset quality review (AQR) of bank books to dig out hidden non-performing assets (NPAs) once the Covid-19 relief schemes come to an end. This would need to be followed by a mandatory recapitalisation of banks. The survey points out that the AQR conducted after discontinuing the post-Global Financial Crisis schemes saw bad loans jump from 2.3% in FY15 to 11.2% in FY18. “Forbearance represents emergency medicine that should be discontinued at the first opportunity when the economy exhibits recovery, not a staple diet that gets continued for years,” the survey said. It added that while the 2016 AQR exacerbated the problem of bad loans, the lesson was not that it should not be conducted. However, the report points out that the RBI had vastly underestimated the extent of capital that would be required by banks following the clean-up. “The recent events at Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank corroborate the AQR did not capture the ever-greening carried out in ways other than formal restructuring. Had the review detected the ever-greening, the increase in reported NPAs should have been in the initial years of the exercise,” the survey said. Bankers, however, said that the number of borrowers requiring forbearance was much lower than anticipated and that this time the problem was with small businesses and probably the agri sector. “The last time (when AQR was conducted), there were many restructuring schemes available to postpone recognition. This time, the total requests for restructuring that we have received is only 2.5% of the book, or around Rs 16,000 crore,” Rajkiran Rai, Union Bank of India MD & CEO and chairman of the Indian Banks Association, said. According to Rai, this time corporate loan books are the most “well-behaved” among all sectors and the lowest contributor to NPAs. “There is not much stress left in the corporate book. The corporate book is clean. We are seeing stress come mainly from MSMEs and agriculture, and a bit from the retail segment,” said Rai. The economic survey also called for improving the governance standards in banks. “Apart from re-capitalising banks, it is important to enhance the quality of their governance. Ever-greening of loans by banks as well as zombie lending is symptomatic of poor governance, suggesting that bank boards are ‘asleep at the wheel’ and auditors are not performing their required role as the first line of defence,” the survey said. The first AQR was conducted by banks at the behest of the RBI under Raghuram Rajan in 2015. Banks were forced to classify loans as NPAs after the RBI submitted to the banking industry a list of the top borrowers who had defaulted to some lenders. Until then, large corporates were playing one bank against the other by repaying some lenders and borrowing from others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-covid-relief-banks-will-need-clean-up-recap/articleshow/80593825.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: End cultural terrorism, says Shiv Sena||MUMBAI: Criticising Karnataka over the border dispute, Shiv Sena alleged they tried to eradicate all signs of Marathi language and culture from the disputed area. Sena called it ‘political and cultural terrorism’, and said it must end. Sena’s mouthpiece, Saamna, said, “According to Mahajan commission report, Maharashtra wants the land recommended by the commission and Marathi-dominated area encroached by Karnataka. The fight for Belgaum is for the same reason.” The editorial also said the Centre needs to play the role of an impartial guardian here, as the dispute is between two states. Saamna asked whether Karnataka was in contempt of court by declaring Belgaum (disputed area) as its second capital, while the case is subjudice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/end-cultural-terrorism-says-sena/articleshow/80594089.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Former BJP member & RTI activist joins AAP||Dehradun: In a jolt to the ruling BJP, senior party member and close aide of former chief minister Maj Gen BC Khanduri, Ravinder Jugran joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday. Jugran, a former president of DAV PG college of Dehradun and former head of state youth wing of BJP, is a known RTI activist in the state and held a portfolio equivalent to minister of state during the Khanduri regime. Welcoming Jugran into the party fold, Dinesh Mohaniya, AAP Uttarakhand in-charge, said, "Ravindra Jugran is a noted statehood activist who fought for separate Uttarakhand. His presence in AAP will strengthen the party in Uttarakhand. He is going to become a prominent face of AAP in the state." Speaking on the occasion, Jugran said, "Both Congress and BJP have been playing 'soft and friendly' politics against each other wherein they both take advantage of the system whether in government or in Opposition." Applauding the Kejriwal government in Delhi, Jugran said, "The Kejriwal government's work in the field of education and health has been exemplary. We are going to realise the dream of a welfare state and introduce the Delhi model of governance in Uttarakhand."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-bjp-member-rti-activist-joins-aap/articleshow/80590311.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Itaunja nagar panchayat fails to get open defecation-free status||LUCKNOW: The Itaunja nagar panchayat under Lucknow district has failed to get the open defecation-free (ODF+) status under the certification parameter of Swachh Bharat Survey 2021. A third party inspection conducted by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) found the panchayat’s claim unsatisfactory. Itaunja nagar panchayat chairman N Ishrat Beig said, “We provided toilet facility to more than 100 households in Itaunja within a year and we continue to serve the public. We will try our best in next survey.” As per the guidelines issued by MOHUA, the panchayat and urban local bodies can claim marks for ODF+ (200 marks) and ODF++ (500 marks) under the parameter of certification. For ODF+, more than 80% of the population in the panchayat should have access to their own toilets. Also, public toilets in the area should have sanitary napkins, hand driers, paper napkins, 24-hour water supply, separate sections for men and women and wash basin. For ODF++, more than 95% of the households should have their own toilets. Public toilets in the area must have all arrangements as mentioned for ODF+. According to officers, Itaunja is divided into 10 wards with a population of 7,305. As per panchayat records, Itaunja has 1,246 households. T hird party team hired by MOHUA visited 25 of 52 public toilets in panchayat limits and found that 18 lacked most of prescribed services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/itaunja-nagar-panchayat-fails-to-get-open-defecation-free-status/articleshow/80593077.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||MSRTC to pull out 100 buses leased to BEST||Mumbai: Considering the shortage of buses in its statewide operations, MSRTC has now decided to take back 100 buses from the BEST fleet. These buses are part of a total of 1,000 it had provided to BEST on lease to ferry office-goers during peak hours. If these are recalled, there could be a slight shortage of buses during morning and evening peak hours. BEST runs a total fleet of 4,800 buses, including 1,000 from MSRTC. On Friday, MSRTC management wrote to BEST to allow it to withdraw 100 buses from various depots. These include 20 buses from Kalachowkie depot (will go back to Raigad), 30 from Malvani depot (will go back to Osmanabad), 25 from Malad depot (will return to Aurangabad) and 25 from Magathane depot (will return to Latur to serve local commuters). — Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrtc-to-pull-out-100-buses-leased-to-best/articleshow/80591413.cms||Somit Sen
January 30, 2021||Goa||None of us are going to survive if we disturb Mollem: Vijai Sardesai||PORVORIM: The three contentious linear projects that cut across Mollem’s biodiversity hotspot came in for intense discussion in the assembly on Friday as Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai tore through the government claims while moving a private member’s resolution to scrap the projects. Armed with a series of TOI reports, Sardesai said: “Yesterday’s (Thursday’s) edition of The Times of India says there is a direct co-relation between the havoc these three linear projects are going to cause in the biodiversity hotspot and Goa’s water security. This (forest at Mollem) is a unique ecosystem and if this ecosystem is disturbed, none of us are going to survive.” He said if the government could shift the IIT project from Melauli after people’s protest and scrap Marina project, then “there is nothing wrong in reviewing a project which is damaging the state. This is the jewel of our environment and these three linear projects will permanently damage it,” he said. Sardesai said public sentiment and scientific reason is crucial for taking a good U-turn. “If you do what people want, we will continue to remain in opposition,” he said. TOI has highlighted how the three contentious linear projects could create havoc with the world’s biodiversity hotspot and how important it is to preserve the thick green cover including for Goa’s water needs. Sardesai also brought to attention of the House a report that appeared in TOI on how urban development minister Milind Naik was a beneficiary of coal transportation. “If you read this (report), it is a shame. If I was in their place, I would have resigned. Have some conscience and save Goa,” he said, pointing to Naik. Opposition members expressed apprehension that the double-tracking and NH widening was for coal handling and all three projects would damage the flora and fauna of the region. Coming back to Friday’s report in this paper, Sardesai said double-tracking would be disastrous and it would even impact Dudhsagar. “They (TOI) say that Dudhsagar won’t be there and this is not a simple newspaper. This is The Times of India,” he said. Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar also asked the government to read The Times of India to understand the gravity of the situation and how the three linear projects would damage the environment. Sardesai said whatever he was speaking in the House reflected resolutions passed by 100 villages against the project and 3,000 people having signed a petition against it. “The government has been in an undue haste to pass these projects,” he said. Sardesai questioned the government on how these projects would benefit the wildlife in the forest that is home to 20% of butterfly species, rare birds and medicinal plants and is also a tiger habitat. “Despite all these facts, nobody is able to tell us the purpose of the projects or how it is going to benefit Goans other than coal handling,” he said. Sardesai also countered the government’s statement that double-tracking would bring in more passenger trains from the current 5. “It will be a disaster when Railways do cutting and blasting for construction of 23 tunnels. It looks like somebody sitting in Delhi is pursuing these projects,” he said. Sardesai said he had brought the resolution to save Goa for posterity. “Why are these linear projects in the direction of Karnataka? That is the reason people have doubts over it and the way it has been cleared,” he said. Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao, opposing the projects, said there are lot of ports and industries in neighbouring state, but they don’t want to handle coal. “If we want to store coal in Goa, then we are finishing our future generation. Many people are dependent and get benefit of tourism, but only one person is benefited from coal handling,” Alemao said and asked the government to keep this project on hold for five years to clear doubts in the minds of people. Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro said there was no need for these projects. “Why do we need additional railway tracks and for whom. I don’t want to be have an imbalance with regards to our population and this is not sustainable development,” Faleiro said. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said the government wants double-tracking and road widening to transport 136 million tonnes of coal. He also said cutting of 40,000 trees will destroy the environment. “Agitations are not religious, but it is the sentiment of the people to save Goa. Don’t play with the sentiments of the people. Goans have opposed these projects and people will stand against it,” he said. Senior member of the House Pratapsingh Rane, in his written message, said there is no need for double-tracking when Konkan railway is there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/none-of-us-are-going-to-survive-if-we-disturb-mollem-vijai/articleshow/80594095.cms||Murari Shetye
January 30, 2021||Varanasi||Shakarkand Mahotsav to be held in Gorakhpur in Feb||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur district is organising Shakarkand Mahotsav to create awareness about sweet potato, especially golden sweet potato and also to increase the income of farmers. The mahotsav will be organized in the month of February. District magistrate Vijyendra Pandiyan held a meeting with the concerned departments and hotel/restaurant managers and asked them to include golden sweet potato in the menu to popularize the super food and assured that the administration will provide necessary help if required. One gm of orange sweet potato provides 20 mg Vitamin A and fruit yield is completed within 100 to 112 days and the super food is enriched with antioxidants, it helps in promoting skin health and reduces the risk of cancer. This fruit can be consumed in the form of vegetables, fritters, cutlets, pickles, or dessert. One Gaurav Gupta, who has come from Jhansi to Gorakhpur for the organization of mahotsav, said, “This super food, exclusively cultivated in Gorakhpur region, is rich in Vitamin A, fiber, potassium, protein, Beta Carotene, Chlorogenic acid, etc and is an effective solution for the problem of malnutrition while on the other hand it give a boost to farmer’s income.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/shakarkand-mahotsav-to-be-held-in-gorakhpur-in-feb/articleshow/80590587.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Allahabad||‘Mirzapur’ row: HC stays arrest of web producers Farhan Akhtar, Ritesh Sidhwani||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the arrest of ‘Mirzapur’ web series’ producers Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani in pursuance of the FIR registered against them at Kotwali Dehat in Mirzapur district. Hearing a writ petition filed by Akhtar and Sidhwani, a division bench comprising Justice Manoj Kumar Gupta and Subhash Chand also issued notice to the state government and the complainant in the matter seeking their respective replies (counter affidavits). The court directed to list this case in the first week of March. The FIR was registered against the petitioners under section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other sections of IPC and 67-A of Information Technology Act. The main allegation in the FIR is that the petitioners, who are stated to be running a production company and are producers of web series ‘Mirzapur’, are guilty of offences under the above sections by improper and indecent portrayal of the town of Mirzapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mirzapur-row-hc-stays-arrest-of-web-producers-akhtar-sidhwani/articleshow/80590517.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 30, 2021||Allahabad||WhatsApp group to check resale of stolen phones||PRAYAGRAJ: In an attempt to check the resale of stolen and looted mobiles, the city police have roped in traders dealing in mobile retail shops as well as distributors and formed a WhatsApp community group to exchange information. The aim behind forming a group on the messaging app is to initiate action against persons involved in dubious mobile resale. Deputy SP ( Civil Lines) Shivam Todi told TOI that, “Over 100 traders dealing in the mobile business have joined the group with the assurance that they would be passing information to police on persons involved in the dubious resale of mobiles." He added that two separate groups have been formed in trans-Yamuna and city areas. He said traders are in touch with a team of policemen who are assigned to tighten the noose around mobile lifters gang. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/whatsapp-grp-to-check-resale-of-stolen-phones/articleshow/80590527.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Gurdwara panel condemns violence in Delhi||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (LGPC) on Friday condemned unscrupulous elements who hoisted the ‘Nishan Sahib’ at Red Fort on January 26, during a tractor rally protest by farmers in Delhi. It has also demanded strict action against violators, especially actor Deep Sidhu, who is allegedly behind the act. It has also announced to boycott news channels which defamed the scared Nishan Sahib by calling it a Khalistani flag. Nishan Sahib is a triangular holy flag representing the values of Sikh faith of one god, equality of humans and love for one another, selfless service and dedication. LGPC president Rajendra Singh Bagga said, “We condemn the act that used our religious flag Nishan Sahib for petty gains by hoisting it at the Red Fort and violence that happened in the protest rally. The government should find out if it was a conspiracy hatched by an outsider to disrupt the peace of the country.” “Sikhs have sacrificed a lot for secularism and national integration. Nishan Sahib is a symbol of national pride. A person like Deep Sidhu with a polluted mindset has tried to malign the image of Sikhs. He has hurt our religious feelings,” said Satpal Singh Meet, spokesperson, LGPC. LGPC is also writing to the I&B ministry for action against media channels which have been spreading misinformation by calling Nishan Sahib a Khalistani flag. LGPC general secretary and president of All India Sikh Pratinidhi Harpal Singh Jaggi told TOI, “Since the conduct of Deep Sidhu was contrary to the Sikh way of life, we will write to the Jathedar (appointed head) of Akal Takht to remove Deep Sidhu from the Panth (community).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-gurdwara-panel-condemns-violence-in-delhi/articleshow/80593117.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||BSP boycotts President’s address, seeks withdrawal of farm laws||LUCKNOW: In a strong stand against the government on the issue of farmers’ unrest over the three farm laws, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) boycotted the President’s address in Parliament ahead of the Budget session. BSP president Mayawati said the party boycotted the address due to the government’s indecisive attitude and refusal to take back the three controversial farm laws. She also termed the President’s address as “highly disappointing” for farmers and added that the farm bills were bulldozed through Parliament even as protests against it were taking place. “The President’s address was highly disappointing for farmers and the poor people of the country. It is unfortunate that the government is silent over the farmers’ agitation,” she said. Appealing the government to withdraw the controversial laws, Mayawati said the government would have to listen to farmers to bring back normalcy in Delhi. Claiming that the farmer leaders were innocent and were not involved in the violence that broke out in Delhi on Republic Day, Mayawati warned the Centre against making them scapegoats. “There is a lot of truth in what the farmer leaders are saying on the incident. BSP has protested against three farm laws which were brought in a hurry in both the houses of the Parliament. BSP will raise its voice against the exploitation of farmers the way we have been doing for the poor, Dalits, backwards,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsp-boycotts-prezs-address-seeks-withdrawal-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80593120.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 30, 2021||Business||11% growth, ‘we-shaped’ recovery coming: Economic Survey||NEW DELHI: The Indian economy is likely to grow by 11% in 2021-22, the V-shaped recovery having been made possible by its strategy of Covid management that focused on protection of life at the expense of a short-term impact on livelihoods, the Economic Survey for 2020-21 has argued. The annual birds’ eye view of the economy strongly emphasized the need for the government to loosen its purse strings to aid the recovery without getting overly concerned about the fiscal deficit. Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverageIt estimated that the stringent lockdown had flattened the curve and shielded over 37 lakh Indians from contracting the highly contagious coronavirus, apart from saving over one lakh lives. In a strongly worded attack on credit rating agencies, it said India’s sovereign credit ratings had consistently been much lower than what the fundamentals and its debt situation would merit. “India’s fiscal policy, therefore, must not remain beholden to a noisy/biased measure and should instead reflect Gurudev Rabindranath Thakur’s sentiment of a mind without fear,” the survey said. The survey compared data from countries and across Indian states to argue that the primary focus at India’s stage of development must be on promoting economic growth rather than reducing inequality. Growth, it said, had a “far greater effect on poverty alleviation than inequality” while adding that “redistribution is only possible in a developing economy if the size of the economic pie grows”. Not unexpectedly, the survey set out a passionate defence of the new farm laws, asserting that they seek to give farmers a freedom of choice that they have been denied thus far. It also set out a timeline of “consultations/recommendations” dating back to 2001 in an attempt to counter the charge that they had been passed in haste. The survey called for regulation of healthcare to address the “market failure” in the sector. Urging governments, in particular states, to step up public spending on health to 2.5% of GDP to reduce out-of-pocket expenditure by patients’ families, it also called for a quality assessment framework, citing the UK’s Quality and Assessment Framework as a possible model. In a separate chapter specifically on the PMJAY (Ayushman Bharat) scheme, the survey, whose lead author is the finance ministry’s chief economic adviser, Krishnamurthy V Subramanian, said comparisons between states that had adopted the scheme and those that hadn’t showed clearly that the scheme had led to improved health outcomes across a range of parameters. While calling for regulation of the health sector, the survey maintained that overall the Indian economy had been adversely affected by too much regulation. Complex regulation that aimed to anticipate every possible situation rather than light supervision was the bane of India, it asserted. Read AlsoOnce-in-a-century crisis; V-shaped recovery: Highlights of Economic SurveyChief economic adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian on Friday presented the Economic Survey 2020-2021 and dedicated it to all the Covid warriors who upheld the country during once-in-a century crisis. He also likened India's economic recovery to the resilience shown by the Indian cricket team inThe survey cautioned about the elevated stock prices. "While stock markets value the potential future growth, these elevated levels still raise concerns on the disconnect between the financial markets and real sector," it said. The two volumes of the nearly 900-page survey had a smattering of references from cricket (India’s 36 all out and the subsequent V shape recovery in Australia), Bollywood (Amitabh Bachhan starrer Main Azad Hoon) and ancient wisdom scattered over a wealth of charts and graphs that sought to drive home each point with data. Observing that the “regulatory forebearance” -- relaxed regulations on banks classification of stressed loans – introduced in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis had been allowed to continue for too long, it cautioned that the same mistake should not be repeated again. The relaxation of norms for non-performing assets (NPAs) was a valid response to a crisis but had been turned into a “staple diet” well after the crisis ended, it noted. That, it said, had led to questionable loans by banks and reckless investments by borrowers. Proposing a “bare necessities index” to map how states were placed in terms of access to fundamental needs like drinking water, sanitation and housing, the survey said that data from the National Statistical Organisation showed that all states had made progress on these fronts between 2012 and 2018. Also, states that were worse off had made greater progress thereby closing the gap with the others. Similarly, the poor had gained more than the rich. Focussing on these basic needs, it pointed out, also improves health and educational outcomes. One of the few areas in which the survey expressed concern at India’s performance was inadequate R&D spending, in comparison with other large economies. Even the limited R&D spending and allocation of resources was thanks largely to the public sector with Indian businesses not pulling their weight, it pointed out. “This points to the need for India’s business sector to significantly ramp up investments in R&D,” the survey stressed, saying “India’s aspiration must be to compete on innovation with the top ten economies”. Watch Budget 2021: FM Nirmala Sitharaman tables Economic Survey in Lok Sabha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/11-growth-we-shaped-recovery-coming-economic-survey/articleshow/80594710.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||Goa govt appears to soften stand on Tamnar power project||PORVORIM: While refusing to buckle before the opposition’s vociferous demand for scrapping of the three linear projects coming up in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park, the state government appeared to soften its stance regarding the 440KV Tamnar project. Power minister Nilesh Cabral said that if the Supreme Court-appointed central empowered committee (CEC) and the central electricity authority (CEA) give permissions, the 440KV power line could be diverted through the Mollem National Park by upgrading the existing 110KV power line. “We are ready to divert the power line by removing the 110 KV line and bringing in the 440KV line through that line, but the CEC must give us permission,” said Cabral. “Let the CEC and CEA give us permission. We are ready to dismantle the 440KV line and we have told the CEC that we are ready to do it.” The house witnessed a heated debate on Friday, the last day of the assembly session, after MLAs Vijai Sardesai and Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco moved private member’s resolutions to scrap South Western Railway’s double-tracking project, the 440KV power transmission line, and widening of the national highway. Though the resolution was defeated with just 10 MLAs voting in favour of it, chief minister Pramod Sawant assured the house that more than 12 MTA of coal would not be allowed to be handled and transported through Goa. “I am firm that coal transportation has to be gradually reduced. This government will not allow coal handling to be increased beyond 12MTA, and it will be our effort to reduce it much below this. We cannot do it instantly because there are people’s jobs at stake,” said Sawant. While speaking about the Goa-Tamnar power project, which is being executed by Vedanta Group’s Sesa Sterlite, the government insisted that Goa needs the 440KV power line in order to meet future power requirements of the state. Cabral said that Goa’s power consumption hit a peak of 634 MW in November, close to the 654 MW of power consumed in 2018 which remains the highest power consumption so far. In May 2020, Goa consumed 613 MW of power. “If we don’t complete the 440KV line, we will continue to have power cuts. If it is completed, we will have 24x7 power,” said Cabral. Coming to the widening of the national highways, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said that all national highways in the state are being widened, and that the widening of the national highway passing through Anmod Ghat will reduce the length of the ghat from 13km to 11km. “There is an elevated viaduct section that is being built with limited cutting of trees, hill-cutting and land-filling. There is a need to complete the four-lane national highway,” said Pauskar. The government accused the opposition of trying to mislead people by trying to link the Sagarmala project and the three linear projects being taken up in the protected forests. Sawant agreed with the opposition that certain difficulties have arisen because of the projects, particularly the double-tracking. “I accept that there are problems at some places, and we are trying to resolve all problems, but nobody’s house is going to be destroyed,” said Sawant. “Other than two compound walls, no other structures will be destroyed. These projects are important for Goa’s future.” Cabral said that the environment department remains focused on protecting Goa’s environment. “The department in no way will give way to increase coal in Goa. There will be no coal hub in Goa, and there will be no burning of coal in Goa. We will find ways and means to decrease coal in Goa, but it will take some time,” said Cabral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-appears-to-soften-stand-on-tamnar-power-project/articleshow/80594122.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi policemen steal the march at Republic Day parade||NEW DELHI: They bagged the best marching contingent award for the 14th time, but only after waiting for 14 years. On Friday, Delhi Police was declared as the best marching contingent among Central Armed Police Forces and other auxiliary forces at this year’s Republic Day parade. It had last won the award in 2006. The assistant commissioner of police at Madhu Vihar, Akshat Kaushal, a 2018-batch IPS officer, was leading the parade as the contingent marched on Rajpath. “The amount of dedication our instructor had put in and the enthusiasm of our seniors really helped us a lot. Commissioner Sir told us to give our best. We got the best treatment, be it in terms of the diet or the uniform. It feels great that our efforts have finally paid off,” the 32-year-old officer told TOI. Kaushal, who comes from a family of uniform lovers, said he had just told the contingent members “the nation would be watching us and we should give our best”. He added, “Honestly, when I got to know that we have won, somewhere inside I felt we deserved it. It was a rush of memories and the 5am practices our instructors made us do.” The ACP had to rush back to the Ghazipur border, which falls under his jurisdiction, for duty soon after the parade was over. The Delhi Police contingent consisted of 96 constables and three sub-inspectors Jagseer Singh (27), Hanspreet Singh (28) and Praveen Kumar (25), assisted by 68 personnel of the police band. It was adjudged the best marching contingent by three panels of judges appointed by the defence ministry for assessing the performance of marching contingents in the parade. Earlier, a contingent of around 148 personnel would march; the number was reduced due to Covid-19. Chief drill instructor Bishan Thakur, who trained the men, said, “All our men were young and from the 2018-19 batch, full of enthusiasm and confidence. All were above 6 feet.” Due to the pandemic, two contingents were made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-policemen-steal-the-march-at-r-day-parade/articleshow/80592813.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Legislature is the foundation of democracy: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that democracy is safe when the ‘garima’ (sanctity) of the legislature is protected. The CM was speaking at a function in Vidhan Bhavan to mark the retirement of six members of the legislative council. Their tenure is due to be completed on January 31. The six legislators are Ashu Malik, Ram Jatan Rajbhar, Virendra Singh and Sahab Singh Saini from SP and Dharamveer Singh Ashok and Pradeep Jatav from BSP. Yogi said that the foundation of democracy is the legislature, which is driven by its members who must have the skills to put forth their views in a coherent and effective manner. “The upper house has set a benchmark for the legislature,” he said, recalling how tall leaders like Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya, Govind Vallabh Pant, Tej Bahadur Sapru and Mahadevi Verma became members of the upper house and gave new heights to the sanctity of legislature. The CM said that the tenure of a legislator gains relevance and is remembered when all duties are performed with full dedication and a positive message is sent to society. He said that the legislative council is taking forward the work of the country’s largest state assembly and would strengthen the legislature further. Yogi pointed out that Vidhan Parishad had its first meeting in Vidhan Bhavan, constructed in 1928. Vidhan Bhavan was made available for Vidhan Sabha in 1935 and the council got its present hall in 1937.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/legislature-is-the-foundation-of-democracy-yogi/articleshow/80593130.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Green panel asks Delhi, Rajasthan & Haryana to adopt UP model for dust control||LUCKNOW: Impressed by the UP Pollution Control Board’s pilot project for dust control in eight districts, the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas, has asked Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana to implement similar measures to check dust from road, building construction and demolition sites. Last year, UPPCB had introduced a web-based self-audit system for dust control (SASDC) in Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur, Shamli, Baghpat, Meerut, Bulandshahr and Muzaffarnagar districts. Under the pilot project, construction firms had to register their projects and share contact number of site managers on UPPCB website (http://dustapp.upecp.in/). Following this, the site managers had to fill a set of 33 questionnaires (in yes or no) and give appropriate score to themselves. The questionnaire included the practice of sprinking of treated water to mitigate dust generation at construction sites, installation of PTZ camera with open access to UPPCB, use of scaffolding sheets, water spray in conjunction with cutting, grinding and drilling, certified vehicles to transport materials and others. After the response, the UPPCB engineers were asked to verify the claims of site manager and evaluate the scores. If the site manager failed to implement measures on the ground as per his declared response on SASDC, the Board gave him another 15 days to implement the measures or face penalty. Member secretary of UPPCB, Ashish Tiwari, said: “The idea behind SASDC was to give construction companies a fair chance to correct themselves to avoid action. During brainstorming it was found that majority of construction companies were not aware of the rules related to dust control but after the pilot project, 217 construction firms registered for SASDC in NCR and 152 conducted self-audit. Our engineers gave 58 firms time to revise their audit. The practice brought incredible improvement in dust management.” “Taking cognizance of our success, the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas, which is monitored by the Supreme Court, wrote to Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi governments on January 27 asking them to follow UP’s model,” he claimed. UPPCB is going to implement the project in 17 non-attainment cities like Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Jhansi, Anpara (Sonbhadra), Gajraula (Amroha), Moradabad, Bareilly and others. Non-attainment cities are those which do not meet annual national standards for PM 2.5 concentration. In Lucknow, four construction firms have registered for SASDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/green-panel-asks-delhi-raj-hry-to-adopt-up-model-for-dust-control/articleshow/80593018.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||UPPCL may move power watchdog for hike in tariff||LUCKNOW: UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL)’s plan to file a fresh Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) for fiscal 2021-22 with the power regulatory body has raised curiosity about the possibility of a hike in power tariff, which was untouched last year. ARR is a projection of power tariff, which UPPCL seeks to recover in a new financial year. Top sources in UPPCL said, ARR would be filed with the power watchdog, UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC), in the next few days. “Deliberations are in final stages,” a senior official said, while speaking to TOI on Friday. While UPERC asked UPPCL to file the ARR by month-end, sources said, the corporation sought more time to conduct an audit before moving the commission for tariff revision. Officials in UPERC said, corporation’s efficacy in recovering revenue from consumers will being keenly examined before taking a decision on tariff hike. “Revenue recovery needs to be improved and aggregate commercial and technical losses, essentially signifying line losses from power theft, need to be brought down,” a senior UPERC official said. The development gains significance amid resumption of economic activity post-lockdown. The electricity regulator had left the tariff unchanged last year even as the pandemic halted economic activity and hit industrial and service sector output. The next fiscal coincides with the last lap of Yogi Adityanath’s five-year term and this may force political caution on revising power tariff in the run-up to the high-stakes assembly polls next year. An urban domestic consumer, for instance pays at the rate of Rs 5.50 per unit for first 150 units, followed by Rs 6 per unit on consumption of 150-300 units. Likewise, for the slab between 301-500 units, a consumer pays at the rate of Rs 6.50. Consumption of electricity above 500 units will require the consumer to shell out Rs 7 per unit. The consumer shells out Rs 110/KW/month as fixed charge. The possible power tariff revision comes months after UPPCL initiated a proposal to privatize loss-making power distribution companies like Purvanchal Discom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uppcl-may-move-power-watchdog-for-hike-in-tariff/articleshow/80593135.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Displaying names of accused at thanas without proclamation is derogatory: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday held that the practice of putting up names of accused on flysheet boards at police stations without issuing a proclamation is derogatory and against the concept of human dignity and privacy enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. Police role in disclosing the identity of criminals at police stations in public gaze is unwarranted and violates Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty), the court further said. The court directed the director general of police (DGP) to remove names and identities of top-10 criminals, along with their criminal antecedents, from flysheet boards at police stations and ensure compliance by police heads of districts. The court, however, clarified that the benefit of the judgment will not be provided to “claimed offenders and fugitives in law”. The court further held that there was nothing wrong in preparing a list of top criminals in a district for surveillance. ‘Can select top 10 criminals in a dist’While allowing the writ filed by Jeeshan, Balveer Singh Yadav and Doodh Nath Yadav, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal observed, “Human dignity is infringed upon when names of accused are displayed on the flysheet board of police stations or anywhere else without issuing a proclamation under Section 82 of Criminal Procedure Code. This practice is derogatory to the concept of human dignity and privacy.” Section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code provides proclamation for an accused person, who is on the run. The three petitioners were aggrieved by the publication of their names in the list of top-10 criminals displayed at various police stations in Prayagraj and Kanpur Nagar districts. The petitioners were brothers and relatives of an ex-member of Parliament from Allahabad. They contended that police published their names in criminal lists as part of political vendetta. As per the petitioners, only one case was registered against each of them and their names were included in the top-10 criminal list. The court held there was nothing wrong in selecting top 10 criminals in a district for surveillance. “The DGP circular dated July 6, 2020, putting a criterion to select top 10 criminals in a district and in each police station was an exercise of power to maintain surveillance, to which no illegality could be attached. We hold the circular to be lawful and valid. However, there is nothing in the circular whichenables policetodisclose the identity of an accused and his criminal antecedents in public gaze,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/displaying-names-of-accused-at-thanas-without-proclamation-is-derogatory-hc/articleshow/80593161.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Act on land deal violators, officials told||MUMBAI: State revenue department warned officials of disciplinary action if they do not act against violations by government land grantees. Land has been granted on lease or occupancy basis by government prior to Independence and thereafter. In a GR on Thursday, it reminded officials that the government granted land to societies and individuals on certain terms and conditions. The land had to be put to use for which it was granted within a time-frame. It further warned that disciplinary action will be initiated against officials who neglect such cases or delay taking action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/act-on-land-deal-violators-officials-told/articleshow/80594142.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kanpur||Four held for boy’s murder in Kanpur Dehat||KANPUR: Four persons have been arrested on Thursday for allegedly killing a minor boy in Kanpur Dehat district in a family dispute. Superintendent of police Kanpur Dehat Keshav Kumar Choudhary said that the police worked out the case with regard to an FIR lodged at Shivli Kotwali police station on January 16, 2021. The main accused has been identified as Sumit Kumar Singh, a resident of Naubasta in Kanpur and the victim as Lucky Singh (17), of Jyoti village in Shivli area of Kanpur Dehat district. The other aides of the main accused who assisted him in killing and disposing off the body of the victim, have been identified as Suraj Kumar and Shivam Savita of Bidhnoo area of Kanpur and Ashok Kumar of Mohanlalganj area of Lucknow. Lucky, had been missing from his home since January 16. During the investigation, police with the help of electronic surveillance zeroed in on Lucky’s brother-in-law Sumit Kumar Singh. Police said Sumit, had a dispute with his wife Nidhi about four months ago. “In order to resolve the issue, Nidhi’s father Dinesh Singh and brother Lucky had visited her in-laws place and rebuked Sumit in front of his family members. Taking it as an insult, Sumit decided to teach a lesson to his wife and later kidnapped her minor brother. Later, with the help of his three aides Sumit strangled him to death and threw the body in a canal in Saadh area near Gopalpur village. The police recovered the body of Lucky from the canal on January 25,” the police said. “During sustained grilling, Sumit broke down and confessed to the killing. He stated that he had killed Lucky in order to teach his wife and her family members a lesson as they had rebuked him,” said the police and added, “All four accused have been booked under relevant sections of IPC and sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-held-for-boys-murder-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/80591783.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Cases drop further but jumbo hosps to be open till March 31||Mumbai: Daily detection of Covid-19 cases and fatalities in the state dropped further on Saturday. The state added 2,630 cases and 42 fatalities, taking the total patients to 20,23,814 while deaths touched 51,042. The decline in infections continued on Saturday, with Mumbai reporting 429 cases and seven deaths as against 494 patients and eight fatalities the day before. The toll in Mumbai so far is 11,345 and the total caseload stands at 3,08,492. “Covid is clearly on the decline, but we plan to keep our jumbo or field hospitals working till March 31,” said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Moreover, though mandatory quarantine is still on for travellers from the UK, South Africa and UAE, Kakani said no new cases with variants had shown up. “Our plan to check the spread of the infection has worked well,” he added. At KEM Hospital, Parel, dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said now barely six patients test positive a day at their laboratory as against 1,000 at the height of the pandemic. “We have less than 30 patients admitted at the moment,” he said. KEM used to get the severest Covid cases in April-May 2020 and had a high number of admissions and deaths; most of them would come too late to be helped, said doctors. There was a dip in daily discharge on Saturday and there was an increase in active cases. A total of 1,535 people were discharged, taking the discharge count to over 19.2 lakh. Active cases in the state increased to 44,199, of which 5,769 are in Mumbai.  State officials said of the 42 deaths, 18 occurred in the past 48 hours, five in the past seven days and the remaining 19 in weeks prior to that. Meanwhile, 56 cases were reported in Navi Mumbai, taking the total Covid count there to 52,962 on Saturday. Of these, 96% have recovered so far. No deaths were reported on Saturday, with the toll staying at 1,085.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cases-drop-further-but-jumbo-hosps-to-be-open-till-march-31/articleshow/80606039.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Lower courts to start from February 1||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday notified that “regular physical functioning” would restart from February 1 for all subordinate courts in the states of Maharashtra and Goa and the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, as was “in vogue pre-pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lower-courts-to-start-from-feb-1/articleshow/80592860.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya clerics & seers slam Asaduddin Owaisi’s polarisation politics||AYODHYA: AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi’s statement that the Ayodhya mosque on 5acre land was ‘haraam’ (un-Islamic) has triggered an unprecedented bonding between Hindus and Muslims, who unitedly criticised what they called “polarisation agenda of the Hyderabadi politician”. Cementing communal harmony and holding aloft Ayodhya’s syncretic moorings, clerics and seers called out Owaisi for trying to create rift to serve his politics. Talking to TOI, mahant of Tapaswi Chavni, Paramhans Das, said, “I strongly advocate construction of the mosque in Ayodhya. Offering prayers cannot be illegal anywhere as every part of the world was created for worship of God. Also, the proposed land is not disputed and mandated by Supreme Court. Owaisi is trying to create confusion with rhetoric and building walls between communities.” Muslim representatives also objected to Owaisi's statement. One of the oldest litigants in the Ayodhya title suit, Iqbal Ansari, said, “Owaisi has no right to call anybody ‘munafiq’ (hypocrite) or ‘zaalim’ (tyrant). He will face tremendous opposition from Muslims when comes to Uttar Pradesh to seek votes. The proposed 5acre land is not in any manner a barter or an exchange. We fought a prolonged legal battle, but lost. Supreme Court on its own gave the land for building a mosque,” he said.Another prominent Ayodhya cleric, Mukhtar Ahmad, said, “Owaisi is not a mufti (Islamic legal authority). How he can issue a fatwa that the land for proposed mosque is haraam (un-Islamic). He has no right to term anyone munafiq or zaalim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-clerics-seers-slam-owaisis-polarisation-politics/articleshow/80593050.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Covid shifts pride parade from streets to amphitheatre||LUCKNOW: On this year’s pride parade, you might not see rainbow flags on Hazratganj streets. Covid restrictions have forced the Awadh Queer Pride Committee (AQPC) to shift the event to Lohia Park amphitheatre instead of taking out its march from Dainik Jagran crossing till GPO. The committee will organise the fifth edition of the parade on February 28 with a series of programmes. Due to the pandemic, AQPC has been organising virtual events. This will be the first in-person gathering to mark pride parade day. Celebrating the diversity, history and resilience of their community, the members will organise poetry recitation, mushaira, awareness stalls, and dance programmes. Lectures on history, culture and growth of the community in the country will also be delivered. “Every year, Lucknow dons a rainbow look in February. People from different cities also join us. Since the footfall is always high in the parade, we don’t wish to breach any safety protocol and have decided to organise the day as a Pride Event. It will be a low-key solidarity affair,” said activist and AQPC member Syed Raza Husain Zaidi. “We are also planning to put HIV testing stalls to raise awareness among public,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-shifts-pride-parade-from-streets-to-amphitheatre/articleshow/80593100.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||HC says displaying names of accused at thanas without proclamation is derogatory||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Friday held the practice of putting up names of accused on the flysheet board at police stations without issuance of a proclamation as derogatory and against the concept of human dignity and privacy enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. Further, the police role in disclosing the identity of criminals at police stations in public gaze is unwarranted and violates Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty). The court directed the director general of police (DGP) to remove names and identities of Top 10 criminals along with their criminal antecedents from the flysheet board at police stations and ensure compliance by police heads of districts. However, the court clarified the benefit of the judgment will not be given to “claimed offenders and fugitives in law”. The court further held there was nothing wrong in preparing a list of top criminals in a district for surveillance. While allowing the writ filed by Jeeshan, Balveer Singh Yadav and Doodh Nath Yadav, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal observed, “Human dignity is infringed upon when names of accused are displayed on the flysheet board of police stations or anywhere else without issuing a proclamation under Section 82 of Criminal Procedure Code. This practice is derogatory to the concept of human dignity and privacy.” The three petitioners were aggrieved by the publication of their names in the list of Top 10 criminals displayed at various police stations in districts of Prayagraj and Kanpur Nagar. The petitioners were brothers and relatives of an ex-member of Parliament from Allahabad. They contended police published their names in criminal lists as part of political vendetta. As per the petitioners, only one case was registered against each of them and their names were included in the Top 10 criminal list. The petitioners argued that personal enmity was being taken to illogical ends to harass them and the police action violated their right to life and privacy as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution. The court relied on the Supreme Court judgment in K S Puttuswamy Vs Union of India and observed “the judgment focused on privacy as a right to life and in fact insulated an individual from exercise of authority either by legislation or the state to prevent a person being made an object of ridicule or scorn”. While also relying on the judgment of Supreme Court in the case of Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Private Limited Vs Union of India AIR 1986 SC 515, the court observed “the validity of a subordinate legislation can be challenged on grounds of unreasonableness”. Therefore, the court held the policy regulation does not suffer from any lack of competence and cannot be held ultra vires of the Constitution, Police Act or the UP Police Regulations. The court further held there was nothing wrong in selecting Top 10 criminals in a district for surveillance and observed, “The DGP circular dated July 6, 2020, putting a criterion to select top 10 criminals in a district and in each police station was an exercise of power to maintain surveillance, to which no illegality could be attached. We also hold the circular to be lawful and valid. However, there is nothing in the circular which enables police to disclose the identity of an accused and his criminal antecedents in public gaze.” Section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code provides proclamation for an accused person, who is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-says-displaying-names-of-accused-at-thanas-without-proclamation-is-derogatory/articleshow/80593175.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||Goa: CAG warns of debt trap, says ready plan||PORVORIM: Expressing concern over Goa’s rising debt, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has urged the state government to prepare a road map to repay outstanding loans before the state falls into a debt trap. This is the second consecutive time that the CAG has asked the BJP government to consider preparing a strategy for fiscal management. The CAG report for the year ending March 2019, said that Goa’s outstanding fiscal liabilities increased by 47% from Rs 13,877 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 20,412 crore at the end of 2018-19. A day earlier, TOI had reported that Goa’s debt jumped by more than 50% in the last three years, from Rs 12,395 crore as of March 2017 to Rs 18,844 crore in December 2020. The rise in the government’s outstanding debt has also shown a corresponding increase in interest payments with a 30% jump from Rs 925 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 1,204 crore in 2019-20. Analysing Goa’s debt profile, the CAG said that the state government’s liability to repay outstanding loans would be highest in 2022-24 where it will have to repay Rs 2,550 crore. To put things in perspective, Goa has taken loans amounting to Rs 2,532 crore in this financial year. “The state government may consider developing a debt sustainability framework for achieving improved long-term sustainability in fiscal deficit management and to guide the borrowing decisions of the state in a way that matches their financing needs with current and prospective repayment,” the CAG said. Further, the CAG report said that 52% of Goa’s outstanding loans, which amounts to Rs 8,042.8 crore, will come up for repayment within the next seven years. “Therefore, the state government would have to work out a well-thought out borrowing repayment strategy to avoid falling into a debt trap,” the CAG report said. The CAG also pointed out that between 2014 and 2019, as much as 92% of the state’s borrowings were used to pay the interest or repay existing loans. “This also indicated that a very insignificant portion of the debt was available for meeting developmental expenditure to promote growth,” the CAG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cag-warns-of-debt-trap-says-ready-plan/articleshow/80594149.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kanpur||‘Touch leprosy awareness’ campaign to be launched today||Kanpur: District health authorities will launch ‘Touch leprosy awareness’ campaign in the city to mark the World Leprosy Abolition Day on Saturday (January 30). According to district leprosy officer Dr Mahesh Kumar, the World Leprosy Day is observed every year on January 30 to end discrimination with people suffering from leprosy and also to eradicate leprosy disease. The campaign, he said, would be launched on the Martyrs day because Mahatma Gandhi used to serve leprosy patients. The district leprosy officer said wall writings, street plays and quiz competitions would be organized and public messages, pamphlets would be used in the campaign to create awareness among the people about leprosy. On January 30, a message issued by the district magistrate would be read at all health centers of the city and wards while in villages the gram pradhans would read out the message before villagers. Dr Sanjay Yadav, district leprosy disease advisor, said, “Last year, the campaign was launched from January 30 to February 13 in which as many as 61 leprosy patients were identified, and among them around 32 patients were of paucibacillary leprosy and the remaining 27 were of multibacillary leprosy” . At present there are around 107 leprosy patients in the city who are being treated and provided medicines, he added. District leprosy officer said that leprosy is caused by the mycobacterium leprae and it affects skin and nerves. “If it is identified in time and treated, it can be cured”, he said. He contradicted the old myth that it is a curse of the previous. Creating awareness about its symptoms would help people in eradicating the disease, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/touch-leprosy-awareness-campaign-to-be-launched-today/articleshow/80591741.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 6,000 wheat procurement centres to be set up this year||LUCKNOW: Stepping up the state government’s bid to provide relief to farmers, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officials to set up 6,000 wheat purchase centres in the current financial year. Earlier, the government had announced to set up 5000 centres in the current financial year. The decision was taken by the CM at a high-level meeting in Lok Bhawan to review preparations for the wheat procurement in the forthcoming season. The Centre has raised the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat by Rs 50 to fix it at Rs 1,975 per quintal for the financial year 2021-22. The procurement process is scheduled to start from April 1. Reiterating the state government’s commitment to provide a suitable price for agricultural produce, Yogi directed district magistrates to put in place arrangements to ensure timely and effective procurement of wheat. He said that the administration should appoint a nodal officer for procurement of wheat besides selecting procurement centres and apprising the state government about it. He also asked officials to debar the agencies faltering on the wheat procurement process. The CM pitched for markers to facilitate farmers to reach the purchase centres. The concerned department, he said, should also create proper awareness about these centres for the convenience of farmers. He laid stress on providing online tokens to farmers, besides ensuring availability of electronic weighing machines and winnowing fans at the procurement centres. All these equipment, he said, should be made available at the centre by March 10. The CM also directed officials to ensure that every purchase centre should have a proper shed to protect wheat during the rainy season. Officials said that all the purchase centres would be geo-tagged with the help of Lucknow based Remote Sensing Application Centre (RSAC) to help farmers reach the nearby centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6000-wheat-procurementcentres-to-be-set-up-this-yr/articleshow/80593142.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||SP stands with farmers, Akhilesh Yadav assures Rakesh Tikait||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday called up farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and assured him of his party’s support to their agitation against the farm laws. He also enquired about Tikait’s health following reports that he was unwell since Thursday evening. Tikait is leading the farmer agitation on UP-Delhi border at Ghazipur and had managed to reach out to farmers across the state and beyond with his emotional statements. Talking to news channels on Thursday evening, a teary-eyed Tikait had announced he was ready to “face bullets or kill himself”. He had announced that he will not drink water being provided by the government at the protest site and will only drink water brought from his village. Shortly after his telephonic talk with Tikait, SP chief said the entire country was watching how the BJP was blaming and harassing farmer leaders. “Today, the entire country is standing with farmers,” Akhilesh tweeted in Hindi. In another tweet, he accused the BJP government of trying to defeat the agitation by keeping those farmers hungry who feed the country. “Except for some BJP leaders, the rest of the country is standing with farmers. The Samajwadi Party will continue to stand firmly with the agitating farmers,” he said. On stone-pelting incident at Singhu border, where police claimed that some locals threw stones on the tents of agitating farmers on Friday afternoon, Akhilesh again took to Twitter to describe the incident as a BJP sponsored attack on farmers protesting peacefully. “BJP’s mischief-mongers have pelted stones at the farmers and their camps at Singhu border. The entire country is watching how the ruling BJP is unleashing atrocities on peaceful protesters comprising old men, women and children, only to help some corporates,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-stands-with-farmers-akhilesh-assures-tikait/articleshow/80593122.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||MSRTC to pull out 100 buses leased to BEST||MUMBAI: Considering the shortage of buses in its statewide operations, MSRTC has now decided to take back 100 buses from the BEST fleet. These buses are part of a total of 1,000 it had provided to BEST on lease to ferry office-goers during peak hours. If these are recalled, there could be a slight shortage of buses during morning and evening peak hours. BEST runs a total fleet of 4,800 buses, including 1,000 from MSRTC. On Friday, MSRTC management wrote to BEST to allow it to withdraw 100 buses from various depots. These include 20 buses from Kalachowkie depot (will go back to Raigad), 30 from Malvani depot (will go back to Osmanabad), 25 from Malad depot (will return to Aurangabad) and 25 from Magathane depot (will return to Latur to serve local commuters).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrtc-to-pull-out-100-buses-leased-to-best/articleshow/80591427.cms||Somit Sen
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Fake degree scam: ED attaches Rs 194cr assets of pvt varsity in Solan||Shimla: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached property of Manav Bharti University in Solan in Himachal Pradesh. The attached property includes land, residential house, commercial building in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan and FDRs having total worth of Rs 194.17 crore. While value of property is pegged at Rs 186.44 crore, the FDRs were worth Rs 7.72 crore. The ED has initiated action under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against Raj Kumar Rana, chairman, Manav Bharti Charitable Trust, and his family members in the fake degree scam case. Solan police are already investigating the fake degree scam of Manav Bharti University. In this regard, three criminal cases under Sections 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (Forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) and 120-B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy) of IPC have been registered in Dharampur police station. Manav Bharti University owned by Manav Bharti Charitable Trust was established under the Manav Bharti University (Establishment and Regulation) Act 2009. Raj Kumar Rana is chairman of trust while his wife Ashoni Kanwar and daughter Aina Rana are the trustees. Madhav University of Rajasthan was also established in 2013 under the aegis of the same trust. Sources said a probe conducted by ED had revealed that Raj Kumar Rana had started the fake degree scam from his Karnal-based office in 2009. Through selling fake degrees, he had collected Rs 387 crore and through this money he has amassed properties outside country. Himachal Pradesh DGP Sanjay Kundu on August 31 last year had written a letter to the chief commissioner of income tax Shimla to investigate the financial aspect by tracing the money trail. In his letter, Kundu had stated that after registering the cases, the special investigating team had been constituted to investigate the case. During the course of investigation, a large number of fake degrees were found to be issued by Manav Bharti University to candidates in lieu of money, since its inception till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-degree-scam-ed-attaches-rs-194cr-assets-of-pvt-varsity-in-solan/articleshow/80592863.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Sanatkada fest to celebrate splendour of iconic baradaris||Lucknow: Did you know that Lucknow houses ‘baradaris’ that are almost 180 years’ old? From Ram Asrey ki Baradari at Kudiya Ghat, which has a marble inscribed ‘Samvat 1899’ as its date of construction, to the three Baradaris situated in the 18th century Bagh Baba Hazara complex in Thakurganj, the Lucknow’s baradaris are steeped in history and architecture. To highlight the history, style and function of these buildings which has changed over the years, the annual Sanatkada Festival will give city residents a chance to visit these Baradaris virtually through online tour, ‘Naqsh-o-Nigaar’, which is a part of its 12th edition beginning February 1. The festival, which is organised every year at the iconic Safed Baradari, will go online this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. The cultural festival will celebrate the tradition, food and crafts of Awadh through its series of virtual lectures, tours and workshops. "The festival will be online and live. We will pay tribute to the baradaris of the city with our theme that will showcase intricate architectural beauty of these vantage complexes," said the organiser, Madhavi Kuckreja. The most sought after Qasbati Bazaar, which features craft and apparel of local markets around Lucknow and its adjoining districts, will also go online. "Craftsmen and their products always take the centre stage at the festival. Since people will not be able to visit it, we will open the market online so that people may order from our website," she added. The Awadhi Home Cooked festival will also be up virtually where people can order their food online for home delivery. Other events will include ‘bait baazi’, ‘qawwali’ and a virtual Kathak performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sanatkada-fest-to-celebrate-splendour-of-iconic-baradaris/articleshow/80593106.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||South Delhi corporation opens 23 more garbage cafes in three zones||NEW DELHI: Under ‘Plastic Lao Khana Khao’ initiative, South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday opened 23 more garbage cafes at south, central and west zones. Mayor Anamika, who inaugurated a cafe at Nathu Sweets in Defence Colony, said 12 cafes opened at south, 10 at central and one at west zones. “SDMC has adopted a slew of measures under Swachh Bharat Mission, and garbage cafe is a part of them. At the 10 cafes in the central zone, people can get breakfast, lunch and dinner in exchange of 1kg plastic waste. If anyone is not willing to take a meal, he or she will be given half a kg of sweets. People can bring in water bottles, plastic canes and cold drinks bottles, besides other similar plastic items,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-corporation-opens-23-more-garbage-cafes-in-three-zones/articleshow/80592847.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Allahabad||After losing Rs 10 lakh to lockdown, this MBA graduate sells tea in UP's Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Selling tea on a Prayagraj street, 29-year-old Kamlesh resembles any other regular chaiwala, who has no alternative employment. But looks can be deceiving and it holds true for Kamlesh as well. Kamlesh has an MBA degree from SR College of Lucknow. He had invested Rs 10 lakh in a networking company in Haryana. His life came upside down when the company had to shut shop during Covid-induced lockdown. When most of youths went in depression following layoffs due to the impact of pandemic on economic activities, Kamlesh banked on his ‘survival skills’ to sail through testing times. Inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘vocal for local’ and Atmanirbhar Bharat call, Kamlesh set up a tea stall in Civil Lines area. “I wanted to convey the message that no work is small, especially when it is a matter of your survival,” he said. “When pessimism and depression started dominating me, this idea of opening a tea stall with the name ‘MBA Tandoori Chai’ in Civil Lines area clicked me,” said Kamlesh, a native of Diggi village in Chandauli district. “While lockdown brought unemployment to several youths, there was only two choices youths like me had — either to bow down before adversities or start life afresh with more enthusiasm,” he said, adding that, “Since our Prime Minister wants us to become atmanirbhar, this was the perfect idea.” Kamlesh completed his MBA from SR College of Lucknow after his BCom from Harishchandra PG College of Varanasi. He is now expanding his small business with vigour and has come up with more stalls serving momos and burgers to customers. After an initial investment of just Rs 8000, Kamlesh today provides employment to six other youths, who assist him in his work. Asked how he is putting his MBA degree to use, he politely answers, “Education never goes wasted. What if I am not working in Haryana, the planning and execution has come handy in running this venture.” He accepted that he has purposely named his stall as MBA Tandoori Chai, not to boast of his degree but to tell the energetic young force of the country that instead of searching for the job, they can start their own business and even a modest start can be fruitful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/after-losing-rs-10-lakh-to-lockdown-this-mba-graduate-sells-tea-in-city/articleshow/80590535.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||National College to conduct theory-based semester exam||LUCKNOW: National PG College (NPGC), the only autonomous college of Lucknow University, has decided to hold theory-based semester examinations as conducted during pre-Covid-19 times. While LU’s semester examination paper will be based on multiple-choice questions (MCQ) which will be of 1.30 hours duration, NPGC will conduct three-hour theory examination in two shifts which will begin from February 10. The college administration uploaded the detailed examination schedule on its website on Friday. “The college will implement strict Covid-19 safety norms and ensure that everyone, be it the examinees or teaching and non-teaching staff, enters the campus with masks and sanitizer. The examination schedule for odd semester is available on our website,” said admission and examination coordinator Prof Rakesh Jain. “Due to the rise in Covid -19 cases last year, we had conducted MCQ-based examination following government directions. We have decided to hold theory examination as held in pre-Covid times as the college management is capable of maintaining Covid-19 safety norms. The decision is also in the interest of students,” he said, adding that the examinations of semester V students of BA, BCom(H), BCA, BBA, BBA (MS) and BVOC would be held on February 10. When asked that LU students of these courses might score higher as their questions would be objective type, Jain said: “It may happen but we are focusing on imparting quality education. A theoretical examination pattern is the best way to test students’ knowledge and develop their comprehensive skills. Students of LU and its 179 affiliated colleges are appearing for MCQ examination in three shifts but NPGC being an autonomous institution is not bound to follow LU’s examination pattern and has the freedom to decide for itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/national-college-to-conduct-theory-based-semester-exam/articleshow/80593087.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||160 votes in 2 houses: AAP says Cong resorting to fake votes||Bathinda: Ahead of Bathinda Municipal Corporation elections, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has accused the ruling Congress of getting over 160 votes made from just two houses in Bathinda. In a joint statement on Friday, AAP MLAs Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur Ruby said the ruling party had made 84 votes in a single house and 85 votes in other house to win the elections. They said earlier the SAD-BJP had been indulging in such practices. “There were clear indications that 85 votes were made at the same house address in Ward Number 10 of Bathinda and 84 votes were made in other house in Ward Number 42,” the MLAs said, adding the ruling party is making every effort to seize power. “It was surprising that no inquiry was conducted by the administration in this regard as there were so many votes in one house. Unique identification numbers have been issued in the municipal corporation, but despite this, no correction in these votes point towards ill-intentions,” they added. The AAP MLAs urged the Punjab state election commissioner to take immediate action on such election lists as such fraudulent votes would be detrimental to democracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/160-votes-in-2-houses-aap-says-cong-resorting-to-fake-votes/articleshow/80592868.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||Goa growth rate falls behind national figure||PORVORIM: Goa’s growth rate has shown a declining trend since 2014-15 and fell to 9.48% in 2018-19, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India said in its state finances audit report for 2018-19. The state, which enjoyed robust growth when the mining industry was at its peak, has now fallen behind the national growth rate. In February 2020, government officials had told TOI that Goa’s economy was expected to grow at around 6%, if one removes inflation in 2019-20, while the nominal growth was likely to be a shade higher at 9.5%. Highlighting the fiscal correction in Goa’s economy, the CAG said the growth rate of Goa’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) was 9.48% against the Fourteenth Finance commission projection of 14.52% during the year. Chief minister Pramod Sawant is expected to outline his budget and spell out the growth projections in the coming months. “The growth rate of the state GDP has fallen in the last five years from 33.11% in 2014-15 to 9.48% in 2018-19. Also, in the first three years (2014-17), the growth of the state GDP was higher than India’s GDP, but in the last two years (2017-18 and 2018-19), it has fallen behind the national growth rate,” the CAG report said. With a decline in growth, the state government’s finances also took a hit, which in turn saw the government missing many of its revenue and capital targets. The CAG report pointed out that revenue receipts and revenue expenditure were lower than the budgeted estimates in 2018-19. Capital expenditure missed the budget estimates by Rs 2,040, which is 48.7% of the capital expenditure. Data released by the CAG in its state finances audit report also said the secondary sector and tertiary sector continued to be the dominant source of the GSDP, accounting for 46% and 36% of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-growth-rate-falls-behind-national-figure/articleshow/80594159.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||CBI court asks Pb IG to give voice samples||Chandigarh: The special court of CBI here on Friday allowed an application by the investigation agency to obtain the voice of samples of Punjab Poice IG (training) Gurinder Singh Dhillon in a Rs 22-lakh bribery case. The court has directed Dhillon to appear before the SIT on February 2. He has been asked to give his voice samples at the CBI office in Sector 30 at 10am. The court has also cleared that the SIT would take the voice samples of Dhillon in the presence of two independent witnesses. Before taking the voice samples, he will have to listen to the voice recording with which his sample is to be compared. The CBI had moved the application in April 2019. The case dates to August 2018. Dhillon, then posted as IG of Ferozepur range, had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 22 lakh. It has been alleged that another accused, Ashok Goyal, accepted the second installment of Rs 10 in Ludhiana on behalf of Dhillon. The accused had allegedly already taken the first installment of Rs 5 lakh from Goyal in a hotel of Chandigarh. It has been alleged that he had demanded another Rs 17 lakh for giving a clean chit to the complainant, who was facing a criminal case in Ferozepur and for returning important seized documents. After the registration of case, a trap was laid and Goyal was arrested red-handed amid the presence of independent witnesses while accepting bribe money on behalf of Dhillon. The CBI alleged that after taking the bribe money from complainant Shiv Kumar Sharma, former SP (vigilance), Goyal had called up Dhillon and the conversation between them was recorded in the presence of an independent witness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-court-asks-pb-ig-to-give-voice-samples/articleshow/80592861.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Icy winds, fog will continue to torment Lucknow till Tuesday||LUCKNOW: Icy winds from snowfed mountains will keep biting cold alive till Monday-Tuesday followed by a slight rise in temperatures in the next few days. Moderate to dense fog in the morning hours is also expected during this period. Lucknow has been witnessing bitter cold in the second half of the January in comparison to the first two weeks when temperatures were above normal. The main reason for the severe cold are the icy northwesterly winds that are bringing the chill generated by snowfall in the mountains. The intensity of the winds was so strong on Friday that people shivered even during the day despite bright sunshine. These winds were also helpful in clearing the dense fog in the morning hours, but at the same time did not allow the maximum temperature during the day to not rise above 17.6 degrees Celsius, which was about seven units below normal. The minimum temperature recorded in the wee hours was 9 degrees Celsius. State Met director JP Gupta said no significant change in weather is likely till Monday-Tuesday. However, a western disturbance which is likely to hit hill regions on Monday would cut off the flow of icy winds. Its impact will be felt in UP and Lucknow on Tuesday-Wednesday. Though there will be no rain, the change in wind pattern would make mercury rise by a couple of degrees, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/icy-winds-fog-will-continue-to-torment-city-till-tuesday/articleshow/80593062.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nagpur||55,000 health care workers take Covid vaccine jab in 14 days in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Across 11 districts of Vidarbha, 54,922 (34.45%) of total 1,59,427 registered health care workers have taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in last 14 days. The state government has decided not to continue vaccination programme on Saturday, to prepare for the pulse polio vaccination slated for Sunday, leaving eight days to cover the remaining 1,04,505 health care staff. The government had launched vaccination programme on January 16. Inoculations happened on nine of the last 14 days. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was the only one to conduct the vaccination on 10 days. Despite scheduling 120-150 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc from government and private hospitals per centre, less than 60% have turned up for inoculation in the region. The government had set a deadline of February 14 for completing first dose of all registered health care staff and commencement of second dose from February 15. The authorities will get only eight days to cover the remaining 1,04,505 health care workers, including those who did not turn up despite their names featuring in the schedule in last nine sessions. On Friday, 8,010 health care staff took the jab. The authorities claimed 72.16% vaccination, though it was calculated against 100 per centre despite scheduling of 120-150 per centre. Vaccination was conducted at 111 centres in the region. In Nagpur city, NMC reduced two centres on Friday. There were two centres at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), and NMC Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital. Due to low turnout, the civic body closed down one centre at IGGMCH and NMC Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital. NMC gave permission to commence vaccination centre at Alexis Hospital. Number of centres in private hospitals increased to nine. Eight centres are in NMC and government-run hospitals. At the nine vaccination centres at private hospitals, 768 turned up to achieve 85.33% vaccination. The team of Alexis Hospital led by infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde ensured vaccination of 100 staffers on the first day with no wastage. CIIMS, Wockhardt and Kingsway surpassed the day’s target of 100 per centre. Vaccination was 52.75% in eight centres located in NMC and government-run hospitals, as only 422 took the dose. At AIIMS, only six took the jab. NMC officials told TOI, “Very few registered health care workers of AIIMS were left for vaccination and scheduled on Friday. Staff of a private hospital situated in the city was scheduled to report at AIIMS. But they did not go and take the jab. We will monitor the turnout at AIIMS on Monday and will take a decision whether to change the site or continue it.” Though situated in city limits, AIIMS is located in MIHAN, on the city’s outskirts. Vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council Dr Vinky Rughwani took the jab on Friday. “Getting vaccinated not only protects one against the virus but also boosts morale of researchers who tirelessly toiled for it. It is the duty of each and every citizen to protect themselves and others,” he said. One centre each was increased in Akola and Amravati districts on Friday. Among 11 districts in the region, Bhandara and Akola achieved 100% or more. At Bhandara, 575 took the jab to achieve 115% of target. At Wardha too, 1,105 turned up for inoculation for 100.45% turnout. The wastage of vaccine doses has continued across the region due to lack of 100% turnout and improper planning. In Nagpur district, 118 doses went waste on Friday, 60 in city and 58 in rural. Total wastage was 6.05%, which was under permissible limit of 10%. Vials comprising 1,250 and 700 doses were utilized in city and rural respectively, on Friday, when 1,190 took the jab in city and 642 in rural. Thus, 1,832 of total 1,950 doses were actually used for wastage of 118 doses in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/55k-health-care-workers-take-covid-vaccine-jab-in-14-days-in-vid/articleshow/80591437.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||‘99.5% samples test negative for bird flu’||Chandigarh: Punjab is almost safe from bird flu as 99.5% of the poultry farms were free from bird flu out of the total samples tested so far at the regional disease diagnostic laboratory at Jalandhar. Punjab’s animal husbandry minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa revealed this on Friday. The cabinet minister said only 0.5% of the poultry farms have been found to be infected with the avian influenza. He expressed hope that the state would soon be fully safe from bird flu. Bajwa said the government aims to test 100% of all poultry farms or backyard poultry in the state. Vijay Kumar Janjua, additional chief secretary of the department of animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development, said so far 8,022 samples have been tested at the Jalandhar laboratory. There are 641 egg-laying poultry farms and 2,851 meat production poultry farms in the state and so far, the Jalandhar laboratory has collected and tested samples from around 750 farms. Janjua also appealed to the general public to eat fully cooked meat and eggs as advised by experts. He said the Punjab government would extend full support to the poultry farmers for conducting the tests of their poultry farms and these tests would be done completely free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/99-5-samples-test-negative-for-bird-flu/articleshow/80592877.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||‘CZMP defines & restricts coal handling at MPT to 12MTA’||Porvorim: The long-awaited coastal zone management plan (CZMP), which has been prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, will be uploaded by Saturday, environment minister Nilesh Cabral said on Friday in the state legislative assembly. Cabral said that the CZMP will limit the amount of coal handled and transported through the state at 12MTA, which will help the state keep a check on the amount of coal brought into the state and unloaded at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT). The environment department will leave the draft CZMP for objections and suggestions and the final plan will be prepared after incorporating the suggestions of people. The National Green Tribunal had given Goa government till January 31 to complete the plan. However, Goa plans to prepare the final plan by February end. The CZMP will be submitted to the ministry of environment, forests and climate change for final notification. “Our CZMP plan is getting ready and it is getting uploaded today or tomorrow and annexure 9 of it clearly says not one tonne more than the existing 15 million tonnes currently being transported will be increased. We will curtail the coal movement and the government will not allow any more increase,” said Cabral. Given the pandemic, the environment department cannot hold public consultations. Earlier, the state had filed an application seeking time till March 10, 2021, to complete the plan, stating that the Covid-19 pandemic had affected work on the plan. The application had stated that, in the meanwhile, it has been ensured that no violations occur in coastal regulation zone (CRZ) areas and that necessary directions are issued from time to time in terms of Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1985. “CZMP defines the amount of coal that will be handled at MPT and restricts MPT from handling more than 12MTA. The GCZMA will restrict it,” said Cabral. No approval can be granted for any development in coastal areas till the CZMP is finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/czmp-defines-restricts-coal-handling-at-mpt-to-12mta/articleshow/80594372.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Departments scurry to ready budget estimates before end of February||NEW DELHI: Work is on in full swing in all departments of Delhi government to prepare the budget for the next fiscal and the revised estimates for financial year 2020-21. The budget is likely to be tabled in Delhi assembly towards the end of February or the beginning of March. The final draft of the budget is likely to take a little more time because the pandemic kept officials of most departments busy. The consultative process for budget preparation was set rolling by December-end. The government had presented a Rs 65,000 crore budget for 2020-21, which was nearly 10% higher than the budget estimates of the previous year. However, this year, the pandemic hit revenue collection and impacted expenditure on various projects. The government was also forced to incur expenditure on various welfare schemes during the pandemic, like assistance to autorickshaw drivers and construction workers. An official said back-to-back meetings were taking place to review the expenditure of all departments, examine areas that needed funds and where spending could be reduced. “The departments have been asked to prepare category-wise estimates. Review is pending in some of them,” added the official. Education and health are likely to be the main focus areas of the budget. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia would be presenting the budget for the seventh consecutive year. The second budget of the third term of the Arvind Kejriwal-led government would offer an insight into the priorities and development plans for the next few years because AAP is trying to expand its base beyond Delhi. It is trying to become a political alternative in six states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat, which go to polls in the next two years. Boosting public transport, reducing air pollution by one-third, providing houses to slum dwellers, 24x7 water supply and cleaning of Yamuna are likely to be other priority areas. The process of budget preparation begins with the finance department asking all departments to submit their demands and estimated revenue receipts. The official said changes in category-wise plan expenditure, which pertain to funds being set aside for productive purposes, are suggested in review meetings. The non-plan expenditure includes all routine spending required for the government’s functioning, like salaries for employees, subsidies, loans and interest and all other expenses not included in the planned expenditure. Under the AAP government, the budget has been growing steadily over the past five years. In 2015-16, it was Rs 41,500 crore, which grew to Rs 46,600 crore in 2016-17. The size of the budget was Rs 48,000 crore in 2017-18, Rs 53,000 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 60,000 crore in 2019-2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/depts-scurry-to-ready-budget-estimates-before-end-of-feb/articleshow/80592866.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||UV lamps to sanitize Lucknow Metro coaches||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Metro has introduced UV lamps to sanitise even minuscule nooks and corners of coaches to ensure an ultra-hygienic public transport system. Managing director of Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) Kumar Keshav said that the Lucknow Metro is second in the world to be using the technology after the New York subway system. The UV system, developed by a Jaipur-based private company, has been tested for over two weeks and approved last October by Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO). “Last June, after going through a twitter feed on New York subway experimentation to sanitise their coaches with UV light, we contacted a Jaipur-based UV apparatus manufacturer. Based on our requirements, the firm developed a UV lamp to sanitise an entire coach. Prior to this, in May 2020 we had introduced UV sanitisation box for Metro tokens,” said Kumar. The UV sanitization works on ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) disinfection method. It uses short-wavelength ultraviolet (Ultraviolet C or UV-C) light of 254 nm UV-C to kill or make micro-organisms inactive by destroying nucleic acids and disrupting their DNA. Depending upon the kind of box/room/area to be sanitised, the wattage is adjusted and suitable wavelength is identified. Kumar said, “The apparatus certified by DRDO, sanitizes the entire coach in seven minutes but as added care, we are sanitising each coach for 15 minutes. The apparatus is operated through a remote, so that the operator doesn’t come in direct contact of UV rays which are harmful for skin and health.” He added, “Similar apparatus is being used by medical industry to sanitise operation theatres and medical equipment. The best part of this initiative is that it is very economical, that is, approximately a cost reduction to 1/40th (2.5%) of the cost of sanitization through manual mode for 16 trains.” Currently, UPMRC spends Rs 5,000 per day to sanitise its 20 trains, but a UV lamp costs Rs 8,000 per unit and they are long-lasting. The corporation is likely to purchase over a dozen lamps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uv-lamps-to-sanitize-lucknow-metro-coaches/articleshow/80593209.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Old building owner denied bail as he may ‘tamper with evidence’||MUMBAI: Rejecting the bail plea of the 36-year-old owner of a dilapidated building, a portion of which collapsed and fell on a house at Nagpada last August killing two, a sessions court recently said there was every possibility of him tampering with prosecution evidence and exerting pressure on witnesses if released. The family of a victim filed an intervention plea and alleged that the brother of the accused, Gufran Qureshi, had visited the premises of the victims and threatened their relatives. The victims (a septuagenarian and her 12-year-old granddaughter) were killed in the incident on August 27. The accused was booked under IPC for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Qureshi was arrested in October. His earlier plea for bail was also rejected. Advocate Zain Shroff, who represented the family of the victim, opposed the plea. The defence submitted that the contractor was not employed by the accused and demolition work was not under his instructions. The court said records indicated the accused paid Rs 11,000 for repairs. It said this meant the accused knew his responsibility to carry out repairs. “No persons other than owner can appoint a contractor for repairs, that too, when MHADA had granted NOC for repairs in the name of owner. Even assuming... that the contractor is not appointed by him and appointed by tenants, the accused being owner and NOC-holder for redevelopment of property cannot shirk responsibility,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/old-bldg-owner-denied-bail-as-he-may-tamper-with-evidence/articleshow/80594229.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Passport check: Salt Lake, Howrah, Kolkata beat other districts||KOLKATA: Police verification report (PVR), which makes or breaks a passport application, takes anything between 11 days to 169 days in Bengal. While Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate takes only 11 days to complete a PVR, South Dinajpur police district takes nearly half a year to complete the process. The PVR generation process has been simplified over the years. Police verification becomes easier when the verifying personnel use m-app. However, in Bengal, only two police districts — Kolkata and Bidhannagar Police commissionerates — use m-passport police app for PVR generation and its timely dispatch. “In fact, to encourage timely submission of PVR, we give an incentive of Rs 150 per verification if the PVR is submitted within 21 days. The fund is used by police districts to buy tabs for verifying officers to carry out verification seamlessly. By using the m-app on tabs, states like Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana, Haryana have reduced the time to 5-6 days,” said regional passport officer, Kolkata region, Bibhuti Bhushan Kumar. In Bengal, Bidhannagar City Police is the most efficient police district as far as PVR generation is concerned. On an average, Bidhannagar takes only 11 days. In fact, Howrah Police Commissionerate, without using the m-passport app, manages PVR within 18 days. Kolkata Police these days reportedly takes 23 days. But in north Bengal districts, the delay is inordinate. South Dinajpur takes as many as 169 days, Darjeeling 125 days and Jalpaiguri 101 days. “In fact, thanks to multiple documents, we don’t even expect police to verify address, unless the application is suspicious. The job of the police is to establish nationality and criminal antecedence, if any,” said an officer. A large number of passport applications in Bengal were recently closed because of the non-receipt of police verification report (PVR) by the regional passport office, Kolkata. Delay over PVR not only held up passports issuance but denied passports to a bonafide applicants. RPO, Kolkata, took full advantage of the pandemic by clearing all backlogs. “Since we had low turnout of applicants, we dedicated ourselves to clear backlogs. We called the applicants and cleared their passports all this while. Thus, we have come to a point of zero backlog position,” said Kumar. A senior officer said they would inquire into it and try to resolve issues delaying the PVR. The officer said the state might start a helpline to address the issues. Kolkata RPO, which takes care of Bengal, Sikkim, Tripura and Andaman-Nicobar union territory, used to process 4,500 passport applications before Covid-19 hit the nation. “Now, we are processing 1,500 per day as foreign travel has come down. Apart from Passport Seva Kendras, Bengal has the highest number of Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (PoPSKs) to reach out the service at people’s doorstep,” said an official. Kumar also alerted against fake sites, which are duping a very high number of passport applicants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/passport-check-salt-lake-howrah-kol-beat-other-dists/articleshow/80591482.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Centre’s second round declaration catches Maharashtra unawares||MUMBAI: The Union health ministry's announcement on Friday to initiate the second round of vaccination of frontline workers simultaneously with health workers by next week has taken officials on the ground completely by surprise. Merely a third of the registered healthcare workers have been vaccinated in Maharashtra so far with more than 5 lakh awaiting their turn. It is estimated that the state has at least 20 lakh frontline workers. Dr Archana Patil, head of Directorate of Health Services, said that the names of about 6 lakh have been uploaded on CoWIN. As for Mumbai, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that over 1.9 lakh names have been uploaded on the software so far. The frontline workers include policemen, state and central police department, armed forces, disaster management volunteers. This round would see senior bureaucrats, including commissioner and other senior civic officials, administrative health officials of the state taking the vaccine. Calling it a 'hasty decision', several officials told TOI that the Centre should have waited at least for all healthcare workers to be given the first dose as well as CoWIN glitches to be resolved to an extent. While Maharashtra was planning to complete giving the first dose to all healthcare workers by February 15, the Centre has asked all states to start vaccinating frontliners simultaneously by the first week of February. The Centre has said that a database of 61 lakh frontline workers has already been uploaded in the country. It also said that the required vaccine doses have been allocated to states and further augmentation will be done. A civic official told TOI that vaccination centres are still grappling with CoWIN, which again didn’t work for most of Friday. “The names of many beneficiaries are missing. The messages still can’t be sent to everyone as planned. Most importantly, there is scope for confusion as two groups will be vaccinated simultaneously,” he said, adding that the number of vaccinators too will have to scale up almost overnight. A state official said that manpower, vaccination sites and vaccine stocks are all issues that have to be dealt with urgently for a scale up. Kakani said that the BMC will add more jumbo centres as well as increase booths in the existing centres. Currently, 80 booths across 12 centres are carrying out the drive, while across state 540 booths are operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centres-2nd-round-declaration-catches-maharashtra-unawares/articleshow/80592900.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Power consumers in Hry rise to 70L||Chandigarh: The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has conducted a virtual public hearing on the annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition of Haryana’s power distribution companies - Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN). Suggestions and objections of distribution companies’ officials were recorded through the hearing. DHBVN delivered a power point presentation before the commission, during which it was informed that the number of electricity consumers has increased to 70.46 lakh in Haryana, out of which 32.84 lakh are of UHBVN and 37.62 lakh of DHBVN. HERC members Pravindra Singh Chauhan and Naresh Sardana heard suggestions and objections from both sides. In the morning, UHBVN presented its financial position through a power point presentation, after which UHBVN MD Shashank Anand spoke on behalf of the Nigam. During the hearing, HERC members Pravindra Singh Chauhan and Naresh Sardana gave necessary guidelines on many topics, including smart metres, consumer complaints centre and electricity bill collection. In the virtual public hearing, all suggestions and objections received from the public were also carefully listened to and recorded. When DHBVN MD Balkar Singh was presenting details of consumers, the commission directed them to release new pending connections as well. It was informed that on October 1, 2020, a list of new connections of 60,587 was pending with UHBVN and 24,058 with DHBVN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-consumers-in-hry-rise-to-70l/articleshow/80592883.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Varanasi||BJP MLA terms Mamata Banerjee as Lankini, mocks at Rahul Gandhi||VARANASI: BJP MLA from Bairia assembly constituency in Ballia district, Surendra Singh once again targeted West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee terming her as ‘Lankini’ (demoness of Lanka). “Mamata Banerjee has no compassion and kindness in her heart. She remained silent over the killings of BJP workers in West Bengal. To remain in power she is trying to push in a situation similar to Jammu and Kashmir,” said Singh. “However, the Hindu Samaj and ‘rashtrabhakt’ samaj of West Bengal have awakened now, and the state is set to bring a change,” he said. Terming Mamata as ‘Lankini’ (demon king Ravana’s sister), he went on to say, “Wahan ka vibhishan bhi mil chuka hai, aur Lankini ka nash hona nishchit hai. Ho sakta hai vibhishan ka rajyabhishek ho jaye” (People close to Mamata have already joined the BJP, and one of them may get the reins of the state). Mocking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his stand on farmers agitation, Singh said, “He (Rahul Gandhi) is the most backward in intellect at national level. “Rahul Gandhi jab tak Congress ke neta ke roop mein rahenge, Bhagwan ki kripa se BJP ko bal pradan karte rahenge” (Being a Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will continue to strengthen the BJP),” he added. He alleged that Rakesh Tikait was not a leader of farmers, but a ‘lathait’ who is asking people wield sticks. He demanded sedition charges against those who hoisted a religious flag on the Red Fort on the occasion of Republic Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-mla-terms-mamata-banerjee-as-lankini-mocks-at-rahul/articleshow/80590595.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Allahabad High Court stays arrest of ‘Mirzapur’ producers Farhan Akhtar & Ritesh Sidhwani||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the arrest of ‘Mirzapur’ web series producers, Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani, in pursuance of an FIR registered against them for allegedly hurting religious, social and regional sentiments through their portrayal of the eastern UP town of Mirzapur. Hearing a writ petition filed by Akhtar and Sidhwani, a division bench comprising Justice Manoj Kumar Gupta and Subhash Chand also issued a notice to the state government and the complainant, seeking their replies. The next hearing was listed for first week of March. Sidhwani and Akhtar had moved high court after an FIR was registered in Kotwali Dehat, Mirzapur, against them under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting religious beliefs), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and under Section 67-A of Information Technology Act. The primary allegation against the web series producers was improper and indecent portrayal of the town of Mirzapur, which hurt religious, social and regional sentiments and could advance animosity. The first informant claimed in his police complaint that web series impacted society to such an extent that his friends had begun calling him ‘Kaaleen Bhaiya’, the main protagonist in the web series. However, counsel for Sidhwani and Akhtar argued even if allegations are taken to be true, no offence is made out against the petitioners. He pleaded the web series was a work of fiction and acts which tantamount to insult or attempts to insult religious feelings would not come within purview of Section 295-A of IPC, unless it’s perpetrated with deliberate and malicious intent. The state counsel submitted there is specific allegation the web series had hurt social and religious feelings of the first informant. He also stated the web series promoted illicit relationships and incites religious disharmony. While staying the arrest, the court directed the petitioners to cooperate in the investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/allahabad-high-court-stays-arrest-of-mirzapur-producers-farhan-akhtar-ritesh-sidhwani/articleshow/80593196.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kanpur||83% vaccinated in Jhansi||JHANSI: A whopping 83% health workers turned up for immunisation in Jhansi for Covid-19 vaccination on Friday. The vaccination was conducted at 26 sessions in 15 different centres. A total of 2,060 beneficiaries turned up against the target of 2,491. At the divisional railway hospital, 96 out of 120 identified railway health workers turned up for vaccination on Friday, the first day of vaccinati on drive conducted for railway hospital employees. DRM Jhansi division, Sandeep Mathur, who inaugurated the drive, said that 241 health workers of railway hospital have been registered on CoWin app. The first dose of the vaccine was administered to CMS Railway Hospital, Dr Abha Jain. There was no adverse recation to the vaccine reported. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/83-vaccinated-in-jhansi/articleshow/80591861.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Jailed wrongly, couple finally reunites with ‘missing’ kids||AGRA: After five years of being in prison on false charges, being released to find their children were missing and finally tracing them after a frantic week-long search, Narendra Singh and Najma were finally reunited with their kids on Thursday. “Our daughter did not recognise us. She refused to accept us as her parents. She didn’t want to come to us. The moment we saw her, we wanted to hug her tight, but she didn’t want to,” Narendra Singh, 40, told TOI. “It was only when our son saw us, came running towards us, that she let her guard down.” Anju was three when her parents were taken away on charges of murder on September 2, 2015. She and her brother Ajeet, 5, were taken in by their grandfather Bhagwan Das. Children were moved to Agra shelter home in October 2019But in October 2019, Bhagwan could no longer afford to take care of them. They were moved to a child protection home in Agra. What happened after that, Narendra and Najma did not know. After TOI reported their plight, the kids were traced to two different cities last Saturday — Anju had been moved to a girls’ shelter in Kanpur and Ajeet, to a boys’ home in Firozabad. Agra Child Welfare Commission chairperson Gopal Sharma had told TOI that they were both older than 10, an age when kids are moved out of child protection homes, and had to be moved, a claim that has been contested by the couple’s lawyer Vansho Baboo. Then, Ajeet was brought to Kanpur in December after he insisted on being in the same city as his sister. That is where their parents would meet them. But getting to Kanpur was not easy for the former teacher and his wife who used to run a small bangle shop before their arrest.ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand got in touch with a local entrepreneur Atul Tewari, who helped them arrange transportation and a phone. Finally, on Thursday afternoon, the couple got to see their children. “We were elated. Thinking about them is what had helped us make it through these five terrible years in prison,” Narendra said. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), meanwhile, took suo motu cognizance of the report and issued notices to the chief secretary and the DGP. “The reports should include the enquiry/action taken, if any, against the police officers and the public servants who were responsible to ensure social security to the innocent children of the victim couple,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jailed-wrongly-couple-finally-reunites-with-missing-kids/articleshow/80593155.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Jadavpur University meet focuses on reopen roadmap||KOLKATA: Jadavpur University authorities discussed about reopening of campus at a special meeting on Friday. Several recommendations were made at the meeting to maintain health protocols and protect students and faculty members as and when the university reopens. Among the suggestions made were starting classes in a phased manner, providing ambulance service in case of an emergency, forming a committee with experts on public health for a time-to-time advice and partnering with a hospital to provide medical facilities to the varsity. “We are expecting a decision about reopening the campus to emerge after a meeting with the vice-chancellors and education minister Partha Chatterjee on Wednesday. But, the stakeholders have also reached a consensus that the Board of Studies in each faculty will decide about students who will be allowed access to the campus in every phase after reopening,” said a source. He added that a decision about reopening the hostels could not be taken in the meeting. “We need to know the state government’s opinion about allowing boarders at the hostels. But, if students are not permitted to stay, it will result in inequality since a large section of students of JU are from outside the city,” he added. The virtual meeting on Friday was attended by vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, along with other officials, teachers’ organizations and student unions. “The meeting was essentially called to draw up a roadmap for the reopening of campus for face-to-face interactions” explained the source. In its earlier stakeholders’ meeting that was held in the middle of January, the teachers and students insisted on starting physical classes on the campus after Calcutta University gave a permission to start practical classes for the postgraduate students. A faculty member said, “The discussions were preliminary. We are not in a position to decide till the government permits higher education institutes to allow physical attendance of students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-meet-focuses-on-reopen-roadmap/articleshow/80591512.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ludhiana||Pose with guns on social media, face the music||Ludhiana: Think before posting your picture with a licensed weapon on social media. A dedicated team of Ludhiana commissionerate is keeping an eye on the social networking websites and such a photo can lead to cancellation of your arms licence and you may also get booked if you are seen firing it. On Thursday night, the police commissioner posted a warning, “If anyone is found posing with weapons on social media, we will cancel their arms licences. And if they are seen firing with those weapons on social media, we will also lodge an FIR under the Arms Act. Let it be clear that weapon licences are issued for security and not for flaunting.”Police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal said, “I have already formed a social media cell to keep a check on such activities. Senior police officers are supervising the team. The warning was issued after two recent incidents. In the first, son of an advocate was booked as he had uploaded his pictures and a video with weapons. In the other incident in Division 3 jurisdiction, some people had opened fire while celebrating Lohri. Such things cannot be tolerated. People have to remember that arms licences are issued for security.” When asked if licensed weapons were used in both the instances, he said it was being investigated. “The police do not issue arms licences to people as young as 21. If it is licensed, it must be of his father or some relative. So the licensee will also be booked under the Arms Act,” he added.He added, “If anyone sees a post on social networking websites in which a person is flaunting a weapon, (s)he can report to the police via email or on WhatsApp number 9115601159.” 18k licences in cityLudhiana police have so far issued approximately 18,000 arms licences, and would not be issuing fresh ones till February 28. A SIT is formed to check if the licences issued so far are on correct information or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pose-with-guns-on-social-media-face-the-music/articleshow/80590413.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Pay tax promptly and get recognised by Greater Chennai Corporation||CHENNAI: Gone are the days when Greater Chennai Corporation would hire dancers and percussionists to create a scene outside hotels and commercial establishments to make them pay up pending property tax. Now, the civic body has adopted a method of incentivising and honouring those who pay the maximum tax and those who pay up promptly. At the Republic Day celebrations, the corporation presented certificates to the top three tax payers (by amount) and also the most prompt tax payer from each of the regions (north, central and south). This is the second such initiative after giving rebates to those who paid up half-yearly tax before October 15. ITC Grand Chola Hotel (Rs 2.93crore), Tril Info Park (Rs 2.54 crore) and Sugam Vanija Holdings Private Ltd (VR Mall), which paid Rs 1.26crore of property tax were the top three who were presented a certificate and a letter of appreciation by corporation commissioner G Prakash. The prompt tax payers honoured were Vikram Kumar (ward 57, Royapuram zone), R Bhanumathi (ward 121, Teynampet zone) and Vishwanath Tondi (ward 197, Shollinganallur zone). The appreciation letters are printed out on a Tricolour-themed paper; a revenue wing official said that such appreciations would adorn the walls of commercial establishments, adding to their brand value. Corporation deputy commissioner (revenue and finance) Meghanatha Reddy told TOI that many people pay tax on time but it sends out a inspiring message if the top ones are appreciated. “These were some of the reform areas on our mind. We wanted to replicate the income tax department’s model,” he said. For the brands, it was a good recognition and also helped from a branding perspective, Reddy said. In future, the civic body would also prepare a similar list for each of the 15 zones, Reddy said. “We might also do it for quarterly and half-yearly basis,” he added. The corporation has collected around Rs 350crore of property tax till date in this financial year; collections have been low considering the pandemic. Sources said that around 95,000 assesses paid their tax on or before October 15, 2020. VS Jayaraman, a resident of T Nagar, said this was a welcome move but the civic body should also improve their greivance redressal mechanism with regard to property tax payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pay-tax-promptly-and-get-recognised-by-greater-chennai-corporation/articleshow/80591508.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 30, 2021||Ludhiana||Village a micro-containment zone, its residents resist testing||Ludhiana: Even as Jagraon’s Ghalib Kalan village has been declared a micro-containment zone, its residents are resisting testing, say health department officials.So far, 43 persons of the village—including 27 students, 14 teachers of the government school and two of their contacts —have tested positive for Covid-19. The disease had claimed the life of one of the teachers on January 23. The health department officials said, “An area can be declared a micro-containment zone after more than five cases are reported from there. As per the guidelines, samples are collected from the zone to detect more patients so that they can be quarantined to check the spread of the disease.”But in Ghalib Kalan, most of the villagers are not coming forward for sampling. “We are facing resistance from the villagers. They are refusing to get themselves tested, which is necessary for containing the virus spread. Till recently, we managed to get samples of around 22 residents, though the village population is about a thousand. Of the about 22 persons tested, reports of two —who are contacts of infected villagers—have come positive,” said a senior health officer.  “If two of 22 are positive, we suspect there may be more positive cases in the village. As majority of the villagers are not allowing sampling, it may not bode well for the village. Sampling helps identify and isolate positive patients,” said health department officials.“Testing is good for the village. But residents are not coming forward apparently due to rumours about Covid. We are trying to dispel false notions to encourage them,” said an official. Despite repeated attempts, Sidhwan Bet senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Mandeep Sidhu couldn’t be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/village-a-micro-containment-zone-its-residents-resist-testing/articleshow/80590426.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 30, 2021||Ludhiana||76-year-old man dies, 46 test positive||Ludhiana: A Ludhiana resident died of Covid-19 and 46 tested positive on Friday. As per the local media bulletin, the deceased was a 76-year-old man of Dhandra village, who had coronary artery disease. He died at a city hospital. The day also saw a patient from outside Ludhiana succumbing to the disease at a city hospital and eight out of district cases testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll has risen to 997 and that of outsiders to 476.To date, 5,97,237 persons have been tested.Of the 46 new cases, 25 were from flu corner, seven contacts of positive patients, seven from OPD, six through tracing process, among others. The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,721 and that of outsiders 3,911.So far, 24,399 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.86% of the total cases.There are 322 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 680.On Friday, 60 persons were quarantined and 2,409 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH. Three patients from outside Ludhiana are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/76-year-old-man-dies-46-test-positive/articleshow/80590423.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Vaccination turnout jumps to 62% in Round 4||LUCKNOW: The fourth round of the first phase of vaccination for health workers on Friday saw significant improvement in the number of beneficiaries who came forward to get the jab against Covid-19. Around 62% healthcare workers benefited from the drive across 43 centres, which was the second highest percentage turnout since the drive began. The first round on January 16 had recorded around 70% turnout which had dipped to about 58% on January 22. On Thursday, the lowest attendance at just about 49% was recorded which on Friday ended at 62%. Though there was significant improvement in numbers, several centres continued to witness glitches with the CoWin mobile app and also anomalies in the lists of beneficiaries. KGMU vice-chancellor Lt Gen (retd) Dr Bipin Puri got inoculated, setting an example for the medical fraternity. The medical institute however recorded around 56% turnout and the CoWin portal experienced technical issues following which manual feeding of the day’s activity had to be done. Nodal officer Dr Nishant Verma said, “The app has been facing issues since morning and manual data feeding had to be done. An excel sheet of all people inoculated was maintained and the app will be updated later.” At TS Mishra hospital, problems in the beneficiary list surfaced. Nodal officer Dr Sudhanshu Tiwari said, “Many first-year students who are yet to begin their classes were on the list along with those students who have already graduated out of the institute. We did get permission to vaccinate the second- year students, however, with no prior information to them, not many were present on campus. Fresh data is being sent out to the health department so that these anomalies can be corrected.” A similar issue was noticed at Integral Institute of Medical Sciences. “Phone numbers of the beneficiaries were jumbled up again on Friday. As a result, messages communicating the vaccination schedule were sent out to the wrong group of people. The miscommunication will be rectified,” informed institute director Dr Zafar Idris. At both RML Institute of Medical Sciences and SGPGI, a high percentage turnout was recorded at 96% and 72% respectively. “We conducted regular counselling of hesitant health workers, informing them about vaccine benefits and dispelling their doubts at every stage,” said spokesperson Dr Srikesh Singh as the reason for RMLIMS’s improved performance. Nodal officer for SGPGI Dr Ajay Raja said that nearly 73% (544) health workers were vaccinated out of the targeted 750 at the institute. “CoWin portal experienced technical issues all day and manual feeding had to be done but a steady work flow was maintained,” said Dr Raja. “Most of those who opted out had health issues and personal problems,” he added. (With inputs from Vivek Singh Chauhan, Yashita Arora, Pragati Shukla, Anahita Chauhan and Niharika Ranjan )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccination-turnout-improves-but-cowin-app-faces-glitches-again/articleshow/80593235.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Enthusiastic young brigade turns up in large numbers||LUCKNOW: Friday’s vaccination drive witnessed young beneficiaries in large numbers who were part of the drive at several centres. KGMU’s waiting room was brimming with excitement as young minds exchanged their views on the inoculation process. First year MBBS student Harshita Jaiswal (20) said, “I was slightly nervous as my exams are coming up. But then I saw people who were completely fine after the vaccination and all my fears went away. Our professors taking the shot also instilled confidence in us.” Covid-19 survivor MBBS student Achhal Kundu said, “I was eagerly waiting for the vaccine since I know the Covid sufferings. During initial days of contracting the disease, I was breathless and it took me a month to recover. I am grateful that the vaccine came in a comparatively shorter time span.” Nurse at Janata Hospital Shashi Verma (21), who got vaccinated at Bhaurao Devras hospital, said, “I finished my seven-hour duty and came straight for the vaccination. Initially, I was sceptical, but then my co-workers motivated me to take up the opportunity.” On the other hand, a general physician at a private clinic in Husainabad Dr Suhel Ahmed (62), who was diagnosed with Covid-19 in November and had undergone plasma therapy thrice, was unable to get vaccinated on the day. “I received a call at 7:30 am that I’m scheduled for vaccination and should come by 4 pm to Bhaurao Devras hospital. However, officials at the centre told me that those who have undergone plasma therapy are ineligible for the jab according to the guidelines issued by the government. My family was super excited and wished me well, but now I am confused as to what will be the line of action. I also have type II diabetes,” he said. (With inputs from Pragati Shukla, Yashita Arora, Anahita Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/enthusiastic-young-brigade-turns-up-in-large-numbers/articleshow/80593066.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ludhiana||11 more students of Ghalib Kalan village catch Covid-19||Ludhiana: Eleven more students of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan, Jagraon, have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past few days. With this, 41 students and teachers of the school have contracted the virus this month. Besides, two of their contacts have also caught the infection.After a teacher had tested positive in the third week of the month, tests were conducted and 13 of her 37 colleagues were found to be infected. On January 23, a 48-year-old woman teacher of the school had succumbed to the disease.The health department officials said, “Samples of 127 of the 550 students were collected. While 16 had tested positive earlier, 11 have now. So, the count of students has increased to 27 and that of teachers continues to be 14. Twenty-four teachers have tested negative. Also, two contacts of positive cases from the school have caught the disease.”District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said, “Forty-three persons related to Ghalib Kalan school have tested positive so far. Reports of all the school students whose samples were taken have come.” A health department officer said, “Even as some teachers and students had minor symptoms, most of them were asymptomatic. They have been home quarantined. We have asked them to contact us if they develop any severe symptoms.” Meanwhile, the health department officials said reports of 326 students of a school in Gidder Widdi, Sidhwan Bet—whose principal and four teachers have tested positive—were expected by Friday evening. “Most of the positive cases from Gidder Widdi school are also asymptomatic,” they added.Contact tracing at both the schools showed that they had not come in contact with any international traveller. The department had sent samples of Ghalib Kalan school’s positive patients to National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, for genome analysis to ascertain whether they were infected with the UK strain, which is more infectious. “We will wait for the reports, which are expected in about a week, and then decide whether to send the samples of Gidder Widi school patients, too, for genome analysis,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/11-more-students-of-ghalib-kalan-village-catch-covid-19/articleshow/80590428.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi's forest department to set up temporary wildlife rescue centre||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s forest department is planning to set up a temporary wildlife rescue centre at Tughlaqabad for treatment of animals. An official said it would take several months for Delhi’s first wildlife rescue-cum-rehabilitation centre to be established at Rajokri and hence the department was considering setting up the centre at Tughlaqabad. Deputy conservator of forests (south) Amit Anand said, “We have sent a proposal to the forest headquarters for setting up a temporary wildlife rescue centre at Tughlaqabad. When a wild animal is rescued, the animal at times needs round-the-clock medical care. We have requested senior officials to hire a doctor and two compounders on a contractual basis for this centre.” A senior forest official said the proposal was being considered. In absence of wildlife rescue-cum-rehabilitation centre, Delhi forest department lacks proper manpower and equipment to help wild animals in need. A few cases were reported recently when the injured animals could not be immediately rescued or treated after the wild animal strayed out of its habitat. At times, the rescue operation stretches days. “The department currently does not have a veterinarian or rescue vehicle of its own. In case of emergencies, it seeks help from veterinary doctors at National Zoological Park. Much of the crucial time is wasted in coordination,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forest-dept-to-set-up-temp-wildlife-rescue-centre/articleshow/80592894.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: House-help to drive source segregation||CHENNAI: Achieving 100% source segregation in at least seven zones of the city corporation where conservancy work has been outsourced to private firm Urbaser-Sumeet will now be in the hands of the house-help. The Indo-Spanish joint venture firm, in its bid to bring about a behavioural change in the city to adopt source segregation, has started running training campaigns for people, predominantly women, who work as house-help in middle and high income residential colonies. Hari Balaji, head (information, education and communication) at Urbaser-Sumeet, said this will ensure two things. “There will be better source segregation in middle and high income households. Most house-help live in low-income neighbourhoods where source segregation can be improved as well,” he said. The firm is also targeting home-makers, youngsters and children in bringing about the change. Urbaser-Sumeet is now responsible for conservancy operations in 92 wards across Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Adyar, Valasaravakkam, Alandur, Perungudi and Shollinganallur zones, directly covering 10.5 lakh households, its workforce coming by battery operated vehicles to collect dry, wet and hazardous waste segregated at source. “During training, the house-help will be explained the importance of segregation and how avoiding it will cause environmental pollution, especially of water bodies and land,” Hari Balaji said. The ward supervisor, unit officer, conservancy inspectors and the animators of Greater Chennai Corporation are all involved in this process. About 50 people who work towards educating the residents of source segregation are given a target of covering 150-200 houses every day. However, the firm said it could not provide data on the quantity of segregated waste collected from households and whether there were any indicators to show improvement in segregation. “It will take 3-4 weeks to collate the data. It will be shared with the corporation first,” said Balaji. G Veerappan, superintending engineer of the corporation’s solid waste management wing, did not respond to calls. Vanessa Peter, policy researcher at Information and Resource Centre for Deprived Urban communities (IRCDUC), said agencies should bring in a comprehensive approach to such movements and also raise awareness among all sections. “Segregation of waste, health and water should not be looked at in isolation,” she said, pointing out that there should be indicators to show the success of such initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/house-help-to-drive-source-segregation/articleshow/80591515.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 30, 2021||Ludhiana||21-yr-old booked after video of ‘his firing in air’ goes viral||Ludhiana: The Salem Tabri police late on Thursday night booked 21-year-old son of an advocate after his alleged video of opening fire in the air went viral. According to the cops, someone had shared the video on Twitter and tagged the city police. Following this, the police swung into action. However, according to advocate Narinder Aadia, someone had morphed his son’s picture to malign him. The accused has been identified as Ankit Aadia of Grain Market, Salem Tabri. Salem Tabri SHO inspector Gopal Krishan said the video of Ankit firing in the air had gone viral on Twitter, after which the police registered a case and further probe was on. The inspector said the police had conducted a raid at the advocate’s house to arrest his son, but he wasn’t there. They questioned Narinder, who told them that the location in the video was of his brother’s house. The police learned that his brother has a licensed weapon. The case was registered under Section 336 (an act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC and the Arms Act. Narinder said, “The police are yet to prove that the person seen in the video is my son. As per the background in the clip, it seems to be of last year’s marriage anniversary function of my brother in Garhshankar, Hoshiarpur. But my son had not opened fire in the air and someone has doctored the video to implicate him to tarnish my image. The police have lodged the FIR under someone’s pressure. I have met the police commissioner and got an inquiry marked in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/21-yr-old-booked-after-video-of-his-firing-in-air-goes-viral/articleshow/80590435.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man serving life term gets Covid parole||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Friday granted 45-day emergency Covid-19 parole to a murder convict, serving a life term at Nashik prison. HC noted that a clause during lockdown barring parole to out-station convicts was deleted last November, entitling the Azamgarh resident to parole. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale directed him to reside with his Mumbai kin. He was denied emergency parole last September, as he never took leave in 11 years of incarceration, said his counsel Bharat Manghani. HC said, “There appears to be no logic in this reason.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-serving-life-term-gets-covid-parole/articleshow/80594344.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||High court permits Tamil Nadu to keep keys to Veda Nilayam||CHENNAI: Two days after a single judge of the Madras high court permitted a formal inauguration of former chief minister Jayalalithaa’s house at Poes Garden as memorial, with a condition that keys should be handed over to the high court, a division bench stayed the condition and allowed authorities to retain keys to the building. "Since it has been contended that possession of the building and the property was with the district collector, Chennai, the direction contained in the order impugned for the keys to be handed over to the registrar-general (of the Madras high court) will remain stayed pending disposal of the appeals,” said the first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthil Kumar Ramamoorthy on Friday. The single judge, had on January 27, permitted the state to proceed with the ceremony of declaring open a memorial alone as scheduled on January 28, but held that the building shall not be thrown open to public without the leave of the court. “The main gate to the premises of Veda Nilayam alone can be opened during the function. The building shall not be opened at any time, even during the function, since taking the inventory of the movables and their valuation is not yet complete,” the court had said. He had also stated that once the function is over, the district collector or an official who has the custody of the keys of the entire premises shall hand over the same to the registrar-general of the high court, since the valuable movables of Jayalalithaa to which the petitioners are now the heirs, must be valued. However, on Wednesday evening, the state government moved an appeal challenging the interim directions of the single judge, issued on petitions filed by Jayalalithaa’s heirs — nephew J Deepak and niece J Deepa — seeking a stay on the inauguration of Veda Nilayam as a memorial. It was their case that the acquisition proceedings took place without their notice. The state, however, said prior notices were indeed sent to the two and that the property was acquired in accordance with law after providing due compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/high-court-permits-tn-to-keep-keys-to-veda-nilayam/articleshow/80591525.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nagpur||Student activist Kanchan Narnaware, labelled ‘Maoist’ for ‘Kisan andolan’, dies in jail at 37||NAGPUR: Kanchan Narnaware, alias Bhoomi, a double postgraduate, dreamed of an India with free, accessible education. She had taken up farmers suicides as a student activist in 2004, making her a government target. The ‘Maoist’ passed away at Sassoon Hospital in Pune on January 24, as an undertrial of Yerawada prison. She was 37. Narnaware was among the several activists languishing in Indian jails, even with failing health, with their bail pleas rejected repeatedly. Even the United Nations (UN) has condemned India’s policy to jail activists, with the latest criticism coming in for putting Koregaon Bhima supporters behind bars. Narnaware was the founder member and ex-president of student-driven Chandrapur-based Deshbhakti Yuva Manch, which was bracketed as a ‘frontal organization’ of the banned Maoist party by government agencies. In Chandrapur, Narnaware and her husband Arun Bhelke, who too was arrested with her in 2014 in Pune, were part of the team which published studied oriented magazine ‘College Katta’. This gave voice to the youth community between 2004 and 2008. Narnaware was also part of a platform to champion the cause of exploited and tortured women. In 2005, Narnaware and Bhelke had got married, despite opposition from families over the inter-caste alliance. “The marriage was a symbol of defiance against caste system and taboo against inter-caste ties. She had tied the knot publicly at Gandhi Chowk in the presence of thousands of students in 2005,” said Narnaware’s friend and colleague Anuradha Sonule, who too had been arrested for her socio-economic stand and activism. Narnaware’s ideological stand had not gone down well with the Indian government, and she was labelled a ‘Maoist’ operative before being jailed twice in 2008 and then 2014. She was also slapped with eight cases, but had been acquitted in five. Narnaware, daughter of a bank officer from Chandrapur, died with her bail appeal pending before the Bombay high court, after her plea was twice rejected by the sessions court in Pune, said advocate Parth Shah, who is part of the legal team of counsels Rohan Nahar and Rahul Deshmukh, who were representing Narnaware and her husband Bhelke. Narnaware and Bhelke were arrested in September 2014 by the State Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) for their alleged role in Maoist movement in western Maharashtra for recruitment. The intelligence and police records underline the couple’s involvement in the Pune area committee, which is part of the Maoists’ Maharashtra Rajya State Committee. She had also taken up charge of Maoists’ ‘Golden corridor’ in western India after the arrest of Angela Sontakke. As per the government records, Narnaware was also part of the Maoists’ paramedical team in the forests of Dandakaranya in Central India, where she was part of the Darekasa (Gondia) and Korchi (Gadchiroli) dalams. Narnaware, who had undergone open heart surgery twice, had defied her health condition to take up peoples’ causes. “She was someone who could not see others in pain and hence rushed to take up their causes,” said Sonule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/student-activist-kanchan-narnaware-labelled-maoist-for-kisan-andolan-dies-in-jail-at-37/articleshow/80591536.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Nilgai hit by a speeding vehicle a month ago dies||NEW DELHI: A nilgai, which had been injured after it was hit by a speeding vehicle over a month ago, died of its injuries on Friday. The injured nilgai had managed to flee to Jahanpanah city forest on December 24 and a forest department team had then failed to trace the animal. After the nilgai was spotted on Thursday, staff of the forest department took it to a hospital for treatment but the animal succumbed to its injuries. A forest official said, “The treatment of the injured nilgai began on Thursday over a month after it sustained injury. As the animal stayed with an open wound for long, it led to spread of infection. Though we provided proper treatment, the nilgai died on Friday.” A nilgai was hit by a vehicle in Chirag Dilli on December 23 and sustained injury on the left hind limb. After a forest department team tried to rescue the animal to take it for treatment on December 24, it escaped to the Jahanpanah forest. On Thursday, some people spotted the animal and alerted the forest department. It was then taken to a facility in Jangpura and was given treatment. The nilgai was later taken to National Zoological Park from where it was shifted to a forest facility in Tughlaqabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nilgai-hit-by-a-speeding-vehicle-a-month-ago-dies/articleshow/80592907.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC may allow healthcare workers allotted Covishield to take Covaxin||MUMBAI: The BMC is likely to issue an official order allowing healthcare workers, originally allotted Covishield, to take Covaxin from JJ Hospital in Byculla. On Friday, JJ saw its highest turnout with 41 people coming to take the vaccine. Of the 41, almost 30 were doctors who took Covaxin even though they were listed for Covishield. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC's executive health officer, said that doctors willing to take Covaxin can take it from JJ. She said the BMC would contemplate adding another centre in the suburb or a booth within the existing centres if there was more demand for Covaxin. A total of 2,613 health workers have taken the Bharat Biotech vaccine till Friday. Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer of JJ, said that doctors from Jaslok, Hiranandani and Breach Candy were among the 30-odd who took Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-may-allow-healthcare-workers-allotted-covishield-to-take-covaxin/articleshow/80592953.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Congress moves Gujarat HC against civic poll schedule||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Congress has moved the Gujarat high court against the State Election Commission’s decision to hold counting of votes for the first phase of coming civic elections before the voting commences for the second phase. In its election schedule, the municipal corporations go to the polls on February 21 and the counting of votes will take place on February 23. For 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats, the polling will take place on February 28 and the counting is scheduled on March 2. Sources said that the petition filed by Congress workers from Anand district has raised objection to this election schedule, particularly counting of votes for the municipal corporations before the polling takes place in municipalities and panchayats. The petitioners have sought directions for the SEC to postpone the counting of votes for the first phase, and postpone it after the polling for the municipalities and panchayats is over. The petition seeks that the counting of votes for all the phases should take place together. Declaring results of the first phase of polls is likely to influence the voters in the second phase. This is why normally the counting process takes place after all the phases of polling get over. The petition contends that the Model Code of Conduct is meant to protect the voters from any influence. Here, the election commission’s schedule itself violates the norm and could prove influential on the voters. This is because the outcome of the first phase of polling will have an impact over the voters, during the second phase. The petition is likely to come up for hearing next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-moves-hc-against-civic-poll-schedule/articleshow/80591506.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Six of family die in lorry-auto accident in Telangana's Mahabubabad district||HYDERABAD: Six members of family met with an accident after the auto rickshaw in which they were travelling had a head on collision in Mahabubabad district on Friday. All the passengers seated inside the auto died on the spot. The incident took place at Marrimitta village in Warangal. Mahabubabad district superintendent of police said Jatoth Kalyani, 48, Jatoth Prameela, 23, Jatoth Pradeep, 25, Jatoth Prasad,42, Sri Laxmi, 39 and Jatoth Ramu, 33 died on the spot. The incident took place at around 10.30 am between Warangal and Gudur highway. As there was no road divider on the narrow stretch, the auto was hit by a lorry coming from the opposite direction. The lorry driver abandoned his vehicle and fled from the spot. As of now he is absconding. Police suspect that lorry driver might had crossed on to the other side of the road before hitting the auto. Due to the impact of the accident, it took lot of time for the police to bring out the bodies. The villagers tried to nab the lorry driver, but he escaped. Based on the lorry registration number the police are trying to trace the accused. Following the accident, locals staged a protest demanding compensation. They protested for nearly one hour. Police had a tough time convincing them before they agreed to call off the protest. They had to use a crane to remove the mangled auto, in which its driver Ramu was stuck. One of the passengers Prameela was scheduled to get married on February 10. She had hired the auto specifically for wedding shopping. Kalyani is the mother of Prameela and Pradeep her brother. The others were her relatives. A case was registered under section 304 a (negligence causing death) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-of-family-die-in-lorry-auto-accident/articleshow/80591543.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 6 years, 27 kids placed under foster care||CHENNAI: After a gap of nearly six years, the department of social defense has successfully placed 27 children in foster care in the state in the last year. This is the first time so many children have been placed in foster care in one year as compared to the previous years when families would hardly come forward to foster one child. Apart from intensifying their awareness campaign, they have also placed several children under kinship care - where they are looked after by their relatives or extended family members. This is the first time the department has explored this option. “We found that they are much more comfortable with their own people and we only send them after conducting all inspections. We aim to ensure that children grow up in a familial environment and institutions must be the last resort," said an official from the department. A few couples who fostered had no children of their own. There are around 1,500 children across the state eligible for foster care, aftercare, and sponsorship programmes. Most of them are either orphans or have single parents. And though the foster care programme was launched in Tamil Nadu in 2014, it is often seen as a non-starter, because families prefer having a legal right over the child by adopting them, while foster care is only for a stipulated period. Another reason cited by experts was that the officials did not want to place them under kinship care but instead preferred sending them to live with other families. "India has a history of people going and living with their relatives to complete their education or for other reasons. But here they were hesitant because they felt that the families were not eligible to get the monthly maintenance amount," said Girija Kumar Babu, general secretary of the Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW). She said that kinship care was a much better option for children and that providing families the monthly amount of Rs 2000 would ease their burden and help them care better for the child. For further details on the foster care programme contact the district child protection officer at 58, Suryanarayana Road, Royapuram or call 044-25952450/26421358||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-6-yrs-27-kids-placed-under-foster-care/articleshow/80591546.cms||Aditi R
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Forensics visit violence sites in Delhi, collect evidence to nail rioters||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is relying heavily on electronic and scientific evidence to nail the rioters involved in the Republic Day violence. It is learnt to have sought assistance from National Forensic Science University in Gandhi Nagar in investigating the riots. On Friday, a team of forensic experts along with Crime Branch officials reached the Ghazipur border and other affected areas to collect evidence and lifted samples. The cops have also appealed to people and mediapersons to provide with any images or videos they may have recorded. They are also collecting original footage and getting the existing ones verified from forensic lab, following which they will run the facial recognition software on them to identify the rioters. There are many videos on which the rioters are visible. Police also have their own recordings. Meanwhile, nine teams, each headed by an inspector, have been formed by the Crime Branch SIT to investigate the main rioting FIRs. Police have, so far, registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence, and lookout notices have been issued against 44 people, which include most of the farmer leaders. On January 26, the tractor parade by farmers turned violent, leaving 394 security personnel injured. A protester died while driving his tractor dangerously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forensics-visit-violence-sites-collect-evidence-to-nail-rioters/articleshow/80594377.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP two sides of same coin: Revanth||Hyderabad: The Congress on Friday said the MPs of the TRS party attended the President’s address to the Parliament and their decision to not to join with 18 other opposition parties to boycott it has exposed that TRS is sailing along with the BJP on the three new anti-farmer laws. “KCR supporting the Bharath bandh call of the farmers earlier was a drama.  I appeal to the people of Telangana, particularly the farmers to realise that the TRS and BJP are two sides of the same coin. While Congress boycotted President’s address in support of the farmers, the TRS attended it in support of the BJP,” Revanth alleged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-two-sides-of-same-coin-revanth/articleshow/80591552.cms||Roushan Ali
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Battle for cities crucial in war for state’s local bodies||Ahmedabad: A political storm has begun blowing in the state after the state election commission (SEC) announced it will declare the results of the six municipal corporations before the rest of the local bodies in the state go to polls. The Congress has alleged that the decision has been taken under pressure from the BJP to boost the prospects of the party in municipalities, taluka and district panchayats in the state. At the heart of the row is the fact that the BJP holds sway over all six municipal corporations.The Congress fears that BJP’s expected win in all 6 cities will influence voter choice unfairly, if cities’ results are published before polling in the rest of the local bodies.So, the Congress wants the poll schedule to be revised and has approached the Gujarat high court.State election commissioner Sanjay Prasad, while announcing the schedule for local body elections on January 23, said that the poll schedule has been arrived at after a lot of deliberation and considering the Covid-19 protocol.When pointed out that the SC, in 2015, had directed the SEC to take up counting of all local bodies together, the state election commissioner had said last Saturday, “We are not the last word in this matter. If there are directions from the court, we will follow them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/battle-for-cities-crucial-in-war-for-states-local-bodies/articleshow/80591519.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nagpur||Bombay HC refuses to rely on rape survivor’s sole testimony, acquits accused||NAGPUR: Refusing to rely on rape survivor’s testimony, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court acquitted the accused holding that her evidence failed to inspire confidence. “Considering the major omission regarding rape incident and other doubtful circumstances, in the opinion of this court, the survivor isn’t the foolproof witness. She can’t be relied solely for fixing criminal liability of rape upon the accused,” justice Pushpa Ganediwala held. “The woman’s evidence is only material on the point of incident. In her report, she alleged outraging her modesty, but in evidence before the court, she deposed about rape. She hasn’t given any explanation on why report about rape wasn’t filed initially. Apart from the prosecutrix’s sole testimony, there is no other corroborating evidence to believe her story,” the judge said while quashing the accused’s conviction under Section 376. Petitioner Binoy Badal Datta from Gadchiroli was convicted under Sections 376 and 323 of the IPC, and was sentenced for rigorous imprisonment of seven years by the sessions’ court there on December 14, 2015. The incident took place on February 3, 2014, when the 21-year-old survivor, a married woman, was alone at her home. The 26-year-old accused was her husband’s friend and known to her. The woman claimed in FIR that she was cooking when Datta bolted the kitchen door, held her hands from behind, made her lie down, pressed her mouth, removed her clothes and committed forcible intercourse with her. After she narrated the entire incident to her husband, they lodged a report six days later on February 9, 2014, at Gadchiroli police station. However, initially she alleged only outraging her modesty, and therefore the accused was booked under Section 354, 323 and 504 of IPC. The next day, she again went to the police station and alleged rape after which Section 376 was added. After his conviction by the sessions’ court, petitioner challenged the verdict in HC contending that the woman’s husband suspected that he misbehaved with her and on his insistence she lodged the FIR. Justice Ganediwala pointed out that rape couldn’t be proved as investigating officer who had taken her report on February 9, 2014, wasn’t examined by the prosecution. “His non-examination proved fatal for the petitioner. Serious prejudice is caused to him, as initially, the survivor doesn’t mention about the rape in FIR. On next date, without any possible explanation, she gave supplementary statement and brought the story of rape. “For rape conviction, survivor’s sole testimony is sufficient, however, subject to riders that it must be cogent, consistent, and trustworthy and of sterling quality. This court found substance in probable defence with regard to consensual relations between the duo,” the judge said, adding that the accused must get benefit of doubt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-refuses-to-rely-on-rape-survivors-sole-testimony-acquits-accused/articleshow/80591561.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Only e-campaigning for candidates with corona||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat state election commission (SEC) has issued Covid-19 guidelines for campaigning for the forthcoming local body elections. Candidates who have contracted the coronavirus will have to confine their outreach to online platforms. Political parties will be allowed to run door-to-door campaigns, albeit with some restrictions. According to the guidelines, only five persons will be able to accompany a candidate during the door-to-door visits. Only five vehicles can be part of campaigning. Prior permissions of the nodal officers concerned will be mandatory for all public meetings. Details of entry and exit of participants will have to be provided. All district and other authorities will have to appoint a nodal officer to ensure that these guidelines are adhered to. SEC guidelines say that candidates and political parties will have to arrange masks, sanitizers, and other corona-fighting essentials during political activities and ensure that all their workers follow social distancing norms. The SEC has requested political parties and candidates to use social and electronic media to reach out to masses rather than personally contacting them. The SEC has directed all local election officers to register cases under the Disaster Management Act and the IPC against those who violate the Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-e-campaigning-for-candidates-with-corona/articleshow/80591528.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Stop pollution of water bodies: AIKS||Hyderabad: The All India Kisan Congress (AIKS) on Friday said municipal administration and industries minister KT Rama Rao should first put in place a system and prove that the state government has stopped pollution being caused to the water bodies, groundwater and air from the existing pharma and other industries around Greater Hyderabad.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-pollution-of-water-bodies-aiks/articleshow/80591556.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||A number to landfills’ cost to environment: Rs 450 crore||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s three landfills at Bhalswa, Okhla and Ghazipur have collectively caused nearly Rs 450 crore in damage to the environment, as calculated by a committee comprising National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Central Pollution Control Board and IIT, Delhi. The panel was tasked by National Green Tribunal to ascertain the environmental damage caused by these waste dumps and based their calculations on factors such as legacy waste and leachate generated over the years. They determined the damage cost at Bhalswa to be Rs 155.9 crore, at Okhla Rs 151.1 crore and at Ghazipur, Rs 142.5 crore. The report said that the deterioration of air and water quality in a 5-km radius of the landfill cannot be attributed through empirical data directly to the dumpsite activities, so the interim damage cost was assessed on the basis of legacy waste and leachate to determine the environment compensation needed to be levied for violation of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “High level of chemical oxygen demand (COD) & Iron (Fe) reported in groundwater at all three sites, which may be due to leachate from the dumpsite b) Very High level of COD, chloride, Total dissolved solids (TDS), Total Soluble Solids (TSS) and turbidity reported in surface water body (Bhalswa lake) located within a radius of 0-1 km from Bhalswa site, which may be due to leachate from the dumpsite,” the report said of its groundwater and water analysis. The report said Ghazipur, which falls under East Delhi Municipal Corporation, has 140 lakh tonnes of legacy waste, with 3.5 lakh tonnes of legacy waste processed so far. Okhla landfill under SDMC has 60 lakh tonnes of legacy waste, with 3.1 lakh tonnes of legacy waste already processed, while Bhalswa under North Delhi Municipal Corporation has 80 lakh tonnes of legacy waste, 11.5 lakh tonnes of which has been processed. The committee also reported that high COD values were reported in Sanjay Lake, which is located 3-5 kms from the Ghazipur landfill. “Owing to the distance from the site, the actual impact due to the dumpsite can be confirmed, based on the hydrogeology of the region and contaminant transport modelling,” its report said. In terms of air pollution, the particulate matter concentration exceeded the acceptable norms at all stations within, and sometime outside, 5km of the landfills. “Since the detailed framework for assessment of quantifiable environment damage liability is yet to be established, interim cost of damage to the environment is based on the environmental compensation to be levied for violation of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-number-to-landfills-cost-to-environment-rs-450-crore/articleshow/80592971.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctors who took vaccine suggest a day off afterwards||MUMBAI: A Goregaon-based pathologist had to be on fever medication for four days following vaccination with Covishield due to high temperature, bodyache and headache. On the fourth day post-vaccination, Dr Siddhartha Gavaskar also experienced symptoms of vertigo. It was only on the fifth day that he felt symptom-free and fit to resume work. Symptoms of fever, body pain, headache, nausea are all considered normal and even a sign of the body's "robust immune response" to the vaccine. But, in rare cases, some healthcare workers have suffered prolonged symptoms, even if they are mild in nature. "There is no doubt everybody should get vaccinated, but it may be advisable to keep a relatively free calendar the day after vaccination," said Gavaskar, speaking outside the vaccination centre in NESCO, Goregaon, where he had accompanied his 90-year-old father Dr NS Gavaskar for vaccination on Friday. The senior Gavaskar had bouts of vomiting post-vaccination which settled with medication by evening. Another doctor said at least 20% of his staffers failed to show up for work the day after vaccination. In Mumbai, where over 30,000 healthcare workers have been vaccinated till the ninth day of the drive, there have been around 250 (less than 1%) reported instances of minor after-effects and only two hospitalisations. Almost all vaccination centres are dispensing paracetamol tablets or asking those vaccinated to pop it to mitigate any symptoms that may follow. Dr Aarti Shenoy, nodal officer of Cooper vaccination centre, said they have recorded cases of fever with chills, bodyache and giddiness. “The fever subsides with medication in two days while weakness could take another day. We haven’t been informed of any cases where recovery took more than 3 days,” she said, adding giddiness was often caused by taking the vaccine without a meal. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe recommended that doctors set aside critical activities and procedures for at least a day or two post-vaccination. He experienced bodyache 48 hours post-immunization and pain in the injection site after three days. "None of the symptoms were severe but one should be prepared for slight discomfort for a day or two," he said. A senior BMC official who took the vaccine on the first day of the drive said she needed the entire Sunday to sleep off the mild fever and myalgia. A liver transplant surgeon from KEM Hospital said he scheduled his vaccination towards the weekend knowing there would be after-effects. At JJ Hospital, where 221 have taken the Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin so far, doctors said there have been negligible adverse events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-who-took-vaccine-suggest-a-day-off-afterwards/articleshow/80593007.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||School help for boards students||Kolkata: At a time when tuition fee arrears are a major cause of concern across city schools, most have decided not to charge for the “overstay” of Class-XII board examinees. Unlike other years, this time the Class-XII students will not leave school in March and will continue to have classes till May when the board exams may be held. The dates of CBSE and ISC are yet to be announced. These students will have to pay their fees only till March. They will , however, be given both online and offline classes, lab activities, doubt clearing sessions and pen and paper work to make up for the months that they were not in school. Most schools are about to announce the decision. “It is not their fault that they are overstaying with us and it is our duty to ensure that they get board-ready by giving them intense campus activity, once we are allowed to re-start,” said Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus. Heightened on-campus activities have been planned for board-year students once the schools re-open. The focus will be on lab practical classes first and then the pre-board exams which many schools are planning as pen and paper exams on site. “The Class-XII boards are especially tough and students need extra help in school. Since the whole year they have been denied that because of the pandemic, we are counting on these extra months that they have for on-campus work between teachers and students. This will be totally free since we will not charge beyond March,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson of Shri Shikshayatan School. Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls High School have principally agreed on this, though a final call will be taken soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-help-for-boards-students/articleshow/80591565.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 30, 2021||Chennai||To shed flab, Chennaiites get on ‘carb’ cycling route||CHENNAI: Since 2019, when he embarked on his weight lifting journey, Abhishek Bharadwaj has been religiously following carb cycling, a process where one alternates between high and low carb intake days. Bharadwaj’s food intake is closely monitored by his nutritionist and fitness trainer. “I send pictures of my meals and also assess the calorie intake for my nutritionist to keep a track of them. My training also depends on each day’s meals,” says the 23-year-old process engineer from Perambur. Carb cycling, a diet regime, has been growing in popularity among city dwellers. While the diet is designed for athletes like Bharadwaj, it is being implemented by many to lose weight, say dieticians. “For instance, the individual might have three days of low carb meals, followed by two days of moderate carb intake and end the week with two days of high carbs,” says Arees Reeja John, consultant dietitian with Cavinkare, Kotturpuram. “For non-athletes, it can be used as a plateau breaker when someone is stuck at a particular weight,” says Arees. Bharadwaj, for instance, replaces rice with cauliflower and pasta with zucchini. There are recipes too trending on social media for riced broccoli and zoodles, lettuce wraps and mushroom patties. “You have a ton of options,” says Bharadwaj. John stresses the importance of professional guidance before being influenced by social media, where carb cycling has been trending. “This form of diet, when guided by a health expert, does not compromise on fuel intake,” says John, adding that a balanced meal however has to be a person’s first choice. “Having zoodles or riced cauliflower cannot be an alternative for cereals. Carb cycling involves counting carbs with other macronutrients. When your body needs carbs it needs carbs.” According to Mahalakshmi Shankar, a Saligramam-based strength and conditioning coach, and sports nutritionist, while carb cycling is a common among performance athletes, it is not advisable for physically inactive individuals. “High amount of physical activity and exercise is essential for someone who is carb cycling. It can be adapted to the requirement of the individual, as it can help in maintaining muscle level and can sometimes contribute to a reduction in body fat percentage,” says Shankar. But, says Shankar, for someone who has a regular routine, such as a 9 to 5 desk job, there would be no major changes in energy expenditure. “In that case, changing the fuel intake on a daily basis is not needed,” she says. “When a client requires correction of water losses, boost up of metabolism or management of weight and energy, I maintain a record of their carb cycle,” says clinical nutritionist Sherene G, who also follows low carb or ‘no carb’ intake days once in few weeks to detoxify and cleanse her body. “However, I would always promote a complete Indian balanced meal with roti, rice, dal, and veggies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/to-shed-flab-chennaiites-get-on-carb-cycling-route/articleshow/80591563.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: ACB arrests four persons for taking Rs 7.5 lakh bribe||HYDERABAD: ACB sleuths on Friday arrested four persons, including a mandal panchayat officer and a sarpanch’s husband, for demanding and accepting Rs 7.5 lakh bribe from an employee of a real estate firm. The accused are G Srinivasulu, mandal panchayat officer of Maheshwaram, J Geeta, panchayat secretary of Mansanpally village, B Narasimha Yadav, deputy sarpanch, Mansanpally and K Ramesh, the husband of Mansanpally village sarpanch. The accused demanded bribe from J Muthyam Reddy, records liason officer of a real estate firm, for permission to his company’s real estate venture in Mansanpally. The four accused have been arrested and will be produced before court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-arrests-four-persons-for-taking-rs-7-5l-bribe/articleshow/80591564.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Congress MLC caught scrolling adult content||BENGALURU: Congress MLC Prakash Rathod was caught on camera browsing through videos and pictures on his mobile phone during the legislative council session on Friday, an embarrassing ethical breach inside the House. In the footage shot by television channels, some of the content was adult, though he denied watching anything objectionable. The footage has gone viral. A senior council official said Rathod had breached the no-phone rule and added that the council chairman may penalise him. Rathod, also spokesperson of Karnataka Congress, said he was deleting messages to free up space on his mobile when some TV channels recorded it and claimed he was watching objectionable content. Nine years ago, three BJP ministers were caught watching a porn clip in the assembly. Members barred from using phoneAfter the row, legislators and mediapersons have been barred from using phone in assembly and council. Members cannot carry phones into the assembly and must put them away in lockers. The 2012 row had forced two of the three BJP ministers to quit. They claimed they were watching footage prepared for a discussion on ill-effects of a rave party. Two of the three are ministers in the BS Yediyurappa government. Watch Karnataka: Congress MLC allegedly caught scrolling adult content||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/congress-mlc-caught-scrolling-adult-content/articleshow/80594999.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Private schools can collect only 70% fees this year||BENGALURU: In a relief for parents of children studying in private schools in Karnataka, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Friday said the education department will allow schools to collect only 70% of the tuition fees this academic year in view of the pandemic. The fee reduction is only for this academic year and applies to schools under all boards. The state government has the authority to prescribe fees based on the Karnataka Education Act 1983 and under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the minister said. The annual tuition fee is spent towards salaries of teachers, non-teaching staff and facilities like library, lab and sports. The fees that cannot be collected this year includes development fee, donation to trust or society, optional services like transportation and extracurricular activities, the department said. Parents can pay school fee in 2-3 instalments: MinisterIf parents have already paid the full year’s fee, school managements should refund or adjust it against the next year’s component. Parents will be given an option of paying the fee in 2-3 instalments, said the minister. Kumar said they made the decision after several meetings with school managements and parents’ associations, and discussed the issue with the CM. Schools held only online classes till December, and started campus learning on January 1 for classes 10 and 12. The government had, in the beginning of the academic year, asked schools not to increase fees this academic year. It had given nod to collect the first-term fee in September. Later, parents complained that schools were forcing them to pay full-year fees and blocking classes for children who had not paid up. Schools argued they need money to run the establishment and pay salaries. The government said it will set up a grievance redressal system at DDPI level to address complaints on fee. Thanking the minister for the decision, parents’ associations said they were expecting a 50% cut in tuition fees. “We will discuss this with members. We got result after several protests and detentions in police station,” said Chidanand PE, state secretary, Voice of Parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pvt-schools-can-collect-only-70-fees-this-year/articleshow/80595004.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana assembly may pass resolution against farm laws||HYDERABAD: Telangana is likely to follow West Bengal, which passed a resolution against the farm laws in the state assembly, and pass a similar resolution against the Centre’s agriculture laws in the upcoming budget sesssion. The session is likely to begin either in the second or third week of February. The West Bengal government passed the resolution by convening a special session on Thursday. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is believed to have discussed the issue with senior party functionaries on Thursday. Sources said the CM wants to send a clear message to the farmers that his government is very much with them and by passing a resolution in the assembly, he does not want to give any scope to the opposition parties to criticise his government. “TRS government opposes farm bills. It is not correct to say that the party took a U-turn on the farm laws. Our party had opposed the laws in Parliament and our party leaders participated in Bharat bandh. State government had time and again proved that it is a pro-farmer government,” Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy told TOI. “Since the opposition party is likely to make an issue during the upcoming assembly session, state government will voluntarily pass a resolution to register our protest,” a minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-assembly-may-pass-resolution-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80591579.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 30, 2021||Nagpur||No Covid death recorded in Nagpur on Friday, second time in four days||NAGPUR: With 706 new cases and 549 patients recovering from Covid-19 on Friday, the total number of cases reached 2.72 lakh. Recoveries are now 2.58 lakh. The number of new cases was more than the number of patients recovered in a day on Friday for the second consecutive day. The difference between new cases and recoveries in January, which used to be more than 1,000 earlier, has now come down to under-300. Against 19,606 cases in 29 days of January, 19,953 have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate continued to be above 95% but slightly below the state average of 95.2% and way lesser than the national average which is now 97%. Including 4 deaths in Nagpur district, Vidarbha region reported only 9 deaths on Friday. These include 2 deaths each in Chandrapur and Wardha while the lone Covid-19 death in the Amravati revenue division was recorded in Amravati. Now, 6,950 patients have died due to Covid-19 in Vidarbha. The case fatality rate is 2.55% which is higher than the state and national average. As far as Nagpur is concerned, the city reported no Covid-19 deaths for the second time in the last four days. Nagpur rural reported 1 death while the remaining 3 deceased were patients referred from other divisions/states in critical condition. Nagpur alone accounts for 4,150 deaths out of the total 6,950 deaths in the region. Almost every district in Vidarbha reported more number of cases on Friday than the number of recoveries. Day’s 706 cases came from Nagpur (325), Amravati (93), Yavatmal (73), Buldhana (60), Akola (38), Wardha (32), Bhandara (25), Gondia (18), Chandrapur (18), Washim (15) and Gadchiroli (9). On the other hand, 549 patients recovered in a day from Nagpur (292), Amravati (99), Yavatmal (39), Chandrapur (32), Buldhana (24), Bhandara (15), Wardha (15), Gondia (14), Gadchiroli (9), Washim (7) and Akola (3). Akola: Out of the 362 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours, 38 tested positive in Akola district. This took the total number of cases to 11,533. Only three patients recovered from the district on Friday. No death was reported. With 10,513 recovered till date, Akola has 685 patients under treatment which is the highest in the region after Nagpur. Gadchiroli: Nine new patients were detected while the same number of patients recovered from Gadchiroli on Friday. No death was reported. As a result, the number of under-treatment patients remained unchanged at 53. Total cases increased to 9,347 and recovery count to 9,189. The toll of Gadchiroli is 105. Bhandara: The district reported no deaths due to Covid-19 since January 22. Bhandara’s toll is 320. It reported 25 new cases and 15 recoveries on Friday. The caseload reached 13,204, including 12,698 recoveries and 186 patients under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 18 new cases while 14 recovered on Friday. No death was reported. The total case count of Covid-19 reached 14,175, recoveries 13,849 and the toll remains unchanged at 181. Total 145 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district received 995 reports of Covid-19 tests done in the last 24 hours. Out of them, 60 tested positive while 24 patients are under-treatment. No death was reported. This took the total number of cases in Buldhana to 13,852 and recoveries to 13,387. Total 298 patients are under treatment. Washim: While the district reported 15 new cases, 7 recovered on Friday. No death was reported. Washim now has 7,110 cases, 6,791 recoveries and 153 deaths. Total 165 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: Friday saw 18 people testing positive for Covid, while 32 were discharged. Also, two Covid deaths were reported, taking the toll to 391. While the cumulative Covid figure is 23,049, recoveries are 22,523. There are 135 patients under treatment. Amravati: A Covid death took the district’s toll to 415 even as 99 were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 20,865 on Friday. The district posted 93 new cases that took the caseload to 21,610, leaving 330 under treatment. Yavatmal: Out of the 614 reports, 73 were found to be positive. Currently, there are 478 active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid Care Centres across the district. Out of the 14,307 positive patients treated in the district so far, 13,404, including 39 of Friday, have recovered. The death toll is 428. Wardha: Two men, a 45-year-old from Karanja and a 55-year-old from Wardha, died, taking the toll to 306. Out of the 705 reports, 32 tested positive, including 19 men and 13 women, who are from Wardha (24), Hinganghat (3), Deoli and Karanja (2 each) and Selu (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-covid-death-recorded-in-city-on-friday-second-time-in-four-days/articleshow/80591584.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ex-principal of St Xavier’s dies||MUMBAI: Former principal of St Xavier's College, Fr Lancelot Pereira SJ, passed away aged 91 years on Thursday. As principal from 1973 to 1980 Fr Lancy initiated the Malhar intercollegiate cultural festival, the Life Sciences department (University of Mumbai) and the Khandala Seminars for faculty. He has also authored several books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-principal-of-st-xaviers-dies/articleshow/80594369.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Now, superhero comics inspire people to fight human trafficking||KOLKATA: A special android app has been launched in the form of a comic strip that tells the stories of superheroes fighting against human trafficking. The app — “Web of Deceit - A missing and trafficking casefile” — allows people to interact on the important facts of trafficking, including the roles of those involved with it. The app was developed jointly by the NGOs, Missing Link Trust (MLT) and International Justice Mission (IJM). Calcutta High Court justice Shampa Sarkar and Joint CP (organization) Neeloo Sherpa Chakraborty, along with actor Rituparna Sengupta, were present during the launch of the app on Sunday — National Girl Child Day. The contents of the comic strip have been developed to ensure that people know how to report crimes, especially those committed against women and children. The comic strip that also teaches one about how the prosecution of a trafficker or exploiter takes place has been created as a tool to make people aware of the dynamic nature of trafficking. Best practices, judgements on key issues and phone numbers have been provided in the app. “The app aims at helping those who need our support and encouragement to fight against human trafficking,” said Justice Sarkar. “Human trafficking is the third largest crime industry in the world, besides narcotics and arms trafficking. Fear of arrest and conviction are two deterring factors in this regard. The comic strip can reach to many people through the digital medium,” said Neeloo. “Trafficking is no longer confined to the rural population. Any one living next to you can be a victim of trafficking. People often do not open up because of the social stigma attached to a trafficked person. Hence, we are trying to address the problem so that people can identify human trafficking,” said Leena Kejriwal, founder and director, MLT. “We are elated to launch the interactive digital comic strip. We hope that many people will be able to identify the deceit hidden in the web,” said Saji Philip, director (operations, east) of IJM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-superhero-comics-inspire-people-to-fight-human-trafficking/articleshow/80591589.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat DGP holds meeting for civic polls||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat director general of police Ashish Bhatia held a video conference with heads of the departments of the force on Thursday with respect to the coming local elections. The six municipal corporations in the state will vote on February 21, while voting for 81 nagarpalikas, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats and two byelections will be on February 28. Bhatia instructed his subordinates to ensure there are no breaches of the election model code of conduct. He also instructed his subordinates to ensure there are no breaches of Covid-19 safety guidelines. He also said that at places where incidents have occurred during elections, special bandobast should be deployed and if necessary preventive detention should be carried out. Bhatia instructed his subordinates to visit booths and review security arrangements and deploy bandobust accordingly. He also said that after reviewing the polling booths, police should decide which are sensitive booths and evaluate how many personnel would be needed in advance. Bhatia said permission for public rallies and loudspeakers should be given according to prevailing conditions and the process should be transparent. He said if breaches of the model code of conduct are noticed at any of public meeting, action according to the law should be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-holds-meeting-for-civic-polls/articleshow/80591551.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray launches first command & control centre for live tracking of red buses||MUMBAI: Now, commuters can have a real-time connect with BEST officials and alert them about any crisis or problems while travelling by red buses. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday launched the first command and control centre for the ‘road lifeline’ of Mumbai. The state-of-the-art control room has two huge video walls (each having nine 55-inch screens) monitored by 32 officials round-the-clock. Officials have been given PCs and communication gadgets too. It has a centralised database which will be a ‘mine of information’ to analyse daily bus operations and provide solutions to improve services. The system will keep a check on unruly drivers who speed, through the vehicle location tracking system. It will also coordinate with city and traffic police, BMC, Mantralaya and fire brigade during disasters. “I am glad BEST, the favourite mode of transport for several Mumbaikars, has this modernised system to track buses real-time and provide a reliable service to commuters,” Thackeray said, adding that during Covid-19, BEST did an “incredible job” of transporting essential service workers across Mumbai metropolitan region and the buses have always been there despite heavy rain or floods. The centre will track operations of all buses through GPS, attend to breakdowns or emergencies such as fires within minutes, have a toll-free number (1800-22-7550) and app for commuters who can directly contact the control room for assistance or emergencies. Conductors too can alert superiors using an app, said BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde. “A highlight of the system is maintaining a database of lost and found items and expediting the process of returning valuables to passengers,’‘ said an official. The centre will help BEST get daily analyses of fleet utilisation, km run, targets, ticket sales and passenger count. “It will help us plan future operations. We can keep a check on buses being deployed from 27 depots daily, whether busy routes have adequate buses, re-routing some to routes that have more commuters at bus-stops, and sending emergency vans for on-road repairs and maintenance,” an official said. “At the flick of a key, I can find out how many wet-lease buses are operating, fuel type, whether they are mini, midi, single or double deckers, or AC buses. We can also track each bus and get details of the driver, conductor and other vehicle information,” Bagde added. Thackeray said: “BEST should plan routes so that it complements train and Metro services on feeder routes, for last mile connectivity. Mini-buses can cater to smaller lanes to reach out to more people.” Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, mayor Kishori Pednekar and BEST panel chairman Pravin Shinde were among those at Wadala depot for the launch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-launches-first-command-control-centre-for-live-tracking-of-red-buses/articleshow/80591590.cms||Somit Sen
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Rs 150 crore sunk in Ghazipur abattoir, here’s why it has little use for Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s lone slaughterhouse in Ghazipur is not being utilised for the domestic market of the city, the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee has highlighted in its report. The committee states that the slaughter hall for buffaloes is almost exclusively used for export purposes. The modern mechanised abattoir was built at a staggering cost of Rs 150 crore when the old slaughterhouse at Idgah was shifted to Ghazipur in 2009. The report, which highlights several alarming violations, recommends that the non-mechanised space in the complex should be provided to shopowners to slaughter poultry birds, which would serve the domestic market more extensively. The report has been submitted to the urban development secretary for further action, said a member who was part of the inspection. The five-member committee was led by South Delhi Municipal Corporation veterinary department director Dr Ravindra Sharma and had North Corporation veterinary department director, animal husbandry department director, animal rights activist Gauri Maulekhi, and a FSSAI member as its members. The panel observed that the slaughtering took place in three shifts and the “shift 1” meant for domestic meat market was unutilised with no slaughter activity being undertaken. “The persons present there with animals appeared to be middlemen who could not provide details of any shop in Delhi where they would sell the meat. They confessed that they sold major portion of meat to the operator. They were unable to provide any sale records,” the report states. The panel also states that the records of animals bought for slaughter appeared bogus as “the same sequencing of name was observed every day.” Among other violations, the antemortem and postmortem of animals were not carried out according to FSSAI and SC directions. “Electric tools were being used to push large animals from the lairage into the slaughterhouse section, large animals were hung upside down on conveyor belt before death was pronounced by veterinary doctor and the odour emanating from the premises was obnoxious and extremely overpowering,” the panel found. The Ghazipur slaughterhouse in East Delhi is the city’s only legal functional abattoir where goat, sheep and buffaloes are slaughtered. The panel has recommended that Delhi Pollution Control Committee must be asked to conduct an inspection and test the groundwater and air pollution that may be caused by the slaughterhouse and the rendering unit. The report also highlights that East Delhi Municipal Corporation has discontinued lifting dead animals from across the city. “This is leading to grave violation of law and threat to public health and security. EDMC should ensure dead animals are removed from entire Delhi,” the report adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-150-crore-sunk-in-ghazipur-abattoir-heres-why-it-has-little-use-for-delhi/articleshow/80593000.cms||Paras Singh
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||SC notice to Gujarat over non-revision of jantri rates||AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court of India has issued notice to various authorities of the state in response to an appeal complaining against non-revision of jantri (land rates) by the state government since last decade. A farmer from Althana in Surat, Bhikhubhai Patel, approached the apex court after the Gujarat high court junked his PIL on this subject by saying that it was not a genuine litigation. On Thursday, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan sought reply on this issue from the state authorities and posted further hearing six weeks later, said advcoate Kumaresh Trivedi. In his appeal, the farmer cited prevailing market rates of more than a dozen villages around Surat to highlight that the government-fixed value of the land, the jantri which was fixed in 2011 and is being used at present also for official transactions, is much below the market value of the land parcels. The petitioner has complained that though the 2011 government notification provided for regular jantri revision, the state government has not revised the jantri since April 2011. This is resulting into a huge loss worth thousands of crores for the treasury. The lawyer submitted that the jantri is not used for the purpose of computing stamp duty alone, but there are nearly 20 other laws in which transactions are dependent on the government valuation of land. They include registration of properties, computing the income tax under certain sections, fixing premium amount of land while changing its status and tenure. The non-revision of jantri rates has caused loss of huge revenue for the state government. It is also causing a great damage to private persons whose land the state authorities seek to acquire under different laws. It was also submitted that the non-revision of jantri rates since last 10 years has given rise to a parallel economy. It is the duty of the state government to revise the land rates after valuation from time to time and it has failed in performing its duty. It should be directed to revise the jantri because processes like tax and premium collection, liquidation process, public auction and recovery process depend on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-notice-to-state-over-non-revision-of-jantri-rates/articleshow/80591557.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC asks Centre to trace man in US over maintenance money due to his wife||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday ordered the Centre to locate one Jitendra Patel in the US and recover from him the maintenance money due to his wife Sonal for the past 24 years. A court in Ahmedabad ordered Patel to pay Rs 1.5 lakh per month to his wife since January 16, 1997, because he dumped her in India and fled to the US a few days after their wedding in 1992. The woman approached the HC for recovery of maintenance money and for contempt of court action against the husband for not obeying court orders to pay her maintenance. The high court’s intervention was sought for recovery of the money with interest, which the woman’s family calculates to be over Rs 7 crore. The HC ordered the woman to make the necessary application under the provisions of a treaty between the US and India on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. This requires the ministry of home affairs to fill a form and send it to the US attorney general, who further appoints an authority to trace and deport the person wanted by Indian courts. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Ashutosh Shastri asked the MHA to further the process “as per the terms of the treaty in order to ensure redressal of grievance of the woman and the orders issued by the courts in India are duly complied with”. The HC has sought a status report after three months from the Centre with hope and trust that “the MHA will take urgent steps to redress the problem of the woman who is suffering for 24 years”. The husband approached the high court, which showed leniency and asked him to pay Rs 10,000 per month to his wife but he did not follow the HC order too. The high court dismissed his appeal in 2008. The woman approached the HC in 2017 for action under contempt of court provisions against her husband for not obeying court orders and for recovery of the pending amount. The HC issued various summons through the Centre, but the man’s address in the US and his contact details were not correct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-asks-centre-to-trace-man-in-the-us/articleshow/80591566.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Surat||Pregnant minor girl ends life in Surat||SURAT: A 14-year-old pregnant girl was found hanging at her home in Unn area, making it the eighth suicide in the city in just 24 hours ending Friday noon. The deceased Jamuna (name changed), a native of Odisha, was studying in Class VIII. Police said Jamuna has four siblings, and she along with her family were planning to go to Odisha soon. On Friday, when her father returned home after buying vegetables, he saw her hanging from the ceiling in the room. She used a dupatta to end her life. Her father works as a labourer in a powerloom unit. They were living on the third floor of a building. Preliminary medical report confirmed that the minor was pregnant. Police has launched a detailed investigtion to ascertain the exact reason for the suicide. Earlier on Thursday, 15-year-old Tanush Jhunjhunwala, a Class X student, was found hanging at his residence in Florence Apartment. Her body was sent for forensic examination at the New Civil Hospital. The eight persons who took the drastic step since Thursday include four in Varachha, one each in Limbayat, Dindoli and Vesu. Financial crisis and personal domestic problems were the main reasons for the suicides that included four men, two school children and two women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pregnant-class-viii-girl-from-odisha-hangs-to-death-in-surat/articleshow/80590792.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Chandernagore gets new police commissioner||CHANDERNAGORE: Kolkata Police joint commissioner, Gaurav Sharma, was asked by the state to take over as the Chandernagore police commissioner on Friday after Humayun Kabir, who was hitherto holding the post, resigned because of “personal reasons”. Kabir, who was due to retire on April 30, chose to put in his papers three months before. On being asked whether he would wade into politics after his wife Anindita Das Kabir joined the Trinamool Congress, he did not respond. Kabir said, “Let me be released from the service first.” However, Kabir has indicated that he wants to go back to the “world of culture” and make films. He has authored several books and also worked for the film, Aleya, in which the protagonist questioned triple talaq. Kabir’s resignation also comes days after the arrest of three BJP workers for their “Goli Maro” slogans rekindling the memories of the communal strife in the belt in March last year. Kabir, a 2003-batch state police officer, was an inspector-general of police. Sharma, who had worked in Kolkata and later as the Howrah police commissioner and Siliguri police commissioner, is a 2005-batch IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chandernagore-gets-new-police-commissioner/articleshow/80591600.cms||Falguni Banerjee
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||MSCB case: EOW says bid to malign persons holding high offices||MUMBAI: Economic offences wing (EOW), in reply to protest pleas opposing its closure report in the alleged Rs 25,000-crore Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank scam case, said that while it had followed the root of investigation from crime to the criminal, the approach of the protest petitioners was that they wanted to fix criminals first and somehow connect them to the alleged crime. EOW said it was an “obvious attempt to scandalise and malign persons holding high offices”. The protest petitioners, original complainant, businessman Surinder Mohan Arora and two other members of sugar factories allegedly illegally sold by MSC Bank, Shalinitai Patil (87), ex-MLA and widow of former state chief minister Vasantdada Patil, and former NCP member, Manik Bhimrao Jadhav, had alleged that since NCP forms part of the coalition in power at the state and, particularly, since Ajit Pawar, who was named in the case, is a minister, it was not surprising the investigating agency had taken every effort to carry out a premeditated investigation to exonerate all accused. EOW, however, said the allegations were false and that while probing the case it was not concerned with anyone’s political affiliation. It questioned Kisan Kawad, Patil and Jadhav’s locus standi. It said they do not fit into definition of the term “victim”. EOW, in its closure report, submitted that there was no cheating or siphoning of funds. It said during investigations it found that loans by the bank to sugar factories and which though were in default, were in fact guaranteed by government. EOW claimed the bank even filed a petition in Supreme Court in 2011 for recovery of government guarantee amount. It said as per court’s directions it recovered Rs 849 crore and was recovering Rs 499.4 crore. It said there was no basis on which the magnitude of loss to the bank was pegged at Rs 25,000 crore. EOW said, “The contention of the protest petitioner that the investigating agency overlooked observations in reports of NABARD, statutory audit reports, enquiry report and charge-sheet of Co-operative Act, etc, holds no water.” It said it was mentioned in the C summary report that during investigations it could not come across material pinpointing specific allegations against any bank director or officer or any unlawful gain or advantage received by an individual of the bank. Police file a C summary report when the case is filed due to “mistake of facts” or they find it amounts to a civil case. EOW said criticism over recording the statement of Ajit Deshmukh, who the protest petitioners had claimed was an “interested witness”, was unwarranted, as he was an expert on the subject. It was submitted that the magnitude of the scam was not criteria which determines criminality. “A theft of Rs 500 or Rs 5 crore gives rise to the same offence. Only when it is proved, the magnitude may have a bearing on the sentencing policy and not for determination of offence,” EOW said. On allegations that statements of witnesses were similar, EOW said the main investigating officer briefed the team to interrogate them about specific points. “If the fact is the same, the answer would naturally be the same…,” EOW said and urged the court to accept the closure report and reject the protest petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mscb-case-eow-says-bid-to-malign-persons-holding-high-offices/articleshow/80591650.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 30, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Rise in Aapli Bus ridership, 52,000 using 170 buses daily||NAGPUR: Even though the corona fear yet to wipe out of people’s mind and a complete vaccination drive reaching out to them, there has been a gradual rise in the ridership of Aapli Bus. From 20% when Aapli Bus service resumed in October 2020, now 170 buses are ferrying almost 50% passengers on 55 different routes. The NMC’s transport department data shows at present the civic body is operating 170 city buses and, on an average, the daily ridership on 55 routes is around 52,000 passengers. Before the coronavirus struck, the civic body used to operate 360 buses with ticket ridership of over 1.50 lakh passengers. Due to poor patronage, less than 47% of their fleet operate now. However, the number of passengers patronizing buses has gone up gradually over the last two months. The buses that struggled to fill up less than 20% of their capacity now ply with more than 70% of the permitted seats particularly during peak hours. Initially, the civic body rolled out 40 buses, including 32 standard and eight midi, on five routes, which made 572 trips from 6am to 10pm from October 28. During initial days, passengers commuting in Aapli Bus were hovering from 4,000 to 5,000. Gradually, it increased the number of fleets to 106 pre-Diwali in November 2020. In November 2020, the average ridership on Aapli Bus was 21,000 which rose to 38,000 in December. In city buses, there are also instances of passengers travelling without seat. Most of the buses running between Sitabuldi and Butibori get near normal ridership. The same is the case in few other routes of Wadi and Hingna buses too, according to officials. As expected, the ridership is increasing slowly as the civic body has started operating more buses. The data revealed that 170 buses (58—standard buses, 44—CNG, 50 midi, 15—mini and three-electric buses) are making over 2,283 trips on 55 routes. As per seating capacity, these buses should have travelled 1.02 lakh passengers daily. Against it, it is being used by 52,000 passengers commuting in 170 Aapli Buses, which are travelling almost 35,000km daily. The NMC is generating revenue through ticketing passengers between 7 lakh and 8 lakh. With tight financial positions, the NMC is not making Aapli Bus services fully operational, making auto rickshaw drivers to ply more passengers across the city than permissible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rise-in-aapli-bus-ridership-52k-using-170-buses-daily/articleshow/80591598.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: CSML announces Rs 10 crore for Operation Breakthrough||KOCHI: In a major relief to the cash-strapped Kochi corporation, the Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) has agreed to provide Rs 10 crore to the local body for undertaking works related to mitigation of waterlogging as part of the second phase of the Operation Breakthrough (OB). Works on expanding the drainage infrastructure as part of OB had come to a standstill because of lack of funds. The decision was taken at the 18th director board meeting of CSML held on Friday. The meeting was chaired by chief secretary and chairman of CSML Viswas Mehta. “When we raised this at the director board, the chief secretary immediately said the funds for phase-II of OB should be provided. There are also several pending works related to the esteem project under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), which remains stalled sue to fund shortage. The funding would help us address these issues,” said Kochi mayor M Anilkumar. A detailed project report for the works under OB would be drafted and placed before a special council, he said. While speaking at the meet, the mayor said a permanent solution for waterlogging could be found only if Mullassery and Rameswaram canals are brought under the preview of canal rejuvenation work being undertaken by the CSML. CSML director board has also decided to allocate Rs 21 crore for the completion of Thuruthi Tower-1 project in Fort Kochi, which could not be completed because of lack of funds. The project under Rajiv Gandhi Awas Yojana would benefit 199 families. CSML would transfer the funds required for the project in phases depending on the progress of the work, which has administrative sanction of the local self-government department. A decision has also been taken to call a meeting of peoples’ representatives chaired by the district collector and the mayor to discuss issues related to sewage treatment plant in West Kochi. CSML director board members opined that coordination of all departments are essential for grievance redressal activities, which are now under the integrated command control and communications centre. They also asked CSML to ensure that the grievances received by the centre are addressed in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csml-announces-rs-10cr-for-operation-breakthrough/articleshow/80590544.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Elephant conservation highlight of ‘Tamed Tuskers’ exhibition||Madurai: Around 20 photographs highlighting conservation of elephants by award-winning wildlife photographer Senthil Kumaran are on display for public viewing at JC Residency hotel in Madurai.The exhibition named ‘Tamed Tuskers’ showcases a variety of photos depicting how the Kurumba tribe in the Western Ghats play an active role in elephant conservation through training of Kumki elephants. “This is the first time my work is on display in Madurai. It is a part of the series I’m working on - on man and elephant conflict. Rapid urbanisation has led to forests being destroyed, which in turn has led to encroachment. Such anthropogenic pressure within and around elephant habitats has also led to the loss of their traditional corridors of movement,” he said. In the last 10 years, nearly 630 elephants lost their lives by electric fences and elephants killed around 2,300 people in the last five years.Pointing to the recent incident of an elephant being killed by people, who tried to chase it away in Masinagudi, the photographer observed that the root of the problem lies in why the elephant was venturing into a tourist area in the first place and how that needs to be addressed. The exhibition is set to be on display for the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elephant-conservation-highlight-of-tamed-tuskers-exhibition/articleshow/80593042.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Plea to ban Covid vaccine dismissed||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday dismissed as withdrawn a plea which sought to ban Covid-19 vaccination in the state without completing the third phase of clinical trial.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by G Thirumurugan, an advocate from Ramanathapuram district. The petitioner stated that the state government was planning to administer Covid-19 vaccination to six lakh health workers including doctors, nurses, lab technicians and cleanliness workers in the state. Several people who were administered with the Covid-19 vaccination have complained of side effects. Newspapers and media are also frequently reporting news on such people. Due to this, people are confused as to whether they should go forward to take the vaccination or not. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi orally observed that it was an absolutely irrelevant petition. After the counsel appearing for the petitioner apologised before the court and sought permission to withdraw the petition. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-ban-covid-vaccine-dismissed/articleshow/80593053.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No headway in case of 78-year-old man hit on zebra crossing||MUMBAI: Is road safety given attention only during ‘Road Safety Month’? The family of a 78-year-old pedestrian has been groping for answers as police investigations seem to have hit a dead end a month-and-a-half after he was injured in a hit-and-run. The mishap on a pedestrian crossing underlines the need for better infrastructure to protect vulnerable pedestrians, such as senior citizens. Prabhakar Churi was strolling at Four Bungalows around 7.30pm on December 9, 2020. He was crossing the road, beneath the Metro line, when a speeding motorcycle rammed into him. Churi’s head hit the road and was bleeding but the motorcyclist did not halt to help. “My father had a card with his name and our landline phone number, so bystanders called us up. We live nearby and rushed there to find him lying near the divider,” said his daughter, Mugdha. A plainclothes constable took some details from Mugdha but apparently did not inform the police station. Churi was wheeled into Kokilaben Ambani Hospital with a swelling on the back of his head and over his eyebrow. Tests showed intra-cerebral bleeding. “The hospital informed police. A female officer told us CCTV cameras would have captured the perpetrator and he would be caught,” said Mugdha. Churi spent a fortnight at the hospital. His family said his memory got foggy and he blanked out after the crash. “He used to be very active, taking two-hour walks every evening. We would find it difficult to make him stay at home. Now, he is a shadow of his former self. He finds it difficult to walk steadily, so he has to remain indoors,” said Mugdha, who visits the crash site repeatedly to make inquiries. A D N Nagar police station officer said they checked footage from multiple cameras. “While the crash has been captured on one, the motorcycle’s numberplate cannot be seen. No witness could note down the registration number. We are probing the case,” the officer said. Transport experts said pedestrian crossings must be protected so that people can cross safely. “Merely painting zebra crossings will not make it safer for pedestrians. This crash at Andheri is a case in point. If you are designating a space for pedestrians to cross and not taking measures to manage speed, it will not work. There has to be a refuge for pedestrians to wait safely and a speed-breaker before the crossing,” said Dhawal Ashar, a road safety expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-headway-in-case-of-78-yr-old-man-hit-on-zebra-crossing/articleshow/80591651.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 30, 2021||Thane||Man kills wife for refusing trip to UP||A 41-year-old Dombivli man killed his wife by slitting her throat after she refused to go to their hometown. The incident took place in front of the couple’s 11-year-old son after which the accused called up the police and confessed to the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-kills-wife-for-refusing-trip-to-up/articleshow/80594376.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Govt response sought in plea to regulate reporting on suicides||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday ordered notice to the central government on a plea which sought to regulate the reporting on suicides by newspapers and TV news channels by following the guidelines issued by the Press Council of India (PCI).A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by I Mohammed Razvi, a resident of Madurai district.The petitioner stated that news about suicides are frequently telecast and published in newspapers and TV news channels. He stated that three students died by suicide due to fear of appearing for NEET and these were repeatedly telecast in the media. Such news would create fear in the minds of the other students who are appearing for the exam.He stated that social media platforms especially YouTube and Facebook can also lead to psychological problems and have a negative impact on the youngsters who are using them.During September 2019, the PCI had issued certain guidelines with regard to media reporting on suicides. As per the guidelines, suicide news should not be placed prominently, should not be repeated, should not use language which sensationalise suicides, should not reveal the methods used and should not use photographs or videos.He said that he submitted a representation to regulate the newspapers and media reporting on suicides, however, there was no response. Hence, he moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-response-sought-in-plea-to-regulate-reporting-on-suicides/articleshow/80593051.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Woman refuses to go with cricketer hubby||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday closed the plea moved by a Singaporean cricketer seeking to rescue his wife from illegal detention by her parents, after she informed the court that she was not willing to go with her husband.The court was hearing the habeas corpus petition filed by Surendran Chandramohan, a native of Thanjavur district, who is presently playing international cricket for the Republic of Singapore.The petitioner stated that he and Sneka from Thanjavur were in love with each other since 2018. Since they belonged to different communities, Sneka’s parents opposed their relationship due to which they got married in December last year. In early January, he received a call from Sneka saying that her parents found out about the marriage and were planning to marry her off to another person.When the case was taken up for hearing on Friday, Sneka who appeared before the court in person informed that she got married to Chandramohan. However, she stated that she was not illegally detained by her parents and was not willing to go with her husband.Taking cognizance of Sneka’s submissions that she was not illegally detained, a division bench of justices K Kalyanasundaram and G Ilangovan closed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-refuses-to-go-with-cricketer-hubby/articleshow/80593044.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Drinking water supply using tankers may be hit||KOCHI: The distribution of potable water through tanker trucks in Kochi corporation limits may be delayed. Though a fresh tender inviting tanker truck owners to supply trucks for distribution of potable water is in the process, the opposition councillors have demanded certain changes in the tender conditions. According to the opposition councillors, there should be some changes in the clauses like price of water collected from Kerala water authority’s (KWA) water treatment plants at Aluva and Maradu. “As per the clauses in the tender, capacities of tanker trucks should be 10,000 litres and 5,000 litres. But big tanker trucks can’t move through narrow lanes in the city. So, we have demanded that the clause should be changed to include trucks with smaller capacities as well,” said Kochi corporation UDF parliamentary party secretary M G Aristotle. “Similarly, there should be changes in the price of water collected from Maradu and Aluva plants. As of now, same price is fixed for a truckload of water from Maradu as well as Aluva. Considering the fact that the distances to Maradu and Aluva are different, there should be different rates for water collected from each location,” Aristotle said. As per the clauses in the existing tender, the price of 10,000 litre water supplied in different locations in the city from both Aluva and Maradu plants is Rs 2,726 while it is Rs 2,078 for 5,000 litre truckload. The quality of water should be tested at the KWA plants. Authorities will collect random samples from the water supplied and sent it to regional analytical lab if required. The period of agreement for the firm which wins the tender will be two years. The opposition councillors have also demanded that the file regarding the tenders and clauses should be evaluated by health and finance standing committees. This will cause delay in resuming the distribution of potable water using tanker trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/drinking-water-supply-using-tankers-may-be-hit/articleshow/80590546.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kochi||Facelift for 40 government schools in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Over the last four-and-a-half years, around 40 government schools in Ernakulam have received a major facelift in terms of new buildings, basic infrastructure, laboratories, toilets, high-tech classrooms, etc. The projects were completed spending nearly Rs 108 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) as part of the general education protection mission. The projects were implemented in three categories under KIIFB. As many as 19 centres of excellence (CoE) were created spending Rs 5 crore in the district. Basic infrastructure renovation project worth Rs 1 crore each was implemented in 19 schools in the district. Four schools - GHSS South Vazhakkulam (Kunnathunadu), GHSS Piravom, GMHSS Cheruvattoor (Kothamangalam) and GHSS Kongorpilly (Aluva) - were renovated spending Rs 3 crore each. The project, implemented by Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), aimed at developing one school per constituency. As part of this project, all smart classrooms were equipped with laptops, projectors, high-speed broadband connection and 5.1 surround sound system and teachers were given specialized training to use digital tools as teaching aids. Each floor in the new buildings has disabled-friendly toilet facility for students. Facilities for cooking, dining, rainwater harvesting and systematic waste management are also available in these four schools. Attendance system has been made fully digital and SMS alerts will be sent to parents’ mobile phones to share attendance details. The schools also feature roofed courtyard with training facilities for basketball, volleyball and badminton. Meanwhile, educationists and teachers said that the development projects have brought in a major change in the attitude of the public towards government schools and the number of student enrolments will increase further in the coming years. “The quality of education in government schools has been higher compared to private schools due to the service by highly-qualified teachers. However, the unavailability of adequate infrastructure facilities has been a real challenge that tarnished the image. With the new developmental projects, the image of government schools will change. Increase in enrolment of students in government schools registered over the past few years is the proof,” said educationist P K Ravindran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/facelift-for-40-govt-schools-in-dist/articleshow/80590552.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Abducted child from Kolkata rescued in Jharkhand||KOLKATA: A three-year-old boy, who was kidnapped from Chittaranjan Avenue between 11.30pm on January 24 and 4.30am on January 25, was rescued nearly 72 hours later from Jharkhand following a coordinated operation involving police forces in Kolkata, Howrah and Asansol and Koderma in Jharkhand. A resident of Karaya has been arrested in connection with the abduction and he is being brought back to Kolkata by Bowbazar police. While the accused, Md Yusuf, will be interrogated to find out the reason behind the abduction, cops suspect that a family dispute or personal enmity could be behind the incident. “The fact that the accused purchased a car for the abduction is an important point of investigation,” said DC (Central) Rupesh Kumar. The car used for the abduction of the child was allegedly purchased from a motor training school in Girish Park. “The mother was sleeping with the child at their house on CR Avenue when the kidnapping happened. The child’s parents work as labourers and earn just enough to make ends meet. Following a complaint, a case of kidnapping was recorded. During the investigation, grabs from multiple CCTV cameras were carefully examined from the area,” said an investigator. After the registration number of the car, used to kidnap the child, was identified, its owner was traced. Cops learnt that he had sold off the car to Yusuf. “Raids were conducted to nab Yusuf who had fled from his residence under Karaya police station. There were continuous raids in Kolkata and Jharkhand and the accused appeared before Jharkhand police, sending a message that he wanted to surrender. On January 28, an information was finally received from the SHO, Markacho police station in Jharkhand that they have intercepted the accused, from whom the missing child has been rescued,” said a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abducted-child-rescued-in-jkhand/articleshow/80591629.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 30, 2021||Pune||Anand Park residents object to PMC’s road-widening plan||PUNE: As many as 210 property owners in Anand Park — comprising buildings and bungalows stretching over 22 acres in Aundh — questioned the corporation’s proposal to widen the six lanes in their colony to nine metres, citing all of them had dead-ends. All the six leafy internal lanes in the colony adjacent to Sanewadi, off the Aundh ITI -Parihar Chowk Road, have been earmarked for widening. Besides filing an official objection letter with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the residents of Anand Park recently held a meeting with local MLA Siddharth Shirole seeking to know the criteria applied by his party to shortlist these lanes for widening. The BJP MLA told TOI that the objection from the residents was correct and he would raise the issue at the party forum. “I have asked my party colleagues in the PMC and the civic officials not to touch these lanes,” Shirole said. Girish Deshpande, the managing committee member of the Anand Park Residents’ Association (APRA) — one of the oldest and largest freehold plot owners’ association, told TOI, “We follow the P1/P2 system in all lanes and hence, sufficient carriageway is available for fire brigade vehicles to pass. Also, these lanes do not link two roads. Why are these included in the list of roads for widening?” Dhananjay Rau, the president of the APRA, said the lane-widening would push the compound walls inside and eat into the current car parking space inside the premises of the buildings. “This will lead to more on-street parking and defeat the purpose of widening the lanes,” he said. Shirole said he was not against the redevelopment of old properties by utilising the Transfer of Development Right (TDR). “But I shall tell my party that we must not force the road-widening in such lanes and societies where most of the people are objecting to it. Also, the PMC must give a categoric assurance to them that their lanes would not be touched, and the policy would be implemented only on those streets where a majority of the local people was in favour of road-widening and where redevelopment was essential,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anand-park-residents-object-to-pmcs-road-widening-plan/articleshow/80591622.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Thane hosp babysits 3-day-old after his parents test positive||Thane: The staff at the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC)-run Covid-19 hospital at Saket took the responsibility of babysitting a three-day-old Covid negative baby, after his parents tested positive and were admitted at the same facility. Doctors at the hospital said that the baby and his parents came to the hospital on January 25, after his mother tested positive following a test done after the delivery at a civic facility, and that the baby’s father had also been infected. Luckily, the baby tested negative. As the Padwal Nagar couple needed to be hospitalised, they were wary of leaving the baby with anyone as he was also on mother’s milk. Senior staff at the hospital realised the predicament and accordingly decided to babysit the infant at the Covid hospital itself, where a special ward was created. Word spread about the little guest in the hospital, and the baby has now become the talk among staff.— Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thane-hosp-babysits-3-day-old-after-his-parents-test-positive/articleshow/80593074.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 30, 2021||Pune||Chain, money stolen from Ambika temple||Pune: Unidentified men broke open the locks of Ambikamata temple at Lokmanyanagar behind S P College between12.30am and 1am on Friday and stole gold chain and cash, collectively worth Rs61,000, from the donation box. Ashok Oswal, the temple president, registered an FIR with the Vishrambaug police. Senior inspector Vijay Tikole, in-charge, Vishrambaug police, said, “The temple had remained open because of a religious function till late Thursday night. Unidentified men broke open the door locks with sharp weapons and stole the deity’s mangalsutra. They also broke into the donation box and stole cash/coins worth around Rs 8,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chain-money-stolen-from-ambika-temple/articleshow/80591656.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||HC expunges judge’s remarks against higher education secy||Madurai: A division bench of the Madras high court on Friday expunged certain remarks made by a single judge of this court against the state higher education secretary while quashing a recruitment notification issued by the Bharathidasan University in Trichy district. The notification was issued by applying the reservation policy after taking the entire university as one unit.A batch of petitions were filed challenging the notification issued by the university to the direct recruitment to the posts of professor, associate and assistant professors. The notification was challenged as while applying reservation policy, the entire university was treated as one unit instead of treating each department individually.The single judge on December 23, 2020, quashed the recruitment notification issued by the university. Taking a serious view as the higher education secretary, Apoorva, had permitted to proceed with the recruitment process though the university was taken as a single unit, the judge observed that by doing so, she has completely ignored the reservation policy of the state as well as the law settled by the Supreme Court.The judge also observed that a member of all India service is expected to act in accordance with the law, rules and regulations and established practices. The discretion conferred upon them cannot be abused or taken as a licence to do what they like or dislike. They are expected to act with utmost professionalism of the highest degree and set a benchmark for their subordinates to follow.The judge further observed that in the present case, the court is constrained to remark that no professional approach or proper application of mind is evidenced from the conduct of the secretary as she has not adhered to the conduct rules of all India service. Therefore, the ability and suitability of her to hold the present position in the government required serious consideration, the judge had observed.Challenging this order, an appeal was preferred by the vice-chancellor of the university. Hearing the appeal, a division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that the adverse remarks made against the higher education secretary were not necessary and expunged the remarks made against her. The judges, however, dismissed the appeal against the order of the single judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-expunges-judges-remarks-against-higher-education-secy/articleshow/80593078.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Bull drowns during manjavirattu||MADURAI: In all, 63 people were injured in a manjavirattu event held in connection with Thaipoosam festival at Chinnakundrakudi in Sivaganga district on Thursday while a game bull that ran away after entering the arena drowned after falling into a tank. Over 200 bulls brought from various southern districts participated in the manjavirattu. The vehicles on which many of them were brought as well as the crowd were scattered all over. As the bulls were unleashed one after another, they ran in various directions leaving 63 people including spectators and bull tamers injured. The bulls were unleashed in a small barricaded area at the venue but some ran beyond into the open ground, trailed by men who tried to catch them there. Some others unleashed their bulls beyond the barricaded area without permission. Four bulls dashed out of the venue and fell into the Kundrakudi tank on the opposite side of the road which was brimming with water. Spectators rushed to the spot and pulled out the animals, but one died. Fire service personnel who were called in said three of the animals swam to safety while one got entangled in the weeds and died. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bull-drowns-during-manjavirattu/articleshow/80593081.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Worried farmers at Delhi's Singhu Border take steps to secure site||NEW DELHI: The clashes on Friday have led to an atmosphere of unease and fear at Singhu Border. A volunteer, Harjinder Singh, claimed they were worried and scared. “We cook our food in the open and there are many old people present here. There is a tent which has a large number of women. When the commotion started, our only focus was to make sure that these women get a safe passage.” He said with the police erecting new barricades, they were losing out on space. “We too are residents of this country but it pains us to see how we are being treated. The police claim we attacked them but we were just defending ourselves when our property was getting damaged,” said another protester, who wished to remain anonymous. He claimed that 20 of their fellow protesters were injured in the violence and were taken away for medical care. With the new barricading in place, some protesters like Tej Bahadur Singh spoke to the police officers. “We want to tell the police that none of our men will do anything but the police should also assure us that they will be here to protect us. I want to tell the police that we are all here to make sure that there is no violence at our end.” The langar damaged in the attack had begun to prepare food later during the day. “The feeding of people and seva does not stop here. We will continue doing that without any fear,” said Joginder Singh, who was working at the langar. The farmers are saying they will be more vigilant now and look after their own security. Manpreet Singh, a young protester, was one of the volunteers who tied up sticks to form a gate where several protesters maintained vigil. “We will not let any person enter the protest site as we do not want a repeat of this incident. Our older folks will now be shifted further inside to keep them safe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/worried-farmers-takesteps-to-secure-site/articleshow/80594386.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Alanganallur: HC injunction on award of best bull tamer prize||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday granted interim injunction restraining the authorities from awarding first prize for the best bull tamer who participated in the Alanganallur jallikattu event in Madurai district.Justice G R Swaminathan was hearing a petition filed by R Karuppanan, a resident of Arittapatti village in Madurai district.The petitioner stated that for the past 15 years he has been taking part in the jallikattu event, which is a cultural sport organised in Madurai district. He stated that he also took part in the Alanganallur jallikattu which was organised this year on January 16.In each round, 75 tamers would be permitted in the arena and those who tame more bulls would be permitted to continue to the next round. He stated that he was allotted jersey number 244 and entered the arena in the fourth round. He stated that he continued to stay in the arena till the last round and had tamed 11 bulls.When the prizes were announced, the first place was given to Kannan from Virattipathu who was given jersey number 33 and had tamed 12 bulls. The second place was given to him. He stated that he came to know that originally, jersey number 33 was allotted to a tamer named Harikrishnan who left the arena after sustaining injuries in the first round.Karuppanan stated that Kannan was involved in impersonation as he had participated in the event by taking the jersey which was allotted to Harikrishnan. Due to this illegal act of Kannan, he was deprived of the first place.On coming to know about the impersonation, he submitted a representation to the authorities seeking to probe the issue and to declare him as the winner of the first place. Though the revenue divisional officer who conducted an inquiry about this incident also confirmed the impersonation, no steps were taken in this regard.He further stated that the authorities are planning to distribute the first prize to Kannan during a function which is to be organised on January 30. Hence, Karuppanan moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to award him the first place for the best tamer in Alanganallur jallikattu event. The petitioner also sought for an interim injunction from distributing first prize for the event till the disposal of the petition.It may be recalled that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam had sponsored a ‘Renault Kwid’ car each for the best bull and best bull tamer taking part in the Alanganallur jallikattu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alanganallur-hc-injunction-on-award-of-best-bull-tamer-prize/articleshow/80593072.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Postings in MKU: Plea to implement panel report||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) on a plea which sought to implement the report of the high level committee and revise the appointments and promotions of teaching and non-teaching faculty made in 2017-18 in the university. The judges also directed the authorities not to further promote such faculty members.A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Lionel Antony Raj, a resident of Madurai.The petitioner stated that from May 2017 to June 2018, several appointments of teaching and non-teaching staff were made by then VC illegally without following the UGC norms. No rule of reservation was followed.He stated that subsequently, a high-level committee headed by the former justice of Madras high court was appointed and after conducting an inquiry, a report was submitted confirming the irregularities in the appointments made. Though the syndicate and VC had approved the report, no steps were taken to implement the same, instead, several such people who were appointed illegally are being promoted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/postings-in-mku-plea-to-implement-panel-report/articleshow/80593075.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Complying with earthquake stability orders, corporations tell Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The municipal bodies have told Delhi High Court that they are complying with the judicial orders and Delhi government’s notifications on ensuring seismic stability of buildings in the city. The submission by the three municipal corporations and the New Delhi Municipal Council came in response to a plea seeking contempt action against them, the AAP government and Delhi Development Authority for allegedly not complying with courts orders to make the capital ready to face any major earthquake. The North, South and East Delhi Municipal Corporations in their responses to the contempt petition, by advocate Arpit Bhargava, have contended that public notices were issued to the general public to get their buildings structurally audited by registered structural engineers. In their almost similar affidavits, the corporations have further said that notices have been issued to all high risk buildings to submit structural audit reports. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/complying-with-quake-stability-orders-corpns-tell-high-court/articleshow/80593055.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami’s culpability to be fixed if nexus found: Mumbai police||MUMBAI: The probe into the TRP manipulation scam is at a “crucial stage” and if any nexus is found between Arnab Goswami of Republic TV, ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd and the other accused, “then criminal culpability may be attributed to them,” the Mumbai police said in an affidavit submitted to the Bombay high court. The affidavit further said, “Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has confirmed” “suspicious activity with regard of (sic) the TV channels in which Petitioner No. 2 (Arnab Goswami) is a director.” So far, the probe “prima facie indicates collusion of BARC officials with others to manipulate ratings,” it said. BARC India measures viewership of TV channels. The police sought dismissal of the petition filed by Goswami and ARG Outlier (which operates the channel) to quash or transfer the probe to CBI. The police said the petition is not maintainable and should be dismissed “with exemplary cost” as neither ARG Outlier nor Goswami have been named as accused yet. The trial court has taken cognizance of the offences against the accused named in the chargesheet, said the police. The ‘WhatsApp chats’ (between Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta) which form part of the November 24 chargesheet need further investigation and cannot be shut out through the petition, the affidavit said. The affidavit by assistant police commissioner of crime branch, Shashank Sandbhor, also said it has not found any material indicating culpability of India Today TV channel. “Further investigation is being carried out with regard to many TV channels including India Today.” Police alleged Goswami “has been holding debates in TV channels owned by ARG Outlier” to make baseless charges against Mumbai police and have a “media trial” to ensure they “are given a clean chit.” Police said Goswami is giving the entire investigation proceedings a colour of political vendetta, when the facts would disclose otherwise. Police also denied that the arrest of Ghanshyam Singh, distribution head of Republic TV, was malicious. He is in judicial custody. Meanwhile, at the hearing on Friday, the HC bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale posted the matter for hearing till February 12. Counsel for state Kapil Sibal said he would not take any coercive action against owners/operators of Republic TV. Goswami’s counsel Malvika Trivedi said they had to answer the chargesheet contentions and wanted a longer date. She said she was trying to bring on record documents of “unimpeachable nature.” The police also denied allegations that its investigation is “unfair, premeditated to rope in the petitioners as accused” or “frivolous or politically motivated,” or that the “ruling dispensation in Maharashtra set the criminal machinery in motion.” It denied the TRP case was an “attempt to muzzle the media.” Transfer to CBI has to be done “sparingly,” the SC has held, police said, adding that “6 percent of the bar-o-meters installed in India are in Mumbai and presently the TRP scam seems to be a localized scam” which Mumbai police has jurisdiction over. A separate affidavit filed Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh denied as “totally baseless” all allegations made against him by ARG Outlier and Goswami of bias, malice and malafides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/goswamis-culpability-to-be-fixed-if-nexus-found-cops/articleshow/80593125.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 30, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Anna Hazare calls off fast after govt assurance||PUNE: Social crusader Anna Hazare on Friday called off his indefinite fast from Saturday following an assurance from the Centre to look into his demands related to farmers. A delegation headed by Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis met him and announced setting up of a high-level committee to look into the issues raised by him. Hazare said he was confident that the committee would work on the 15 points raised by him. The committee would be headed by Choudhury, with members recommended by Hazare and from Niti Aayog. Fadnavis said it was for the first time that such a high-level committee had been set up. “The committee will study the issues raised by Hazare and come out with a plan in six months. The government was working on the issues raised by Hazare. Things got delayed because of the pandemic and elections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hazare-calls-off-fast-after-govt-assurance/articleshow/80591643.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Madurai: 13-year-old HIV+ rape survivor’s foetus aborted||MADURAI: The foetus of an HIV positive 13-year-old girl from Madurai who was repeatedly raped and impregnated by her 50-year-old stepfather was aborted and the teenager rehabilitated at a child care institution on Friday on the directions of the district child welfare committee (CWC) . The man was arrested by T Kallupatti police on Tuesday for the crime. The girl, a class IV dropout, was found to be in her 16th to 18th week of pregnancy and was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Tests had also revealed that the survivor, her mother and the accused were HIV positive. However, the survivor’s 17-year-old sister had not tested HIV positive. “On Wednesday, the foetus was aborted and the girl, after full recovery, discharged on Friday. The CWC provided counselling and is ensuring rehabilitation of the victim, her 17-year-old sister and the mother,” said B Pandiaraja, member, CWC. On the directions of the CWC, the rape survivor was admitted to a child care institution where she will continue treatment for HIV infection. The survivor’s mother meanwhile was directed to be rehabilitated at an old age home for continuing her treatment for HIV infection, and considering her personal safety. “Considering the stigma around AIDS and possible concerns to their safety from people in their native village, we counselled them to be rehabilitated in the institutions. The 13-year-old survivor would also be given a chance to return to school from the next academic year,” said Pandiaraja. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/13-yr-old-hiv-rape-survivors-foetus-aborted/articleshow/80593094.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Battery firms seek stimuli||Pune: The India Energy Storage Alliance (IESA), a grouping of more than 120 players in batteries and e-mobility sector, has demanded a host of reforms in the budget, including reduction in GST and import duty, and attractive retail financing for e-vehicles. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/battery-firms-seek-stimuli/articleshow/80591663.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC clears early release of man in jail for kidnap of NRI in 2001||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has cleared the decks for premature release of a man arrested by CBI in 2001 for abducting an NRI for ransom. The court ordered the release of Kartik Subramanium after it noted that he had already served more than 26 years of his prison sentence, including remission. It also pointed out that his premature release was recommended by the Sentence Review Board (SRB) and approved by the lieutenant governor on four occasions, yet the central government and CBI did not concur with the said decision, resulting in him still serving his life term. “CBI has not provided any cogent reason for opposing the petitioner’s premature release. The only reason provided by it is that he had been sentenced to life imprisonment and the Supreme Court has, in a number of decisions, explained that the life sentence would mean the natural life of the convict,” justice Vibhu Bakhru observed. He added that such a reason was “untenable” since, if the said reason “is to be followed, then no convict, who had been awarded life imprisonment, can be released prematurely.” It also rebutted another ground cited by CBI why it remained opposed to Subramanium’s release, namely that a co-convict absconded after being released on parole. The high court highlighted that Subramanium was released on parole and furlough on several occasions and there had been no report of him misusing his freedom. “It is clear that CBI has opposed the petitioner’s release without examining his conduct and other relevant facts, which clearly indicate that he has accepted the reformative process, as is reflected by his exemplary conduct. There is also no doubt that he also has a propensity to serve as a useful member of society,” the court noted, taking into account the SRB’s reports that the convict had “lost the propensity for crime.” “His conduct has been appreciated by various jail authorities,” the court noted. Subramanium, convicted in 2005 by the trial court, had argued that the decision of the Centre to not concur with prematue release was arbitrary, unreasonable and contrary to the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-clears-early-release-of-man-in-jail-for-kidnap-of-nri-in-2001/articleshow/80594393.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 30, 2021||Pune||Cops zero in on criminals during combing operation||Pune: Police conducted a combing operation on Thursday and found a pistol and 23 sharp weapons following the arrest of 24 criminals. The police checked 2,036 criminals, of whom 705 were found at their residences in the city. The police said 466 people, incuding some without previous crime records, were arrested.  Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said in a statement on Friday, “We have registered 24 cases under the Arms Act, arrested 24 suspects and recovered a country-made pistol, two rounds, 22 sickles and a sharp weapon from them.” The police also tok action against four criminals for breaching their externment orders. In addition, preventive action was taken against 480 criminals and others. The crime branch and 30 police stations jointly conducted the combing operation. Singh said, “We have recovered gutka and tobacco products, collectively valued at over Rs6.57 lakh from a godown in Lohiyanagar. We have also taken action against a hookah parlour and a massage parlour in Koregaon Park.” “We arrested 63 men on the charge of gambling at New Modikhana in Camp and seized 95 litres of illicit liquor. Action was taken against 19 suspected persons and 217 people were arrested under the Prohibition Act,” he added. The Pune police have made elaborate security arrangements because of the Elgar Parishad function to be organized at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-zero-in-on-criminals-during-combing-operation/articleshow/80591659.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||BJP chief J P Nadda, CM Edappadi K Palaniswami in Madurai today||MADURAI: Madurai is glittering with posters and banners of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and BJP national president J P Nadda both of whom will be in the city on Saturday for separate functions. While EPS will be at Thirumangalam to inaugurate the temple built for late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, Nadda who arrived on Friday will address a public meeting in the city. The ``Amma temple’’, which stands on a 12 acre-plot, has been constructed by Amma Peravai at Thirumangalam, the constituency of the minister R B Udayakumar. It has two life size statues of MGR and Jayalalithaa and is the first of its kind in the region. The CM will inaugurate the temple in the presence of his deputy O Panneerselvam. Senior AIADMK functionaries from all the 234 constituencies are expected to participate while women will bring pots of milk from the southern districts which would be used to perform abhishekam on the statues. Preparatory ceremonies for the consecration of the temple began on Friday with yagasala pujas. Meanwhile, the BJP has made elaborate arrangements for the public meeting to be addressed by Nadda. The entire ring road is crowded with posters and banners of various sizes and shapes while the venue was lit up brightly on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-chief-nadda-cm-in-madurai-today/articleshow/80593090.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||From AP to Sri Lanka via Ramnad: Cops bust ganja network in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: In a combined week-long exercise, Ramanathapuram district police along with Madurai city and district police units busted an international drugs racket, arrested 19 people and seized 420 kg ganja they were about to smuggle. Cash worth Rs 29.5 lakh the accused obtained in exchange for drugs smuggled to Sri Lanka, three boats, two four-wheelers, a two-wheeler, 15 mobile phones, a GPS device, a laser light and two weighing machines were also seized from them. Prime accused M Nawaz Khan, 55, of Nehru Nagar in Ramanathapuram has been engaged in smuggling to Sri Lanka and supplying to local drug sellers for over 10 years, while his son Wasim Khan, 27, has been in the trade for six years, police said. "It is only a small network that was smuggling to Sri Lanka. Cracking such networks is an ongoing process," Ramanathapuram district SP E Karthik told TOI. On January 11, the Indian Coast Guard found 139 kg of ganja floating in deep sea and handed it over to the customs department. In the next two days, 39 kg of ganja washed ashore at Dhanushkodi. The story began to unravel on January 21 with the arrest of S Chelladurai, 39, from whom 34 kg ganja was seized. Based on the lead he gave, police detained Nawaz and Wasim. A total of 260 kgs ganja kept in 130 packs of two kg each was seized from Nawaz. Police came to know that wholesalers in Andhra Pradesh bought the pack (of 2 kgs) for Rs 3,000 from producers in Annavaram Hills and Vizag. They sent it to wholesalers in Madurai by cars, containers and goods carriers. Wholesalers in Madurai like Chelladurai, Jaya and Ayyampillai bought these for Rs 7,000 each and sent it to the Khans in Rameswaram for Rs 15,000. The father-son duo smuggled it to Sri Lanka through boat drivers for Rs 25,000 per pack. The smugglers took the drugs to the deep sea to specific locations marked using GPS and passed it on to their counterparts in Sri Lanka. Probe also led to the arrest of Wasim Khan’s accomplices-cum-boat drivers who confessed they tried to smuggle 178 kgs ganja to Sri Lankan and abandoned it in sea when they saw the Coast Guard. The two main accused along with accomplices Moor Mohammed of Rameswaram and Katti Mohammed of Ramanathapuram sourced drugs such as methamphetamine and ketamine from Mannady and Triplicane in Chennai and smuggled to Sri Lanka. The police also nabbed Rajkumar and Senthil Kumar of Madurai who helped them get hawala money for smuggling drugs to Sri Lanka. Besides cash, the police also seized 160 kgs ganja transported from Madurai. "We arrested 19 persons in the case but those who sent it from Andhra Pradesh and buyers in Sri Lanka are yet to be nabbed," the SP said. Karthik added that there could be at least three Sri Lankan buyers involved in the smuggling and a report on the racket along with the names of the Lankans will be shared with enforcement agencies in Lanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/from-ap-to-lanka-via-ramnad-cops-bust-ganja-network-in-tn/articleshow/80593092.cms||M K Ananth
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Demand to reconstruct speed breakers on Melamadai and Pandikoil stretch||MADURAI: Expressing concern over frequent accidents reported on Melamadai and Pandikoil stretch on Sivaganga Road, residents have sought to reconstruct speed-breakers without further delay. It was removed for relaying the road. The road under the control of the state highways department is also the connecting road to over a thousand houses in Gomathipuram, Jubilee Town, Vandiyur, Tahsildar Nagar and Yagappa Nagar. With the inner connecting roads, of Gomathipuram below the level of the main road, speeding vehicles lead to accidents. “If the breakers are not reconstructed, it could lead to major accidents now due to heavy traffic,” said president of Thendral Nagar - Gomathypuram residents welfare association, D Raghavan He added that the association had taken up the issue with the highway authorities, who initially agreed to construct it. But, now they had received instructions from the district administration to refrain from installing the breakers, on the grounds that speed breakers are not allowed on highways, and many VVIPs use the road while coming into the city from the airport. Secretary of the association, C Panneerselvam in a representation to district collector T Anbazhagan, and state highways department has stated that the claim of speed breakers not allowed on highways are not acceptable, as there was one in front of the Police Commissioner’s office in the Alagarkoil Road, though it was a highway. “They want the VVIPs to have a comfortable journey on a two-km stretch, but are not considerate about the lives of the public,” said S V Pathy, a resident. “Calling it a VIP road is not acceptable. They should construct a bridge over the road. They should construct the breakers, or we should go to courts, this is a crucial decision that the district administration should take,” he added. All this should be done before the schools start because not less than a hundred school buses cross this road in the morning and evening and vehicles from Chennai enter the city through this road, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/demand-to-reconstruct-speed-breakers-on-melamadai-and-pandikoil-stretch/articleshow/80593086.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid case doubling rate improves to 557 days||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported a dip in Covid cases, but a slight increase in fatalities on Friday. A total of 2,771 new cases and 56 deaths took the state’s tally to 20,21,184 and toll to 51,000. Covid cases in the city rose on Friday (494) in comparison to Thursday (394). The number of deaths (eight on Friday) have been more or less the same for almost a month now. Six of the new victims were over 60. The city’s tally has climbed to 3,08,063 since March 2020 and the toll to 11,334. In BMC’s Nair Hospital, where 1,100 beds were reserved for Covid patients in April 2020, there are less than 40 patients now. “We get two or three new cases a day, and deaths are far and few in between,” said hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal. Covid’s overall growth rate (between January 22 and 28) in the city has reduced to 0.12 from double the number last week. The doubling rate is now 557 days. After nearly a week, the daily discharges were lower than daily detections. A total of 2,613 people were discharged on Friday, taking total discharges to over 19.2 lakh. Active cases in the state stood at 43,147 and in the city at 5,417. There were 48 new cases from within NMMC on Friday, taking its total Covid count to 52,906. Of these, 96% of the patients have recovered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-covid-case-doubling-rate-improves-to-557-days/articleshow/80593097.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Farmers' protest: ED launches probe into farm stir funds||NEW DELHI: Acting on the basis of FIRs registered by Delhi Police against the leaders of farmers’ unions in connection with the Republic Day violence, the Enforcement Directorate has initiated a money laundering investigation into the source of funds used for mobilisation of farmers and for organising dharnas on the outskirts of the Capital for the last two months. Sources said the investigation will focus on NGOs which organised funds for the protests and cases under Prevention of Money Laundering Act will be registered once the preliminary probe got over. “Not necessarily all named in the FIRs would face charges under PMLA, but those funding the agitation with money received from unknown or illegitimate sources will be booked and their properties attached,” a source said. For some time, the anti-money laundering agency had been keeping close surveillance on leading hawala dealers active in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana who could have been the conduit for bringing money from abroad for the protests against the government. Delhi Police have filed more than 25 FIRs against farm leaders for the Republic Day raids on Red Fort and other parts of central Delhi. The police claimed that 394 of its personnel were injured in the rioting that went on for several hours. Red Fort was finally cleared of protesters close to midnight. The police have already issued ‘lookout’ notices against 44 people named in the FIRs. The names include all prominent faces of the agitation such as Satnam Singh Pannu, Darshan Pal, Bota Singh, V M Singh, Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Medha Patkar. The government had earlier claimed before the Supreme Court during a hearing on farm laws that members of some banned Khalistani organisations had infiltrated the protests and were out to disrupt peace. The court had refused to intervene when the Centre requested to restrict the protesters from taking out a ‘tractor parade’ as it was intended to disrupt the R-Day function. The SC said maintaining law and order was the responsibility of Delhi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-ed-launches-probe-into-farm-stir-funds/articleshow/80595091.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Activities outside containment zones permitted||Dehradun: The state government on Friday issued guidelines pertaining to ‘systematic ending of lockdown’ in which it was stipulated that all activities outside containment zones will be permitted although places like swimming pools, cinema/exhibition halls will be able to function subject to revised SOPs issued by the Centre. Meanwhile, authorities of Forest Research Institute (FRI) announced to open the institute’s campus for public from February 1. A communique issued by FRI authorities on Friday stated that 150 visitors and 100 morning walkers will only be allowed in the premises initially. The campus had been closed for visitors ever since the first Covid-19 case in the state surfaced from among a batch of forest service trainees in March last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/activities-outside-containment-zones-permitted/articleshow/80590571.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 30, 2021||Pune||Trio held, 7 pistols seized||Pune: The Baramati taluka police on Thursday recovered seven country-made pistols and 10 cartridges, collectively worth Rs2.5 lakh, following the arrest of three men. The suspects — Adinath Girme (21) of Daund, Vijay Karad (20) of Beed and Amol Garje (22) of Ahmednagar — would get the firearms from Madhya Pradesh, Yogesh Langute, assistant inspector of the Baramati taluka police, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-held-7-pistols-seized/articleshow/80591673.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Tax consultants stage agitation||Pune: A body of tax consultants in Maharashtra, which claims to have the support of more than 200 traders’ bodies and trade unions, said its members demonstrated outside the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Bhavan in Pune at 10am on Friday to demand reforms in the filing process to alleviate complications. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tax-consultants-stage-agitation/articleshow/80591668.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Now people feel health cover need: IRDAI chief||HYDERABAD: Though the renewal and sale of standard corona policies is expected to decline in the coming days due to falling Covid-19 cases, it is not likely to have a negative bearing on the overall growth of health insurance sector, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) chairman Subhash C Khuntia said on Friday. Addressing participants virtually at the 17th Annual Insurance Brokers’ Summit, organised by Insurance Brokers Association of India (IBAI), Khuntia pointed out that the standard Covid-19 policies were introduced to protect the uninsured as a ‘stop gap’ arrangement during the pandemic and has been serving their purpose. He said the pandemic has made people realise the importance of having adequate health coverage and is expected to boost overall health insurance in the near-term. He pointed out that 1.28 crore standard Covid policies with a total premium of over Rs 1,000 crore have been sold so far. “Under Corona Kavach, which is the standard product, 42 lakh lives have been protected, while 5.36 lakh lives have been protected through Corona Rakshak,” Khuntia said. The IRDAI chairman also urged brokers to enhance their contribution towards life insurance as well as individual health insurance in the country. He also urged the broker community to leverage digital tools to reach out to the stakeholders and customers. “I see a huge opportunity in the tier 2 and 3 cities and towns. Substantial economic growth is expected from rural areas and I would urge the broker community to penetrate this untapped segment. Further focus is required on the MSME sector and new insurance products have been added to cater to this,” he said. He said brokers must represent the interest of customers and assist policyholders during the life cycle of the policies. “Though you have got the policy holder insured, you must also guide them on how to prevent risk against which they are insured,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-insurance-to-grow-irrespective-of-corona-policies-performance-in-near-term-khuntia/articleshow/80591681.cms||Swati Rathor
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||CPI inflation shoots up to 8.5%, follows national trend||HYDERABAD: Telangana, like many states in the country, saw a higher inflation of Consumer Price Index (CPI) between 2020-21 (Jun-Dec) compared to corresponding period previous year. A CPI inflation of 3.5% shot up to 8.5%. According to the 2021 Economic Survey report, most states have witnessed higher urban inflation than rural inflation in the current year, with variations mainly due to high food inflation in urban areas. Consumer Price Index-Combined (CPI-C) inflation increased in most of states in the current year. It ranged between 3.2% to 11% across states in 2020-21 (Jun-Dec) compared to (-)0.3% to 7.6% in the same period last year. Experts say the increase in the CPI inflation could mean an increase in prices for consumers. “It is not alarming, but can be controlled with good measures,” finance and banking expert K Narsihma Murty said. Consumer Price Index Numbers for Industrial Workers (CPI-IW) is a price index released by the Labour Bureau to measure the impact of price rise on the cost of living for working class families spread across certain select industries. The price of a vegetarian thali in rural Telangana has increased to nearly Rs 30 in 2020-21, from from around Rs 26 in 2019-20. The price of the non-vegetarian thali in rural Telangana increased to Rs 40 from around Rs 36 in the corresponding periods. In urban areas, meanwhile, the price a vegetarian thali increased to Rs 30 from around Rs 26, while the price of non-vegetarian thali increased to Rs 40 from about Rs 35 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cpi-inflation-shoots-up-to-8-5-follows-national-trend/articleshow/80591654.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||‘Vaccines could prevent 69 million deaths before 2030’||MUMBAI: While the introduction of vaccines against Covid-19 is being met with widespread hesitancy, an international study released on Friday said vaccines against 10 pathogens could prevent 69 million deaths in lower and middle income countries, including India, before 2030. In India, the vaccines could avert 4.4 million deaths between 2000 and 2030. Published in medical journal, The Lancet, the 98-nation study funded by vaccine alliance GAVI (set up to increase access to immunisation in poor countries) said the vaccinations have already prevented 37 million deaths between 2000 and 2019. “The greatest impact of vaccination is estimated to occur in children under five —mortality from the 10 diseases in this age group would be 45% higher than currently observed in the absence of vaccination,” said the paper. The pathogens include measles-causing viruses, jaundice-causing hepatitis B virus, diarrhoea-causing rotavirus. Dr Caroline Trotter from the University of Cambridge UK, and a co-author on the study, said: “There has been a much-needed investment in childhood vaccination programmes in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) and this has led to an increase in the number of children vaccinated.” Dr Naveen Thacker, who was a GAVI board member, said that vaccines have brought a sea-change in mortality rates. “In a single month in 1994, I saw 50 cases of polio. Now, India is polio free.” He said a slew of reasons are contributing to the hesitancy to the Covid vaccine in India. Firstly, due to the global village phenomenon, happenings in one part of the world are heard in other parts in real time. “When anti-vaxxers make a statement, it is heard here too,” he said. Secondly, people get confused when scientists argue on topics such as efficacy or the lack of it on social media. “People draw their own conclusions, and at present AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) is wrongly being equated with side-effects,” he said. A senior doctor from a public hospital said that lack of transparency on the part of the government has added to the hesitancy. “In the West, papers relating to permissions are uploaded on a website for everyone to read. But this is not being done in India,” he said. However, experts concede that vaccination will help control the pandemic. “The Covid-19 vaccine could be the best armour in our fight against Covid,” he said. Vaccines may at the least prevent severe form of the disease, said a doctor from BMC-run Nair Hospital. Dr Thacker added that “within a few months of mass vaccination, we should be able to see a drop in mortality and morbidity like it is happening in Israel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccines-could-prevent-69mn-deaths-before-2030/articleshow/80593112.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cash deposit unit dragged away by gang||PUNE: A gang of five men dragged a cash deposit machine (CDM), containing Rs18.5 lakh, out of an ATM kiosk by tying it to a commercial vehicle in Manchar in the early hours of Friday. The CDM had been placed in the kiosk of a public sector bank. The bank’s manager has lodged an FIR with the Manchar police station. A police team, led by sub-inspector Sagar Khabale, traced the suspects’ vehicle with the help of CCTV footage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cash-deposit-unit-dragged-away-by-gang/articleshow/80591679.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Sputnik eyes India rollout in March, hopes for emergency use nod soon||HYDERABAD: The Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V is expected to be rolled out in India in emergency use authorization (EUA) mode in March, a top official of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories said on Friday. “The Phase III (trials) is currently ongoing. We have completed 70% of the subject dosing for Phase III and expect to complete the dosing by February. After that we expect to compile the data and submit (application) for EUA…to DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India) in March,” Deepak Sapra, CEO, API & Pharmaceutical Services, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories said. “Based on the approval from DCGI we believe that we should be in a position to launch the vaccine through EUA in March,” he added. Sapra said that while currently the company does not have any Sputnik V doses available in India, it has entered into a 12-month contract with a local player to make enough to vaccinate 125 million people, which is 9% of the Indian population. In the initial phases the company will distribute vaccines imported from Russia. “We are in discussion with a couple of players to tie up adequate quantities (for manufacturing) so that with EUA coming in, the amount of vaccines coming into the country...plus the amount of vaccines that will be produced within India can be synchronised to build up our overall stocks,” he said. According to Sapra, the company has not yet arrived at pricing for the vaccine in India but is looking at working closely with the Indian government for supply in addition to looking at the private market. Dr Reddy’s Labs entered into a partnership with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund – Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) – to conduct Phase II/III trials of Sputnik V and distribute over 100 million doses in India. The Phase III trials are currently being conducted with 1,500 volunteers in India as part of a bridging Phase II/III study for assessing the safety and immunogenicity of the Russian vaccine. The vaccine was tested on 100 volunteers in India in Phase II trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sputnik-eyes-india-rollout-in-march-hopes-for-emergency-use-nod-soon/articleshow/80591693.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Jobless allowance to cost Telangana up to Rs 6,000 crore/year||HYDERABAD: The unemployment allowance to be doled out by the government soon will cost the state exchequer anywhere between Rs 3,600 crore and Rs 6,000 crore per year, depending upon the number of jobless youth to be covered. Nearly 25 lakh candidates have registered themselves for various jobs in the government sector with Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC). Over 9 lakh candidates have registered with employment exchanges of the employment and training directorate of the state government. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had promised an allowance of Rs 3,016 per month to the jobless youth in the TRS’ 2018 election manifesto. Even if the government rolls out the jobless allowance to only 10 lakh candidates who are strictly categorized as “jobless,” it would cost the government Rs 3,600 crore per annum at the rate of Rs 300 crore per month. The financial burden on the state exchequer would go up to Rs 6,000 crore if the number of eligible candidates is 20 lakh. However, the state government does not have data about how many of these candidates are strictly jobless. Officials said many may be already having jobs in the private sector and had registered seeking a job in the government sector. Officials said they have not received any directions from the government to identify strictly jobless youth. “Though minister KT Rama Rao has said that the CM would announce an unemployment allowance roll-out plan, implementation or distribution may take some time. Firstly, the CM may constitute a high-level official committee to frame guidelines for the implementation,” an official said. “The allowance should be with retrospective effect i.e. January 1, 2019. The CM had promised Rs 3,016 per month to unemployed youth in December 2018. The government already owes Rs 75,400 to each unemployed youth,” said K Manavatha Roy, state unemployed youth joint action committee leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jobless-allowance-to-cost-state-up-to-rs-6000cr/yr/articleshow/80591661.cms||Roushan Ali
January 30, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Excess allotment of over 5,000 seats in open category for FYJC admissions||PUNE: There are 37,000 seats vacant in First Year Junior Colleges (FYJC) as of Friday, but vacancy in the open category is surprisingly in the negative at minus 5,038. While there are vacancies in constitutionally reserved seats as well as in management, minority and in-house quota, the maximum number of seats available for admission are in the open category at 27,494 against which a total of 32,532 students have been admitted. “We check if there are any students in other reserved categories who want that seat. In case no student has applied for it, we convert it into an open seat and depending on the merit, the seat is allotted to the open category student,” an official said. The official added that the number of applications from the open category was much higher than the seats available. “We have showed the vacancy in the negative so that students know how many seats were converted due to lack of application in that category in that college.” Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune division also said many colleges submit their minority or management or in-house quota seats after they realise that they are not getting students to apply for them. “Once they submit the seats, these too are counted in the open category and students in the open category can apply for them,” Shendkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/excess-allotment-of-over-5k-seats-in-open-category-for-fyjc-admissions/articleshow/80591689.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Use tech for common good: KTR at WEF||Hyderabad: The Telangana government will not only work towards creating digital infrastructure and skilling but will also ensure that technology has a positive social impact in the state, Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao while participating virtually in a World Economic Forum (WEF) panel on Friday. Speaking during a session titled ‘Harnessing emerging technologies in India’, KTR said that due to the vast spectrum of economic, social and geographical scenarios in India, the country can act as a global test bed for building emerging technology-based solutions, which can be scaled across third world countries as well. He also spoke about the T-Fiber project, through which the state will ensure broadband connectivity in every household in the state. “As part of this project, we plan to connect 10 million households with 100 mbps internet by the end of the year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/use-tech-for-common-good-ktr-at-wef/articleshow/80591666.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||AAP vows all basic facilities to farmers at Delhi borders||NEW DELHI: Amid attempts to evict farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders, Aam Aadmi Party has stepped in to provide them water and necessary facilities, apart from backing their agitation against the agri laws. Taking to Twitter, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended his support to the farmers and said it was wrong to call them traitors. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia visited Ghazipur border in east Delhi, while water minister Satyendar Jain and Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha met the farmers at Singhu border and inspected the facilities being provided by Delhi government. On the request of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, Kejriwal directed the authorities to set up drinking water and toilet facilities at Ghazipur protest site. Sisodia said the UP government had stopped drinking water and electricity facilities for the farmers at Ghazipur and called it oppressive and highly condemnable. “It is unfortunate that the farmers who feed the nation are being branded as traitors and violent. For the first time in history, the loving Sikh community is being branded as traitors by the central government under the pressure from their capitalist friends. The Centre has resorted to repressive techniques to crush the farmers’ protest,” he added. “Had the central government held a dialogue with the farmers two months ago, the unfortunate violence on Republic Day would not have taken place. The sponsored violence must be fairly investigated and the real guilty punished. There should be a proper investigation of the link between the perpetrators of the violence and the BJP government,” said Sisodia, while demanding rollback of the “unjust farm laws”. Jain said, “We were getting continuous phone calls that on the instruction of BJP, police stopped basic facilities. It is clear that the BJP leadership has instructed police to stop water tankers. It is unfortunate and shameful to stop even the basic necessities. They want to keep the farmers thirsty and hungry because they think in this way they can break the protests.” He added that water was a basic need and requested BJP to supply water to the farmers. Chadha said the farmers were not terrorists or traitors, so BJP should stop dirty politics. Stressing that the Kejriwal government would ensure all basic facilities, he added, “On the instruction of the BJP government, the network in the entire area is down. That is why Wi-Fi set up by the Kejriwal government is not working anymore. BJP also removed all toilets from the spot. From January 26, police have also stopped the langars provided by the Kejriwal government at Singhu border. Police have not allowed us to restart the facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-vows-all-basic-facilities-to-farmers-at-the-borders/articleshow/80594413.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Shirur, Mulshi have over 3,000 out-of-school children||PUNE: In the ongoing survey by Pune Zilla Parishad, the teachers and anganwadi sevikas have identified 671 out-of- school children in the age group of 6 to 14 and 3,344 children in the 3 to 6 age group who have not been enrolled in preschool, anganwadi or balwadi. Over 1,500 of these children are from Mulshi and over 2,000 from Shirur talukas. Officials said most households are migrant families who have returned for work but have enrolled their children in schools. The survey also took into account 255 children with special needs till the age of 18 who have not been admitted to any school. The survey will continue till January 31. Pune zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad had said that 11,000 teachers and 8,000 anganwadi sevikas are conducting a door-to-door survey in Pune rural areas to identify out-of-school children and those working as child labourers. There was fear among the officials and education activists that due to the pandemic and financial distress, the number of cases related to child labour had increased. Women volunteers working with the zilla parishad and their contacts too are being told to gather intelligence, especially girl children, being kept out of school to be married off or kept as a farm hand. The ZP has already identified various hotspots where these children might be employed such as hotels, roadside dhabas, brick kiln, sugar cane fields, public construction sites. Sunil Kurhade, ZP’s primary education officer, said once the children are identified, the teachers tell the parents to enrol them in a school and cross verify with the school. “The survey will go on for eight more days. In the industrial areas, the number of out-of-school children are more. Families of labourers have returned from their home towns but have not admitted their kids to standard I or have not registered their name in balwadi make the maximum cases. clearer picture will emerge in a few days when the survey is completed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shirur-mulshi-have-over-3k-out-of-school-children/articleshow/80591696.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: PMPML to ply fewer airport buses due to poor response||PUNE: The city transport utility body will soon withdraw 10 of the 35 e-buses from ferrying the commuters to and from the airport because of poor response and meagre revenue. The decision comes over three months after the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) re-launched it special airport bus service, ‘Abhi’, along the five routes of the city. “Considering the limited flight movements, we decided to withdraw 10 of the 35 e-buses from plying under the special service ,” senior official with the traffic section of the transport body told TOI. The official said the income generated from the service was not matching the revenue exception. “The bus service had been generating between Rs7,000-Rs8,000 per day,” the official said. PMPML’s chairperson-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap said the frequency of buses plying under ‘Abhi’ would also be reduced. “When the service was started, the buses would ply in the intervals of 20 to 25 minutes. Now, the commuters would have to wait for around 35 to 40 minutes,” Jagtap told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-ply-fewer-airport-buses-due-to-poor-response/articleshow/80591708.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Focus should be on farmers’ income: Telangana minister T Harish Rao||HYDERABAD: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) on Friday announced a credit plan of Rs 1,35,780 crore for the year 2020-21. The state focus paper of the bank released by finance minister T Harish Rao earmarked Rs 59,440 crore for agriculture and marketing sector. As per the focus paper, Rs 12,881 crore is allocated for agriculture and allied sectors, Rs 2,784 crore for agriculture infrastructure creation, Rs 39,361 crore for MSMEs and another Rs 8,261 crore for agriculture cooperative activities. Harish Rao urged Nabard to focus on increasing the income of the farmers and not just on lending. He said though agriculture sector is booming in the state, income of the farmers is not increasing proportionately. He said steps should be taken to increase farmers’ income. He said it is important to encourage the youth towards farming by giving right kind of opportunities and processing units are a solution in this direction. Banks should focus on issuing big loans for farmers and not just regular farm credit loans. He also said the Centre should continue the tradition of making allocations to states based on the recommendations of the finance commission. “States are at a loss because the surcharge collected by the Centre is not given to states. It would be better to cancel this and increase rates of states’ taxes in the central pool,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-should-be-on-farmers-income-harish/articleshow/80591676.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 30, 2021||Pune||Three minors break into Chinchwad flat; detained||PUNE: Santosh Mehta of Nariman Point in Mumbai and her 16-year-old son, Sambhav, were shocked to find their locked Chinchwad flat in disarray on Thursday afternoon when they visited the city. The mother-and-son duo were yet unaware that the perpetrators behind the mess were still inside the flat, when Mehta contacted her husband, Lakhpatraj (54), and alerted him. The Pimpri police too were alerted. When Mehta opened the bathroom door, to her surprise, she noticed three youths hiding inside. The Pimpri police immediately took the trio into custody. “All of them are minors and are from the neighbouring slum. We have informed their parents,” senior inspector Milind Waghmare of the Pimpri police told TOI. Lakhpatraj Mehta claimed while talking TOI, “Gold and silver ornaments, a diamond ring, laptops, computer accessories and cash, collectively worth Rs33.5 lakh, have been stolen.” Lakhpatraj Mehta said the youths had been entering the flat via the terrace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-minors-break-into-chinchwad-flat-detained/articleshow/80591701.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Thane||Thane: Kin of 74 deceased cops get police force appointment letters||THANE: A 29-year-old computer engineer, whose father, an assistant sub inspector, died due to Covid-19 while on duty, got an appointment order to join the Thane city police force as Amaldar or an entrant to the police department—along with 73 other kin of slain policemen. Among the 74 deceased policemen, 34 due to Covid-19, said an officer. Tushar Patil’s life changed when his father Ashok Patil, who was attached to the Bhiwandi control room, passed away. Subsequently, the Thane police machinery got into action for all the kin of slain cops, and within months, Tushar and others got appointment letters to join the police force on compassionate (Anukampa) basis. In an event conducted at the Saket police grounds, director general of police (DGP) Hemant Nagrale gave the appointment letters to the 74 kin, officially appointing them to the force. An officer said,“Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar expedited the process and made sure the kin get it in 2-3 months.” Another appointee, Pradnya Dhome (32), who has done an MA and MBA, and whose husband died due to multiple organ failure, will also join as a Amaldar. She has a six-year-old child, and after the death of her husband, she said she will wear his shoes and perform the duty her husband has left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/relatives-of-74-deceased-cops-get-police-force-appt-letters/articleshow/80593144.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 30, 2021||Meerut||3lakh to join protest at Ghazipur: BKU||Meerut/Agra/Bareilly: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional outburst before a waning crowd of protesters turned around the fate of the farmers’ stir at Ghazipur within 24 hours as thousands of people streamed into the border point by Friday evening; many more were on the way from western Uttar Pradesh districts. The farmers’ outfit claimed that about three lakh people are expected to reach Ghazipur by Saturday evening.“Now it’s a matter of prestige,” a prominent farmer leader said. Long queues of tractors were seen emerging from villages of Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Bijnor, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Mathura and Agra. Even farmers associated with two unions-- Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan -- which had withdrawn from the agitation after January 26 violence in Delhi were seen heading to the Delhi border.In Muzaffarnagar, at a ‘mahapanchayat’ called by BKU, the outfit’s chief Naresh Tikait said that the stir against the three farm laws will continue. He asked farmers to reach the Ghazipur border in good numbers.The leader of a powerful khap, Surender Singh, said that Rakesh Tikait’s tears “will turn into a ‘jan sailaab’ (deluge) and flow on the roads only to stop at Ghazipur border.”“We are united. Let them (the government) use lathis and bullets. We are ready. I don’t know how many farmers cried and did not sleep the entire night. Even my granddaughter wept seeing their plight. Our panchayat system doesn’t have a place for oppression. Thousands of farmers are ready to leave for Ghazipur. I am also going,” the Chaurasi Desh Khap leader said.His sentiments echoed at scores of panchayats held in the region. According to sources, at least 50 small and big panchayats were held in the Agra region alone.BKU chief of Agra region, Gajendra Singh Parihar, said, “About 10,000 people from across the Agra region reached Ghazipur border by Friday afternoon. Hundreds of batches of farmers are on their way. They will reach the protest site in the next few hours. Three lakh people will be at Ghazipur border by Saturday evening.”State police was on its toes on Friday. Check posts on district borders were manned by a large number of cops, mostly in anti-riot gears.Heavy police deployment was seen at all sensitive border areas in Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Bijnor, Meerut, Shamli and Muzaffarnagar. Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Dharam Veer Singh called the protest site at Ghazipur border “illegal”. “The protest site at Ghazipur has been declared illegal. If farmers try to reach there, strict action will be taken against them. Borders have been sealed and checking is being conducted at police stations and outposts,” the Bijnor SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3lakh-to-join-protest-at-ghazipur-bku/articleshow/80589587.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Economic survey lauds Telangana's fight to save lives||HYDERABAD: The Economic Survey Report (2021) makes a positive reference to Telangana’s efforts to control mortality during the Covid-19 pandemic. The report said that in an analysis of states, Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have saved most lives. Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Bihar have restricted the case spread the best, it said, adding that Telangana is the fourth best in controlling spread. The report observed that Maharashtra has underperformed in controlling mortality and reducing spread. Speaking to TOI, director of health, Dr Srinivasa Rao said, “our strategy was always to focus on early identification of cases and begin treatment as early as possible. Our curve is almost flat now.” The analysis was done based on expected figures or projections and what was actually witnessed. Till now the state has seen over 1,590 deaths, and case fatality rate stands at 0.54% as against 1.4% for the country. Among those who passed away, 55% people had commodities. Men accounted for 60% positive cases in the state and 39% were women. High percentage of cases (23.6) belonged to 21 to 30 years age group, followed by 23.04% cases in the 31 to 40 years age group. In the age group of 81 years and above there were only 0.5% cases, one of the reasons for low mortality rate overall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eco-survey-lauds-t-fight-to-save-lives/articleshow/80591722.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC stays banks’ order on CPL’s fraud account||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Friday stayed the declaration made by various banks that notified the bank account of Hyderabad-based Coastal Projects Ltd (CPL) as a fraud account but made it clear that the stay order is not a hindrance for the CBI and the ED to investigate the role of promoters of the company which allegedly duped the banks to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore. The company was dragged to NCLT by various lenders and is currently undergoing the process of liquidation. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a petition filed by Sabbineni Surendra, who headed the company as its chairman and managing director till its liquidation, questioning the declaration of the company’s bank account as a fraud account. The judges asked him as to why he did not make the liquidator or the resolution professional (RP) as a party. “It was the company’s bank account that was declared as a fraud. How can the promoter of the company challenge it when the company is no more with him and is currently undergoing liquidation. The company should now be represented by the liquidator and not by its erstwhile MD,” the judges said. Upon being told that the RBI circular was stayed by the high court last month, the judges said the same order would be passed in this case also. “But, the CBI and ED are free to continue their probes into the role played by the company’s erstwhile CMD as per law,” they said. They also verified whether the RBI or any banks challenged the high court order, staying the RBI circular. SBI’s counsel replied that they filed an SLP before the Supreme Court which is yet to come up for hearing. The RBI, it can be recalled, issued a master circular asking banks to declare suspicious accounts that swallow and divert funds as fraudulent ones to alert other banks from being defrauded by the same promoter. Despite such a circular from the RBI, the banks made a beeline before CPL and lent it thousands of crores and were eventually duped. SBI’s stressed assets management branch at Kachiguda, IDBI Bank, Canara Bank’s prime corporate branch at Secunderabad, Bank of Baroda’s zonal stressed assets management branch, Bank of Maharashtra’s stressed assets management branch at Koti, Oriental Bank of Commerce which later merged into Punjab National Bank, Andhra Bank and Corporation Banks that later merged into Union Bank of India, Exim Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, State Bank of Mauritius (India), Kotak Mahindra Bank, IndusInd Bank, Tata Capital Financial Services and Yes Bank had together given Rs 4,800 crore to Surendra’s company and later declared the company’s account as a fraud account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-stays-banks-order-on-cpls-fraud-account/articleshow/80591697.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||SIM swap fraud network neutralised, say police||HYDERABAD: Though Ebigbo Innocent, the most-wanted cyber criminal based in Nigeria and mastermind behind the SIM swap fraud cases, is still absconding, cops believe that they have neutralised his network in India with the recent arrest of Mumbai’s Mira Road gang. Apart from Mumbai and Kerala police, even Hyderabad city police want to interrogate the arrested gang members in relation to the cases registered in their respective jurisdictions. According to police, Innocent alias James is solely responsible for executing SIM card swap frauds across the country targeting businessmen operating overdraft current bank accounts of the victims. Cyberabad police came across the name of James after arresting six persons, including a Nigerian, Odafe Henry, and his five associates from Kolkata in January 2019. The name of James cropped up again during the recent arrest of five members of Mira Road-based SIM swap fraudsters’ gang. “During the interrogation, the accused from Kolkata gang and Mumbai gang clearly mentioned that they were working with James. Though we are not certain if any of the names used by him are real, he communicates with the Indian gang members with that name,” Cyberabad cyber crime inspector K Srinivas said. With the arrest of Kolkata and Mumbai-based associates of James, police believe that they have busted the SIM swap fraud network of James in India. So far, six SIM swap fraud cases are registered in Cyberabad where James sends phishing mails to victims making it look like IT department mail and collects internet banking details, ID card copies and other details, including the mobile numbers of the victims. Indian gang members obtain duplicate SIM cards by forging ID of the victims and siphon off the money from the bank account when the victim’s SIM becomes inactive. Hyderabad police have two SIM swap cases registered with them where the victims who are steel and construction businessmen lost Rs 35 lakh and Rs 50 lakh, respectively, to the fraudsters. Hyderabad police arrested four members of the Kolkata-based gang in October 2020 in relation to these cases but the arrested accused informed that they work along with a Nigerian, Shedrick Paul. “It is possible that Shedrick and James are the same person. We also suspect that he could be involved in other types of cyber crimes,” said a cyber crime official. Apart from Hyderabad police, police from Mumbai and Kerala are also keen on interrogating the five accused arrested from Mira Road by Cyberabad police as 40 forged Aadhaar cards were found in their possession, indicating that the accused have duped several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sim-swap-fraud-network-neutralised-say-police/articleshow/80591687.cms||Mahesh Buddi
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Nine arrested for attack on cop in Burari||NEW DELHI: Nine farmers have been arrested for attacking one of Delhi Police personnel at the Burari protest site, an official said on Friday. Several farmers have been camping at DDA ground in Burari on the outskirts of the city since November-end. At 7.30pm on Thursday, some protesters came out and tried to move towards Red Fort, however, they were stopped by assistant sub-inspector Harbans Lal deployed at the main entry gate. The farmers then assaulted the policeman and tore his uniform, a senior police officer said. A case was registered under relevant sections of IPC at the Mukherjee Nagar Police Station against nine people, police said. The accused were protesting under the leadership of Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala of Shiromani Akali Dal (Kisan wing, Amritsar), the officer added. They have been sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nine-arrested-for-attack-on-cop-in-burari/articleshow/80594415.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MP Bittu shouts slogans during President’s address||LUDHIANA/CHANDIGARH: Despite his party boycotting the Budget Session, Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh ‘Bittu’ attended the first day of the budget session of Parliament for a few minutes and tried to disrupt President Ram Nath Kovind’s address by raising slogans in favour of the agitating farmers. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann alleged that the MPs from the opposition parties were not allowed to attend the budget session of Parliament. “If the opposition parties are not allowed inside the Parliament, then what is the use of leaving the old Parliament and wasting Rs 900 crore on new one?” he said. “There was a joint session in the Parliament and when four AAP MPs tried to enter the Central Hall, we were stopped. They wanted to let in only their favourite MPs who will applaud them, but we wanted to raise the issue of farmers. There was inhuman treatment meted out to them. We were pushed out by the marshals and we raised slogans there only. It is another blow to democracy. We wanted to go inside and confront them. They may take action against us but we will continue to raise the issue of the farmers,” Mann said in a video he shared on his social media accounts. Even Bittu uploaded a video on his Facebook page in which several MPs and ministers are seen sitting on their seats, listening to the President’s speech. Bittu is seen sitting in the video in the last row, recording the video along with his commentary. In the video, Bittu is heard saying, “All cabinet ministers, Prime Minister, home minister are sitting here, but I am sitting in this Parliament in the capacity of being chairman of one of the committees and I am speaking on behalf of all MPs from Punjab and also on behalf of crores of farmers of Punjab, Haryana, UP and all over India. It has been more than two months since our mothers, sisters are sitting alongside our farmers on roads demanding withdrawal of the farm bills. But this government is not ready to wake up from its ‘Kumbhkarni Neend.’ It is high time the government listens to them.” Immediately after this, Bittu started shouting during the President’s speech. He said, “Rashtrapati ji Lal Kile pe jo jhanda fehra ke aye hain hum unke khilaf hain, hum unko sar nahi uthane denge, par kisano ki sune, kisan jo baithe hain genuine kisan hai Rashtrapati ji. Wo Punjab ka kisan aapke sath hai, desh ke sath hai (We are totally against those who unfurled the flag at Lal Qila, we will not let them raise their heads at any cost but please listen to the farmers sitting on dharna. The farmers of Punjab are genuine and are always with you and the country).” After this, Bittu raised slogans of “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan,” “Teeno bill wapas lo,” “MSP guarantee karo.” He ended by saying that since the President was addressing the Parliament, he would not say more but “it was necessary to talk about farmers here.” Talking to TOI about the incident, Bittu said, “I am totally with the decision of the high command to boycott the session. I went to Parliament not to attend the session but only to make the voice of our farmers heard and to make BJP leaders realise their responsibility towards the farmers and take decision on repealing the three farm laws permanently.” He said that the opposition will not let Parliament run from February 1 until the issues of farmers are resolved. “Seventeen out of 19 parties boycotted the President's address. Don't they feel ashamed of themselves? How do they sleep at night? We will not let Parliament run from Monday onwards until the farmers' issues are resolved and they win,” he said. He added that he was in the process of identifying those who attacked him at an event at Singhu border and would then give a formal complaint to the police. “We are trying to identify more people from the video footage available in public domain,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress Rajya Sabha member from Punjab Partap Singh Bajwa visited Ghazipur border with his party colleague Deepinder Singh Hooda and former Union minister Jai Parkash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-mp-bittu-shouts-slogans-during-presidents-address/articleshow/80593119.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 200 new Covid cases and 2 deaths in 24 hours||HYDERABAD: A total of 197 new Covid-19 infections and two fatalities were recorded in Telangana on Friday, taking the overall toll to 1,596. There are 2,537 patients under treatment, but with improving recovery rate in the state, which is nearing 99%. So far, a total of 77,90,901 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state, out of which 2,94,120 have tested positive, and 2,89,987 persons have recovered. In the data released by the health department officials on Friday, 31,486 Covid tests were conducted in the state while reports of another 748 samples were awaited. The directorate of public health and family welfare, in its bulletin once again said that people with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cardiac illness, chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer or any other chronic illness are requested to stay indoors and avoid any kind of travel except for medical care in order to avoid exposure to Covid-19. “If symptoms related to Covid-19 are observed, please report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay,” the statement read. The data also shows that a total of 349 persons recovered on Tuesday. The GHMC limits saw 38 new cases followed by 13 new cases in Rangareddy and 11 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/200-new-cases-and-2-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/80591712.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Rs 245cr from Centre for disaster mgmt||The Centre on Friday sanctioned Rs 245 crore for the state for disaster management. A high-level committee met under the leadership of Union home minister Amit Shah and sanctioned Rs 1,751 crore to five states, which included Telangana. Odisha, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are the other states which were allocated the funds. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-245cr-from-centre-for-disaster-mgmt/articleshow/80591684.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MP Bittu shouts slogans during President’s address||LUDHIANA/CHANDIGARH: Despite his party boycotting the Budget Session, Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh ‘Bittu’ attended the first day of the budget session of Parliament for a few minutes and tried to disrupt President Ram Nath Kovind’s address by raising slogans in favour of the agitating farmers. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann alleged that the MPs from the opposition parties were not allowed to attend the budget session of Parliament. “If the opposition parties are not allowed inside the Parliament, then what is the use of leaving the old Parliament and wasting Rs 900 crore on new one?” he said. “There was a joint session in the Parliament and when four AAP MPs tried to enter the Central Hall, we were stopped. They wanted to let in only their favourite MPs who will applaud them, but we wanted to raise the issue of farmers. There was inhuman treatment meted out to them. We were pushed out by the marshals and we raised slogans there only. It is another blow to democracy. We wanted to go inside and confront them. They may take action against us but we will continue to raise the issue of the farmers,” Mann said in a video he shared on his social media accounts. Even Bittu uploaded a video on his Facebook page in which several MPs and ministers are seen sitting on their seats, listening to the President’s speech. Bittu is seen sitting in the video in the last row, recording the video along with his commentary. In the video, Bittu is heard saying, “All cabinet ministers, Prime Minister, home minister are sitting here, but I am sitting in this Parliament in the capacity of being chairman of one of the committees and I am speaking on behalf of all MPs from Punjab and also on behalf of crores of farmers of Punjab, Haryana, UP and all over India. It has been more than two months since our mothers, sisters are sitting alongside our farmers on roads demanding withdrawal of the farm bills. But this government is not ready to wake up from its ‘Kumbhkarni Neend.’ It is high time the government listens to them.” Immediately after this, Bittu started shouting during the President’s speech. He said, “Rashtrapati ji Lal Kile pe jo jhanda fehra ke aye hain hum unke khilaf hain, hum unko sar nahi uthane denge, par kisano ki sune, kisan jo baithe hain genuine kisan hai Rashtrapati ji. Wo Punjab ka kisan aapke sath hai, desh ke sath hai (We are totally against those who unfurled the flag at Lal Qila, we will not let them raise their heads at any cost but please listen to the farmers sitting on dharna. The farmers of Punjab are genuine and are always with you and the country).” After this, Bittu raised slogans of “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan,” “Teeno bill wapas lo,” “MSP guarantee karo.” He ended by saying that since the President was addressing the Parliament, he would not say more but “it was necessary to talk about farmers here.” Talking to TOI about the incident, Bittu said, “I am totally with the decision of the high command to boycott the session. I went to Parliament not to attend the session but only to make the voice of our farmers heard and to make BJP leaders realise their responsibility towards the farmers and take decision on repealing the three farm laws permanently.” He said that the opposition will not let Parliament run from February 1 until the issues of farmers are resolved. “Seventeen out of 19 parties boycotted the President's address. Don't they feel ashamed of themselves? How do they sleep at night? We will not let Parliament run from Monday onwards until the farmers' issues are resolved and they win,” he said. He added that he was in the process of identifying those who attacked him at an event at Singhu border and would then give a formal complaint to the police. “We are trying to identify more people from the video footage available in public domain,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress Rajya Sabha member from Punjab Partap Singh Bajwa visited Ghazipur border with his party colleague Deepinder Singh Hooda and former Union minister Jai Parkash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludh-mp-bittu-shouts-slogans-during-presidents-address/articleshow/80593119.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Journalists bodies say FIRs against colleagues effort to ‘harass, browbeat and stifle media’||NEW DELHI: Even as two more FIRs were filed — in Delhi and Gurgaon — on Friday against senior editors and journalists after UP and MP police registered cases, the Editors Guild of India, the Indian Women's Press Corps and the Delhi Union of Journalists sharply condemned the developments, describing the actions as efforts to "intimidate, harass, browbeat, and stifle the media". Demanding that the FIRs be withdrawn forthwith, EGI and IWPC said the journalists reported developments as they emerged in the farmer protest rallies in Delhi on January 26, in line with established norms of journalistic practice. UP and MP police had on January 28 filed FIRs against Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod K Jose, apart from Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, charging them with sedition, promoting enmity, communal disharmony and insulting religious beliefs, on the basis of tweets they posted on social media regarding the death of a farm protester during the violence on Republic Day. "The FIRs allege that the tweets were intentionally malicious and were the reason for the desecration of the Red Fort. Nothing can be further from truth… That the FIRs have been booked under as many as 10 different provisions including sedition laws, promoting communal disharmony, and insulting religious beliefs, is further disturbing," the EGI said in a statement. Times ViewFiling FIRs with charges of sedition against senior journalists is a crude attempt to muzzle and intimidate the press. It is a blatant and dangerous misuse of power. The judiciary must intervene to ensure that such anti-democratic measures are not encouraged.IWPC also said action against senior journalists like Mrinal Pande was a "deliberate attempt to misrepresent the situation", and to "besmirch" her and the others’ reputations. DUJ president S K Pande and general secretary Sujata Madhok demanded immediate withdrawal of the cases against the journalists and reiterated their demand for a special law to protect mediapersons from arbitrary charges, arrests and prosecution for doing their job. "Ms Pande and the others have duly acknowledged their genuine mistake, taken responsibility for it and deleted their posts… The IWPC believes that the charges against Ms Pande, one of India’s senior-most journalists who has been the editor of several leading news publications in the country, smacks of a deliberate attempt to misrepresent the situation. It is an attempt to browbeat the media and push it to fall in line," an IWPC statement said. The Editors Guild added that such action was intended to prevent media from working as an "independent watchdog of Indian democracy" and reiterated its demand for the higher judiciary to take cognisance of repeated use of sedition charges to impede freedom of speech. They should "issue guidelines to ensure that wanton use of such laws does not serve as a deterrent to a free press," the EGI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/journalists-bodies-say-firs-against-colleagues-effort-to-harass-browbeat-and-stifle-media/articleshow/80595099.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Meerut||Jailed for crime they didn’t commit, Agra couple finally reunited with kids who'd gone 'missing'||Agra: After five years of being in prison on false charges, being released to find their children were missing and finally tracing them after a frantic week-long search, Narendra Singh and Najma were finally reunited with their kids on Thursday.“Our daughter did not recognise us. She refused to accept us as her parents. She didn’t want to come to us. The moment we saw her, we wanted to hug her tight, but she didn’t want to,” Narendra Singh, 40, told TOI. “It was only when our son saw us, came running towards us, that she let her guard down.”Anju was three years old when her parents were taken away on charges of murder on September 2, 2015. She and her brother Ajeet, who was then five, were taken in by their grandfather Bhagwan Das. But in October 2019, Bhagwan could no longer afford to take care of them. They were moved to a child protection home in Agra. What happened after that, Narendra and Najma did not know.After TOI reported their plight, the kids were traced to two different cities last Saturday — Anju had been moved to a girls’ shelter in Kanpur and Ajeet, to a boys’ home in Firozabad. Agra Child Welfare Commission chairperson Gopal Sharma had told TOI that they were both older than 10, an age when kids are moved out of child protection homes, and had to be moved, a claim that has been contested by the couple’s lawyer Vansho Baboo.Then, Ajeet was brought to Kanpur in December after he insisted on being in the same city as his sister. That is where their parents would meet them. But getting to Kanpur was not easy for the former teacher and his wife who used to run a small bangle shop before their arrest.ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand got in touch with a local entrepreneur Atul Tewari, who helped them arrange transportation and a phone. Finally, on Thursday afternoon, the couple got to see their children. “We were elated. Thinking about them is what had helped us make it through these five terrible years in prison,” Narendra said. Later on Thursday, the reunited family came back to Agra.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), meanwhile, took suo motu cognizance of the report and issued notices to the chief secretary and the DGP. “The reports should include the enquiry/action taken, if any, against the police officers and the public servants who were responsible to ensure social security to the innocent children of the victim couple,” it said. “The Commission has observed that the gross negligence committed by a public servant has devastated the entire family. The State authorities including the police and the social welfare authorities of the district Agra have acted in a reckless manner, showing no respect towards the basic human rights.”The family will now move elsewhere. Narendra said, “I am not sure what I will do, but I have to find a way to get my kids back in a regular school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/jailed-for-crime-they-didnt-commit-agra-couple-finally-reunited-with-kids-whod-gone-missing/articleshow/80590614.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Filmmaker’s SUV stolen from hotel||Hyderabad: An SUV belonging to a film producer was stolen in Banjara Hills on Friday. The film producer, who is from Karnataka, was in the city and lodged a complaint at the Banjara Hills police station stating that his SUV, which was parked at a star hotel, was stolen. Banjara Hills police said that the CCTV footages located at the entrance and exit of the hotel lacked clarity. “It is a fact that the car was stolen. The producer’s car driver is in possession of the car key and the duplicate key is with the producer. There were reportedly valuables like gold, cash and documents inside the car,” Banjara Hills detective inspector Mohammed Hafeezuddin told TOI. Police have questioned the car driver. According to police the incident took place on January 26. Police suspect that a person known to the victim might have stolen the vehicle using the duplicate key.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/filmmakers-suv-stolen-from-hotel/articleshow/80591710.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Since launch, 1.6 lakh health workers vaccinated in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Nearly a fortnight after the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in Telangana, about 1.66 lakh personnel in both government and private healthcare facilities have been inoculated. Till Friday, 57% of healthcare workers from government and private hospitals of the State had received the vaccine. Since the launch of the vaccination drive, 1,66,603 healthcare workers from government hospitals have received the Covid vaccine. The total percentage of healthcare workers from government hospitals who received the vaccine is 64% per cent. Dispelling misconceptions associated with the vaccine, director of public health, Dr G Srinivas Rao said, “The vaccine is there to save lives and not to take lives. We need to understand that 90% of the information about the vaccine on social media is false. There are no severe cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) reported so far. The vaccine is being administered only after assessing the health status of the beneficiaries under the supervision of doctors.” Speaking about the vaccine rollout for the general public, he said, “There are several people among the general public who are asking for the vaccine. We are making all the necessary arrangements and everyone who are eligible even among the general public will receive the vaccine in the coming days.” The health department officials also informed that arrangements are being made to mop-up the vaccination drive for the 20% of the government healthcare staff who have missed out during the earlier rounds. After taking the vaccine shot on Friday, Dr P Raghu Ram, director, KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases, “An unprecedented global effort has been invested into controlling the unwelcome visitor in our lives. The vaccine is our only hope against Covid-19 and plays a crucial role in acting as a barrier, breaking the chain of infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/since-launch-1-6-lakh-health-workers-vaccinated-in-state/articleshow/80591729.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tax default: Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation seals 18 properties||AHMEDABAD: To generate additional revenue, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has sealed 18 properties in the South West and North West zones of the city. Offices of reality players and even properties rented out by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation were sealed. AMC officials said three properties were in the Jodhpur ward — one at Mondeal Heights and two at Titanium City Centre. In Vejalpur, four properties sealed. Two were AMC properties rented out in Sankalitnagar and the other two were at Krishna Row Houses in Jivraj Park. The two properties in Sankalitnagar which was rented out by AMC and the dues were Rs 1.13 lakh for one property and Rs 1.10 lakh for the other. Three properties in Maktampura ward were sealed, including two at Signature-II near Sanand Crossroads and one in Bakrol. In the North West Zone, the eight properties that have been sealed included three at President Plaza and two at JB Tower in Thaltej. AMC officials said these 18 properties had not paid taxes ranging between Rs 1.08 lakh and Rs 6.56 lakh. In case of JB Tower, the owner had not paid Rs 6.56 lakh, the highest amount due for the properties sealed on Friday. AMC officials said all the properties were issued final notices before they were sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tax-default-amc-seals-18-properties/articleshow/80591734.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||EFLU: Following all quota norms for recruitment||Hyderabad: Authorities at the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) clarified that they have been following all reservation norms for Other Backward Classes (OBC) for faculty recruitment. The statement from EFLU comes days after a public hearing of the National Commission for Backward Classes following a complaint by the Indian National Congress (INC). INC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju had written to the NCBC complaining that the university was violating reservation norms with regards to OBC candidates. “OBC reservations were introduced in all central universities in 2007. Till date, we have recruited 25 OBC assistant professors and are adhering to all the reservations norms,” said professor T Samson, in-charge registrar, EFLU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eflu-following-all-quota-norms-for-recruitment/articleshow/80591702.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Govt seeks donations, participation of PSUs for Badrinath development||Dehradun: Uttarakhand secretary (tourism) Dilip Jawalkar presented the master plan of Badrinath, all set to be converted into a ‘smart spiritual hill town’, to the representatives of public sector undertakings from across the country in Delhi on Friday. The aim of the meeting was to ensure the participation of the public sector undertakings (PSUs) in the project. The state also sought donations, in the form of land and money, from private individuals. Addressing the representatives of PSUs like HPCL, ONGC, NTPC, PFC, THDC, Coal India, Oil India Limited, NHPC, Indian Oil Corporation and Bharat Petroleum, among others, Jawalkar said that Badrinath temple is one of the four major pilgrimages of the country which is visited by over 10 lakh devotees every year. Due to the increasing number of devotees but limited resources and geographical restrictions, it has become necessary to develop it under a master plan to increase the capacity of this holy abode. “We at UTDB have developed a master plan for the renovation of Badrinath temple, as per the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to the master plan, we will develop the temple complex, roads, ghats, a command control centre, and other such amenities. The government will strictly follow the procurement rules and CSR instructions in construction works,” said Jawalkar. He added, “Most of the construction works are proposed on government land. However, if private land is required, then the interests of local residents will be taken into consideration in the process of land acquisition.” The official further said that ‘Shri Kedarnath’ Charitable Trust’ will act as a nodal institution for the Badrinath Master Plan Scheme but the state government is also inviting private individuals to donate land and money to help with the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-seeks-donations-participation-of-psus-for-badrinath-development/articleshow/80590605.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Ayodhya seers & clerics slam Owaisi||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi’s statement that the Ayodhya mosque on 5-acre land was ‘haraam’ (un-Islamic) has triggered an unprecedented bonding between Hindus and Muslims, who unitedly criticised what they called “polarisation agenda of the Hyderabadi politician”. Cementing communal harmony and holding aloft Ayodhya’s syncretic moorings, clerics and seers called out Owaisi for trying to create rift to serve his politics. Talking to TOI, mahant of Tapaswi Chavni, Paramhans Das, said, “I strongly advocate construction of the mosque in Ayodhya. Offering prayers cannot be illegal anywhere as every part of the world was created for worship of God. Also, the proposed land is not disputed and mandated by the Supreme Court. Owaisi is trying to create confusion with rhetoric and building walls between communities.” Muslim representatives also objected to Owaisi's statement. One of the oldest litigants in the Ayodhya title suit, Iqbal Ansari, said, “Owaisi has no right to call anybody ‘munafiq’ (hypocrite) or ‘zaalim’ (tyrant). He will face tremendous opposition from Muslims when comes to Uttar Pradesh to seek votes. The proposed 5acre land is not in any manner a barter or an exchange. We fought a prolonged legal battle, but lost. The Supreme Court on its own gave the land for building a mosque,” he said. Another prominent Ayodhya cleric, Mukhtar Ahmad, said, “Owaisi is not a mufti (Islamic legal authority). How he can issue a fatwa that the land for the proposed mosque is haraam (un-Islamic). He has no right to term anyone munafiq or zaalim.” In another bold move promote harmony, president of Ashfaqullah Khan Memorial Shaheed Research Foundation, Surya Kant Pandey, has written to temple trust secretary Champat Rai and mosque trust secretary Athar Hussain to install memorials of freedom fighters, Ashfaqullah Khan and Ram Prasad Bismil at Ramjanmabhoomi and Dhannipur mosque site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ayodhya-seers-clerics-slam-owaisi/articleshow/80591706.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 30, 2021||Delhi||North Delhi civic body to install 9 hybrid organic waste converters||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is planning to install hybrid organic waste converters at nine places. Each of them will have the capacity to consume one tonne of municipal segregated waste every day. The civic body has finalised the proposal and aimed at installing them before March 2022.The sites where the waste converters will be installed include two nurseries at Talkatora Stadium, one nursery at INA flyover, Panchkuian Road, BK Dutt Colony, near Rabindra Bhawan and Madhulimay Marg. Taking note of issues raised by residents about foul smell emanating out of its compost plant at Gole Market, NDMC has decided to set up a hybrid system, which will convert wet waste into compost in 3-4 days. In conventional plants, it takes 25-30 days to convert waste into compost. “We have decided to introduce the new technology of drum composting so that foul smell won’t be released. At Gole market Sector-4, we have barricaded the site with fibre sheets, planted many saplings and installed exhaust fans to check the foul smell,” said an NDMC official. Officials claim that, so far, the hybrid technology is adopted only by hotels in Delhi-NCR, and not by civic bodies. “The civil department has sent the proposal for financial and administrative approvals, after which the tender would be called soon. It will be an annuity-based project where the selected company will install machineries and run a plant for seven years, while NDMC will make payment after an interval of time,” said the official. The civic body, which had received the cleanest capital city award in Swachh Survekshan 2020, claims to carry out 100% door-to-door collection and processing of waste. “Currently, we are sending a few tonnes of segregated waste to landfill or waste-to-energy plant at Okhla to produce power. But we aim to end this exercise and make all arrangements to treat waste through our resources, such as developing material recovery centre, organic waste composters, etc,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-to-install-9-hybrid-organic-waste-converters/articleshow/80594418.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||7 Covid patients get liver transplant||Hyderabad: At a time when the fear of contracting Covid-19 has been making patients postpone medical procedures, 30 patients have successfully gone through liver transplant surgeries at a city-based hospital between May and December. Out of the 30 patients, seven were Covid-19 positive, while in two instances, both the donor and the recipient were found positive for coronavirus. According to hospital authorities, 48 patients were in need to undergo liver transplant during and after Covid-19 lockdown. Twenty-three patients of these under regular medical supervision didn’t contract Covid-19 infection and underwent successful liver transplantation, while seven patients with Covid-19 infection successfully underwent liver transplant. “Patients who were found positive were put through prescribed medical care and transplant was done once they turned negative for Covid-19 virus. It is important for people to note that liver transplant can be performed on patients who are cured of Covid-19 virus,” said Dr Raghavendra Babu, clinical head and senior consultant liver transplant surgeon, Gleneagles Global Hospitals, Lakdikapul. The transplant team said, nearly 50% patients in need of liver transplant but did not undergo the procedure — due to the fear of contracting Covid-19 virus — or delayed the procedure on turning Covid-19 positive died in 2020. “When condition of liver worsens, transplant is the only option, and any delay in undergoing transplant could be fatal,” said Dr Chandan Kumar KN, senior consultant hepatologist, Gleneagles Global Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-covid-patients-get-liver-transplant/articleshow/80591758.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||IT security council will be set up in all districts, says DGP||Hyderabad: Director General of Police (DGP) M Mahender Reddy on Friday, at an event to mark the 15th anniversary of Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC), a joint collaboration between Cyberabad police and IT industry to promote safety and security in IT corridor, said that orders were issued to replicate similar councils in all districts in Telangana for the benefit of the industry. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said that SCSC, which was formed in 2006 for IT & ITES companies, is making the council more inclusive by including companies from sectors like pharma, healthcare, hospitality and infrastructure to be part of SCSC in the recent past and it will be strengthened in the next few months. Bharat Biotech joint MD Suchitra Ella lauded the Telangana police for lending support to their Shamirpet plant during lockdown and post-lockdown period. Principal secretary (Industries & Commerce) Jayesh Ranjan said that after the lockdown was imposed and offices switched to work from home, SCSC helped shift the hardware from companies to employees’ residence. “SCSC’s effect is enormous. When we go for any outreach programme or talk to big IT firms, we tell them that SCSC will ensure safety and security of the industry,” Ranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-security-council-will-be-set-up-in-all-districts-says-dgp/articleshow/80591717.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||AIADMK functionary expelled for Sasi poster||Trichy: The ruling AIADMK on Friday expelled Puliyur R Annadurai, a party functionary in Trichy, from its primary membership for acting against its principles. In a joint statement, AIADMK coordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami stated that Annadurai, the party’s district representative of Andhanallur south union in Trichy, has been removed from the primary membership of the party for his action which was contradictory to the goals and principles of the party and for bringing disrepute to the party. They asked the party cadre not to have any truck with Annadurai henceforth. The action comes a couple of days after Annadurai put up posters in Trichy welcoming the release of V K Sasikala from Bengaluru prison after completing her jail term in connection with a disproportionate assets case. The posters put up by Annadurai termed Sasikala as the general secretary of the AIADMK. He also stated that Sasikala had lived a life of penance for 33 years with former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. He was the second party functionary to be ousted putting up posters welcoming Sasikala. On January 27, Subramaniya Raja, who was Tirunelveli district deputy general secretary of the MGR Makkal Mandram, was sacked over the same issue. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-functionary-expelled-for-sasi-poster/articleshow/80593134.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: No respite from cold, says IMD||AHMEDABAD: Gandhinagar on Friday recorded 6.8°C, which was the second lowest in the state after Naliya’s 4.3°C. At least seven cities in the state recorded temperatures below 10°. Minimum temperatures remained lower than average in Ahmedabad and other parts of Gujarat on the third consecutive day with a change in the wind direction and cyclonic circulation over southern Rajasthan and neighbouring areas. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) website, minimum temperature for Ahmedabad on Friday was 11.2°C, 1.7° below normal. Maximum temperature was 26.5°C, 2.7° below normal. “No large change in minimum temperature during the next two days is expected and thereafter a rise by 2-3 degrees celsius during the subsequent 2-3 days is very likely,” the IMD forecast said. Jayanta Sarkar, the regional director of the IMD, said that after January 31, temperatures are likely to rise. “For the next two days, we have given the alert for a cold wave in isolated pockets of Kutch,” he said. IMD officials said that Surat and Dwarka recorded minimum temperature of 13.8°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-respite-from-cold-says-imd/articleshow/80591755.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Maligning farmers may lower armed forces’ morale: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Calling for an immediate end to the “vilification campaign” launched against farmers in the wake of Red Fort incidents, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday warned that maligning the farmers in this manner could cause the morale of the armed forces, 20% of which is from Punjab, to go down. “Spreading false information against the farmers can create divisions, which can cause problems for Punjab,” he warned, urging the media to handle the situation properly and sensitively. Amarinder also condemned violence by “some miscreants” at the Singhu border on Friday and urged the Centre to conduct a thorough probe to identify the “so-called” locals who had purportedly broken through tight security cordons to attack the farmers at the agitation site and their property. “Were they really locals?” asked Amarinder, seeking a proper investigation to identify the troublemakers and ascertain where they came from. “I can’t believe that the local people could have turned against the farmers like this. Miscreants might have been brought from other places by vested interests to foment trouble,” he said, adding that “locals calling the farmers traitors” was not something he could believe to be true. “What is happening and what happened at Singhu is what Pakistan wants,” said Amarinder, pointing out that he had been warning for a long time that Pakistan will try to exploit the unrest over the farm laws to disturb Punjab’s peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/maligning-farmers-may-lower-armed-forces-morale-capt/articleshow/80593133.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Meerut||Hathras gangrape: Local courtadjourns hearing to February 11||Agra: A special SC/ST court in Hathras on Friday adjourned the hearing of gang rape and murder case of the 19-year-old girl for two weeks. The court didn’t deliver any order on the bail plea of one of the accused, Ramu, after hearing the arguments.Talking to TOI, the victim’s lawyer Bhagirath Singh Solanki, said that after hearing the arguments on the bail plea, the court reserved the order and it is likely to be issued on Saturday. The hearing in the main case is scheduled on February 11.The victim’s elder brother also reached the court. Last month, the CBI had filed a chargesheet in the court of special judge (SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act) BD Bharti in Hathras and invoked charges against four accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Lavkush.They have been charged under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 376A (punishment for causing death of resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim) and 376D (gang rape) of the IPC, and under section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of 10 years or more against a person on the grounds that the person belongs to an SC or ST community).The CBI had registered the case on October 11 and started investigating two days later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hathras-gangrape-local-courtadjourns-hearing-to-february-11/articleshow/80590617.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Pvt hosps’ staff in Cantt vaccinated||Secunderabad: Over 150 medical staff working in private hospitals got Covishield vaccine doses in Secunderabad Cantonment. A report submitted to the health department, however, said the vaccination drive elicited a poor response. Two private hospitals at Picket and another three in Trimulgherry and Bowenpally were selected by the health department for giving the jab the medical and paramedical staff. “All the staff who took the vaccine did not complain about side effects,” deputy DMHO HH Rajkumari said.  “Despite motivating the employees on the importance of the vaccine, we saw a poor response,” a medical officer said. Initially, there was a lot of enthusiasm among the staff to take the shot but later many backtracked. “Over 60% of the staff are new mothers and some are in advanced stages of pregnancy,” the official said. The medical department has taken a data of all the staff who have taken the doses and are tracking them on a daily basis, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-hosps-staff-in-cantt-vaccinated/articleshow/80591736.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: For 2BHK allotment, locals to get priority on basis of caste||HYDERABAD: The state government will give priority to locals on the basis of caste composition while shortlisting beneficiaries under the 2BHK housing scheme. Atleast 10% of the houses being built in one constituency or 1,000 houses per constituency would be allotted to locals. In urban areas, including Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, applicants from scheduled caste (SC) will be allocated 17% of the houses, scheduled tribes (ST) will be allocated 6% of the houses, minorities would be allocated 12% of the houses while the remaining will be allocated to others. “The percentages indicated are minimum and can exceed to the extent required if the need arises. On caste equation, we are following G.O.MS.No. 10 dated September 10, 2015 when shortlisting beneficiaries,” said a GHMC official. On Friday, 264 2BHK houses in Sairam Nagar and Gandhinagar in Secunderabad Cantonment were handed over to beneficiaries. Of the total houses, 200 houses located in Gandhinagar were built at a cost of Rs 15.50 crore and the total cost of the 64 houses built in Sairam Nagar is Rs 4.96 crore. In Gandhinagar, 200 2BHK houses are spread across seven blocks, with each block being a G+3 structure. In Sriram Nagar, the 64 houses are spread across four blocks and each block is a three-storeyed building. The houses in Cantonment were inaugurated by home minister Mahmood Ali, animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and labour minister Malla Reddy were also present at the inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/for-2bhk-allotment-locals-to-get-priority-on-basis-of-caste/articleshow/80591714.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Case against Eflu VC dropped||Hyderabad: Two days after a criminal case was registered against E Suresh Kumar, vice-chancellor of English and Foreign Languages University (Eflu), Hyderabad police on Friday gave a clean chit to the VC and said the case was closed. Police said a student filed a false complaint against the VC and withdrew it on Friday. “The complaint made against Kumar and the registrar by students alleging they were not allowed into campus to take part in the Republic Day celebrations was proved to be false,” police said. Three students alleged that they were denied entry to participate in the event. However, Kumar said there was no invite for students for physical participation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-eflu-vc-dropped/articleshow/80591817.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Complain if attacked: Commission tells Christians||Hyderabad: Vice-chairman of National Commission for Minorities (NCM), Atif Rasheed, asked members of the Christian community to complain if they are attacked or if churches are targeted. Interacting with the community leaders on Friday, he said that such safety issues must be taken to the notice of the state government too.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complain-if-attacked-commission-tells-christians/articleshow/80591724.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: BJP MLA Raja Singh gets 1-year jail for assaulting cops||HYDERABAD: Bharatiya Janata Party’s firebrand legislator, T Raja Singh was convicted for assaulting policemen in 2015, and sentenced to a year’s rigorous imprisonment by a special sessions judge for MLA & MP Court on Friday. Singh happens to be the first legislator to be convicted by the special court in Hyderabad’s Nampally area, ever since it was formed late last year. Later in the day, the court granted him bail and he was given time till March 1 to appeal against the lower court verdict in the high court. On December 12, 2015, the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of Osmania University had organized a ‘beef festival’ in the university campus against which the BJP Goshamahal legislator protested, resulting in Mangalhat police taking him into preventive custody and registering a case under section 151 of CrPC. Later, the MLA was shifted to Bollaram police station in Secunderabad. Hearing about his arrest, few BJP activists too reached the Bollaram police station and tried to meet Raja Singh. The sub-inspector of police Mallesh prevented the MLA from meeting the party workers, upon which Raja Singh allegedly assaulted and threatened the SI. The Bollaram police then registered a case under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation). In 2019, a chargesheet was filed by the Hyderabad police and the hearing began later that year. “On that day, my followers were lathicharged by Bollaram police and when I questioned the policemen for their action, a case was registered against me. I will challenge the conviction order in high court,” Raja Singh told media following his conviction. The Special Sessions Judge Ch VRR Varaprasad also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on Singh, while convicting him under sections 353 and 506 of IPC. After the court issued the order, the Bollaram police took him into custody and kept him within the court complex until the court granted him bail. Raja Singh was earlier booked several times for his provocative statements and has taken on the AIMIM in the Old City in his speeches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-mla-raja-singh-gets-1-year-jail/articleshow/80591811.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro services for 2 more hours from Monday||MUMBAI: With suburban train services reopening for the general public from February 1, Metro services will also have extended operational hours from Monday. Services on the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar line will be available from 6.50am instead of the present start time of 7.50am at Versova and 7.15am instead of 8.15am at Ghatkopar. The last service from Versova will now be at 9.50pm, and from Ghatkopar at 10.15pm. At the moment, the last train from Versova is at 8.50pm, and at 9.15 pm from Ghatkopar. The weekday ridership currently stands at 80,000. A Mumbai Metro one official confirmed the updated service schedule. For easy access to and from Metro stations to suburban railway stations, railway foot overbridges (FOBs) at Andheri and Ghatkopar will be opened. Metro will also open a new gate at its Andheri station for commuters who wish to reach Andheri (west) directly. Stations will open 15 minutes before the scheduled departure of the first service. After the pandemic-induced lockdown, the Mumbai Metro One services were opened to all on October 19, 2020, without age or gender restrictions and with strict safety protocols. Before Covid-19, Metro services ran from 5.30am to 11.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/metro-services-for-2-more-hrs-from-monday/articleshow/80607924.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||‘New academic year for ICSE, ISC to remain same’||MUMBAI: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has clarified that while the ICSE and ISC examination schedules are not yet declared, the next academic session would start like every year. According to a circular issued to its schools, the board said that the beginning of the academic year will be from mid-March and the first week of June each year and February for schools in the hills. “Without a doubt, the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will not take place at a regular time in February/March given the current pandemic situation in the country and notwithstanding the upcoming elections in five states as well. The dates for the examinations will be announced later, at the appropriate time. However, the start of the academic year 2021-22 for all will remain the same, as in the previous years,” said the circular. A school principal said, “The teachers might end up having no summer break at all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-academic-yr-for-icse-isc-to-remain-same/articleshow/80593150.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Madurai||Transsexuals train in banana products||Trichy: In order to empower transsexuals to become entrepreneurs, the ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) in Trichy has undertaken an initiative to provide training to them to produce value-added products of banana and creating nursery.The programme titled “Banana based entrepreneurial avenues for economic empowerment of transgender in Trichy district” under the endeavour “Equipping transgender into agri entrepreneur” was held on January 27 and 28. Inaugurating the programme through video conference, deputy director general (DDG), horticultural science, New Delhi, Anand Kumar Singh said ICAR will extend maximum support for marketing under such initiatives. He said that these programmes will motivate transsexuals to take up new small-scale business initiatives for their economic upliftment.Scientists of the institute S Backiyarani, D Ramajayam, P Suresh Kumar and C Karpagam and their teams provided hands-on training to the eight transsexuals including president of SAFE transgender association G Kajol, on the preparation of banana flower pickle, central stem juice, low-fat banana chips, prospects of establishing nursery for ornamental banana and multiplying traditional banana varieties by macro propagation. Banking and funding avenues were also explained to convert the training outcome to sustainable business models.Assistant director general (ADG) B K Pandey said that empowering transsexuals and bringing them into the mainstream by new employment opportunities and self-employment schemes are the ways to ensure income, achieve the real outcome in the current scenario.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/transsexuals-train-in-banana-products/articleshow/80593140.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Auto driver held for girl’s abduction||Hyderabad: Malakpet police solved the girl abduction case within 24 hours and arrested the accused, who is an auto driver from Golnaka. The two-and-a-half year-old girl was returned to her parents. At 3.30 am on Thursday, Malakpet police received a complaint from S Ajay (27), a footpath dweller, stating that their daughter Ammulu went missing from near the footpath near SBI at Moosarambagh. On Wednesday night, he along with his wife Laxmi, their daughter and their friend Raju were sleeping on the footpath. At 1.30 am on Thursday, Raju woke up Ajay and informed that Ammulu was missing. “Through CCTV footage and other evidence gathered, the accused, K Sravan Kumar, was identified,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said. Sravan decided to sell the girl to a childless couple. The girl was rescued from Sravan’s house in Golnaka on Thursday night. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-held-for-girls-abduction/articleshow/80591719.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyberabad traffic police gets tough on drunk drivers||HYDERABAD: The Cyberabad traffic police have begun mentioning the history of people who are caught drunk driving more than once in charge-sheets presented before court. This step to curb drunk driving has put four out of nine habitual offenders behind bars in the last month. Jail time apart, their driving licenses have been cancelled and a penalty of up to Rs 15,000 has been imposed on them depending on the severity of the offence and number of times the person was caught. In one such instance, a youngster was sentenced to 10 days imprisonment as he was caught driving under the influence of alcohol for the third time. He was also slapped with a penalty of Rs 10,000. “Nowadays, the first thing we do before filing a charge-sheet is to check if the person is a repeat offender,” said Shashikanth Reddy, sub-inspector of police. Citing an example, he said recently, we found that a driver who was caught driving under the influence of alcohol in 2018 was caught for the second time recently. “This time, the court not just sentenced him to jail, but also passed orders to permanently cancel his driving licence. He didn’t just lose his license but also lost his livelihood because of this mistake,” he said. Following the court orders, the Cyberabad traffic police sent driving licences of 2,387 persons in 2020 to the RTO officials for cancellation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-get-tough-on-drunk-drivers/articleshow/80591788.cms||Moulika.KV
January 30, 2021||Delhi||At Tikri Border, farmers run into new wall||NEW DELHI: A group of people claiming to be local residents gathered at the barricades near Tikri border on Friday and demanded that the protesting farmers vacate the road they had made their own for two months. The locals claimed to be angry with the farmers for dishonouring the national flag at Red Fort on January 26 and no longer wished to support their agitation. “We gave them water, showered them with petals and welcomed them, but after what they did on Republic Day, we don’t support them anymore. Our shops have been shut since the protest began, and we are facing losses. So, they must now vacate the road and return life to normalcy,” said Dharambir, who also threatened to have the protest site forcibly cleared if the farmers did not wind up their sit-in in two days. The group later wanted to hand over a memorandum to the farm leaders on the protest dais. This led to a minor face-off between the two parties, but the police pushed the residents back after which the protesting farmers blocked the entry to the protest site. Delhi Police has installed barricades and stationed trolleys and trucks on the road to prevent the protesters from proceeding towards Delhi. The Tikri demonstration by the local residents follows a similar act by another group of people at Singhu border on Thursday. The Tikri residents held up placards and used a loudspeaker for sloganeering. They asked the cops to let them march ahead so that they could get the roads vacated. Praveen Kumar, a resident of Tikri village, alleged, “These people are not farmers because a farmer would not indulge in such violence on Republic Day. The protesters disrespected the flag and we can’t let them sit here anymore. We treated them well so long as they were behaving well. Now we won’t tolerate them. Do they know that policemen they brutally attacked during the violence are also sons of farmers?” The hundred or so people, which included some women, requested the police officers present at Tikri to allow them to present a memorandum to the farmers. Police asked them to go to the protest site for the act. A brief face-off ensued, but the cops pushed back the locals and asked them to disperse. One or two aggrieved men also tried throwing stones, but their efforts were rebuffed. Following the fracas, the farmers placed boulders and wires to block the entry to the protest site. Baldev Singh Sandoha, 67, district president of Bhartiya Kisan Union in Sidhupura, said, “We have been protesting and we shall continue to protest until the black farm laws are repealed. These are people sent by the central government to ruin our agitation, but we won’t let that happen. We don’t want to argue with them, only to continue with our agitation. The Centre can try to build up the pressure on us, but we will persevere.” Meanwhile police deployment has increased in the area and more roadblocks have been put up to stop the farmers from moving to the Delhi side. Besides these, several trolleys and other impediments have been placed on the road in a zigzag arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-tikri-farmers-run-into-new-wall/articleshow/80594424.cms||Sakshi Chand
January 30, 2021||Trichy||Two child marriages held, one thwarted, grooms booked in Trichy||TRICHY: Three child marriages, of which two were already solemnised, were brought to light in the rural parts of Trichy, thanks to the efforts of Sevai Childline. Acting on information through Childline helpline 1098, social workers attached to the Sevai Childline NGO visited Govindapuram village near Thuraiyur on Thursday. A staff said that they got information about a 17-year-old girl marriage to a 27-year-old man Gopinath in Thuraiyur on January 27. When the staff visited the area, the family members attempted to keep the matter under wraps. The staff managed to bring out the truth and confirmed that the marriage was solemnised at a temple in the area. The all women police station (AWPS), Musiri also joined the team and caught the man. Police booked a case against Gopinath and a few others from both families under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. Subsequently, he was arrested. In another incident, a 25-year-old man, Swaminathan from Pulivalam area was found to have married a 15 year old girl on January 18. The team visited the area and rescued the girl. The Jeeyapuram all women police police took custody of Swaminathan. Sources said that a case will be booked against him and he will be arrested. The third incident happened in Pachamalai hills in Thuraiyur area where the arrangements for the marriage of a 15-year-old girl with a man took was taking place on Thursday. The team intervened and rescued the girl. All the three girls have been produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) in Trichy on Friday. The committee will decide on their rehabilitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-child-marriages-held-one-thwarted-grooms-booked/articleshow/80593152.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Stop admitting patients, if no NOC: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday directed the authorities to prohibit hospitals from admitting patients, if they fail to install firefighting equipment and obtain fire NOC by February 19, as directed by the court earlier. The bench headed by Justice J B Pardiwala set a deadline for 151 hospitals, which are yet to obtain fire NOCs, to complete the formalities, and asked the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to issue notices to them to obtain the NOC by February 19. The bench directed the AMC to take appropriate action in accordance with law including prohibiting the management from admitting any patient in the hospital, if they fail to adhere to the deadline. The civic body informed the HC that there were 151 hospitals out of total 2,247 hospitals in AMC limits without NOC. AMC’s advocate expressed hope that these hospitals will complete the formalities, but also expressed concern that firefighting equipment are not available in the market. This happened after petitioner-advocate Amit Panchal, who filed the PIL seeking action in the Shrey Hospital fire incident, complained before the court that there were hospitals which still did not have fire NOC, and they be penalized for non-compliance of court order. He cited a news report published in TOI in this regard. The HC had on December 15, 2020, issued various directions for compliance of fire safety norms. The AMC came up with a public notice on December 21, 2020, asking hospitals to obtain fire NOCs by installing fire safety equipment within 15 days. Asking the AMC to become strict on defaulters, the judges commented, “We will not be pardoned, if there is fire again in a hospital.” The court also directed the government to file reports on compliance of the slew of directions issued earlier by February 24, and posted further hearing two days thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stop-admitting-patients-if-no-noc-hc/articleshow/80591822.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Replace old pipelines to do something concrete, says citizen||PUNE: Sixty-three-year-old Maya Gore, one of the oldest residents of Anand Park, said if the corporation really wanted to do something for this area, then it should replace the water pipelines. “We do not need wide roads, we need better water supply. The water pipelines in the area have become old in the past 50 years. So, we do not get water with enough pressure,” she said. Gore moved in to Anand Park in 1970. She was a Standard VI student then. She has seen the colony blossom from a scratch. “We have planted and nurtured these trees along the lanes, and it will be really sad if they are axed for road-widening,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/replace-old-pipelines-to-do-something-concrete-citizen/articleshow/80591891.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||CM stresses for piped water for all by 2023||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has said that time-bound efforts should be made to provide pure and adequate drinking water to all the people of the state. Reviewing the works of the Public Health Engineering Department (PHE) in Mantralaya, Chouhan directed to ensure availability of drinking water in 100% rural households by the year 2023. Maintenance work of drinking water schemes should be done smoothly, he added. Chouhan said that efforts should be made to make departmental structure more efficient. It was informed at the meeting that connections have been given in 11.63 lakh houses in the state, till December in the year 2020-21. Efforts are being made to ensure availability of drinking water in all the rural households of the state by the year 2023. The target is to ensure tap water supply in 14.71 lakh households by the end of this financial year. Efforts are being made to ensure this facility to about 1.25 crore rural families in the next three years. By January 2021, the arrangement has been ensured to supply drinking water to 31.61 lakh houses. As many as 50,000 people will be trained in the next 3 years for repair of taps, electricity lines. In this financial year, 1219 mechanics have undergone human resource training in the state. They will also be trained through the National Skill Development Centre. Chouhan said that arrangements should be made to provide pure drinking water to every family under the "Jalkranti" scheme in cities too. He directed that work should be undertaken to provide drinking water to 100 per cent population in any one district as a model. This model should be expanded to other districts, later. Complaints of dysfunctional hand pumps in rural areas should be resolved immediately. The chief minister said that the activities of PHE department and "Jaljeevan Mission" are commendable. Information regarding these works should reach the general public. Additional chief secretary, PHE, Malay Srivastava, gave a presentation in the meeting. minister of state for PHE, Brijendra Singh Yadav, chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains were also present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-stresses-for-piped-water-for-all-by-2023/articleshow/80591903.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP gen secy: CM insulting his Army background||Chandigarh: BJP on Friday accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh of “insulting his Army background and the grace of the Republic Day by supporting those who insulted the national flag at the Red Fort in Delhi”. BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh attacked Capt Amarinder for finding fault with the Delhi Police in handling the situation. He said more than 450 police personnel sustained injuries while exercising restraint in controlling the violent group of protesters in Delhi on the Republic Day. “A chief minister who failed to control law and order in his state looks ridiculous sermonising police of other state,” said Chugh. The BJP leader also accused the CM of inciting violent elements in Punjab and creating a situation of terror in the state. Chugh also cautioned Capt Amarinder against “indulging in cheap political gimmicks at a point when his government was reeking with corruption”. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-gen-secy-cm-insulting-his-army-background/articleshow/80593154.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||74-yr-old robbed in New Malakpet||Hyderabad: A robber entered the house of a 74-year-old woman at Andhra Bank Colony in New Malakpet on Friday. After threatening her with a knife, he escaped with 13-tola gold jewellery. The victim, G Padmavathi, was alone at home during the incident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/74-yr-old-robbed-in-new-malakpet/articleshow/80591839.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||CM felicitates hosps for treating people under Atal Ayushman scheme||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday felicitated hospitals in the state providing treatment under the Atal Ayushman scheme, which completed two years in December last year and offers Rs 5 lakh health insurance to each family of the state. Swami Ram Himalayan Hospital received gold certificate, Krishna Medical Center Dehradun, Chamunda Hospital and Laparoscopic Center Kashipur received the silver certificate and The Hans Foundation General Hospital Satpuli the bronze certificate. The CM also presented citations to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh and 13 different district and community centers of the state as well as five other private hospitals, including Shri Manhat Indresh Hospital of Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-felicitates-hosps-for-treating-people-under-atal-ayushman-scheme/articleshow/80590647.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||6k health workers vaccinated, 78 new Covid-19 cases surface||Dehradun: More than 6,300 healthcare workers were vaccinated for Covid-19 in 109 vaccinations sessions held across Uttarakhand on Friday. A total of 25,818 healthcare have been inoculated in Uttarakhand in the past 15 days. According to the data provided by the health department, the maximum of 1,426 healthcare workers were vaccinated in Dehradun, followed by 842 in Nainital, 631 in Haridwar, and 566 in Udham Singh Nagar. “As many as 632 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in Tehri which is the highest for any hill districts. We have collectively inoculated 25,818 people in 408 cumulative sessions,” said Dr Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission (NHM). Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand reached 95,986 with 78 new infections recorded in the state on Friday. Also, the recovery rate in Uttarakhand reached 95.5% with 91,713 people, including 116 on Friday, recovering from Covid-19 so far. “Five districts didn't report any new Covid-19 cases in the state. Besides, containment zone regulations are no where in place in the state,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/6k-health-workers-vaccinated-78-new-covid-19-cases-surface/articleshow/80590618.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Jan 26 incident was unfortunate: Akal Takht jathedar||Amritsar: Denouncing the happenings at Red Fort on January 26, Akal Takht officiating jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday asked the government and protesting groups to keep channels of dialogue open and advised the latter to maintain decorum and discipline during the agitation. Talking to TOI, Harpreet said what happened on January 26 was unfortunate and should not have happened . “Whether police cane-charged farmers or farmers attacked police is violence, which can’t be justified by anyone,” he said. The jathedar observed that the duty to maintain discipline and decorum of the movement wrested on shoulders of farm leaders. “If they take credit for the desirable outcome of the struggle, they should take responsibility if something unpleasant happens,” he said. Stating that it had been long since the farmers of India had been agitating for the repeal of the three contentious farm laws, he said the issue would be resolved only through a process of dialogue and both sides shouldn’t close the doors for conversation. He said an amicable solution could be reached only by sitting across the table, following which farmers who were sitting on the borders of Delhi could go back home. He said both the government and protesting bodies should move a step backward, leave obstinancy and find a solution to the issue in a peaceful manner. “It will be wise for the government to move a step back, and so do we,” he said. Harpreet also advised farm leaders to not issue provocative statements or pass remarks against each other . Talking about hoisting of Khalsa flag on the ramparts of Red Fort by a youth, he said there wasn’t any need to make many hue and cry over the hoisting of a religious flag on an bare pole near Red Fort. “When Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee celebrates Vijay Diwas every year, Khalsa flags are hoisted on the walls of Red Fort. Recently, Sikh Regiment hoisted Khalsa flag at Galwan Valley, two Khalsa flags were hoisted on a tabelue dedicated to Guru Teg Bahadur during this January 26 parade,” he said, while giving examples of hoisting of Khalsa flag. However, he clarified that the Khalsa flag or other Khalsa symbols shouldn’t be defamed by calling them symbols of Khalistan. He said hoisting a Khalsa flag was not a crime. He pointed out that the actual perpetrators of a crime often escape and innocent fell prey to police. “Something similar happened on January 26,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jan-26-incident-was-unfortunate-akal-takht-jathedar/articleshow/80591884.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 30, 2021||Trichy||41 candidates get offer letters in job fair for disabled people||Trichy: In an exclusive job fair organised for persons with disabilities (PwD) in Trichy on Friday, 41 candidates with disabilities received offer letters from employers belonging to various sectors. Candidates with a locomotive disorder and hearing disability had received the offers for compatible jobs only after undergoing various levels of the screening process.The job fair was organised jointly by an NGO ‘We are your voice’, the district differently-abled welfare department and Trichy district employment exchange department at the employment office on Bharathidasan Road. Around 201 candidates from various parts of the district including the villages near Thuraiyur, Manapparai and Manachanallur had attended the fair. Based on the screening procedure, 41 candidates mostly with locomotive disability were awarded jobs. Companies from various sectors including ITeS, digital media, logistics and food and beverage interviewed and employed the candidates. “Salary for the selected candidates varied from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 per month. Besides the desk job, a few employers selected PwD candidates for sales and marketing stream that involves frequent travelling,” S Magdoom Mohideen, district project officer of the NGO said.Students from the history department of Bishop Heber College volunteered to assist the candidates. District collector S Sivarasu handed over the offer letters to the candidates selected in the drive. Employers, who took part in the job fair to find employees, were appreciated by the district collector for giving equal opportunities to the candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/41-candidates-get-offer-letters-in-job-fair-for-disabled-people/articleshow/80593160.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Stir cannot be suppressed, says Cheema||Chandigarh: Accusing the Centre of stopping the supply of electricity and water at the farmers’ agitation sites and using the police to end the movement, leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday said the Centre was trying to crush farmers protest, but farmers were not going to kneel before the government’s repression. Cheema said the BJP was sending its people to protest against farmers and was trying to intimidate them. “It was very unfortunate that now the Modi government is stopping water supply to farmers, who feed the entire country,” said Cheema. The AAP leader said it was sad that when AAP leaders reached the Singhu border with water tankers, the Delhi police stopped them. He said during the Parliament session, AAP MPs Bhagwant Mann and Sanjay Singh were not allowed inside Parliament because last time they raised slogans in support of the farmers in front of PM Modi in the Central Hall of Parliament. “With this fear, the Modi government today violated the dignity of democracy and prevented elected MPs of AAP from entering Parliament,” said Cheema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stir-cannot-be-suppressed-says-cheema/articleshow/80593158.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Man held with stolen phones||Hyderabad: Jeedimetla Police arrested Shaik Mahaboob on Friday trying to sell stolen cell phones. Cops seized six cell phones from him and 15 phones from his house. Another 14 cell phones were recovered from a buyer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-with-stolen-phones/articleshow/80591862.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: In next academic year, ‘credit bank’ to give students greater flexibility||HYDERABAD: With the start of the next academic year, students will have the flexibility to complete their degree at their own pace by saving and transferring credits in higher educational institutions (HEIs). The Academic Bank of Credit (ABC) proposed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) will let students store credits and carry them forward in colleges and universities. The UGC recently released the draft regulations for establishment and operation of ABC scheme in HEIs as part of the National Education Policy (NEP). The ABC will function like a commercial bank where students can accumulate, transfer, redeem their credits. For example, if a degree student pursues two semesters of a course and then drops out or takes a break for some industry exposure, he or she can store the credits earned during those two semesters in ABC and continue the course at his or her convenience by transferring or redeeming them at a later stage. Universities such as Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTUH), University of Hyderabad (UoH) and Osmania University are already deliberating modalities in which these regulations can be implemented. “We have decided to roll out this in a phased manner. We will have to make a roadmap for the next few years. Credits for each discipline are different and hence we need to chalk out a detailed plan on how it will be implemented. Eventually the idea is to offer greater flexibility to students,” said Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH. The UoH has constituted an internal committee to discuss the modalities. “The vice-chancellor has constituted a group to study the policy and look at implications for the university. The committee will examine the policy and identify where we stand and what measures we need to take to operationalise this,” said Vinod Pavarala, adding all such decisions will be approved by academic council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-next-academic-year-credit-bank-to-give-students-greater-flexibility/articleshow/80591876.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: RTC bus runs over 2 siblings, injures a third||VIJAYAWADA: In a freak accident, two siblings died on the spot while another seven-year-old is battling for his life at Mopidevi village under Avanigadda police station limits on Friday. The deceased were identified as Turaka Nagalakshmi (16) and her brother Yeswant (12). According to Avanigadda circle inspector, the incident happened at around 5.30 pm when Nagalakshmi secretly took out her father’s two-wheeler as he was out of town on business. She then took her younger brother Yeswant and their neighbours’ son for a joy ride on the bike. Cops said that Nagalakshmi tried to overtake an RTC bus but slipped and fell, resulting in the heavy vehicle running them over. The seven-year-old son of the siblings’ neighbours who was also on the bike, fell, suffering a severe head injury. Eyewitnesses said Nagalakshmi was driving rashly and tried to overtake the bus from the left. Locals rushed the seven-year-old to a local government hospital for treatment while the bodies of the siblings were moved for postmortem and later handed over their family. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-bus-runs-over-2-siblings-injures-a-third/articleshow/80590665.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Seeking funds for Ram a business for BJP: Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant||MUMBAI: Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Friday alleged that seeking funds in the name of Ram had become a business for the BJP. “We are appealing to the people to ensure that funds donated for the construction of the Ram temple are utilised exclusively for the purpose for which the donation has been made. The state government must ensure that the people of the state are not scammed,” Sawant said. He said BJP and RSS activists had launched a door-to-door fund collection drive for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. He said there was a strong possibility that the BJP and RSS would “loot” the money for political gains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/seeking-funds-for-ram-a-biz-for-bjp-cong/articleshow/80593166.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Salary dues: JNTUH pulls up colleges||Hyderabad: After receiving several complaints, JNTUH has warned college managements against non-payment or part payment of salaries to faculty and non-teaching staff. The varsity asked colleges to pay full salaries on time and added that action would be initiated against the erring colleges. “All managements/principals of affiliated colleges are informed to ensure that full salaries be paid punctually to all faculty or staff members and leave no scope for any complaints in this regard, failing which the university will view it seriously,” read a circular released by the registrar of the varsity, M Manzoor Hussain. Faculty working in technical colleges alleged that institutes are implementing ‘no work, no pay’ policy. They said that most of the faculty are being paid only a portion of their salary since April 2020 and are not sure whether thye will get deferred salaries. “The varsity should ensure that each and every faculty and non-teaching staff are paid,” said A Santosh Kumar, president, Telangana Schools Technical Colleges Employees Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/salary-dues-jntuh-pulls-up-colleges/articleshow/80591911.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||What happened to your promise to farmers: Diggy asks Rajnath||Bhopal: With the ongoing farmers’ stir in Delhi, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday reminded defence minister Rajnath Singh about a speech on farmers he had given in 2013.Singh took to the social media and uploaded a video of Rajnath’s speech in New Delhi to a farmers’ gathering with Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait standing behind him. In that video shot during the UPA regime, Rajnath is heard saying that the country’s biggest strength is the agrarian community and no ruling party should challenge it.“Rajnath Singh-ji, I am again reminding you that you assured Rakesh Tikait about the importance of farmers. I have previously put that video on social media as well,” Digvijaya Singh tweeted. The video was taken a year before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections when the UPA government was led by Dr Manmohan Singh.“If you are not being able to convince Modi-ji, to withdraw the anti-farmer laws (I believe that you must have tried, but Modiji may not have listened to you), then shouldn’t you resign from the cabinet?” Digvijaya Singh asked on Twitter.In the 2013 video, Rajnath Singh is seen telling farmers: “I did not know that there was a protest here. Had I known, there is a protest here then I would be here the day this protest was launched to support it. I don’t see which party and organisation is holding such a protest. What I see is that if it is a farmers’ protest, then the party and organisation is irrelevant,” the senior BJP leader is seen saying in the video.“On the one hand, I am happy to be here to support you. And on the other, I am disturbed that you are having to protest for three days under the open skies,” Rajnath Singh is seen saying. “So many days have passed, Parliament is nearby. The Prime Minister must have been informed of this by the intelligence department. But he did not take the trouble to send someone and ask what is the issue and demand. The Prime Minister should know that the day India’s farmer comes to the street, no power can stop that enthusiasm. Even the very powerful will have to bend before them.”“The majority population in the country is of farmers, the agrarian community is this nation’s public strength and no ruling party should challenge that strength,” the defence minister is seen saying in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/what-happened-to-your-promise-to-farmers-diggy-asks-rajnath/articleshow/80591918.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Sikh-Jat bonding fires up farmers’ movement in Uttarakhand, western UP||Chandigarh: The bonding among Sikh and Jat farmers over their opposition to the three contentious agriculture marketing laws is not restricted to Punjab and Haryana — it is felt in the Terai belt of Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh. As people of the region rally behind Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Rakesh Tikait and other peasant leaders, common concerns of the landowners of Uttarakhand and western UP have galvanized the association of the Sikh and Jat farmers. Punjabis and Sikhs, who have been settled in the Terai belt since the 1950s, are among a visible minority in the farming belt, especially in the districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital in Uttarakhand and Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Pilibhit, Sitapur, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur and Lakhimpur Kheri in UP. While retaining their identity, Sikhs have formed a strong association with the locals and other outside settlers in the region. A young and progressive farmer, Ranjandeep Singh Sandhu of Samaspur Katebad village in Haridwar district of Uttarakhand, says the push to the agitation came from the Sikh farmers in his area and neighbouring districts of western UP. “It’s a do-or-die situation for the farmers, and it is a common thread that binds us all. You can say it is purely a movement for the farmers’ rights and not restricted to a class or religion. I know several youngsters, who have their roots in villages, in Saharanpur and Haridwar districts, who are trying to mobilise people for the protests.” Malkhan Singh, a Jat farmer of Najibabad tehsil of Bijnor district in UP, said there were some mischievous elements who had tried to discredit the farmers’ agitation on January 26. “People realise it was a conspiracy to defame the movement, and now more farmers of all communities are heading to Ghazipur to join the protest there,” he said. Yadvinder Singh Dhillon, a lawyer-cum-farmer from Ahraula village in Rampur district of UP, said Sikh farmers always had a deep bonding with the people of all communities in the region. “As farmer leader V M Singh, a Sikh, decided to leave the protest, it had left the farmers demoralized. However, Tikait has given them hope of sustaining the struggle as his appeal has worked like a shot in the arm for the protesting farmers.” Punjab-born Balli Singh Cheema of Madiya Bakshi village near Bazpur, the “jan kavi” (people’s poet), who gave the clarion call for statehood of Uttarakhand in the late 1990s, said Sikh and Jat farmers always had a common ground to stay together — the agricultural issues. “Earlier, affluent Punjabi farmers were with Tikait. Now, smaller farmers are joining him as he has gained in stature. Their involvement in the farmers’ movement is growing stronger,” said Cheema, whose famous poem, ‘Le mashaale'n chal pade hain log mere gaon ke, ab andhera jeet lenge log mere gaon ke’ became the anthem for people of Kumaon and Garhwal regions, who were fighting for separate statehood from UP. A former teacher of sociology in Chandigarh’s Panjab University, Professor Manjit Singh, whose family had land in Sama Farm near Palia Kalan town in Lakhimpur Kheri district of UP, said Punjabis, Sikhs and Jats had always shared bonhomie in the Terai belt. “We Sikhs have always had a great relationship with other communities in UP. I can say it is purely a farmers’ movement and everyone is bound by a common cause — to save our land and existence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikh-jat-bonding-fires-up-farmers-movement-in-uttarakhand-western-up/articleshow/80591926.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Trichy||Residents fume as telecom firm undertakes digging work||Trichy: The digging up of roads for installation of telecommunication cables by a private firm in Trichy has come in for criticism from residents, who complain that it not only causes inconvenience as the work is being taken up during the evenings, but also damaged roads, drinking water pipelines and stormwater drains.The Trichy Corporation on July 30 last had granted permission to a telecommunication service provider to dig up the roads for installing fibre optic cables. While it is mandatory to put up a notice informing the public about the commencement of work, no such information was provided.The firm was given permission on condition that it adheres to 22 guidelines that include restoring the roads after installing cables. However, residents claim that such conditions were hardly followed. “The road was dug up a few months back by another telecom company but was not restored. Now, workers from a different company have damaged the water pipeline. The corporation is failing to monitor such work,” M Kanagasabai, an advocate from Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street, where work began on Friday, said.Residents blamed the civic body for being irresponsible in ensuring whether the firms are complying with the conditions and urged that the work is inspected frequently. “Cable installation work was supposed to be taken up only in the day time. We will instruct the company to repair the damages caused,” a senior corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-fume-as-telecom-firm-undertakes-digging-work/articleshow/80593162.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Standoff continues between farmers and district admin at Karnal toll plaza||Karnal: Situation was tense at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza on National Highway 44 on Friday as the district administration deployed paramilitary forces to prevent farmers from resuming their protest at the site and restarting their community kitchen. However, farmers in large numbers gathered the toll plaza carrying national flags and accused the Haryana government of not allowing them to serve ‘Guru ka langar’ to the farmers traveling on the highway. The administration got the toll vacated on Wednesday, but the farmers resumed the dharna on Thursday. On Friday morning, the district administration deployed heavy police force and two companies of SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal) at the toll plaza before reaching the farmers at dharna site. Hundreds of farmers reached near the site around 12pm and were adamant on resuming their peaceful protest and raised slogans against the BJP government. Thereafter, a meeting was held between Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia and the protesting farmers. The administration provided them a temporary site for dharna around 100 metres from the toll plaza. Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, who led the farmers’ protest at Bastara toll plaza, alleged that the BJP government wanted to suppress the farmers’ voice. He said that the administration had provided them a temporary site for dharna, but from Saturday they would restart their peaceful dharna at the site where they had been protesting earlier. “We have deployed police force along with two companies of SSB at toll plaza as a precautionary measure. Efforts are being made to convince the farmers to not hold the protest until the situation turns normal. The farmers’ protest may create tension in the district as a group of locals are against the protest,” said DC Yadav and added that the Karnal administration had requested local gurdwara committee members to suspend the langar service on the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/standoff-continues-between-farmers-and-district-admin-at-karnal-toll-plaza/articleshow/80593141.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||Adhere to timeline of irrigation projects: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed officials of the water resources department to ensure that all ongoing irrigation projects are completed as per schedule. The chief minister wanted the officials to set the timeline for each stage of each project work. The chief minister held a review meeting with officials at his Tadepalli camp office on Friday. Minister for water resources P Anil Kumar, irrigation secretary J Shyamala Rao and engineer-in-chief Narayana Reddy and other officials were present at the meeting. The chief minister told officials to first complete priority projects of Polavaram, Nellore Barrage, Sangam Barrage, Veligonda, Vamsadhara and Owk tunnel works as per schedule. Officials told the chief minister that civil works on Nellore barrage were completed and the gates would be fixed by March 31. The project would be ready for inauguration in April, the officials said. Similarly, all civil major works of Sangam barrage were completed and material for gates fabrication was procured. Gates would be fixed by March-end, officials said, adding that this project too could be inaugurated in April. On Owk third tunnel, the officials told the chief minister that loose soil was delaying the works. However, tunnel works would be completed and the project would be ready for inauguration in July, officials informed the chief minister. Head regulator works were completed for the first tunnel in Veligonda project, officials said, while head regulator works in the second tunnel would begin April 1. These works would be completed in three months, officials said and second tunnel works would be completed by August 2021. The chief minister told officials to start rehabilitation and resettlement work for the Nallamala Sagar as the reservoir is ready to store water. He also told them to complete the canal work of the Veligonda project. On Polavaram, the chief minister asked the officials to complete the spillway road works by the second week of February. The officials informed the chief minister that radial gates would be ready by April and the approach channel by May. The chief minister also reviewed irrigation projects in north-coastal AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/adhere-to-timeline-of-irrigation-projects-cm/articleshow/80590683.cms||Gopi Dara
January 30, 2021||Trichy||Trichy: Man gets 10 years jail for sexual assault||ARIYALUR: The Mahila court in Ariyalur on Friday sentenced a 30-year-old man for sexually assaulting a minor girl. Nehru, hailing from Keezha Vattankurichi hamlet, working as a daily wage labourer sexually assaulted a 16-year-old girl by taking her to Tirupur in 2018 with an assurance to marry her. As the girl had shared the incident with her family, the victim’s father lodged a complaint with Ariyalur all women police station. The accused was arrested and remanded under Pocso Act. He was sentenced to undergo 10 years imprisonment and pay a penalty of Rs 20,000. The court also ordered the state government to give the victim a compensation of Rs 7 lakh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-gets-10-yrs-jail-for-sexual-assault/articleshow/80593163.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind defends farm laws, deplores Republic day violence||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday deplored as unfortunate the Republic Day assault on Red Fort even as he rebutted the charge that the contentious three farm laws were foisted on the country without holding consultations. “My government has always respected freedom of expression and holding of peaceful agitations in a democratic set-up. However, the recent act of dishonouring the national flag and showing disrespect to the auspicious occasion of Republic Day are unfortunate,” Kovind said in his address to the joint sitting of Parliament, which was boycotted by the opposition. “While the Constitution gives us the right to freedom of expression, it is also expected that we abide by the laws and rules with equal sincerity,” he added. Defending the three farm laws enacted last year, the President said it was done after extensive consultations and the benefits of these three important farm reforms had started reaching more than 10 crore small farmers instantly. He said that appreciating the advantages that these reforms would bring to small farmers, several political parties too had, from time to time, expressed their support. “After extensive consultations, Parliament approved three important farm reform bills seven months ago. The discussions over these farm reforms in every part of the country for over two decades, and the demand for these reforms at different fora, were also reflected during the deliberations in the House,” the President added. Kovind said the Supreme Court had stayed implementation of these laws and the government respected the apex court’s decision and would abide by it. He said the government was continuously making efforts to dispel the misunderstanding created in the context of these laws. “Rather, through these agricultural reforms, the government has provided new facilities to farmers and has empowered them,” he added. The President cited several measures taken towards empowering farmers and reiterated the government’s commitment towards their welfare. He referred to Rs 100,000 crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, the launch of over 100 Kisan Rails, which have transported over 38,000 tonnes of foodgrains and fruits and vegetables from one region to the other, and the Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund for Rs 15,000 crore for creating basic infrastructure and encouraging investment in the dairy sector. “In order to increase the income of farmers, the government has also launched a campaign to turn the ‘annadata’ into ‘urjadata’. Twenty lakh solar pumps are being provided to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kusum Yojana,” he added. In a reference to the standoff with China, Kovind said India’s armed forces responded with courage to “machinations” to disrupt peace along the Line of Actual Control that disregarded bilateral agreements and foiled all efforts to alter the status quo on the border. He added that the government was “vigilant and fully committed to safeguard the interests of the country”, and additional forces had been deployed at the LAC to protect India’s sovereignty. Kovind also touched upon the government’s efforts to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and the massive vaccination drive. On the state of the economy, he said the country had started emerging from the economic setback suffered due to the pandemic and that this was evident from several indicators. The President also stressed on the need for national unity on which he cited a couplet written by nationalist poet from Assam Ambikagiri Raichaudhuri, which said India’s grandeur was the ultimate truth. “In one single consciousness, one thought, one devotion, one inspiration, let us unite, let us unite,” the couplet said. The President concluded his speech by reciting a patriotic song written by Jyotirindranath Tagore, the elder brother of Rabindranath Tagore: “Chol re chol shobe Bharato shantan, matribhumi kore aohan, birodarpe, paurush garbe, shadh re shadh shobe, deshero kalyan” (Motherland is beckoning all the children of Bharat, to keep moving forward together; to move ahead with self-esteem and confidence of courage and aspire for the welfare of the nation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/president-ram-nath-kovind-defends-farm-laws-deplores-republic-day-violence/articleshow/80595090.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Cops book two people in cheating case||NASHIK: The cybercrime police have booked two unidentified people on the charges of cheating after a 21-year-old man registered a complaint against the duo for duping him of Rs 3.15 lakh. The suspects, whose full names have not been mentioned in the FIR, cheated the complainant between February and August last year. The complainant, a resident of Vrundavan Nagar, Adgaon, said in his complaint, the suspects called him on his phone and said they can get him a job in the merchant navy in Mumbai. They asked him to deposit money as surety in a bank account from time to time between February and August. After getting Rs 3.15 lakh, the duo suddenly stopped further communication with him. When the victim could not reach the duo over the phone, he approached police. The case is being investigated by police inspector Shreepad Paropkari of the cybercrime police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-book-two-people-in-cheating-case/articleshow/80589699.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Trichy||‘Wave flume’ facility set up at NIT-T||Trichy: The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy has launched a state-of-the art “wave flume” facility in the department of civil engineering. The facility, which was setup at a cost of Rs 69 lakh was inaugurated on January 26. It is expected to help in world-leading research and innovation in the field of offshore and coastal engineering. The wave flume lab can simulate regular, random, cnoidal, solitary, and focusing waves. It can unlock a wide range of testing of waves’ impact on built and natural environments. “Under the new facility, we have a hardware to develop all types of waves that are found in the sea and oceans. Even tsunami waves can be generated in the basin. This facilitates study about impact of different types of waves on anything be it a ship, submarine or offshore rig,” said G Swaminathan, head, civil engineering department, NIT Trichy. This will pave way for interdisciplinary research, especially effect of waves can be studied and modelled to prototype, he said. Inaugurating the facility, director of NIT Trichy, Mini Shaji Thomas said it would provide opportunities to develop innovative and unique engineering solutions to grow the blue economy. Apart from research scholars, all undergraduate and postgraduate students could also access the testing facility in the institution, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/wave-flume-facility-set-up-at-nit-t/articleshow/80593174.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Rajkot||Naydu gang targeting angadia, banks fall in cop net||Rajkot: Sleuths of Rajkot rural local crime branch (LCB) on Friday caught four members including a minor boy of the notorious Naydu gang from Rajkot city. The accused have been involved in various thefts of cash and valuables from customers of Angadias and banks across the country. Police have arrested Balu alias Sunil Krishna Ayyar (28), Harish alias Arish Naydu (28), Gopi Laxman Naydu and detained the 17-year-old boy, all native of Karnataka state. Police reached the gang, while investigating a case of theft of Rs 5.5 lakh cash from a car near Padvala village on the outskirts of Rajkot city on October 29 last year. Police said that the accused confessed 11 crimes that they have committed in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Gujarat in the past one year. According to the police, businessman Rakesh Kamani had gone to V P Angadia firm in Shapar to collect a parcel containing cash amount of Rs 5.5 lakh. He put the parcel in his car and while going towards Padvala village, stopped for some work at a nearby office. He parked his car on the roadside and after returning found the glass of his car broken and the cash parcel missing. He lodged a complaint with the police. “While investigating this case, we analysed CCTV footage from Angadia firm and found one yellow colour bike there. We found that the bike was sold through a website but its owner's name was not transferred. This led us to the accused,” police officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/naydu-gang-targeting-angadia-banks-fall-in-cop-net/articleshow/80591011.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Stop registration of Bhoodan plots: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday directed the state of Telangana and its registration officials not to allow registrations on plots belonging to Bhoodan Board at Vattinagulapalli in Gandipet mandal of Rangareddy district till further orders. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a public interest petition filed by former OU professor K Purushottam Reddy seeking directions from the court to the state and its authorities to ensure that the land of the board does not slip into the wrong hands. His counsel Chinnolla Naresh Reddy complained that the officials of Bhoodan Board, the revenue department and registration department connived and were allowing registrations even on Bhoodan plots. The bench ordered notices to the revenue and registration departments and the Bhoodan Board officials and sought their replies within four weeks. The petitioner in his plea said that Rajannagari Malla Reddy and eight other owners of 29 acres of land in survey numbers 186 to 189 in Vattinagulapalli had donated their land to the cause of the Bhoodan movement led by Acharya Vinoba Bhave. The land was given to AP Bhoodan Yagna Board during November 1955. “Though the state made a special Act later to govern all such donated plots, its authorities were never serious to protect them. They do not give it to the right causes or eligible people. They only allow it to slip into the wrong hands,” the petitioner said. Upon a query by the bench, the counsel for Bhoodan Board sought time to brief the status of the land to the court. The petitioner expressed an apprehension whether authorities were hand in glove with land grabbers. “Though the state has put the Bhoodan plots under the prohibited category, they are getting transferred into the hands of third parties in a surreptitious manner,” he said. State revenue counsel Bhaskar Reddy said that the Bhoodan plots were put under section 22-A prohibited list. “The plots were donated to the board. But such donations did not make their way into revenue records. The entries were not made in some cases,” the state counsel said. “Some private vested interests are taking advantage of this situation,” he said. The petitioner told the bench that some private parties are in possession of certain Bhoodan plots in Vattinagulapalli. Though this area falls under GO 111 area where huge structures and industrial activity is barred, they are being allowed even now, the petitioner’s counsel said. The bench sought to know from the Bhoodan Board its response to the contentions raised in the plea within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-registration-of-bhoodan-plots-hc/articleshow/80591943.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Commuters from far-off suburbs say non-peak hour travel won’t ease woes||MUMBAI: The struggle with transportation will continue for private sector office-goers from far-off suburbs as they won’t be allowed to board local trains during peak hours. Over 50% of the total commuters on both Western and Central railways use trains during morning and evening peak hours. In the absence of trains for non-essential staffers, commuters have been dependent on buses. With trains resuming services with restrictions, both BEST and TMT have begun reducing long-distance journeys, adding to the woes of commuters.  Residents of Vasai-Virar, Kalyan-Dombivli and Kasara-Karjat depend on state and private buses, taxis and autorickshaws to reach their offices. They spend hours on road commute. Dombivli’s Kaptan Mali said, “With the new timings, I will have to get to my Bandra office post-lunch and leave late at night.” Though his commute by bus takes him several hours, for now, he will stick to the road.  Between 7am and 12pm, 17 lakh commuters use Central Railway and 16 lakh the Western line. In the evening peak hours from 4pm to 8pm, both lines transport 18 lakh commuters each. A Virar resident, who in September was among those who had protested for trains, said it was time services were normalised. “I have been leaving home at 6am since July when my office reopened. If trains are back to pre-lockdown days, I need not leave before 8 am,” she said. Shyam Ubale, general secretary, Kasara-Karjat Passengers’ Association, said, “The government should have appealed to private offices to adjust work timings based on the availability of locals.” Meanwhile, several commuters with valid passes have been travelling during peak hours without being stopped by railway staff or police. “I have been taking locals since October. I bought my pass using my work identity card and have been commuting till Andheri daily,” said one. Allowing a specific category of people to travel has given rise to fake identity cards of essential jobs. In Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander, police have cracked down on such rackets.  BEST officials are now focusing on feeder routes. An official said they expect more ridership and revenue on feeder routes outside railway stations from Monday. BEST ridership has touched 25 lakh, though it is still behind its daily commuter strength of 35 lakh a year ago.  TMT is likely to curtail services on its special route connecting Diva with Thane and Mumbai. “Buses should continue to ply till trains are back to pre-Covid times,” said Sachin Desai from Diva. A few like Dinesh Mirchandani are glad trains have resumed for all. A mobile repair shop owner from Ulhasnagar, Mirchandani spends Rs 2,000 every week to hire a car to take him to Manish Market for purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/commuters-from-far-off-suburbs-say-non-peak-hr-travel-wont-ease-woes/articleshow/80589560.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Amritsar||Threatened for speaking against Deep Sidhu, says actor Sonia Mann||BATHINDA: Actor Sonia Mann, who claims to have been camping at Tikri border in support of farmers protest, has alleged that she has got a threat call for speaking against Deep Sidhu after the happenings at Red Fort on Republic Day. Sonia (30) on Friday alleged that she got a call from a private number in which the person on the other side asked her not to speak against Deep or she would face dire consequences. Sonia said she was yet to file a police complaint and that officials should take note of her claims. “The happenings on Republic Day has defamed them (farmers). The Tricolor, which we had got after making many sacrifices by the likes of Bhagat Singh, Udham Singh, should be respected. Though we did nothing to lower the prestige of Tricolor, we were branded as anti-national only due to handiwork of some persons, including Deep Sidhu,” she said. Sonia’s father, Baldev Mann, was gunned down in Amritsar on September 26, 1990, when she was only 16 days old. Mann’s father was a left-wing activist and writer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/actor-alleges-threat-call-for-speaking-against-deep-sidhu/articleshow/80591942.cms||Neel Kamal
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Allocate more funds for health in BMC budget: Opposition leaders||MUMBAI: Opposition group leaders in the BMC met the civic commissioner on Thursday demanding that more funds be allocated in the upcoming budget to strengthen local level health infrastructure, which has played and continues to play a crucial role in the pandemic. BMC will present its budget on February 3. BMC had set aside Rs 5 crore for Covid-19 in the previous 2020-21 budget, at the start of the pandemic. It, though, ended up spending over Rs 2,000 crore on Covid management and treatment. BMC had diverted budget allocation of other departments for the purpose. Due to the pandemic, BMC is struggling to achieve its earnings target for the current financial year. Earlier, BJP had said BMC’s earnings would be around Rs 10,000 crore lower due to the pandemic. Despite that, the civic body gave a concession on building construction premium and various fees, which has hurt its financial condition. On Wednesday, Congress’s opposition leader in BMC Ravi Raja, Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh and NCP group leader in BMC Rakhi Jadhav met the civic chief to raise their concerns. Jadhav said, “There is a need to put more emphasis on improving health infrastructure, as it has been seen during the pandemic. That apart, I requested that a mechanism be put in place to improve education standards for poor children enrolled in civic schools, instead of just creating the infrastructure.” Shaikh requested improvement of health infrastructure at local civic dispensaries to provide quality treatment to the poor at their nearest locations. He said poor diabetic patients suffer more due to unavailability of treatment facilities near their locality and BMC should make required arrangements at all civic dispensaries for such patients. There are 212 BMC dispensaries across the city and they have played a crucial role during the pandemic. Raja said, “This year, the budget should entirely focus on health. We requested increasing civic dispensaries and hiring more doctors and health staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/allocate-more-funds-for-health-in-bmc-budget-oppn-leaders/articleshow/80590056.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Companies cautious, look at gradual reopening of offices||MUMBAI: Even as the state has allowed all to commute by local trains during specified hours, India Inc is approaching the idea of facilitating more people back to office with cautiousness. RPG Group’s chief talent officer Supratik Bhattacharya said, “We continue to leave this choice to our employees, who may come to our offices on a voluntary basis, and not exceeding twice a week. At this time we do not think that it is either right or necessary to call in our people to our offices.” CRISIL said the decision to open offices is based on a comprehensive framework that includes central and state government advisories, availability of healthcare infrastructure, medication and vaccination, access to safe public transportation, opening up of other public amenities and schools, and employee sentiment. “We may commence with limited numbers over the next six to eight weeks. To begin with, it’ll be for critical roles and client-facing roles, and during the initial phase, may be limited to those who commute by their personal vehicles,” said Anupam Kaura, president, HR, CRISIL. Motilal Oswal Financial Services executive director & HR head Sudhir Dhar said the firm will increase the number of employees coming to office with due precautions. The firm is ready to allow flexible office timing to some who wish to take local trains. At most large corporates, a majority of employees continue to work from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/companies-cautious-look-at-gradual-reopening-of-offices/articleshow/80589493.cms||Namrata Singh
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Three Navi Mumbai residents held with cache of drugs||MUMBAI: The Narcotics control bureau (NCB) arrested three Navi Mumbai residents, including a software engineer working with a multi-national company, and seized 336 blots of LSD, 430 gm of ganja and 6gm of cocaine. LSD is a hallucinogenic drug. The accused would place an order for the drugs through the dark net. A team led by Mumbai NCB zonal director, Sameer Wankhede, had got information about the drugs. NCB officials stumbled upon the role of three — all Nerul residents. On Wednesday, NCB team intercepted a car and recovered 10 gm ganja and 121 blots of LSD (2.3 gm), which is commercial quantity, and caught two — Arbaaz Shaikh (25), a software engineer, and Vineet Chandran, a drug consumer. On Thursday, officials seized 420 grams ganja, six grams Cocaine and 215 LSD blots from possession of Suraj Singh. He was also arrested. The accused have been active for and running their network in areas around Nerul, Navi Mumbai since a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/software-engineer-among-3-held-with-cache-of-drugs/articleshow/80515843.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Shops & eateries welcome longer hours, trains for all||Mumbai: Traders’ federations and restaurant owners’ associations on Friday welcomed the state’s decision to extend their closing timings to 11pm and 1am, respectively. Currently, they shut shop two hours early. The simultaneous relaxation of train travel rules will boost business too, they said. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of Retailers Association of India (RAI) said, “This is a win-win (prospect) for consumers, businesses and the government. Longer operation hours will give consumers the flexibility to shop as per their convenience and help adhere to social distancing norms. The government too will benefit from increased tax collection.” Viren Shah, president of the Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association (FRTWA), said, “The increase in shop timings is a welcome move, especially for suburban shops and malls. It is possible to work with 30% employees because business is not plying at full capacity. Plus, staff is being called on alternate days in any case.” Sachin Dhanawade, chief operating officer (retail and real estate) of the firm which operates Growel’s 101 Mall in Kandivli, said, “Overall, footfalls had improved by 70% in December 2020 and now we are hopeful that recovery will be faster.” The Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR), the apex body of the restaurant industry, lauded the decision too. AHAR president Shivanand Shetty said, “Without local train services, our employees have been undergoing untold hardship in commuting while restaurant owners were incurring losses due to the time restrictions. Friday’s measures will enable the industry to regain confidence and help in employment generation. We thank the state government for this.” Before the Covid lockdown, restaurants and bars were allowed to be open till 1.30am. Hoteliers said the additional half an hour can be restored soon, given the industry’s track record in implementing Covid norms. FRTWA’s Shah said, “It will improve business to a certain extent, not fully though. Train timings for general public and shoppers are unviable. But these will help staffers late at night. And customers can take advantage of the 12-4pm time slot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shops-eateries-welcome-longer-hours-trains-for-all/articleshow/80589656.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
January 30, 2021||Surat||Old city residents oppose Surat metro rail||Surat: With the municipal elections around the corner, the residents of the central zone of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) have up their ante against the metro rail project being executed by the Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC). Many of the residents feel that the metro rail project is just an election stunt and the ruling BJP wants to showcase the project as development during the civic body election scheduled in February. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the phase-1 of metro rail project from Kadarshah Ni Naal to the DREAM city in Khajod recently. According to the official estimate, about 900 properties, majority of them residential units, will be razed for the construction of the metro stations—most stations are planned underground, with entrances/exits leading up to ground or street level in Central zone. The Rs 12,000 crore phase-1 of the metro rail network consists of 21.61 km from Sarthana to DREAM City at Khajod and 18.74 km from Bhesan to Saroli. There will be about 32 elevated and six underground metro stations with ramps for exit and entry. Majority of the walled city areas starting from Surat railway station to Kadar Shah ni Naal will be affected due to the metro rail corridor. Jitendra Chauhan, who owns a footwear shop near Maskati Hospital at Tower Road said, “I am the third generation running the footwear shop in this area. Even if I am given an alternate shop, I won’t be able to do business like before. It is like making me unemployed. I won’t give my shop for metro rail project.” Residents alleged that there was a need to improve the public transportation system, but not at the cost of their livelihood. Parth Panchal, a manufacturer of scissors at Bhagal said, “This is the election season and it is obvious that talks of development will take place. We have been doing business for four generations from the same shop. We will not hand over the shop for metro project. We have consulted the advocate and file a case in Gujarat High Court.” With the elections nearing, the opposition Congress too has jumped the bandwagon by extending their support to the residents affected by the metro rail project. Bhupendra Solanki, Congress councillor from ward 12 told TOI, “Development can’t be achieved by making the people unemployed and snatching away their shelters. We are with the people of Central Zone and oppose the metro rail project tooth and nail. It is better that the SMC and the government seriously think of improving the city bus transportation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/old-city-residents-oppose-surat-metro-rail/articleshow/80590753.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Trichy||CM, DyCM condole death of party worker||Trichy: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam expressed their condolences over the death of party worker N Shanmugam, of Umbalapadi village near Papanasam in Thanjavur, who died on the spot during the inauguration of a memorial for former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in Chennai on January 27. The party also announced a solatium of Rs 3 lakh to his family. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-dycm-condole-death-of-party-worker/articleshow/80593168.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||All three Bairagi akharas announce Peshwai date||Haridwar: All three Bairagi akharas of the Vaishnav sect — Nirmohi, Nirvani and Digambar Ani — jointly announced the date of Peshwai (procession by akharas) and installation of their religious flag at Kumbh Mela. The shree mahant of Nirmohi akhara, Rajendra Das, told TOI that sadhus of all three akharas will install their flags on April 2, after offering their worship at the Chandi Devi temple in Haridwar. They will take out their Peshwai on April 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-three-bairagi-akharas-announce-peshwai-date/articleshow/80590666.cms||MS Nawaz
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||Guna to have MP’s tallest statue of Lord Ram in April||BHOPAL: Its statue politics in Madhya Pradesh. After former Congress chief minister Kamal Nath built a 101.8-foot-tall Lord Hanuman statue in Chhindwara in March 2018, a similar task is being taken up by MP minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia in Guna, which was the constituency of in Jyotiraditya Scindia, where a 110-foot-tall statue of Lord Ram will be unveiled this April. Sources said, with this effort, the Congress-turned-BJP leader is looking towards developing the heartland of Scindia family into a saffron citadel. As the country is already witnessing an overwhelming response and enthusiasm for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, the plan to build the tallest statue of Lord Ram in Guna has added flavour of tourism to the city. The 110-foot-tall statue will be tallest in Madhya Pradesh and will be set up near Hanuman Tekri by Shri Ram Tekri Trust. “The tallest statue in MP presently is 108 feet of Ma Kali in Bargi Nagar in Jabalpur. This will be the tallest one. The statue will cost Rs 1.26 crore. The Tekri and surrounding area will be developed as a religious-tourist spot with an expense of an additional Rs 50 crore. The statue is likely to be unveiled in April this year, the entire development may take three years to complete,” said minister Sisodia in Guna on Friday. He further said:“The entire project is being envisaged with the blessings and coordination of Jyotiraditya Scindia and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.” Sources said that Guna being the stronghold of Scindia, the Bamori assembly constituency is considered as one of the safest in the entire district. Since Scindia had lost the previous Lok Sabha elections to BJP’s KP Yadav, he is unlikely to contest from Guna again though, other members from Scindia family may consider to contest from this seat in the coming elections. Sources said that Scindia might launch his son Maha Aryaman from Guna Lok Sabha or assembly seat in order to keep the family stronghold over the seat.  “After joining BJP, Scindia-ji and supporters have extended full support to the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. They are also providing all possible help to this project. Lord Ram is not a political identity but a matter of faith for all of us,” said a senior Scindia loyalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/guna-to-have-mps-tallest-statue-of-lord-ram-in-apr/articleshow/80591939.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Trichy||Plea for TRB hiring to fill teacher posts in colleges||TRICHY: While the state higher education department is considering a special recruitment for the regularization of ad hoc teachers working in government arts college across the state, there now seems to be a call for general recruitment to fill regular teaching post in colleges. A group of teachers under the Tamil Nadu Higher Education Corruption Prevention Committee has urged CM Edappadi K Palaniswami through a letter to stall the process initiated by the state higher education department. They urged the state government to conduct general recruitment through teachers’ recruitment board (TRB) so that staff in colleges also get an equal opportunity to join government colleges. There are close to 3,000 guest lecturers working in over 100 government arts and science colleges. Sources from the directorate of collegiate education say that the state higher education department is planning to induct about 500 through a special recruitment drive. “Last week, the directorate of collegiate education (DCE) Chennai had asked principals of government arts colleges to send details of guest lecturers on consolidated pay with five years of qualified teaching service in their colleges,” said a regional joint director of collegiate education. “Instead of giving special preference for the guest lecturers working in government arts colleges, we demand for a general recruitment through TRB to fill vacant posts government arts colleges,” said coordinator S Tamilarasan. There are another five types of aspirants who are equally under-privileged, inlcuding guest faulty members working in private arts and science colleges, government-aided arts and science colleges, state-run universities and constituent colleges under these universities., he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-for-trb-hiring-to-fill-teacher-posts-in-colleges/articleshow/80593176.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vadodara||Pani puri vendor found murdered in Vadodara's Karjan||VADODARA: A pani puri vendor was found murdered in Gandhara village of Karjan taluka on Friday morning. The cops have registered a case of murder and begun investigations into the case. According to the police, the deceased identified as Gyaan Sindh was a resident of Uttar Pradesh and had settled in Gandhara village. Gyaan used to sell paani puri for a living. The police said that the deceased left his house on Thursday afternoon with his paani puri stall. When Gyaan didn’t return home till late night, his family approached the cops. On Friday morning, his dead body was found on the outskirts of Gandhara village at an isolated spot and his stall too was parked nearby. The deceased had injuries on his head. The police suspects that he may have been killed due to some personal enmity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pani-puri-vendor-found-murdered-in-karjan/articleshow/80589984.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||‘Sadaiv Doon’ portal by Dehradun Smart City Ltd becomes operational||Dehradun: The Dehradun Integrated Command and Control Centre – ‘Sadaiv Doon’ became fully operational on Friday. Under the project, more than 500 cameras have been installed at 200 places in Dehradun city. The command and control centre will also help in traffic and disaster management. The project was inaugurated at ITDA, IT Park, by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. Under the project, data will be collected and generated in real time for providing better security. Besides, other online services like citizen portal, e-government services, smart schools, e-challan services have also been included. Notably, several departments of the state are proposed to be integrated with Integrated Command and Control Centre in the future. Currently, the police department, municipal corporation, ITDA, and the MDDA have been linked to the system. A dedicated help line number — 1800 180 2525 — has also been started for facilitating the public. Apart from this, human resource management system, right to information, meeting management, and 'Doon-1 App' mobile application have been created under the eGovernance programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sadaiv-doon-portal-by-dehradun-smart-city-ltd-becomes-operational/articleshow/80590687.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 30, 2021||Trichy||Eyewitnesses summoned over attack on SC youth||TRICHY: Pudukottai district deputy superintendent of police has summoned eyewitnesses for inquiry in connection with the attack on a youth belonging to scheduled caste community by members of a backward class community in a village. A case was booked against four people under several sections of IPC and SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) amendment act 2015 by Mimisal police for thrashing a youth and urinating on him in an inebriated state. According to the victim’s complaint, he was fishing in the village pond along with relatives when a group of people from an intermediate caste picked up a fight with them. He was taken to an isolated location and thrashed by the perpetrators who also urinated on him before insulting him using his caste name. Investigation officer and Kottaipattinnam deputy superintendent of police A Sivaram said all six eyewitnesses mentioned by the complainant have been summoned for inquiry. “None of the six eye witnesses are available and their phones are also switched off. Summons have been handed over to their family members asking them to send them for inquiry once they return,” said Sivaram. “We can come to a conclusion only after statements of the eyewitnesses are recorded. We need to check if their statements are similar to the claims of the victim,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/eyewitnesses-summoned-over-attack-on-sc-youth/articleshow/80593180.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||No wedding dates till May, say Vedic scholars||VIJAYAWADA: Those planning a wedding may have to wait a few months as Vedic scholars have said that there is no ‘muhurat’ (auspicious time) for wedding till May 14. Magha Maasam, which usually coincides with February, is considered by followers of the Vedic almanac to be the most auspicious month for weddings. But this year, Sukra Moudyami has affected the wedding ‘muhurat’ in the auspicious month, said Vedic scholars. Jampani Sambamurthy Sharma, a Vedic scholar, said, “One month from Sankranti is considered Sunya Maasam, which is not auspicious for starting good work or festivities. Sunya Maasam concludes on February 12, but Sukra Moudyami which starts on February 14 will continue for 80 days. Performing weddings in this period is believed to give bad results. The next wedding ‘muhurat’ will start from May 14 as per the Telugu Panchangam. We suggest those who follow the almanac to postpone weddings till that date.” Meanwhile, the usually bustling wedding industry is faced with the prospect of an empty season this year. “Magha Maasam is a very important wedding season every year. But we have been facing problems since last year due to Covid-19. The government should support us,” K Ravindra a wedding planner, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-wedding-dates-till-may-say-vedic-scholars/articleshow/80590734.cms||Venu Lanka
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||86% of Mumbai’s commuters take local trains during peak hours||MUMBAI: State officials said that 15 lakh people are currently taking local trains in the city, and it is expected that the number will cross the 40 lakh mark from Monday when the trains are opened for the general public in the non-peak hours. But 85 lakh passengers normally take the Mumbai suburban railway network every day, 86% of them during the peak hours from 7 am to noon and then in the evening peak hours until 9 pm. Kumar said that the state government would request all establishments to stagger their work schedule in such a manner that their staff could avail of the local train services in the time slots fixed by the state. Railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted about his ministry’s approval of the Maharashtra government permitting the general public to travel by local trains. While WR will operate 1,300 services every day, CR will run 1,686 services as against 1,367 and 1,774 services which used to run before the Covid-19 pandemic. The Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police and 2,000 Home Guards will be deployed at the entry/exit points of all railway stations from February 1 to conduct checks and ensure that the general public travel on trains only in the hours allotted by the state government. If violations are found, cases will be registered under the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, GRP commissioner Ravindra Sengaonkar told TOI. Local train services were stopped on March 22 during the strict coronavirus-induced lockdown and have restarted in phases in the unlocking period. Kumar said, “We propose to restore the entire suburban railway operations only after taking a review of the situation. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has taken the view that there should be no hurry, and at the same time, all-out efforts should be made to restore normalcy as early as possible. We had suspended suburban train operations from the third week of March 2019.” The Maharashtra government on Friday also extended the lockdown in the state till February 28 but clarified that all the activities permitted under the ‘Mission Begin Again’ can continue. The lockdown in the state has now already completed nine months. According to the notification issued by chief secretary Kumar, since the state of Maharashtra is threatened with the spread of the Covid-19 virus, it is expedient to extend the lockdown in the entire state till the midnight of February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/86-of-citys-commuters-take-local-trains-during-peak-hours/articleshow/80593238.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||All three Bairagi akharas announce Peshwai date||Haridwar: All three Bairagi akharas of the Vaishnav sect — Nirmohi, Nirvani and Digambar Ani — jointly announced the date of Peshwai (procession by akharas) and installation of their religious flag at Kumbh Mela. The shree mahant of Nirmohi akhara, Rajendra Das, told TOI that sadhus of all three akharas will install their flags on April 2, after offering their worship at the Chandi Devi temple in Haridwar. They will take out their Peshwai on April 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-three-bairagi-akharas-announce-peshwai-date/articleshow/80590673.cms||MS Nawaz
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Youth need to be disciplined, singers to be kept away from stir stages’||Amritsar: Having burnt fingers from the turnout of events during the January 26 tractor rally, farm bodies protesting on the borders of Delhi have decided to tame the youth and not let them act whimsically. They have also decided to keep singers at bay. “We have learnt our lessons and will not repeat mistakes committed by us again for the success of our agitation,” said the president of Sikh Sangathan, Uttrakhand and UP, Jasvir Singh Virk while talking to TOI from Delhi-UP border at Ghazipur on Friday. He said a few farm bodies had held a meeting and decided to discipline youth and keep singers away from stages. He said youth didn’t listen to them. “A few miscreants had misled youth and taken them towards Red Fort against our advice. We are apologetic for the same. A few things have slipped out of our hands. In future, we will not let these things repeat,” he said. He said they would ask youth to follow their directions or would talk to their parents and ask them to take them back to their villages. He said they had talked to like-minded farmer bodies and decided to not let singers address from stages. “We also told Deep Sidhu to not provoke gullible farmers, but he didn’t listen to us,” he said. Rattan Singh of Zamhuri Kisan Sabha said singers were not the role models for youth in any shape, so they had decided to not let them speak. Expressing faith in the leadership of Rakesh Tikait, Virk said three-four farm groups had siding with the government right from day one. He claimed that they knew beforehand that farm groups — including V M Singh-led Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) — would withdraw from the struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-need-to-be-disciplined-singers-to-be-kept-away-from-stir-stages/articleshow/80591957.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarkashi cops to get online aerobic and yoga training to stay fit||Uttarkashi: Soon, cops in Uttarkashi will be stretching it out to burn the extra flab on their waistline as the newly-appointed superintendent of police (SP) of Uttarkashi, Manikant Mishra, has ordered the policemen to join the online aerobic and yoga training session, which will be initiated by the district police department soon. Manikant Mishra told TOI, “Physical and mental fitness is very important for policemen, particularly for those working in the hill regions. Therefore, we have decided to start an online aerobic and yoga training program from the first week of February. This will not only make policemen fit and healthy, but also help them to overcome their stressful routines.” The official added, “Under this plan, nearly an hour-long session of aerobic and yoga will be held every morning in all the police stations. To motivate the force, we have also decided to reward the policeman, who will lose maximum weight after one month of training.” “During 2016, I organised a similar kind of program in Haridwar district and got some good results. Several policemen were able to up to 5-10 kg weight. We are hopeful to achieve the same success in Uttarkashi also,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarkashi-cops-to-get-online-aerobic-and-yoga-training-to-stay-fit/articleshow/80590691.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||Mom, daughter go missing in Chittoor||Tirupati: A 60-year-old woman has gone missing along with her 45-year-old daughter from their home at Govindavaripalli village in Tamballapalle mandal of Chittoor district, leaving her three grandchildren in a state of destitution. Tamballapalle police said the woman, Gangulamma, and her daughter Sarala had been living at Gangulamma’s house since the death of Sarala’s husband. On January 27, a friend of Gangulamma approached the police with a complaint that the mother and the daughter were missing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mom-daughter-go-missing-in-chittoor/articleshow/80590782.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||Farmer who filed complaint against Shashi Tharoor is a college principal||BHOPAL: The farmer whose complaint led to an FIR against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists for allegedly ‘promoting enmity’ is the principal of a private college. The complainant, Sanjay Raghuwanshi, couldn’t be reached over phone on Friday. TOI went to his house in Koushal Nagar in Misrod, but he wasn't there. His wife said he owns agricultural land. Meanwhile, police are seeking information from Twitter on the accused’s accounts. A team may be sent to Delhi, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farmer-who-filed-complaint-is-a-college-principal/articleshow/80591973.cms||Sudeept Mishra
January 30, 2021||Visakhapatnam||No woman caught drunk driving in Visakhapatnam last year||VISAKHAPATNAM: No woman motorist was caught and fined for drunken driving while only between two to four per cent of women motorists were involved in traffic violations and accidents in Vizag city in 2020. Vizag traffic police observed that over 96 per cent of drivers are men and account for nearly 99 per cent of traffic accidents and traffic violations in the city. In 2020, city police booked as many as 14,38,828 cases against motorists under the Motor Vehicles Act and collected a cumulative fine of Rs 77,65,100 from violators. There were fewer violations such as drunken driving and rash driving in 2020 compared to 2019 on account of the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, ADCP (traffic), Vizag, Ch Adinarayana said they have noticed that women are generally more cautious and take fewer risks while driving. Hardly two to four per cent of women motorists were found violating traffic norms such as not wearing headguards or incorrect parking. A majority of drivers found violating traffic norms despite having paid fines were men, said a senior police officer. City police said Vizag has over eight lakh male driving licence holders and around 80,000 to one lakh female motorists with valid driving licences. Deputy transport commissioner, Vizag, GC Raja Ratnam said while they suspended driving licences of 1,386 motorists in 2020, no woman motorist was on the list. As many as 243 fatal road accidents were reported in 2020 in Vizag city, in which 256 people were killed. Similarly, as many as 1,164 people suffered injuries in 889 non-fatal accidents in the city in 2020. A majority of the victims were men while a small number of women (pillion riders) were killed in road accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-woman-caught-drunk-driving-in-vizag-last-year/articleshow/80590786.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BARC staffer ends life after tiff with wife||MUMBAI: A 37-year-old scientist working in the bio-chem department of BARC at Trombay died by suicide after a tiff with his wife on Thursday. Anuj Tripathi was found hanging at the BARC quarters at Trombay. Trombay police registered an accidental death report and are probing the case. Senior inspector Siddeshwar Gove said on Thursday Anuj had an argument with his wife over feeding his two children. Anuj, in fit of rage, went inside the bedroom and hanged himself from the ceiling fan, police said. Police also said that they have not found any suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/barc-staffer-ends-life-after-tiff-with-wife/articleshow/80593246.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||At 14.8C, Mumbai sees season’s lowest minimum temperature||MUMBAI: As the chill in the air continued on Friday, Mumbai recorded a further dip in minimum temperature. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Santacruz observatory, representative of Mumbai, recorded a minimum temperature of 14.8C, the lowest this season. IMD has forecast temperatures to remain in this range until Saturday, and gradually increase thereafter. The minimum temperature recorded in Santacruz was 2.7C below normal, and Colaba’s 17.5C was 0.2C below normal. The season’s second lowest was 15C, recorded on December 29, 2020. K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD said, “No major change is expected in the next 24 hours. Thereafter a gradual rise in temperatures will be seen.” The maximum temperatures have already seen a rise over the last few days, but continue to remain below normal. Santacruz and Colaba recorded maximum temperatures of 30.5C and 29.5C respectively, 1.1C and 0.8C below normal, on Friday. Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in the city marginally dipped but remained in the ‘poor’ category on Friday. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Mumbai’s overall AQI was 290. SAFAR has attributed the poor pollution levels to calm winds and winter temperatures in Mumbai and around and expects it to remain in the same category for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-14-8c-city-sees-seasons-lowest-min-temperature/articleshow/80593250.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||Fuel on fire: Petrol prices set to hit a century||Bhopal: Seeing the way prices of petrol and diesel are witnessing a steep rise, the petrol price may soon breach the psychological 3-digit mark and sell for Rs 100 per litre. Petrol prices in Bhopal hovered around Rs 94.05 per litre on Friday, but in the neighbouring districts of Balaghat, Alirajpur, Satna or Anuppur, it has already breached Rs 95 per litre mark, and the prices aren’t likely to fall from here. In Anuppur district, petrol was the costliest in MP, selling at Rs 97.08 per litre, with premium quality of petrol almost touching Rs 100 a litre mark, selling at Rs 99.98 per litre on Friday. In Satna, it was priced at Rs 96.07 per litre, whereas in Balaghat it was selling at Rs 96.34 per litre and in Alirajpur at Rs 95.68 per litre. Diesel is managing to keep pace with petrol on the price rise front, but it still costs around Rs 10 less because VAT on diesel is also 10 per cent less in MP compared to petrol. Petrol attracts 33 per cent VAT and Rs 4.53 per litre cess, but diesel attracts 23 per cent VAT and Rs 3 as additional cess President of MP Petrol Pump Owners' Association, Ajay Singh, said, variation in prices of petrol and diesel from one place to another across the state is due to transportation charges levied by the oil companies. "They measure the distance of a place from the nearest refinery from where petrol and diesel is supplied to that city. For example, Bhopal's distance from Ankaleshwar by train decides the transportation charges for Bhopal. For Anuppur, it must be Vaizag. That could explain why petrol prices in Anuppur are Rs 3 per litre more than Bhopal", he said. Transportation charges apart, the fact remains that MP is among the four states in India, where VAT on petrol is more than 30 per cent - the other three states being Kerala, Rajasthan and Karnataka. When asked when does he see the petrol prices actually hitting Rs 100 per litre mark in MP, Singh said "Crude prices in the international market are rising. In April, they had fallen to 29 dollar a barrel due to lockdown in the major buying countries including India, but now, it's selling for 55.96 dollar per barrel. Yet, we hope either the Centre or the state government would reduce taxes on petrol and diesel in the budget, to keep it below Rs 100 mark." He said the Union government has imposed cess on excise duty payable on petrol and diesel on several occasions in the past; when the economy is coming out of the shadows of the pandemic, it is likely to take initiative in reducing the tax. The Centre charges excise duty on petrol at the rate of Rs 32.98 per litre and Rs 31.83 per litre for diesel. GFX Pricing Game Place Petrol Diesel Bhopal Rs 94.05 Rs 84.42 Balaghat Rs 96.34 Rs 86.42 Alirajpur Rs 95.68 Rs 84.67 Satna Rs 96.07 Rs 86.32 Anuppur Rs 97.08 Rs 87.15 (Price: Rs per litre) as on Jan 29||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fuel-on-fire-petrol-prices-set-to-hit-a-century/articleshow/80592029.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Premier engineering varsity to set up B-school in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||MUMBAI: Premier engineering university BITS Pilani will set up a business management school in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region for Rs 1,500 crore, said its chancellor and Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla on Thursday. The business school will come up in Kalyan and will be the fifth campus of BITS Pilani. With this, BITS Pilani will venture into offering business management programmes. So far, it offers engineering courses at its four campuses — Pilani, Hyderabad, Goa and Dubai. The B-school campus will be spread over 60 acres and will open its doors in 2023. However, its academic session starts this July with 120 students. It will operate out of a temporary campus in Powai until then. To be named BITS School of Management (BITSoM), it will have faculty from global schools like Wharton, University of Texas and Singapore Management University. It will offer a two-year course, fees for which will be about Rs 24 lakh. “...In a world marked by uncertainty, it is time to introduce a new way of thinking and prepare young leaders for this age of disruption,” said Birla, whose family set up BITS Pilani in 1964.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/premier-engg-varsity-to-set-up-b-school-in-metro-region/articleshow/80514788.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||Economic Survey lauds Andhra Pradesh’s handling of Covid crisis||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh is one of the three states in the country to have saved the most lives in the Covid-19 outbreak. The other states to have successfully handled Covid-19 and restricted deaths in the country are Kerala and Telangana. Appreciation for the state can be found in the Economic Survey, 2020-21 submitted by the Union government to Parliament on Friday. The report said that Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have managed deaths effectively during the crisis, while the world waged a battle against the pandemic. In its density of health workers and skill mix, Andhra Pradesh, besides Delhi and Tamil Nadu, has a better balance of doctors, nurses and midwives, which helped the country face the challenge. In this sector—density of doctors, nurses and midwives—Kerala tops all states and is followed by Jammu and Kashmir, while states such as Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have a very low density of doctors, even though the density of nurses and midwives in these states is comparatively better. AP is also listed among other states in showing an improvement in access to ‘bare necessities’ for its people. While states such as Punjab, Kerala, Sikkim, Goa and Delhi provide the highest access to bare necessities, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Manipur and Tripura have the lowest access. States showing an improvement in access to bare necessities are Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Goa, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. However, Andhra Pradesh is still at the bottom of the list in accessibility to drinking water to the people. States such as Sikkim, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat are at the top while Odisha, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh are at the bottom of the drinking water accessibility index. Regional disparities have increased in 2018 when compared to 2012 despite such disparities declining in urban areas. This is because such disparities have increased in rural areas, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/economic-survey-lauds-aps-handling-of-covid-crisis/articleshow/80590805.cms||Gopi Dara
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||River Narmada & forts to grace MP’s famous Chanderi, Maheshwari sarees||BHOPAL: Images of river Narmada and forts around it can soon make a sartorial statement. The state handicrafts and handlooms corporation has decided to weave images of the river and forts on sarees made in Madhya Pradesh. The motifs would be hand weaved on the fabric famous in the state. Sarees with Narmada and its banks in Maheshwar, a place famous for film shoots in MP, would be rolled out in the first phase, along with the sarees with prints of Gwalior fort. The top line fabrics of Chanderi and Maheshwar, that are famous the world over, would be used to weave the Narmada, the state's lifeline river Narmada. Maheshwar sees a number of tourists from the country and abroad every year. The place is also popular for shooting films, TV and web serials. Officials said its print on dress materials would not only give business to weavers of the state, but also make the state handicraft and the site more popular. State handicrafts and handlooms commissioner Rajeev Sharma said Narmada river and Maheshwar fort would be handcrafted on the fabrics of Chanderi and Maheshwar.  The groundwork has been completed and sarees would be introduced in a month, he said, adding, that apart from these motifs, sarees with prints of Gwalior fort would also be introduced. Officials said it would be top of the line handcrafted collection and the range of sarees would start from Rs 8,000. It would be available in all Mrignayanee stores in the country. This is the fourth big initiative of the government in the handlooms sector in the wake of the corona crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedriver-narmada-forts-to-grace-mps-famous-chanderi-maheshwari-sarees/articleshow/80592075.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand STF arrests wanted criminal carrying Rs 2,500 reward||Dehradun: A Special Task Force (STF) from Uttarakhand arrested a wanted criminal, carrying a bounty of Rs 2,500 on his head, from Pilibhit district in Uttar Pradesh. The accused, identified as Mukesh, native of Gajraula in Pilibhit, was at large for the past three years and was wanted in a fraud case in Bajpur in Udham Singh Nagar district. "Mukesh, along with another accomplice who has already been arrested, siphoned off Rs 1,26,000 from the daily deposit scheme of a cooperative bank. Thereafter, he escaped to Nepal to avoid arrest," said Ajay Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP),STF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-stf-arrests-wanted-criminal-carrying-rs-2500-reward/articleshow/80590788.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 30, 2021||India||Branding people criminals sans proclamation illegal, says HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday held that the practice of putting up names of accused on flysheet boards at police stations without issuing a proclamation is derogatory and against the concept of human dignity and privacy enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. Police role in disclosing the identity of criminals at police stations in public gaze is unwarranted and violates Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty), the court further said. The court directed the director general of police (DGP) to remove names and identities of top-10 criminals, along with their criminal antecedents, from flysheet boards at police stations and ensure compliance by police heads of districts. The court, however, clarified that the benefit of the judgment will not be provided to “claimed offenders and fugitives in law”. The court further held that there was nothing wrong in preparing a list of top criminals in a district for surveillance. While allowing the writ filed by Jeeshan, Balveer Singh Yadav and Doodh Nath Yadav, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal observed, “Human dignity is infringed upon when names of accused are displayed on the flysheet board of police stations or anywhere else without issuing a proclamation under Section 82 of Criminal Procedure Code. This practice is derogatory to the concept of human dignity and privacy.” Section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code provides proclamation for an accused person, who is on the run. The three petitioners were aggrieved by the publication of their names in the list of top-10 criminals displayed at various police stations in Prayagraj and Kanpur Nagar districts. The petitioners were brothers and relatives of an ex-member of Parliament from Allahabad. They contended that police published their names in criminal lists as part of political vendetta. As per the petitioners, only one case was registered against each of them and their names were included in the top-10 criminal list. The court further held there was nothing wrong in selecting top 10 criminals in a district for surveillance. “The DGP circular dated July 6, 2020, putting a criterion to select top 10 criminals in a district and in each police station was an exercise of power to maintain surveillance, to which no illegality could be attached. We also hold the circular to be lawful and valid. However, there is nothing in the circular which enables police to disclose the identity of an accused and his criminal antecedents in public gaze,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/branding-people-criminals-sans-proclamation-illegal-says-hc/articleshow/80595112.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||2 booked for assaulting pastor||Hyderabad: Vanasthalipuram police registered a case against two persons, including a software employee, for assaulting a pastor accusing him of resorting to religious conversions. G Chandra Mouli (55), a pastor from Hasthinapuram in Vanasthalipuram, along with his wife went to a devotee’s hut in Vaidehi Nagar on Thursday night to pray. A group of persons soon entered the hut and assaulted him, alleging that he was resorting to religious conversions, Vanasthalipuram inspector K Murali Mohan said. The accused have been identified as techie Lalith Kumar Reddy (35) and P Srinivas (48), a businessman. The accused had also threatened the pastor, police said. Based on Mouli’s complaint, police registered a case under IPC sections of deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs, punishment for voluntarily causing hurt and punishment for criminal intimidation against accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-booked-for-assaulting-pastor/articleshow/80592120.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||19-year-old held in Delhi for running carjacking syndicate||NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old youth has been arrested for running a carjacking syndicate in the city. Police said that the teenager used to rent cars from different taxi services and drive around with his friend looking for vulnerable targets. The two used to intercept lone drivers on the highways and isolated stretches, and take their cars at gunpoint. On Thursday, they repeated their act with a businessman in Pitampura, but the cops tracked them down using inputs from the car rental agency. The businessmen, who was assaulted by the accused, is recuperating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/19-year-old-held-for-running-carjacking-syndicate/articleshow/80593261.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Six years after mishap, MBBS student gets Rs 13.5 lakh payout||MUMBAI: Six years after an MBBS student from Malad met with an accident while returning to the city from Shirdi, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) awarded her compensation of Rs13.5 lakh. In a separate order, compensation of Rs 90.5 lakh was awarded to the wife, two minor children and mother of a 33-year-old newspaper agent who died in the same accident. In the case of the student, who lost four teeth and suffered other injuries after the hired car rammed into the divider in April 2015, the tribunal factored in Rs3 lakh for the artificial teeth she had to get fixed and for post operation marks on her elbow, stating it could pose some hurdle, though on small scale, in her marriage prospects. The tribunal also included Rs 50,000 toward loss of an academic year. The tribunal said while the victim, Reshma Lohakare’s HSC marksheet showed she had passed her exams in February 2015, she had finished her first year of MBBS only in the summer of 2018. “For the loss of one academic year, some damages should be given and the claimant deserves to be compensated at least symbolically by granting compensation in this regard,” the tribunal said. In the case of the newspaper agent, among several factors, the tribunal also considered the victim, Pravin Choudhary’s monthly earnings of Rs 30,000 to calculate compensation. Chaudhary was the only occupant of the vehicle who lost his life. The compensation in both instances will have to be paid by the owner of the vehicle, Shree Ganesh Sai Travels and its insurance company, Reliance General Insurance Company Ltd. While Choudhary succumbed to his injuries on the spot, Lohakare was treated at various hospitals over the next few months for a serious fracture to her right elbow, multiple facial injuries as well a severe injury to the jaw and teeth. The MBBS student deposed in the tribunal pinning the blame on the driver of the hired vehicle. The tribunal referred to the woman’s deposition and the FIR. “It clearly alleges the car driver, Prashant Bhivgal, was driving at high speed and he lost control near Khardi Railway Bridge, Shahapur, and it violently dashed the road divider. FIR further discloses that one of the occupants, namely Pravin, died on the spot and other occupants suffered serious injuries,” the tribunal said. It further held the woman’s strong and concrete evidence got no rebuttal from the insurer by examining either the car driver or any investigator. “Therefore, I hold that the claimant suffered injuries due to rash and negligent driving of said car,” the tribunal said in the woman’s case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-years-after-mishap-mbbs-student-gets-rs-13-5l-payout/articleshow/80593269.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 30, 2021||Meerut||UP: Youth beaten up by neighbours, sustains 19 fractures, dies||MEERUT: An 18-year-old youth, Akash Pal, who was brutally assaulted allegedly by his neighbours, succumbed to injuries on Thursday night. On Friday morning, scores of residents led by his family members staged a protest, demanding immediate arrest of the accused, who are at large. Satish Kumar, station house officer at Partapur police station, said, “Akash, a resident of Rithani area in Meerut, was assaulted with rods and sticks allegedly by a veterinarian, Pradeep Sharma, and his family members on the night of January 11.” The youth was rushed to a local private hospital and an FIR under section 307 (attempt to murder) was registered against Pradeep Sharma, his wife and their son based on a complaint lodged by Akash’s family. While refraining to divulge details about the assault, Kumar said, “There was rivalry between the families which is yet to be revealed. I spoke to the doctor who said there was one major fracture in the hand and 17-18 minor fractures,” said Kumar. However, the deceased’s father, Rishipal, 62, claimed, “Akash had sustained 56 fractures. He was unconscious and on a ventilator all the time he was in hospital. He succumbed to injuries on Thursday night.” Deepak Sharma, owner of the private hospital where Akash was admitted, said, “He had sustained severe internal injuries, including on the head. He was in a coma and was being treated at our hospital for over a fortnight.” SHO Kumar said, “We have arrested two people whose names came up during investigation. A reward is being announced against the absconding accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-beaten-up-by-neighbours-sustains-19-fractures-dies/articleshow/80590814.cms||Piyush Rai
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Israeli consulate security upped after Delhi blast||MUMBAI: Security was raised and police presence increased at the Israeli consulate and at Jewish establishments in the city after a minor IED blast damaged some cars outside the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on Friday. Police spokesman DCP Chaitanya S said, “Police presence, alertness and patrolling have been increased at the Israeli embassy and at Jewish establishments.” Security was tightened in the city too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/israeli-consulate-security-upped-after-delhi-blast/articleshow/80593263.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Land hurdle cleared at Garia Metro transit hub||KOLKATA: The last land hurdle for the 5km Ruby-Kavi Subhas section of the New Garia-Airport Metro corridor has been cleared. Implementing agency Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) took possession of the last tranche of land for the Kavi Subhas Metro hub on Thursday night, razing a structure inside the 5-cottah plot. The land inside the Kavi Subhas terminal’s yard belonged to one Kushal Samaddar, a resident of Sonarpur. The depot-cum-terminal for the 32km New Garia-Airport Metro corridor is shaping up to be a mass transit hub covering 20,000sqm. Its nucleus is the state-of-the-art multi-tier main station complex with parking lots, shopping malls and other facilities. The existing Kavi Subhas station will be upgraded to give the entire area the look of a comprehensive Metro hub. Two Metro lines will be positioned one above the other here to create a Metro interface for three routes — New Garia-Airport, north-south and Eastern Railway’s suburban line. A senior RVNL official said: “The Competent Authority, land acquisition (LA) court of Metro Railway had awarded compensation of Rs 6,25,731 to Samaddar on December 16, 2005. The Appellate Authority of the LA court, on March 28, 2006, ordered to increase the amount by another Rs 20 lakh. Samaddar then moved Calcutta high court. On September 19, 2018, the high court sent back the case to the Competent Authority to reconsider the amount based on the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013.” On October 12 last year, the Competent Authority revised the settlement amount to Rs 31,95,731. But Samaddar again appealed to the Appellate Authority on November 11 last year. But on January 5 this year, the Appellate Authority upheld the Competent Authority’s order. Finally, on Thursday, the land was handed over to RVNL. The agency took possession of the land soon after, demolishing a structure on the 5-cottah plot through the night. Piling work started on Friday morning itself because RVNL is trying to expedite construction of Phase 1, or the 5km stretch between the terminal Kavi Subhas station and Ruby crossing (Hemanta Mukherjee station). Even as track-laying along the 5km viaduct of the first phase has already started, the land hurdle relating to the terminal station had thrown a spanner in the December 2021 commissioning deadline, especially since the other major issue — bridging the 120m viaduct gap near Abhishikta crossing — was cleared in November last year, with KMDA agreeing to reach a solution to the overlapping Ruby flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/land-hurdle-cleared-at-garia-metro-transit-hub/articleshow/80590815.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Dakshineswar link work: No Noapara trains on January 31||KOLKATA: Linking of Dakshineswar Metro’s new system with the existing north-south corridor will start on Saturday. To facilitate the connectivity of the 4km section with the 27km Kavi Subhas-Noapara line, trains on Sunday will go up to Dum Dum, instead of Noapara terminal, Metro Railway announced on Friday. A Metro spokesperson said: “There won’t be any services to and from Noapara station on Sunday due to the non-interlocking work and commissioning of the Electronic Interlocking (EI) panel.” Work for the EI connectivity will start around 11.30pm, after the last train leaves Noapara on Saturday, and continue till 6pm on Sunday. So, trains from Kavi Subhas will terminate at Dum Dum instead of Noapara on Sunday. TOI on Friday reported that Dakshineswar Metro is eyeing a mid-February opening and the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS), which gives the safety nod to any new Metro across India, is likely to inspect the stretch next week. The new section and its signalling system will be connected to the existing line before the CRS’ visit. “Even as the ‘electronic interlocking’ has already been installed, its commissioning happens in the run-up to the operations, which is likely soon, subject to the CRS’ approval,” said an official involved in the project. To assess the system before the EI commissioning, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi inspected the stretch on Thursday. RVNL’s execu-tive director A K Roy and other senior officials accompanied him. Explaining what the EI commissioning is all about, the official said, “It involves connecting the new system with the centralized panel at the Noapara station. The panel controls and determines train movement. To establish the connectivity, the Noapara railway yard must be non-interlocked first.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-link-work-no-noapara-trains-tomorrow/articleshow/80590821.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai schools still shut, over 1/3rd students outside digital net||MUMBAI: Maharashtra allowed high schools to reopen in November and middle schools earlier this week after a 10-month break. But for Mumbai and a few other cities, the wait continues. Education experts say the prolonged closure could result in long-term learning loss and disparity as a large section of students without access to online learning continue to remain disconnected. In the state, nearly 15 lakh students between classes IX and XII attend offline classes now. Authorities expect attendance for classes VI-VIII to also rise in a few weeks (see graphic). Academics say it is heartwarming to see students back in the classroom as technology had created disparity among learners. According to the Annual Status of Education Report, barely 19% students in rural Maharashtra were able to attend class online. In Mumbai, reach is better, yet 41% of students in the city have no mobile or net links either, by BMC estimates in June. “One can understand apprehensions the teacher and parent community had in the early months of the pandemic, but it is important students return to the classroom, albeit with precautions. Apart from academics, students learn age-appropriate social interaction in school which has been stalled for almost a year. A lot of them will now have dropped out because they weren’t able to connect to the digital medium. Bringing them, especially girls, back into the formal education space, is going to be very difficult,” said educationist Vasant Kalpande. Even for those with net access, remote learning is unsustainable, say experts. Francis Joseph of SLN Foundation, who works with private schools, said, “Fatigue is growing in teachers and students. Students have moved from being active learners to passive listeners. Peer learning and writing practice is nil. ” BMC data shows share of Covid-19 cases among those under 19 years (age 3-18 is school-going) has been around 0.6% during the pandemic. As of January 27, it had dropped to 0.53% -- around 16,000 of the 3 lakh cases in Mumbai were in this age group. But officials advocate caution. Dr Sanjay Oak, head of the state Covid-19 taskforce, said, “We are opening Mumbai gradually. Schools will open in a phased manner. The problem is even if children aren’t directly impacted, they could act as carriers and take Covid-19 home to grandparents... We could see senior students coming into schools in the next two weeks, around February 15, and the younger students after periodic intervals. I have more faith in children than adults to follow norms when they attend school.” World over, countries have shut down schools within weeks of reopening as cases surged. Mumbai has allowed only consulate-run schools to reopen. Valerie Villers, principal of Lycée Francaise Internationale de Mumbai, the French consulate school, said, “The teenagers need to be around their peers and young ones need to interact with other kids their age for overall development. For us, communication and building trust with parents has been the key.” The school held tutorials for students in small groups since September 2020 and reopened for all 75 students earlier this month. It follows a strict safety protocol and holds a testing camp every Friday on the premises. A civic school head said parents are willing to send children, but teachers are worried about traveling by public transport. “Teachers must take responsibility for ensuring their own and children’s safety and support reopening to ensure students don’t lose out anymore,” said Kalpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-schools-still-shut-over-1/3rd-students-outside-digital-net/articleshow/80592145.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 30, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Suspense ends as state grants Rs 50 lakh for Sahitya Sammelan||NASHIK: The Lokhitwadi Mandal of Nashik, which is hosting the annual Marathi literary festival, has thanked the state government for sanctioning a grant of Rs 50 lakh for the meet, amid apprehensions that the funds may be curtailed due to Covid-19 pandemic impact on revenue. The All India Marathi literary meet will be held at Nashik from March 26. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the grant of Rs 50 lakh for the three-day 94th literary festival. We thank the government for taking the decision expeditiously,” said Jayprakash Jategaonkar, president of Lokhitwadi Mandal. Jategaonkar also thanked district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is heading the committee of the Nashikites that will welcome the guests, for his efforts in the same. The government’s speedy decision and announcement will help the Akhil Bhartiya Sahitya Mahamandal to expedite the preparations for the festival. The fund is part of the state’s budgetary provision and is given for the literary festival every year. The organisation of the Sammelan this year was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions. Since the government has already started Unlock measures, the decision to conduct the event before March 31 was taken. The funds do not help in covering all the expenses of the literary festival. Most of the expenses are covered through the donations and help coming from individuals, organisations and even the various government bodies. The literary festival also comes up with a souvenir that is prepared with the help of a sponsor. This year, eminent astrophysicist Jayant Narlikar was unanimously selected as the president of the literary meet. Narlikar, who has been honoured with the Padma Vibhushan, has known for his autobiography ‘Char Nagarantle Majhe Vishwa’ as well as novels and science fiction in Marathi and English. Narlikar was selected for the Sahitya Akademi award in Marathi literature in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/suspense-ends-as-state-grants-rs-50l-for-sahitya-sammelan/articleshow/80589705.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nashik||Bombay HC verdict sends strong message to hospitals: Kin||NASHIK: The family of 82-year-old Malati Nehete — a Covid-19 patient whose decomposed body was found in a toilet block of the Jalgaon civil hospital eight days after she had gone missing on June 2, last year, from the hospital — has expressed that the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court’s verdict granting Rs 5 lakh compensation and directing action in the matter, sends a strong message to all hospitals to ensure proper care of the patients. “The verdict comes as an eye opener for all hospitals,” Harshal Nehete, grandson of the deceased woman, said while speaking to TOI on Friday. On January 27, the bench of justices SV Gangapurwala and Shreekant Kulkarni ordered the government to pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the legal heirs of the woman and directed the principal secretary to the state health department to take an appropriate action on the basis of a report submitted by a three-member committee as well as on the report submitted by the Jalgaon district collector, as expeditiously as possible. Nehete was admitted to the civil hospital at Jalgaon on June 1, last year, and the next day her swab report came positive for Covid-19. Later, the hospital authorities realized that she was missing and had lodged a missing person’s case. Eight days later her decomposed body was recovered from the toilet block of the same hospital. Speaking to the TOI, Harshal recalled the agonizing moments faced by his family and relatives while searching for his missing grandmother. “My mother died due to Covid-19 on June 1. My grandmother who was also ill was taken to civil hospital in Jalgaon from Bhusawal. Since nobody is allowed in the Covid-19 ward, we were told to call on a phone number for communication. The very same day the hospital authorities said my grandmother had left the hospital without telling anybody and a case of ‘missing’ was registered with local police by the authorities,” Harshal, 32 who works in Pune, said. “The hospital authorities took the matter extremely casually. My family was shell shocked when the authorities told us about eight days later that the body of my grandmother was found in the toilet of the hospital. It brought to the fore the insensitivity of the people concerned with the ward who did not bother to see why the toilet block was closed for so many days,” he added. The Loksangharsh Samiti took the initiative and launched a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in this case with the Aurangabad-bench where Harshal was asked to produce the documents. Pratibha Shinde, who heads the organization, said, “It was bad on part of the government hospital as they were not treating persons infected by the Covid-19 as humans. The incident that the woman lay dead inside the same ward eight days. Hence, we filed a PIL with the high court seeking directions to the government and the compensation to the family of the victim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hc-verdict-sends-strong-message-to-hosps-kin/articleshow/80589770.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Welcome gate, smart street plan for Sector V||Kolkata: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) has decided to construct a gate at the entrance to Sector V. The structure has been proposed near Bowlers’ Den next to Nicco Park and an urban design consultancy will be engaged to prepare a detailed project report. Officials said the gate will act as a landmark to welcome visitors to Sector V, the IT hub in the state. In addition, NDITA plans to develop smart streets in Sector V. Two roads — streets 2 and 27 — have been identified for the project and will get new furniture, smart bus stands, fences and benches on the pavements, water ATMs, public artwork, CCTV surveillance, decorative street illumination and signages. Street 27 is the main road that leads into Sector V from Nicco Park and connects with Ring Road, passing by SDF Building. Street 2 is a crossroad that connects Street 27 and Street 13 at Techno India bus stop. A consultancy will prepare an urban design scheme with detailed engineering drawings and cost estimate. NDITA is already working on plans to develop Street 25 — that stretches from RDB Boulevard mall to Infinity Benchmark — as a pedestrian plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/welcome-gate-smart-street-plan-for-sector-v/articleshow/80590824.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 30, 2021||Goa||Over 2k DSS scheme beneficiaries can’t be traced||Panaji: The directorate of social welfare has discontinued disbursing pension under the Dayanand Social Security (DSS) Scheme to 2,198 beneficiaries as they could not be traced during the survey, said social welfare minister Milind Naik on Friday. He said the government has appointed M/s Goa Electronics Ltd to conduct the survey of the beneficiaries of the DSS scheme. “All the beneficiaries reported as genuine by the survey agency are receiving financial assistance regularly,” he said. “Only those beneficiaries who are reported as non-genuine are requested to submit documents to re-verify their eligibility as per the scheme,” he replied when questioned on senior citizens, bedridden and persons with disabilities being forced to bring fresh income, residence and birth certificates when they had already submitted them at the time of registration. A total of 2.19 lakh persons are registered under the DSS scheme till date where 1.37 are receiving the benefit and 2,706 are yet to receive it. A total of 1,517 applications have been rejected due to various reasons. A total of 1.85 lakh housewives are registered under the Griha Aadhar scheme with 1.5 lakh receiving the benefits. There are 12,259 housewives yet to receive benefits under the scheme and 3,057 applications have been rejected for various reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-2k-dss-scheme-beneficiaries-cant-be-traced/articleshow/80594502.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||2k women take out procession in US Nagar in support of protesting farmers at Delhi borders||Rudrapur: Over 2,000 women, along with their children, gathered at Gurudwara Green Park on Kashipur Road on Friday holding tricolours and flags of the Samyuk Kisan Morcha (SKM) in solidarity with farmers agitating at various Delhi borders against the Centre’s agri reform laws. The protesters also raised slogans in support of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. Octogenarian Jasbir Kaur, one of the protesters, said, “Even if we have to leave our homes and join farmers at Ghazipur, we will not fall back.” “The Modi government should be ashamed of persecuting farmers who have been protesting peacefully for the past two months,” said Gurwinder Kaur, another participant in the procession. The protesters marched on a 4-km route passing through Gava Chowk, Galla Mandi, Bhagat Singh Chowk and the city's main market, before culminating the march at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Park. Surmukh Singh Virk, a farmer leader from Bigwara village, said, “Rakesh Tikait was reduced to tears due to atrocities of a fascist government on the farmer community. Even though some vacated the space a day before, more and more farmers from Terai will be returning to Ghazipur border.” Speaking to TOI over the phone from Ghazipur border, Jagtar Bajwa, the spokesperson of the ‘Kisan Andolan Committee Ghazipur’ said, “We will not let the movement end till our last breath. We can tell a big conspiracy is underway against farmers but we will not concede defeat. We are not scared of being booked under sections of the IPC. The more they oppress us, the stronger our movement will become.” President of Terai Kisan Mahasabha Tejender Singh Virk said he believes the violence at the January 26 tractor-trolley rally was instigated by those looking to malign the farmers’ movement. “The government must have realised they cannot make peaceful protesters leave but violence would give them that opportunity. After our leader Tikait’s emotional appeal, Terai farmers have started showing up at the Ghazipur protest site. There are 5,000 agitators from Terai there at present. We hope the number will increase to 15,000 by Saturday morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2k-women-take-out-procession-in-us-nagar-in-support-of-protesting-farmers-at-delhi-borders/articleshow/80589685.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Tackling staff crunch utmost priority: New Doon Univ V-C Surekha Dangwal||Dehradun: The new vice-chancellor of Doon University Surekha Dangwal has said that tackling staff crunch will be her first priority. In an interaction with TOI, Dangwal said, “We have started sorting out technical problems responsible for staff crunch. The Doon University has a lot of ad-hoc and guest faculty members. We need more permanent teachers. We have already invited applications for various teaching posts,” said Dangwal. Dangwal further said that Doon University will be able to smoothly adapt to the requirements of the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. “We are currently running courses for four foreign languages, including Chinese and Spanish, in our school of languages. So, there is the scope of merging it with tourism sector-related projects which can provide the required exposure to our students. Also, we don’t have a Hindi language course currently. Therefore, we have planned a separate department to run courses for Hindi, Sanskrit, and other regional languages,” added Dangwal. When asked about the low number of women at the helm of affairs in higher education institutions across the country, she said, “Uttarakhand is a women-centric state and they are taking responsibilities in many sectors. As the V-C of this prestigious university, I also have to prove myself. I won’t be making any excuses to myself for any kind of inefficiency in my tenure as the V-C,” said Dangwal, who has been appointed for a period of three years. Prior to being appointed the V-C of Doon University, Dangwal was serving as the HoD of English, Modern European, and other foreign languages department in the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal. She has also been a recipient of the prestigious DAAD (Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst) Fellowship of Germany.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tackling-staff-crunch-utmost-priority-new-doon-univ-v-c-surekha-dangwal/articleshow/80590803.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC writes to guv, seeks removal of govt advisor||Vijayawada: State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Friday wrote to governor Biswabhusan Harichandan, complaining against two ministers and the government advisor. The SEC has sought directions that the ministers and YSRC leaders do not level personal criticism against him. He also wanted the governor to remove government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy from the post for his derogatory remarks. The SEC said ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana have made remarks against him. He requested the governor to advise the ministers not to repeat such statements. Referring to Sajjala’s statements, the SEC said it was a “clear case of malafide as well as conflict of interest under the Constitution.” He said that Sajjala, “being a public servant, he cannot brazenly and blatantly hold party brief and indulge in political activity and in the process attack a Constitutional authority.” While requesting the governor to refer this complaint to the highest legal opinion, preferably the Attorney General, the SEC said he had “no confidence in the office of the Advocate General of (AP) government.” The SEC said Sajjala “shall be dismissed forthwith as advisor in public interest.” The SEC referred to statements by MP V Vijayasai Reddy and said they violated the code of conduct. “Under these circumstances, I have no other alternative left but to approach the constitutional court to remedy this gross injustice,” he said in the letter. He also wanted the government to “advise them to refrain categorically in indulging in such attacks and obtain an assurance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-writes-to-guv-seeks-removal-of-govt-advisor/articleshow/80590822.cms||Gopi Dara
January 30, 2021||Meerut||Dalit woman gang-raped by six speaks up afteraccused sell assault video to locals for Rs 300 each||Bareilly: A Dalit woman had been allegedly gang-raped by six persons, including five minors aged between 15 and 17, in UP’s Budaun district in October last year. She had kept quiet all these months and shared her ordeal with police after the accused put out the assault video online and sold it to locals for Rs 300 each.The six accused have been booked and detained by Budaun police. The 30-year-old married woman, who comes from a poor family and works as domestic worker, had feared all along that the video would be made public and the accused may also kill her husband and children. Her husband works as a cart puller.In her complaint, the survivor alleged that the accused had sold the video clips of the assault to locals for Rs 300 each. In the video, the woman can be purportedly heard pleading with the accused not to shoot the video even as the minor boys continued with their heinous act.Police have registered an FIR under sections 376-D (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC along with section 66E of IT Act and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act. The crime was reported from Faizganj Behta area.“The woman went to collect forest wood when she was raped by five accused, who were all minors. The video was sold for Rs 300 by one of their friends who is a 20-year-old. He is also made an accused in the case. The crime occurred in October," SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI on Friday."The FIR was registered against the accused seen in the video following a complaint by the survivor. Multiple teams were deployed and all the six accused were picked up within a few hours. Five of them were found minor during questioning and were sent to a juvenile home while the one who sold the video was sent to Budaun district jail,” Sharma added.Her statement has been recorded and she was sent for a medical examination."The woman comes from a poor background. Her details have been shared with district administration for compensation under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act," Sharma said.There was tension in the village on Friday. Five of the six accused belong to another community. Extra force has been deployed in the area to prevent any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dalit-woman-gang-raped-by-six-speaks-up-afteraccused-sell-assault-video-to-locals-for-rs-300-each/articleshow/80590819.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||Pauskar outlines plan to boost water supply to several parts||Porvorim: Denying any shortage of drinking water to areas in the San Andre constituency, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on Thursday attributed the problem to the electricity department. “Inadequate water supply, mainly to the tail ends and elevated areas of San Andre constituency, occurs due to power interruption at the water treatment plant and pumping station, and breakdowns to the conveying and distribution mains,” Pauskar said in reply to a question by San Andre MLA Francisco Silveira. The PWD minister said houses in Cortalim have been receiving low water pressure because they are located at higher altitudes. “There is no facility of storage higher than this altitude,” he said.  The department, he said, is considering improving the distribution network. A 300-mm pipeline is in the final stages of completion and storage reservoirs are planned at various locations to improve supply depending on land availability, he added. A proposal for construction of an additional MBR having a 20,000m3 capacity on the hillock near Metastrips is under process, which will also improve water supply to Cortalim, Quelossim and Sancoale in addition to areas of Mormugao, Pauskar said. He explained that water released to Agasaim is on the same network of pipes servicing Cortalim, and pointed out that this arrangement has been in place for over 20 years. “There is no separate pipeline to the San Andre constituency from the Verna MBR,” the minister said. The main valves supplying water to Cortalim, Quelossim, Agasaim and Sancoale are located near the Verna MBR and are under the control of division IX. The valve to supply water to Agasaim is located near the Zuari river bank and is operated in coordination with WD III (PHE) as and when required for maintenance. Overhead reservoirs at New Vaddem and Mangor, construction of which has been completed, will be commissioned by March and May respectively after they are tested. A pump is also required to be installed at the New Vaddem reservoir, Pauskar said, even as he attributed the delay to abandonment of work by the earlier agency. Work resumed in December 2019 after it was re-tendered. The PWD, Pauskar said, was aware of the frequent breakdowns in the pipeline at Mayem and also that the existing pipes, which were laid over 20 years ago, require replacement. “Estimates are prepared for replacing the old pipelines and have been submitted for administrative approval,” he said. A 200m3 ground level reservoir is proposed at Lamgao to increase the storage capacity for the benefit of Mayem and Chorao, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pauskar-outlines-plan-to-boost-water-supply-to-several-parts/articleshow/80524502.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shops & eateries welcome longer hours, trains for all||MUMBAI: Traders’ federations and restaurant owners’ associations on Friday welcomed the state’s decision to extend their closing timings to 11pm and 1am, respectively. Currently, they shut shop two hours early. The simultaneous relaxation of train travel rules will boost business too, they said. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of Retailers Association of India (RAI) said, “This is a win-win (prospect) for consumers, businesses and the government. Longer operation hours will give consumers the flexibility to shop as per their convenience and help adhere to social distancing norms. The government too will benefit from increased tax collection.” Viren Shah, president of the Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association (FRTWA), said, “The increase in shop timings is a welcome move, especially for suburban shops and malls. It is possible to work with 30% employees because business is not plying at full capacity. Plus, staff is being called on alternate days in any case.” Sachin Dhanawade, chief operating officer (retail and real estate) of the firm which operates Growel’s 101 Mall in Kandivli, said, “Overall, footfalls had improved by 70% in December 2020 and now we are hopeful that recovery will be faster.” The Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR), the apex body of the restaurant industry, lauded the decision too. AHAR president Shivanand Shetty said, “Without local train services, our employees have been undergoing untold hardship in commuting while restaurant owners were incurring losses due to the time restrictions. Friday’s measures will enable the industry to regain confidence and help in employment generation. We thank the state government for this.” Before the Covid lockdown, restaurants and bars were allowed to be open till 1.30am. Hoteliers said the additional half an hour can be restored soon, given the industry’s track record in implementing Covid norms. FRTWA’s Shah said, “It will improve business to a certain extent, not fully though. Train timings for general public and shoppers are unviable. But these will help staffers late at night. And customers can take advantage of the 12-4pm time slot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shops-eateries-welcome-longer-hours-trains-for-all/articleshow/80593330.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No headway in case of 78-year-old man hit on zebra crossing||MUMBAI: Is road safety given attention only during ‘Road Safety Month’? The family of a 78-year-old pedestrian has been groping for answers as police investigations seem to have hit a dead end a month-and-a-half after he was injured in a hit-and-run. The mishap on a pedestrian crossing underlines the need for better infrastructure to protect vulnerable pedestrians, such as senior citizens. Prabhakar Churi was strolling at Four Bungalows around 7.30pm on December 9, 2020. He was crossing the road, beneath the Metro line, when a speeding motorcycle rammed into him. Churi’s head hit the road and was bleeding but the motorcyclist did not halt to help. “My father had a card with his name and our landline phone number, so bystanders called us up. We live nearby and rushed there to find him lying near the divider,” said his daughter, Mugdha. A plainclothes constable took some details from Mugdha but apparently did not inform the police station. TimesViewAnnual road crash data for 2018-19 shows pedestrians are the biggest casualties on Mumbai’s streets. Yet, little is done to make their journey safer. Junction transformation (completed at few locations) will be a right step in this direction. The streets need continuous footpaths, protected zebra crossings and refuge islands for walkers. Strict enforcement and scientific investigation of crash cases are equally necessary.Churi was wheeled into Kokilaben Ambani Hospital with a swelling on the back of his head and over his eyebrow. Tests showed intra-cerebral bleeding. “The hospital informed police. A female officer told us CCTV cameras would have captured the perpetrator and he would be caught,” said Mugdha. Churi spent a fortnight at the hospital. His family said his memory got foggy and he blanked out after the crash. “He used to be very active, taking two-hour walks every evening. We would find it difficult to make him stay at home. Now, he is a shadow of his former self. He finds it difficult to walk steadily, so he has to remain indoors,” said Mugdha, who visits the crash site repeatedly to make inquiries. A D N Nagar police station officer said they checked footage from multiple cameras. “While the crash has been captured on one, the motorcycle’s numberplate cannot be seen. No witness could note down the registration number. We are probing the case,” the officer said. Transport experts said pedestrian crossings must be protected so that people can cross safely. “Merely painting zebra crossings will not make it safer for pedestrians. This crash at Andheri is a case in point. If you are designating a space for pedestrians to cross and not taking measures to manage speed, it will not work. There has to be a refuge for pedestrians to wait safely and a speed-breaker before the crossing,” said Dhawal Ashar, a road safety expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-headway-in-case-of-78-yr-old-man-hit-on-zebra-crossing/articleshow/80593324.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 30, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals’ panel draws up Swasthya Sathi plans||KOLKATA: The task force formed by private hospitals to engage with the government on issues related to the Swasthya Sathi scheme met on Friday. The task force will be writing to the state health secretary on three major issues — percentage of beds to be earmarked for patients under the scheme, categories of patients who should be seeking treatment and also on revising the rate of the scheme. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) has set up a six-member task force that will work as a nodal body on behalf of all private healthcare units in Kolkata for all issues related to Swasthya Sathi. The task force will be recommending that all private hospitals be allowed to reserve 15% of their bed strength for Swasthya Sathi patients while the rest will cater to private patients. The task force comprises AHEI president and AMRI group CEO Rupak Barua, AHEI vice-president and Narayana Health regional director R Venkatesh, Belle Vue Clinic CEO Pradip Tandon, Fortis Hospitals senior VP Richa Deb Gupta, Apollo CEO Rana Dasgupta and Medica chairman Alok Roy. “Since Swasthi Sathi has become a universal health scheme, there could be an influx of patients and hence we need a policy to limit the intake of patients under the scheme so that hospitals can sustain,” said a head of a hospital on EM Bypass. Even as the government has agreed to revise the existing rate of the scheme, the task force will again be writing on the issue and also insist that only patients who need tertiary care be catered by private hospitals under this scheme. The task force is also formulating an SOP to be followed by all private hospitals while taking in Swasthya Sathi patients. The core committee is expected to present this SOP to the health secretary during the next meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-panel-draws-up-swasthya-sathi-plans/articleshow/80590832.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||Administrative reshuffle in MP: 9 IAS officers transferred||Bhopal: Nine Indian Administrative Services’ officers of the rank of chief executive officers in panchayats were traneferred on Friday. Those transferred include Santosh Kumar Verm CEO dist panchayat Dhar to additional commissioner urban administration Bhopal.Others are Girish Kumar Mishra CEO dist panchayat Damoh to additional commissioner excise, Gwalior, Ajay Shrivastava GM rural road devlopment authority, Bhopal to CEO dist panchayat Damoh, Kishore Kumar Kanyal additional collector Gwalior to CEO dist panchayat Gwalior.Ashish Vashishta senior additional collector Bhopal to CEO dist panchayat Dhar, Riju Bafna CEO dist panchayat Satna to CEO dist panchayat, Jabalpur, Saloni Sidana additional mission director NHM Bhopal to additional collector, Dhar, Parth Jaiswal CEO dist panchayat Shahdol to CEO dist panchayat, Seoni and Harendra Narayan additional commissioner BMC, Bhopal to CEO dist panchayat, Satna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/administrative-reshuffle-in-mp-9-ias-officers-transferred/articleshow/80592134.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Meerut||At massive mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, Naresh Tikait says, 'Farmers’ stir will go on'||Muzaffarnagar: Tens of thousands of farmers reached Muzaffarnagar’s GIC grounds on Friday afternoon to attend a ‘mahapanchayat’ called by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Naresh Tikait amid heavy police presence. Putting to rest all the speculation -- some news portals on Thursday evening said that he has called for an end to the protest at Ghazipur border -- Tikait asserted that the stir will continue. Leaders from several political parties as well as important khaps also shared the dais with Tikait.Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary and AAP MP Sanjay Singh addressed the gathering among others. Both Chaudhary and Singh called for the mobilization of farmers from the western Uttar Pradesh.The mahapanchayat resolved to throw its full weight behind the Ghazipur protest.Naresh Tikait’s emotive plea seemed to have propelled the crowd to head to the protest site at the UP Gate in Ghazipur and boost the numbers there.Tikait told the charged crowd to move towards the Delhi border, about 100 km away. He, however, stressed that they should go peacefully and proceed in small groups rather than big ones.“We will continue to protest against farm laws until the government withdraws them,” he said.The GIC grounds witnessed a sea of participants while hundreds of tractors with the tricolour and flags of farm unions were parked along roads near the venue. As Muzaffarnagar became the meeting point for farmers from across the region, RLD's Jayant Chaudhary tweeted, "It is a matter of life and death for farmers, but do not worry. All have to stay together, united in this -- this is Chaudhary saahab's (Ajit Singh's) message."“Lathi se desh nahi chal sakta, sarkar ka ek iqbal hota hai jo isne kho diya hai (The country cannot be run by the use of force. The government has a prestige, which it has lost today,” Chaudhary told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/at-massive-mahapanchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-naresh-tikait-says-farmers-stir-will-go-on/articleshow/80590830.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 30, 2021||Meerut||Hathras gangrape: Local courtadjourns hearing to February 11||Agra: A special SC/ST court in Hathras on Friday adjourned the hearing of gang rape and murder case of the 19-year-old girl for two weeks. The court didn’t deliver any order on the bail plea of one of the accused, Ramu, after hearing the arguments.Talking to TOI, the victim’s lawyer Bhagirath Singh Solanki, said that after hearing the arguments on the bail plea, the court reserved the order and it is likely to be issued on Saturday. The hearing in the main case is scheduled on February 11.The victim’s elder brother also reached the court. Last month, the CBI had filed a chargesheet in the court of special judge (SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act) BD Bharti in Hathras and invoked charges against four accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Lavkush.They have been charged under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 376A (punishment for causing death of resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim) and 376D (gang rape) of the IPC, and under section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of 10 years or more against a person on the grounds that the person belongs to an SC or ST community).The CBI had registered the case on October 11 and started investigating two days later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hathras-gangrape-local-courtadjourns-hearing-to-february-11/articleshow/80590834.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||Suspense continues over SEC’s voting right in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: The suspense over granting of voting right to state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar continues. After Duggirala tehsildar turned down his application stating that he doesn’t reside in the village, the SEC filed an appeal with the district collector. Dinesh Kumar, the in-charge collector of Guntur district, is yet to take a call on the issue. The SEC is planning to approach the court seeking inclusion of his name in the voters’ list if the district administration rejects his appeal. Although a native of Duggirala village in Mangalagiri constituency, the SEC has been living in Hyderabad for long and got his name enrolled in the electoral list there. Following the bifurcation of the state, the then TDP government appointed Nimmagadda as SEC in 2016. While many leaders, including then chief minister Chandrababu Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh got their votes shifted to AP, the SEC never made any attempt to transfer his voting right to AP despite working as SEC of the state. As per rules, residing in a particular place is mandatory for grant of vote in that area. Interestingly, Nimmagadda, despite heading the constitutional authority for nearly three years, made the attempt to shift his vote to his native place only after getting reinstated as SEC. He did not exercise his franchise in the 2019 general elections in AP. Sources said his neighbours in Duggirala collected the notice issued by the local tehsildar rejecting his application for vote, and shared it with Nimmagadda. In-charge collector Dinesh Kumar refused to comment on the issue. Duggirala panchayat is going to polls in the first phase on February 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/suspense-continues-over-secs-voting-right-in-ap/articleshow/80590835.cms||Samdani MN
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||‘No ownership for non-tribals in tribal areas’||Vijayawada: The high court on Friday directed the state government not to give ownership rights to non-tribals in tribal areas which are covered under Schedule 5 of the Constitution. The HC bench headed by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar passed the interim order after hearing a PIL against the government’s ambitious integrated land survey project. Aadivasi Samkshema Parishath of AP moved the PIL in the high court, stating that resurvey of lands under YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhu Hakku and Bhu Raksha programme to provide permanent land rights even in tribal areas is in violation of existing special laws. The counsel for the state government clarified that the resurvey is meant to update land records only and the government has not passed any orders to give ownership rights to non-tribal persons in scheduled areas. The high court said ownership rights cannot be given to non-tribal people after 1/70 Act came into force. While allowing the land survey to continue, the court directed the government to comply with the law with regard to lands in Schedule 5 areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-ownership-for-non-tribals-in-tribal-areas/articleshow/80590846.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 30, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana second in services sector in past five years||HYDERABAD: Telangana is at second spot when it comes to services sector growth in the five-year period from 2015-16 to 2019-20. While Tripura is at top (10.5%), Telangana is a close second with an average growth rate of 10.2%. Karnataka, Haryana and Uttarakhand are the other states in the top five club, according to the Economic Survey Report (2021) tabled in Parliament on Friday. According to the report, the services sector accounts for over 60% of the Gross State Value Added (GSVA) in eight states/Union Territories, while in 15 states it accounts for over 50% of GSVA. 17% jump seen in FDI in April-September 2020GSVA is the rupee value of the amount of goods and services produced in a state after deducting the cost of inputs and raw materials that have gone into production of these goods and services. The survey report also pointed out that states with a relatively lower share of services in GSVA such as Tripura, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Arunachal Pradesh have witnessed strong services sector growth in recent years. The Economic Survey also said that despite the global slowdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown measures and supply chain disruptions, the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) into India recorded a nearly 17% jump during the April-September 2020 period as compared to the same period last year and the services sector, being the largest recipient of FDI in India, witnessed a strong growth during the period. Telangana State Planning Board vice chairman and former MP B Vinod Kumar pointed out that growth in the services sector was a sign of development as it was a jobs multiplier. The fast-paced services sector growth in Telangana shows that the state is a growing economic force in the country, he added. K Narasimha Murty, independent director, National Stock Exchange, pointed out that states with a robust services sector would have more growth opportunities than those focused on manufacturing sector. Cities such as Hyderabad and Bengaluru have a strong IT industry, which was contributing to services sector growth in Telangana and Karnataka, respectively, Murty told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-2nd-in-services-sector-in-past-5-yrs/articleshow/80594531.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 30, 2021||Meerut||Covid vax did not cause heart patient’s death: Autopsy report||Pilibhit: The autopsy report of a nutrition worker, Pratap Ram (55) of Amaria, who died hours after he was administered the first jab of Covishield vaccine here on Thursday, has stated that he died due to myocardial infarction or cardiac arrest. His family had said he was a heart patient. Nine other health care workers who were administered the vaccine from the same vial were absolutely healthy without showing signs of any physical complication, said Dr CM Chaturvedi, additional chief medical officer. Following the orders of district magistrate Pulkit Khare, Ram’s autopsy was conducted on Friday by a panel of two government medical officers – Dr Sahispal Singh and Dr Rakesh Kumar. Ruling out any connection between his death and Covid vaccine, Chaturvedi said a stent had been placed in the narrowed coronary artery of Ram 2017 to improve the blood supply to his heart and he was dependent on cardiac medicines.The autopsy report said Ram’s heart had enlarged. As compared to the normal weight of 200 grams, his heart was found to weigh 400 grams. Blood clots were traced in the valve of his heart of which the right ventricle was filled with blood while the left one was empty. His lungs were also found to be congested, which were releasing the blood mixed fluid on pressing, said Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-vax-did-not-cause-heart-patients-death-autopsy-report/articleshow/80590842.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||After almost 10 months, Nepalese government decides to open land border with India||Pithoragarh: After a gap of almost 10 months, the Nepalese government has decided to open its side of the land border with India. Sources confirmed to TOI that the decision to open the border — which was closed since March 23 last year on account of the Covid-19 pandemic — was taken by the Nepalese cabinet on Thursday. However, the sources added that movement of people across the border hasn’t started yet as the Indian government has not taken any decision so far on opening its side of the border. They added that the Nepalese government has decided that at present, movement of only Indian and Nepalese nationals will be allowed and citizens of other countries will not be permitted to cross the border. India and Nepal have an around 1750-km-long border, with 36 points for public movement. Uttarakhand shares an almost 275-km-long border with the neighbouring country. A number of traders in the border areas of the state are dependent on Nepalese customers and likewise, scores of people from Nepal come to Uttarakhand and other states in search of jobs. With the border being closed and only emergency movement being permitted, many people were facing problems and therefore, there were continued requests to the governments of both countries to have the border movement resumed at the earliest. When queried about the matter, Himanshu Kafaltia, SDM of Tanakpur in Chmpawat district (which shares the border with Nepal), said that they did not have any written information from the Nepalese government yet on the border opening although they had been intimated regarding the same on the phone by Nepalese officials. Vijay Kumar Jogdande, district magistrate of Pithoragarh meanwhile said that “the decision to open the border on our side will be taken at the central government level.” “We have have no information yet about the Nepalese government decision,” the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-almost-10-months-nepalese-government-decides-to-open-land-border-with-india/articleshow/80589738.cms||Prem Punetha
January 30, 2021||Delhi||No Covid case in over 100 hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: More than 100 city hospitals where beds were earmarked for Covid-19 patients at the peak of the outbreak have now become Covid-free. Data shared by the government shows there is no patient suffering from the viral infection in these hospitals, including AIIMS Jhajjar, Max East/West Block, VIMHANS and Sir Ganga Ram City hospital. At the peak of the outbreak in November, most of these hospitals had 90% to 100% occupancy. “The beds have gone vacant due to sharp reduction in new cases over the past one month,” officials in the state health department said. On Friday, Delhi recorded 249 new cases, even as the positivity rate stayed much below 0.5%. A day earlier, 58,725 tests were conducted. The infection tally in the city stood at 6.34 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,841 with six new fatalities, authorities said on Friday. The capital had recorded 96 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the lowest in over 10 months. In view of the falling number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi government had recently ordered resumptions of surgeries, OPDs and other medical services at its state-run hospitals. At present, the city has a total of 8,701 Covid beds. Of this, data shared by the hospitals on the Delhi Corona app shows 8,004 (92%) are lying vacant. There are 1,141 Covid ICU beds with ventilator support and 1,825 Covid ICU beds without a ventilator, of which 83% and 93%, respectively, are lying vacant. “Over the last one week, new cases have remained below 250. Active cases are also going down. The reduction is reflected in the occupancy of beds as well. This trend is likely to hold,” said a senior doctor at Maulana Azad Medical College. A sero-prevalence study carried out by the hospital recently showed more than 50% of people in the state have antibodies against thenovel coronavirus that causes Covid-19, meaning they had been exposed to the virus already.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-covid-case-in-over-100-hospitals-sharp-reduction-over-the-month-249-new-cases-six-deaths-in-last-24-hrs/articleshow/80593349.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 30, 2021||India||Farmer who filed complaint against Tharoor is a college principal||BHOPAL: The farmer whose complaint led to an FIR against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six senior journalists in Bhopal on allegations of ‘promoting enmity’ is the principal of a private college. The complainant, Sanjay Raghuwanshi, couldn’t be reached over phone on Friday. TOI went to his house in Koushal Nagar in Misrod, but he wasn't there. On Thursday, ASP Rajesh Singh Bhadouria had said Raghuwanshi is a farmer. Asked about this, Raghuwanshi's wife told TOI that they own agricultural land. He didn’t take calls on the mobile phone mentioned in the FIR. Misrod police, too, were tightlipped though officers said it was being probed on ‘priority’. DIG Irshad Wali said police will seek information from Twitter, which hosts the accounts from which alleged misinformation was posted on the day of the tractor rally violence in Delhi. A team may be sent to Delhi for investigation. Tharoor and the others have been booked under IPC 153A, 153A (1b) and 505 (2) — promoting enmity, committing an act that is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between communities, making statements to create enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes. They have not been charged with sedition though the complaint had asked for it. Asked if any more charges / sections will be added to the case, ASP Bhadouria said sedition charges do not apply to the complaint filed by Raghuwanshi. “Investigation is on and further action depends on its outcome,” he said. Apart from Tharoor, those named in the FIR are Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod K Jose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmer-who-filed-complaint-against-tharoor-is-a-college-principal/articleshow/80595120.cms||Sudeept Mishra
January 30, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Oxygen tanks will be bought, not hired||NASHIK: The standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday directed the civic administration to purchase large oxygen tanks for the Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospitals instead of hiring them. The civic administration has also been directed to set up an oxygen plant with adequate capacity for the Bytco hospital instead of sourcing oxygen from the contractor. This decision comes after the panel members opposed the move of the NMC of taking large oxygen tanks with 20,000 litres capacity on rent and source oxygen from the contractor at the rate of Rs 17 per litre. Rahul Dive, the Congress corporator and a panel member, said NMC has its own two oxygen tanks set up at the private medical college in the city for Covid-19 patients, but the Covid cases have reduced. “Instead of bringing our oxygen tanks from the private medical college, the NMC is hiring two oxygen tanks from the private agency on monthly rent for 10 years. The NMC is also spending for the foundation. The contractor concerned will take back the oxygen tanks after 10 years,” said Diwe. “So, we want the NMC to cancel its decision of installing two oxygen tanks on rental basis and buy the tanks instead,” added Diwe. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, NMC’s medical superintend, said the decision to buy two large oxygen tanks for Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospitals had been taken during the Covid outbreak. But we decided to install two large tanks— one with a capacity of 19,000 litre and another with 10,000 litre — at Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospitals, respectively, considering the demand in future. The standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite directed to cancel its decision of hiring two oxygen tanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/oxygen-tanks-will-be-bought-not-hired/articleshow/80589791.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 30, 2021||Meerut||Elderly farmer killed by stray bull in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 60-year-old marginal farmer was killed by a stray bull at Piparia Bhanja village in Pilibhit on Thursday evening.The farmer, identified as Kalicharan, was in his wheat field to guard standing crops from stray cattle. His body has been sent for autopsy.The deceased’s son, Bhoj Raj, said that his father could not see the bull as it struck him violently in the field. Locals rushed to rescue the farmer, but he succumbed to internal injuries while being shifted to a primary health centre.Pilibhit SDM Avinash Chandra Maurya said the case would be referred to higher authorities for compensation of at least Rs 5 lakh under 'Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojana' after the autopsy report.Earlier, another farmer, Radha Kishan, 34, of Barramau village under Barkhera police station was killed by a stray bull on January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/elderly-farmer-killed-by-stray-bull-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80590859.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Victory Flame: A symbol of sacrifice by bravehearts||Jaipur: Flame symbolising the victory of India in 1971 war has reached Rajasthan. Known as the ‘Victory Flame,’ it is travelling in four cardinal directions of four army commands in the country commemorating the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ i. e. completion of 50 years of Bangladesh war.Hundreds of Indian soldiers lost their lives and showed exceptional courage in Bangladesh liberation war. The Victory Flame reached Jaipur on January 25 after travelling through Delhi – Mathura-Bharatpur-Alwar-Hisar-Jaipur with a halt of 10 days each place. It will stay in Rajasthan till February 6.As per the information provided by military, the flame is travelling in a gypsy with glass cover especially modified at station workshop in New Delhi. The body of the Victory Flame is made of brass metal and approximately three litres of citronella torch fuel is used every day to keep the flame ignited.The flame was received by Commander, Tanot Brigade at Jaipur military station. A ceremonial event including a victory run attended by large number of troops and their family members were held at the Jaipur military station.Public relations officer at Jaipur military area Lt Col Amitabh Sharma while talking to TOI said, “It’s a historical moment for every Indian. According to the protocol whenever the flame reaches the military area it is usually put up in the War Memorial in the station or in Quarter Guard of the unit. In Jaipur, it is kept in the Quarter Guard of the unit. From here it has been taken to Pilani and other parts of the state.”There are strict protocols to be followed while carrying the flame. It is always carried by Officer-in-Charge and handed over to the Chief Guest of the event. The Flame has to be guarded all the time with strict orderly march along with the flame. Before removing and putting it back on the stand, the flame has to be saluted by the army officials.Major Mangesh Patil, Scinde Horse regiment, is the officer accompanying the flame. On January 26, the Victory Flame was taken to the houses of 1971 war heroes in Jaipur – Lt Col P Tulsian and late Lt Col Govind Singh, both were awarded by Veer Chakra for their exemplary courage shown in 1971 war.Key Points –Swarnim Vijay Varsh is celebrated from December 16, 2020 to December 16 2021The flame was ignited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at National War Memorial in New Delhi on December 16, 2020Victory Flame torch is travelling many stations in RajasthanFrom Rajasthan it will travel to BhatindaSoil will be taken as token of sacrifice made by people of that areaThe soil will be taken back to War Memorial, New DelhiVox PopLt Col P Tulsian (Retd)I have been residing in Vaishali Nagar colony for the past 20 years after my retirement in 2001, but nobody knew my achievements in war. Civilians do not remember the sacrifices by the soldiers. but after this event at my home, my neighbours have started to look at me with more respect and honour.Digvijay Singh, son of late Col Govind SinghWe didn’t expect that flame will be brought to our house. It was a proud moment for all of us and if my father would have been alive, he would have been really happy. It is a good gesture by the Army to pay their respect to the veterans and their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/victory-flame-a-symbol-of-sacrifice-by-bravehearts/articleshow/80592192.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Anxiety, stress major issues among children||Jaipur: Children from Banswara, Udaipur, Kota and Jaipur were the ones calling up the helpline number launched by the child commission on January 19. Majority of the complaints were of being in depression, anxiety and stress.According to officials, the major problems being faced by minors are that they are unable to concentrate on studies, academics issues as well as future concerns. “The majority of the calls we get is due to IQ problems, depression, disability, stress and anxiety, said an official.“Apart from this, we get a lot of calls about gutka and alcohol addiction as well as wild behaviour. Mobile addiction has been witnessed among children of 10 years and above,” he added.The Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) will soon launch an awareness campaign during which the department officials will visit districts to inform people about children rights.The commission will educate people and children about their rights under the POCSO Act. It will also take into account why many children are unable to get access to education. The campaign called ‘Aayog Aapke Dwar’ will take off from Alwar.“The aim is that we should reach maximum people and for that we are also taking measures so that it has a far reaching impact,” said an official.The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019 also paints a dismal picture of the condition of women in Rajasthan with the state topping the list when it comes to cases of assault on women, domestic violence as well as attempt to rape. While 6,977 cases were registered of assault on women which is the highest in the country, the desert state had 18,432 cases of domestic violence. While Rajasthan is leading in the number of rape cases with nearly 6,000 incidents, it is also on top with 1,019 attempt to rape cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/anxiety-stress-major-issues-among-children/articleshow/80592204.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||TRP case: Approver says ED forced him to change his police statement||MUMBAI: One of the accused in the alleged TRP manipulation scam, Umesh Mishra, has approached the Bombay HC, saying ED forced him to change his original statement to the Mumbai police as an approver. The scam is being probed by the city police, while ED has registered a separate money laundering case in the matter. Mishra has filed an intervention application in the petition filed by Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami seeking quashing of the police FIR. Mishra said he should be heard before any order is passed in the plea. A former employee of Hansa Research, an agency that was monitoring TRPs, Mishra was arrested from Virar in October for allegedly being involved in making payments to households to keep certain TV channels on and thus inflate viewership numbers. ‘Statement was recorded under threats by ED’He agreed to turn approver in the TRP rigging case and confessed before a magistrate under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, said his application filed on Thursday through advocates Dhinika Shah and Gaurav Borse. A statement under Section 164 of CrPC is admissible as evidence. Mishra said he was summoned by the ED on December 18 to record his statement, and on the same day when he went, “his statement was recorded under threats, contrary to the statement… recorded before Metropolitan Magistrate.” “The intervener states that his true and correct statement has not been recorded by the officer of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), but the same is recorded which is not his true and correct statement,” said his application, pleading that therefore, he should be heard “to bring the facts” before the court. An HC bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale is hearing the petition. The court posted the matter for hearing to February 12 with the main petition. The bench told additional solicitor general Anil Singh appearing for the ED that it would hear him too at the “appropriate time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trp-case-approver-says-ed-forced-him-to-change-his-police-statement/articleshow/80594515.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Rules flouted in forming JMC Greater panels: Opposition||JAIPUR: The opposition on Friday termed the formation of committees by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater board on Thursday as against rule. In the first board meeting of JMC, Greater, around 24 committees were formed and a list of chairpersons with members were also released. Sheel Dabhai, former Jaipur mayor who had cried when Somya Gurjar was made mayor of Jaipur city by ignoring her, has been made chairman of revenue committee. Deputy mayor Puneet Karnawat will now be heading law committee, while the head of the executive committee will be mayor Gurjar. For streetlights and sanitation, three committees each have been formed dividing wards from 1 to 50, 51 to 100 and 101 to 150. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said that according to rules JMC can make only six committees and rest will be formed by the state government. Sharma said, “Not only many irregularities in the formation of committees are seen, such as appointing the chairpersons of several committees as members in other committees given which is traditionally incorrect. Similarly, no Congress member was given a place in the committee due to political rivalry.” She further said that mayor had given space to eight members from her own Ward 87 in different committees. Refuting the allegations made by the Congress spokesperson, JMC, Greater deputy mayor Puneet Karnawat said, “These are false allegations and it is required by Archana Sharma to read the Act carefully. According to the Act, we can make 21 committees above which we had sent a proposal to the state government. We have already sent a proposal to the state government after which the remaining committees will be formed. It is expected with such a senior Congress leader to check facts before making any statement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rules-flouted-in-forming-jmc-greater-panels-oppn/articleshow/80592180.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: NMC chief dumps waste tax idea, says it’ll be a burden on citizens||NASHIK: Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Friday said garbage collection tax, as advised by the Centre, will not be introduced in the city because it will increase the burden on citizens. “The civic body already has a provision in place to fine people who do not segregate waste at source and those who litter garbage in open spaces or on roadsides,” Jadhav told TOI. “Moreover, one component of property tax includes an element of sanitation tax. Hence, there is no need to levy garbage tax,” he said. Civic officials said the garbage tax would have ranged between Rs 200 and Rs 600 per month for residential and commercial properties, respectively. The NMC fines citizens who faile to segregate dry and wet waste. A fine of Rs 300 is slapped on a citizen found handing over mixed garbage to waste collectors or vans for the first time and Rs 500 penalty for the second offence. The civic body also fines those littering in public places. In the current financial year, the civic squads have so far fined 704 erring residents for not segregating waste at source and recovered Rs 3.75lakh from them. The NMC has also fined 547 residents for littering in public places and collected Rs 6.48 lakh. The civic body has deployed four contractors in its six divisions to collect garbage and transport it to the compost plant at Pathardi, on the outskirts of the city. A total of 250 garbage collection vans have been deployed across the six divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-chief-dumps-waste-tax-idea-says-itll-be-a-burden-on-citizens/articleshow/80589809.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 30, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: 58 vacant firemen posts to be filled on honorarium basis||NASHIK: The standing committee of the civic administration on Friday directed officials to immediately start the process to recruit personnel on an honorarium basis and fill up the 58 vacant posts of firemen. A decision to this effect comes in the wake of a spate of fire incidents across the country. The one closer home was the fire that broke out at the store room — that is used by leader of opposition in the NMC Ajay Boraste and Shiv Sena functionary Vilas Shinde —at the headquarters of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) in Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan recently. During the meeting, the standing committee sought feedback from the fire brigade department. Sanjay Bairagi, fire brigade chief of the NMC, said, “We don’t have enough manpower. Many posts in the fire brigade department are lying vacant for many years.” “Currently, there are six fire stations in the city. We have proposed three more fire stations where we are unable to start operations due to to lack of manpower,” said Bairagi. According to Bairagi, the NMC has a total of 151 government-approved posts for firemen —58 of which have become vacant following retirement of personnel. The civic body has 15 government-approved posts of fire officers, 11 of which are vacant. Manoj Ghode Patil, deputy commissioner (administration), said, “We can’t recruit manpower on daily wage basis but can recruit personnel on honorarium basis.” Ganesh Gite, chairman of the standing committee, has directed the civic administration to publish advertisements regarding the vacant firemen posts and fill them up on priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/58-vacant-firemen-posts-to-be-filled-on-honorarium-basis/articleshow/80589823.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 30, 2021||Delhi||11 days on, student attendance continues to be thin in Delhi schools||NEW DELHI: It has been over a week since schools reopened for students of classes X and XII but there still hasn’t been any significant increase in the number of students attending the schools. Principals say they are trying to convince parents that it is important for students to complete practicals before the board exams. After almost ten months, schools were allowed to reopen for classes X and XII on January 18. At Government Co-ed Sarvodaya School at Sector-8 in Rohini, only 50% of Class X and 35% of Class XII students are attending the physical classes. “While science students say they want to appear for Joint Entrance Examination in February, many commerce students claim to be preparing for CA exam,” said Awadesh Kumar Jha, the principal. With not everyone attending physical classes, schools are having to run both online and offline modes of teaching. However, this leads to problems of coordination, say school authorities. At Ahlcon School, only 50% of the students have been attending classes since they resumed. Ashok Pandey, the director of the school, said, “Instilling confidence among parents is the need of the hour. With some students coming to the school and others studying from home, ensuring coordination, completing syllabus and tracking children’s progress are challenging tasks for us.” Even at Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, the student attendance hasn’t improved. “We have been trying to convince parents that practicals require students’ presence. Around 30-35% students are still not coming to the school,” said principal Jyoti Arora. At Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Yamuna Vihar, the number of students attending the school has hovered between 70 and 80%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/11-days-on-student-attendance-continues-to-be-thin-in-schools/articleshow/80593418.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Avian flu cases, bird deaths on steady decline across state||Pune: Avian influenza cases and bird deaths in Maharashtra have seen a steady decline in the past few days, with the number of mortalities and positive samples dipping since January 25. From over 900-1,000 deaths recorded from January 13 till 25, the number of daily mortalities is now down to 100-300. Maharashtra animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI that bird flu might be receding in the state with the number of crow and other bird mortalities declining in the past four-five days. “If the trend continues for several days, we may consider that avian influenza has subsided in Maharashtra. Some ornithologists were also of the view that once the winter migration of birds to India reduces, the incidence of avian influenza will also drop. But more scientific evaluation would be needed to attribute a cause to the sudden dip in the bird mortalities,” said Singh. Another animal husbandry department official said sanitization activities in the 1-km radius of the infected zones had been carried out in 16 districts. “There has been no recurrence of avian influenza cases in those parts,” he said. Animal husbandry department data revealed that 142 poultry birds were found dead in Maharashtra on Thursday in districts such as Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, Latur, Osmanabad and Amravati. Mortalities were also reported in 11 other bird species, like heron, sparrow, and parrot. Thane accounted for 10 bird deaths and Ratnagiri one mortality. Fifteen crows — six in Mumbai and nine in Thane — were found dead in the state. With this, the total bird mortality in the state on Thursday went up to 168, much lower than the daily deaths in the past. On Wednesday, the department received results of tests of some samples from the Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Disease. None of the poultry bird samples tested positive for avian influenza. The positive samples for avian influenza were those of a peacock from Khandala and an owl from Hangarga in Nanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/avian-flu-cases-bird-deaths-on-steady-decline-across-state/articleshow/80593485.cms||Neha Madaan
January 30, 2021||Aurangabad||Consider framing murder, conspiracy charges against 7 cops, doctor: HC||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has directed a trial court in Ahmednagar to consider framing of murder, attempt to destroy evidence and criminal conspiracy charges against seven policemen and one private medical practitioner in the alleged custodial death of a 50-year-old woman in Ahmednagar district in 2007. According to a couple of petitions filed by the son and brother of the deceased woman, Suman Kale, she was illegally picked up by the police on May 12, 2007 from Burudgaon in Ahmednagar district for questioning in a 2006 dacoity case registered by Shrirampur police and was tortured at various places, including Kotwali police station, LCB office and Government Guest House. Two days later, she was admitted to a private hospital where she died while undergoing treatment. The state CID had filed a chargesheet for suicide abetment, concluding that the woman had consumed poison while in custody, against the seven policemen and the doctor, prompting her son Saheb and brother Girish Chavan to file the petitions seeking directions for action against the policemen and the doctor, who is accused of creating false medical reports. The HC bench of justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar observed in a recent judgment that there was enough prima facie evidence to indicate murder, criminal conspiracy and attempt to destroy evidence in the case and the trial court ought to consider this at the time of framing of charges. “It can be said that in ordinary course as per procedure prescribed, the police must have done frisking, personal search, which needs to be done at the time of arrest. The poison described would be ordinarily in liquid form insecticide and so it does not look probable that police had kept a bottle of poison in the custody of the deceased,” the bench observed. “It will be the duty of the trial court to segregate truth from falsehood as in most of the statements of police officers an attempt is made to see that the accused, police officers, do not get conviction,” the bench said. The bench not only granted a Rs5 lakh compensation to the legal representatives of the woman, but also directed the lower court to complete the trial in six months. Lawyer Govind Kulkarni, who represented the petitioners, said, “We had sought directions for registration of murder case, transfer of investigation to an independent agency and Rs 3 lakh compensation. Also, seeking directives in 2015 to quash the state government’s sanction to prosecute for abetment of suicide and criminal conspiracy.” The HC took cognizance of the fact that the deceased woman reportedly sustained internal and external injuries before falling unconscious on May 14, 2007. After her death on May 16, 2007, it was alleged that records were prepared to depict that she died by suicide after consuming some poisonous substance. However, an autopsy report revealed that the deceased sustained ante-mortem injuries and out of 12 injuries, nine were of assault and one was brain haemorrhage. The private hospital did not record these injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/consider-framing-murder-conspiracy-charges-against-7-cops-doctor-hc/articleshow/80589827.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 30, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Classes VI-VIII to resume on February 8||PATNA: The Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the state government on Friday decided to allow schools to allow classes VI to VIII to open from February 8. Classes IX-XII are already functioning with 50% attendance and other restrictive measures due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The CMG headed by chief secretary decided in its meeting on Friday to allow the resumption of classes for standard 6 to 8 from February 8. Classes IX-XII have already been allowed. So students of Class VI onwards can now go to school with a restriction of 50% strength in every class along with other preventive measures such as compulsory face masks and thermal screening among others,” Sanjay Kumar, secretary, education department told this newspaper. Students and school administrations welcomed the decision to open more classes. Shashwat Shwetank, a Class VI student of Delhi Public School, said, “I am excited to meet my friends. It’s been nine months since we met each other. I am also looking forward to resuming my robotics class and sports activities in school.” Mrinal Singh, a student of DAV Public School, said, “I am thrilled that I’ll be able to resume my normal classes as I was getting fed up of the constant staring at the computer screen due to the online classes.” Farhat Hasan, director of International School, said, “We welcome the government’s decision to reopen the secondary school for students. Since students from Class IX onwards were already attending school, all precautionary measures and protocols are already in place. Adherence to the SOPs will be followed even when the number of students increases.” Abhishek Patrick, the assistant director of Jesus and Mary Academy said, “The students need to resume their physical classes to break the psychological barrier that has developed due to Covid and its fears. Unlike the primary section students, standard 6 to 8 children are capable enough to handle themselves in the prevailing pandemic situation.” D B Singh, president of Association of Independent Schools, Bihar welcomed the decision to allow classes from standard 6 and expected that junior classes will also be allowed from mid-February. However, some parents are still apprehensive. Kanak Kumari, the mother of a Class VIII student, said, “The vaccination drive has just started and it’ll take some time for everyone to get vaccinated. I am still scared for my ward to go to school with the Coronavirus still being a threat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/classes-vi-viii-to-resume-on-feb-8/articleshow/80590947.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Steady drop in fresh Covid cases||JAIPUR: There is a significant drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases and the active cases in the state. On Friday, 103 cases were reported in the state, while two people died of the disease. There was a decline in the number of active cases which are now 2,395 in the state. No Covid deaths were reported in Jaipur as one death each was reported from Baran and Sikar. Doctors attributed early detection of cases, medicinal protocol and investigations for the fall in cases. “There has been a continuous dip in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases and in this year so far the deaths too are ranging between three to 0 per day which is a good sign. Also, we have reported almost 60% drop in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the second fortnight of January compared to the first fortnight,” said Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. District like Alwar, Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Jhalawar, Pratapgarh, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi and Tonk reported no fresh Covid cases. In Jaipur, the year started with 91 cases which have now come down to 18 cases. “The localities which were regularly reporting 15 to 20 cases daily are now reported one or two cases. Also, we have not been reporting deaths for the past couple of days. Also, there is a drop in the number of patients at hospitals. This is the reason why we have started reliving our staff to their earlier postings from RUHS,” said doctor Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS. On Friday, many districts reported less than 20 cases. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 12 cases were reported, Ajmer 10, Kota and Bhilwara 9 cases each and Nagaur 8. Jaipur is now left with 508 active cases, while the state has now 2,395 active cases. “Out of these, 90% are under home isolation which is a big relief,” said an officer with the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/steady-drop-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/80592246.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||1971 Bangladesh war veterans felicitated in Jhunjhunu district||Jaipur: The ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh Victory Flame’ was taken to Birla Education Trust, Pilani from Jhunjhunu where a felicitation ceremony was organised to honour the bravehearts of 1971 War on Friday.A ‘Last Mile Run’ with the ‘Victory Flame’ was also organised in which serving soldiers and NCC cadets participated. The run was flagged off by Major General Rajendra Rai, GOC Sub Area which culminated at the Birla Education Trust, Pilani.Rai felicitated honorary Captain Ram Kumar, Vir Chakra, Sahin Khan s/o Major MH Khan, Vir Chakra (Posthumous), Mohan Singh s/o Havildar Gangadhar, Vir Chakra (Posthumous), Santosh Devi w/o Havildar Nihal Singh ,Vir Chakra (Posthumous), Ravinder Kumar s/o Havildar Dayanand , Vir Chakra (Posthumous), Ex-Havildar Datta Ram s/o Sepoy Birda Ram, Vir Chakra (Posthumous), Mrs Mishri Devi w/o Late Naib Subedar Ram Singh, Vir Chakra in an event conducted at Birla Education Trust, Pilani.Sacred soil of Pilani was proudly presented by the awardees and their family members to be taken to the National War Memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1971-bangladesh-war-veterans-felicitated-in-jhunjhunu-district/articleshow/80592241.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Schools to reopen for classes IX, XI students on February 5||NEW DELHI: After opening for classes X and XII students, schools will reopen for classes IX and XI on February 5 to complete practicals and projects, education minister Manish Sisodia announced on Friday. He also said degree colleges, polytechnics and ITIs, too, could be opened. Following the announcement, the schools say they will begin with the process of collecting consent from parents. Sisodia said, “Schools and colleges are being reopened so that students can prepare better for their practicals and internal assessments. It is important to provide support and guidance to the students for them to prepare well for the exams.” He added that while it won’t be possible to compensate for the learning loss due to Covid-19, it was important to utilise the remaining time in this academic year. He also directed officials to ensure safety of the students. When schools reopened for classes X and XII students on January 18, parents were unsure about sending their children and the attendance was initially poor, Sisodia said. “But now parents have seen the schools’ preparedness and are convinced about their children’s safety” and close to 80% of those called are turning up, he added. The directorate of education said that for Class XI practicals, projects and internal assessments would be conducted at the school level from March 1. “Midterm examinations may be conducted from March 20 to April 15. Assessment of internal grades should also be done prior to the annual examinations,” the circular stated. For Class IX, schools may conduct the first and second periodic assessments preferably in the last week of February and the third week of March, respectively. Projects and assignments given as holiday homework or home assignments during the winter vacation will be considered as subject-enrichment activities. Schools, however, believe parents may not be interested in sending Class IX students. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “The Class XI science students are keen on coming to school and attending practical classes.” On accommodating all four classes while following social distancing, Joshi added, “We are almost done with the practicals of Class XII and will work out a schedule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-ix-xi-students-on-february-5/articleshow/80593494.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nashik||At 10.8°C, Nashik coldest city in Maharashtra||NASHIK: At 10.8 degrees celsius, Nashik city was the coldest in the state on Friday, followed by Pune at 12.7 degrees celsius. The minimum temperature of Nashik city on Friday declined by 0.2 degrees celsius as against 11 degrees celsius on Thursday. Also, the maximum temperature dropped by 2.1 degrees celsius to 29 degrees against the maximum temperature of 31.2 degrees on Thursday. After recording a minimum temperature at 10.4 degrees celsius on Monday, the minimum temperature increased to 12 degrees on Wednesday. But there has again been a drop in the minimum temperature of the city during the last two days. According to data sourced from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the sky will remain mainly clear and there will be a rise of up to 3 degrees celsius in the minimum temperature gradually by February 3. Niphad, a major grape-growing belt, recorded a minimum temperature of 8 degrees celsius on Friday. According to the weather station at the Agricultural Research Centre of Rahuri’s Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV) in Niphad, the minimum temperature had dropped to 6.5 degrees celsius on December 22, 2020, but there had been gradual rise in minimum temperature. On Monday, the minimum temperature in Niphad was recorded at 8.5 degrees and it hovered at around 9 degrees for the rest of the week before dipping to 8 degrees celsius on Friday. Malegaon city in Nashik district recorded a minimum temperature of 12.8 degrees on Friday, two degrees above normal. The maximum temperature was recorded at 27.8 degrees — 3 degrees above normal. Jalgaon on Friday recorded the minimum temperature of 14.6 degrees celsius, while the maximum temperature was recorded at 29.6 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-10-8c-nashik-coldest-city-in-state/articleshow/80589839.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers’ stir: Mahapanchayat in Rajasthan's Alwar on Sunday||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The situation remained tense at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border on Friday as nearly 250 locals from the nearby villages of Haryana protested seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi-Jaipur national highway (NH-8), said police officials. The locals have decided to hold a mahapanchayat at the border on Sunday. The protesters expressed anger as their businesses have been badly hit due to the farmers’ agitation and also condemned the hoisting of a religious flag at the Red Fort on the Republic Day. “The locals held a meeting on the Haryana side of the border and decided to hold a mahapanchayat on Sunday. They have been appealing the villagers to support their protest against farmers’ agitation. They are planning to bring at least 100 people from each village on Sunday. There are about 40-45 villages in the vicinity of the border . Their protest will gain momentum in the coming days,” according to informed sources. Meanwhile, security at the border has been beefed up following lathicharge charge and firing of teargas shells at Delhi’s Singhu border after a clash between locals and protesting farmers on Friday. Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha, Shahjahanpur, on Friday condemned the clashes at Delhi’s Singhu border stating, “BJP is trying to to spread violence under police protection by sending their goons to Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders. There is a lot of resentment among the farmers. There was an attempt to create disturbance at Shahjahanpur border as well, but any kind of untoward incident was prevented due to the promptness of the farmers.” On January 30 - Mahatma Gandhi’s Martyrdom Day - a day’s fast will be observed by the farmers throughout the country. On the other hand farmer leader Rampal Jat, whose organisation - Kisan Mahapanchayat- has separated itself from Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha on January 21, decided to observe fast at Raj Ghat on Saturday. He has written to Delhi police commissioner seeking permission to observe fast at Raj Ghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-stir-locals-to-hold-meet-on-sunday/articleshow/80592239.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Over 63,000 receive vaccine shots in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive continued on Friday in the state when a turnout of 71.12% health workers got jabs. Out of this, 71.63% was for Covishield, while 49.03% was for Covaxin. Since the beginning of vaccination drive in the state on January 16, the average turnout of the health workers till Friday was 70.57%. Out of a target of 89,319, the number of those who got vaccinated were 63,523. Nagaur achieved 141.7% of its target, while the border district Jaisalmer logged merely 20%. Health authorities were satisfied with the outcome as since the start of the vaccination programme in the state the average turnout is more than 70%. “Fear and apprehensions among the health workers are gradually decreasing and we are strictly following the contraindications to avoid any problems to those who are getting vaccinated,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur has a turnout of 50% for Covishield. “We had planned 11,207 health workers out of which 5,600 were administered the dose,” said an officer of the department. However, for Covaxin the turnout was 47.14 %. “For Covaxin sites, we had planned for 1,712 beneficiaries, however, 807 were given the dose,” the officer added. There has been ups and downs in the Covid inoculation drive since it was started on January 16, however, authorities said that it is been continuously improving. Those who have vaccinated themselves recently have no fear or apprehension. “I did not even experience pain or swelling on my hand where injection was given. No fever or nausea was reported so far. I am looking forward to get my second dose,” said Shakuntala Rao, a senior staff nurse at a private hospital. Till Friday, 3,21,356 health workers have been vaccinated. “From February 1, the frontline warriors the police will start getting the vaccine,” said an officer with the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-63k-receive-vaccine-shots-in-raj/articleshow/80592262.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Missing Jaipur girl found gang-raped in Mumbai||JAIPUR: A 13-year-old girl who went missing from Jaipur earlier this month was found gang-raped at Kurla area in Mumbai. Police recovered the minor girl and arrested a 21-year-old man from Mumbai and also detained a juvenile on the charges of abduction and rape. The story of the girl can disturb parents whose children are glued to social networking platforms. "After the missing complaint came to us, we found that she was frequently using a social networking platform. During her chatting and status updates, she got in touch with the accused youth and a juvenile. The minor boy asked the girl to board the bus from Jaipur. Thus, the minor girl left her home and boarded the bus," Anil Jaiman, SHO, Vaishali Nagar police station, told TOI on Friday. The girl did not have money. So, the accused sent money through UPI to the account of bus conductor. "She was asked to board a bus to Surat and from Surat to Mumbai by the accused . Thereafter, two accused including one Saif Ali Khan (21) and a minor boy raped her," said a senior officer. Asked how police managed to recover the girl and crack the case. "We did technical surveillance and after following IP address it was found that the girl was in Kurla area of Mumbai. Actually, the girl used her social networking account through her phone in Mumbai too. That’s when we came to know about her location. Thereafter, the girl was recovered on Wednesday. After interrogation, accused Saif Ali Khan was arrested on Friday while the minor boy has been detained," said a senior officer. The girl told police that the accused raped her. "Since she is a minor, her will to leave home is not admissible we have registered a case of abduction and rape under appropriate sections of IPC and POCSO Act," said an officer . Also, a deputy superintendent rank officer is now investigating the case. "We have arrested the accused on the charges of rape and abduction. Her 164 CrPC statements have been recorded and her medical examination has also been done," said Shankar Chabba, assistant commissioner of police, special investigation unit (SIU) dealing with crime against woman. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-city-girl-found-gangraped-in-mumbai/articleshow/80592258.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Nurses seek pay on par with central govt staff||Coimbatore: As part of a state-wide protest, more than 100 nurses wearing black badges staged a demonstration in front of the dean’s office at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday morning. The contract nurses demanded pay scales on par with the central government’s seventh pay commission and made permanent employees. They also claimed that they are yet to receive the one month extra pay promised by the health minister for working during the pandemic. The nurses said that they had been demanding that their pay be matched with that of the central government nurses for almost a decade now. They said as per the seventh pay commission, nurses in the central government get paid Rs 44,900 and goes up to Rs 67,700 for a nursing superintendent. However, the state government pays staff nurses Rs 36,000 and nursing superintendents Rs 56,100. “This is also only for permanently employed nurses. Most nurses in government hospitals are on contract basis and have been on contract for up to 6 to 7 years. We demand that they all be made permanent and brought into regular pay scales,” senior staff nurse at CMCH Tarageshwari said. On contract basis, nurses are paid Rs 14,000 to 17,000 a month. “We are yet to receive that one month extra pay, despite putting our life on the line,” the nurse said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nurses-seek-pay-on-par-with-central-govt-staff/articleshow/80592249.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Aurangabad||36 courts will be set up for speedy trial: Anil Deshmukh||AURANGABAD: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that 36 courts would be set up in the state to ensure speedy trial of rape cases and an independent team, including a deputy superintendent of police, would be appointed to probe the cases under the Shakti law. The minister made the statement after a meeting of the 21-member panel here on Friday. Ironically, almost half of the members did not attend the crucial meeting. Those who skipped the crucial meeting included state housing minister Jitendra Avhad, minister for transport and parliamentary affairs Anil Parab, Sena MLAs Deepak Kesarkar, Yamini Jadhav and Sunil Prabhu, Congress MLA Praniti Shinde, BJP MLC Rahul Narvekar, NCP MLAs Saroj Ahire and Shashikant Shinde, Samajwadi Party MLA Raees Shaikh, Cong MLC Ashok alias Bhai Jagtap and teachers constituency MLC Kapil Patil. “In the next two-three months, Project 112 will be launched to reduce the time required for vehicles to reach the spot by using GPS technology,” said Deshmukh. The minister said the state home department is in the process of procuring 2,000 four-wheelers and 2,500 two-wheelers. In the first phase of recruitment, 5,300 posts of police constables will be filled, followed by the second phase, which will take the total number of recurits to over 12,500. Deshmukh said that the state will table the bill in the assembly in March and pass the law, which will not only ensure swift, time-bound trial but also act as a deterrent. Asked about over 50% rape and sexual abuse victims still waiting for monetary compensation under the Manodhairya Scheme, Deshmukh said, “The lockdown in view of the Covid pandemic delayed the disbursement procedure. However, we are considering to move a proposal and ensure the scheme’s benefit through respective district collectors across the state.” Under the scheme, victims of child sexual abuse, rape or acid attacks are given monetory compensation by the state government and considering gravity of the case, amount may be given up to Rs 10 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/36-courts-will-be-set-up-for-speedy-trial-deshmukh/articleshow/80589888.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Late bloomers: Winter rain plays spoiler in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The low temperatures and winter rains have affected the beautiful New Delhi Municipal Council lawns that draw many visitors every year. The eye-catching floral beauty will be unavailable for the public till February-end this time. As the saplings planted early in December were destroyed by rain and cold weather, NDMC recently restarted its plantation drive after placing an order of 35,00 tulip bulbs. An official said that several other varieties of blooms were also imported last year, but those will also take time to blossom. In November, the civic body imported 55,000 tulip bulbs and other exotic flowers like hyacinth, iris, oriental lily, Asiatic lily and calla lily. To minimise the risk of spreading infection during the Covid-19 pandemic, the civic agency kept the buds and bulbs at a hi-tech nursery in Lodhi Garden for some time before plantation. “Many exotic flowers like tulips bloom in peak winter, which is why all preparations had been made in advance. Plantations began in the second week of December, which is the appropriate time. But the rains and low temperature in the month-end and beginning of January wreaked havoc and the plants started to rot,” said the NDMC official, adding that most of the saplings did not survive. The civic body then arranged for more bulbs and the second round of plantation. “There will be no extra financial burden on NDMC as the same contractor has arranged for the extra bulbs as per the contract,” the official added. The tulips are expected to start blooming mid-February, while other exotic species will start flowering by the end of February and through the spring. Unlike last year, shaded varieties of flowers will not be greeting the visitors this time, as it did not generate much interest. Other than the regular spots, NDMC has identified new sites for plantation too this year. The roundabout opposite Thailand and Canadian embassies, Nyaya Marg, is one of the new spots that will showcase tulips this spring. Other major gardens that will showcase the blossoms are Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park, Talkatora Garden, Shanti Path, Children’s Park and Sanjay Jheel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/late-bloomers-winter-rain-plays-spoiler/articleshow/80593559.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Where tranquility reigns supreme||Perched atop a hillock, St Mary’s church in Ooty with its alluring facades and done up interiors is much more than a place of worship. A gift of the British during the colonial era, the styling of the structure, right from the huge dome above the altar to the large painted glass windows that adorn the walls, is very unique and classy. If you are looking for a calm and quiet place to unwind during your visit to the hill town, it is one of the perfect places to be in. The church’s humble beginnings could be traced back to the 1830s, when a private chapel was set up on the hillock, which today is known as St Mary’s Hill. It was the first ever catholic church to come up in the Nilgiris. The church as we see it today was constructed over a period of 11 years, with the work beginning in 1859. It all began with the arrival of Fr Poireau, of Society of the Missions Etrangires, to Ootacamund in 1837 from England to take charge of the catholics in the hill retreat. In 1838, a private chapel was set up atop the hillock. The same year, Fr Bigot Beauclair replaced Fr Poireau and acquired land on the hillock for a new chapel, for which he laid a foundation stone on October 25, 1839. The work on the new chapel was, however, completed by another priest, Fr Gorrige, in 1840. It was then known as the church of the Immaculate Conception. The old chapel was subsequently abandoned and the site was taken over by the government. The building today houses St Joseph’ primary school. Frederick Price, who had recorded the history of Ootacamund, says in his book that construction of a much larger church was commenced by Fr Payeau in 1859, when the existing chapel became insufficient to accommodate the ever-growing catholic population in Ootacamund. According to him, the work on the church was completed by Fr Pierron. Price also says in his book, Ootacamund: A History, that the new church (St Mary’s Church) was consecrated by vicar general Rev Monseigneir Gelis on August 15, 1870. Spread across an area of 3,500sqft, the church was built at a cost of Rs25, 000 and a part of it was a grant from the government to the Society of the Missions Etrangires. The hillock was then known as Convent Hill. The church saw some changes to the interiors over the years. While the dome didn’t last long after the construction, according to Price, it was promptly restored soon after collapse. The church today stands tall atop the St Mary’s Hill. According to the church priest, Fr S Selvanathan, it is not known when it was declared a parish. “The church got the land from the government. Since its inception, the church has not undergone any major changes, except for minor repair works and extension of its gallery inside. In 2000, the dome was renovated with wooden planks, replacing the original iron ones, as leakage was noticed.” About 20 European clergies had served the church till the late 60s. The first priest of the church was Fr Bigot Beauclair. From the beginning, it was open for both the European and Indian catholics. Presently, around 580 catholic families are attached to the church, which has a capacity to seat 400 people. Considering 1837 as the establishment year of the church for worship, church authorities had celebrated the 175th anniversary of the church in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/where-tranquility-reigns-supreme/articleshow/80592280.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Brain-dead woman gives life to four||JAIPUR: Heart of a 35-year-old woman is beating in a 21-year-old, a resident of Fatehpur Sikri. Doctors of a private hospital in Jaipur made it possible as a family of a 35-year-old woman donated her organs after she was declared brain dead in Jaipur on Friday. Her organs such as heart, liver and kidneys were harvested and four patients requiring transplant were benefited. Kiran, a resident of Malakheda of Alwar, had met with an accident on January 19 and rushed to Sawai Man Singh Hospital where her condition deteriorated on January 25. A team of doctors examined her as she was unconscious and did not regain consciousness despite efforts made by the doctors. “On the same day, brain dead declaration committee after examining her declared her brain dead,” said a SMS Hospital official. After counselling, the family gave consent for donating her organs on Thursday evening. The SMS Hospital doctors started preparation for harvesting her organs and the process started at 5am on Friday. Her organs were allocated to the patients through State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO) as per the norms of Transplantation of Human Organ Act (THOA) Her liver and kidneys were transplanted to patients at SMS Hospital, while her heart was transported to Eternal Hospital, where doctors transplanted it into a 21-year-old man Rajesh (name changed) suffering from heart failure. “Rajesh was suffering from dilated cardiomyopathy with low ejection fraction. His heart muscle became weak and enlarged. Due to dilated cardiomyopathy, the ability of his heart of pumping blood reduced. He has severe left heart failure,” said Dr Ajeet Bana, chairman, cardiac sciences, Eternal Hospital. His team comprising Dr Surabh Jaiswal, Dr Vimalkant Yadav, Dr Sandeep Trikey, Dr Navneet Mehta and team of anesthetists and perfusionists performed the seventh heart transplant of the state. Through green corridor, the heart was transported from SMS Hospital to Eternal Hospital in the morning. It was the fourth heart transplant performed by Eternal Hospital doctors. After the organ donation, her relatives took her for the cremation. “She was resident of Alwar and she was going to meet her father riding pillion on a bike. She met with an accident and rushed to SMS hospital, where doctors declared her being brain dead on January 25. The organ donation became possible only after her family took the decision to save life of four other patients needing organs,” said an SMS Hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brain-dead-woman-gives-life-to-four/articleshow/80592269.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||PWD OTS scheme: Goa govt extends deadline to February 28 for defaulters||PANAJI: The public works department (PWD) has extended the deadline for water supply bill defaulters to avail the one-time settlement scheme (OTS) up to February 28. The scheme was earlier meant to be available only upto January 31. The OTS was introduced on December 31, 2020. Until now, around 71 persons have availed the scheme and Rs 40 lakh has been recovered, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said. “The scheme is to give discount in the delayed bill payment charges. The government will be able to recover Rs 71 crore due to the scheme,” Pauskar said. The scheme is for payment of water supply dues of all types of domestic as well as non-domestic consumers, who have accumulated dues as on October 31, 2020. The scheme is also available to defaulting consumers whose cases have been referred to the revenue recovery court as on October 31, 2020 and also consumers whose installations have been temporarily or permanently disconnected as on October 31, 2020, for non-payment of outstanding arrears. The scheme will also be applicable to consumers currently availing supply from the PWD or active consumers with accumulated arrears up to October 31, 2020. The scheme was introduced under the PWD after a similar scheme announced for power consumers in Goa met with success. Pauskar also said that by 2024, Goa is set to receive funds of upto Rs 1,500 crore under the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission to further improve water supply and the quality of water supplied to consumers. “As of now, Rs 70 crore have been sanctioned already and we have spent project detailed worth Rs 20 crore for approval,” said Pauskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-ots-scheme-govt-extends-deadline-to-feb-28-for-defaulters/articleshow/80593574.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||DIAL tests ‘computer vision’ for added security, distancing||NEW DELHI: After installing over 500 overhead sensors inside Terminal-3 of the Delhi airport to ensure social distancing, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) is also experimenting with a new “computer vision” technology for Terminal-1. T1, which hasn’t resumed operations since the Covid lockdown, is currently being revamped, with its overall capacity being doubled. DIAL, the operator of Indira Gandhi Internation Airport (IGIA), says that while the sensors are working effectively at T3, newer technologies are being tested for future. “While this system (overhead sensors) is a tried and tested one, there is also something called computer vision technology, which our Hyderabad airport has tried. We are evaluating it for future use,” said DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar. Computer vision uses artificial intelligence, which can train computers to analyse and interpret both digital images and feed from live CCTV cameras, allowing it to identify objects and classify people in its system. In addition to security purposes, the technology can also be used to ensure adequate distancing. Since the resumption of operations at IGIA in May, flights have been operating from T3, and Terminal-2 was made operational in October. A decision on resumption of operations at T1 will be taken based on the footfall, says DIAL. DIAL last week announced that it had made 513 sensors operational inside T3, which are capable of generating a density contagion map that alerts over 200 marshalls and ground staff immediately if social distancing norms aren’t followed. This helps in precisely identifying the part where the norms are being flouted. The technology, at XOVIS PTS, generates a grid of the entire area where these sensors have been installed, identifying people as moving dots. If the dots get too close and there is crowding, the system generates an alert and also sends emails to officials. “The ground staff and our marshalls immediately reach the location and request people to follow social distancing. Since we cannot penalise passengers, the most we can do is to request them, and, in most cases, they listen to us,” said a DIAL official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dial-tests-computer-vision-for-added-security-distancing/articleshow/80593615.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 30, 2021||Goa||‘Incorrect GST bills by GMC vendors led to Rs 10 lakh loss’||Panaji: Making GST payment without deducting the excise duty component from the prices of purchased medicines resulted in excess payment being made to Goa Medical College’s (GMC) supply contractor. The incorrect GST worked out to Rs 10.6 lakh, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) said in its report for the year ending March 31, 2019. The CAG report stated that audit checked the supplies made by three out of 17 vendors from April 2018 to February 2019 and found that the vendors supplied medicines against 277 invoices amounting to Rs 6.4 crore at prices that included excise duty component. “As the excise duty (ED) omponent was embedded in the tendered rates, GST was also paid on the excise duty component,” the CAG report stated. “The amount of excise duty included in the tendered rate worked out to Rs 89.3 lakh, GST incorrectly paid on excise duty component worked out to Rs 10.6 lakh,” it noted. The non-deduction of ED component included in prices after introduction of GST on purchase of medicines, as per procedure prescribed by government, resulted in excess payment to the supply contractors to the extent of Rs 99.9 lakh in purchases worth Rs 6.4 crore, the CAG noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/incorrect-gst-bills-by-gmc-vendors-led-to-rs-10-lakh-loss/articleshow/80593594.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Easy access to Red Fort was perhaps a trap: Deep Sidhu||JALANDHAR: Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu said on Friday that he, and others, could reach the Red Fort without any obstacles on Republic Day and in hindsight it appears that it was a trap. Sidhu was narrating details on Facebook Live on how he reached the Red Fort. Sidhu also narrated details of what happened on the night of January 25 when scores of youths had asserted that they would take the route announced earlier by the farm unions. He said that the farm leaders had exhorted the youths to prepare to enter Delhi on January 26. Sidhu said he started from his place around 10.45am on January 26 in a car and found that the barricade had already been broken and everybody was easily passing through there. He said the police started allowing vehicles to pass one by one and they reached close to Red Fort directly. He said that he had a Sikh flag with him without a stick. On the way, a youth was carrying a flag with a stick attached. “I took the flag from him and reached Red Fort. There were scores of people already at the spot. It was clear that people had reached there on their own. “Already there was a person trying to hoist a Sikh flag there and he finally managed to do it at the empty flag post,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/easy-access-to-red-fort-was-perhaps-a-trap-deep-sidhu/articleshow/80595116.cms||IP Singh
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Immune response study of Covid shots likely soon||PUNE: The CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) are soon likely to study the immune response to Covid-19 vaccination by measuring the concentration of antibodies in a section of inoculated healthcare workers in Pune. Though at a nascent stage, these institutes have sent a request for funding the Pune project to the programme director, office of the principal scientific adviser, Government of India, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and are seeking corporate societal responsibility (CSR) funding from industries, aiming to get over Rs 5 crore for thesame. LS Shashidhara, professor, IISER-Pune, who had earlier led Pune’s sero-survey, told TOI, “It is important to study the the immune response to vaccination at the population level given India’s huge diversity at the levels of genetics, nutrition and comorbidities. Both diversity in antibodies and quantitative levels of those antibodies should be measured.” The project would aim at tracking the immune response post-vaccination in volunteers, Anu Raghunathan, senior principal scientist, CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) told TOI. Raghunathan said, “Both Covishield and Covaxin are being deployed at the moment. One of the key responses of the adaptive immune system to infection is the production of pathogen-specific antibodies by B cells. We need to track the impact of the vaccine on the immune system after one or two doses of it, including the types and amounts of antibodies produced by the vaccine.” Raghunathan added that the project would involve sampling individuals post-vaccination to gauge the long term impact of the vaccine. “We aim at seeking at least 500-1,000 volunteers from multiple groups of individuals covering all ages with and without underlying illnesses. A minimal number of volunteers are targeted to make inferences of the study statistically significant,” he said. Scientists involved in the process said humoral immune response would be monitored through identification and quantitation of antibodies using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). “Different antibodies and their subtypes will be identified including immunoglobin G and A (IgG and IgA),” said Raghunathan. Shashidhara said there were simple and less expensive methods that could be deployed for largescale studies. “The results will provide valuable inputs for planning future strategies to deal with current and future pandemics or localized epidemics. More importantly, the results will be useful to strategize largescale vaccination, thereby bringing back the normalcy in life. As current young and adolescent children are not vaccinated immediately, these studies will also help plan their vaccination as and when they become adults or to plan vaccination of infants and children.” Dr Aurnab Ghose, scientist, IISER said, “The project on tracking the immune response post-vaccination follows a call for proposals from K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific adviser to the Centre, to study aspects of the inoculation drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/immune-response-study-of-covid-shots-likely-soon/articleshow/80592291.cms||Neha Madaan
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Punishing teens in love not intent of Pocso: HC||Chennai: Punishing an adolescent boy who enters into a relationship with a minor girl by treating him as an offender was never the objective of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, observed the Madras high court. It also recommended to the legislature to swiftly bring necessary amendments to the act.The court made the observations while quashing criminal proceedings pending before a magistrate court against an auto driver who was booked under the Pocso Act for marrying a minor girl. The case was filed in 2018, when both the boy and the girl were a few days short of 18.The girl’s family moved the HC to quash the criminal proceedings, saying the family wanted to get the girl married and that the criminal proceedings caused them mental agony. On her part, the girl also deposed before the court through video-conferencing and said she was in a relationship with the boy. The prosecution argued that the court has to consider whether an offence of this nature could be quashed on the ground of compromise between the parties.Justice N Anand Venkatesh, after perusing the submissions, noted that there can be no second thought as to the seriousness of offences under the Pocso Act and the object it seeks to achieve. "However, it is imperative for the court to draw a thin line that demarcates the nature of acts that should not be made to fall within the scope of the act, for such is the severity of sentences provided under the act, if acted upon hastily, it could lead to irreparable damage to the livelihood of youth whose actions would have only been innocuous." The judge said the law meant to protect and render justice to victims of child abuse can become a tool in the hands of certain sections of the society.The court also pointed out that it is crucial to be aware of the science and psychology of adolescence and young adulthood and cited various studies and to the definition by the UN, which categorises adolescence as 10-19 years of age and young people as 10-24 years in the Southeast Asia region."This court is not turning a blind eye to cases where victims or survivors may, under the effect of trauma, convince themselves that the element of consent was present nor is the court justifying the genuineness of the accused in every case where the accused and minor girl were in a relationship. That will depend on facts and circumstances of each and every case," Justice Anand Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/punishing-teens-in-love-not-intent-of-pocso-hc/articleshow/80592289.cms||Srikkanth D
January 30, 2021||Goa||CAG raps GMC for over Rs 10cr extra expenses||Panaji: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), in its report for the year ending March 31, 2019, stated that a delay in finalisation of tenders by Goa Medical College (GMC) in 2016-17 resulted in “extra expenditure to the tune of Rs 10.7 crore, which was largely avoidable”. The expense was incurred in procuring medicines through local purchases. The CAG noted that GMC and the public health department took 17 months to finalise the tendering process. GMC started issuing supply orders to the lowest bidder from October 2017. Pending finalisation of tender for 2016-17, the report said that “the GMC procured medicines — April 2016 to October 2017 — from the old suppliers through local purchase at rates significantly higher than that approved by the department,” the report said. In its explanation to the CAG, GMC said that the delay was not intentional. The tendering was time consuming and performed with limited staff, GMC stated. The CAG noted there was no follow-up action on the part of either the GMC or the public health department to minimise the tender processing time, despite recommendations of audit made in the previous report. “If GMC had initiated the tendering process sufficiently in advance and completed the same before commencement of 2016-17, the extra expenditure of Rs 10.7 crore could have been avoided,” the CAG noted. Instead, the CAG report, the tendering process for 2016-17 was initiated in April 2017. Even if a time frame of six months is reckoned as being fair and reasonable for finalisation of tender, the GMC could have issued supply orders from October 2015 at the approved tendered rates of 2016-17 and capped the extra expenditure at Rs 5.7 crore. The CAG in its reported pointed at another discrepancy in the hospital wherein weak internal control led to misappropriation of receipts of Rs 6.6 lakh by hospital staff. The CAG has recommended that since cases of misappropriation in the cardiology ward escaped detection, there is a need to review the system of receipt and accounting of hospital charges in other wards offering super-speciality services to non-Goan patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cag-raps-gmc-for-over-rs-10cr-extra-expenses/articleshow/80593613.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Custom house agent held for duty evasion of Rs 1.8 crore||MUMBAI: Nhava Sheva preventive unit of customs on Thursday arrested a custom house agent for misdeclaring goods which led to evasion of customs duty to the tune of Rs 1.8 crore. Pramod Kumar Jha is accused of facilitating clearance of smuggled cosmetic goods without declaring it thereby causing huge losses to the exchequer. Earlier this month, the department detained the container after receiving specific information. Officials found there were 840 cartons out of which 643 cartons had imported cosmetics which were not declared. Investigation revealed the market value of misdeclared goods was Rs 3.1crore while the assessable value was Rs 1.8 crore. Officials were further shocked when they learnt the goods were shown to be the property of Roxi Trader owned by Sunil Ahire. Ahire had died on November 14, 2020, but all the documents for import had his signatures. Inquiries revealed Ahire’s signature was forged to import the goods. On checking with Ahire’s brothers, investigators learnt they were not importers, but daily wage workers. Jha was summoned and his statement recorded. “He admitted he had not verified the KYC documents before filing the bill of entry. He also confessed he knew that cosmetics had been smuggled under the guise of earbuds and tissue paper,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/custom-house-agent-held-for-duty-evasion-of-rs-1-8-crore/articleshow/80593632.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Temporary living arrangement for Nair Hospital’s first-year med students||MUMBAI: After multiple requests from first-year medical students and their parents, Nair Hospital’s Topiwala National Medical College is trying to make temporary arrangements for accommodation. With a sudden increase in intake capacity in 2019-20, Covid restrictions and no corresponding increase in facilities, many colleges, including ones attached to KEM, Nair, Cooper, and government medical colleges, announced inability to provide hostels for the first time. Classes for first-year MBBS are set to commence from Tuesday, after their orientation. A message to students from Nair Hospital on Friday said a transient accommodation facility in Bhoiwada is being provided till a hostel is allotted. They were told this would not be at par with regular hostels and that security, furniture, full-time warden and mess would not be available. Students have been asked to sign a declaration accepting all these conditions. The accommodation was originally for postgraduates and has now been opened for undergraduates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/temp-living-arrangement-for-nairs-fy-med-students/articleshow/80593636.cms||Yogita Rao
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Punishing teens in love not intent of Pocso: HC||Chennai: Punishing an adolescent boy as an offender for his relationship with a minor girl was never the objective of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, the Madras high court has said. Quashing the criminal proceedings before a magistrate court against an auto driver booked under the Pocso Act for marrying a minor girl, the court also recommended swift amendments to the Act. The girl’s family, which moved the HC to get the proceedings quashed, said the family wanted the girl to get married and criminal proceedings caused mental agony to it. On her part, the girl told the court that she was in love with the boy and they also had physical relationship. The prosecution argued that the court has to consider whether an offence of this nature could be quashed on the ground of compromise between the parties. Justice N Anand Venkatesh, after perusing the submissions, noted that there can be no second thought as to the seriousness of offences under the Pocso Act and the objective it seeks to achieve. “However, it is imperative for the court to draw a thin line that demarcates the nature of acts that should not be made to fall within the scope of the Act (Pocso), for such is the severity of sentences provided under the Act, if acted upon hastily, it could lead to irreparable damage to the livelihood of youth whose actions would have only been innocuous.” The judge said the law meant to protect and render justice to victims of child abuse can become a tool in the hands of certain sections of society.The court also pointed out that it is crucial to be aware of the science and psychology of adolescence and young adulthood and cited various studies and to the definition by UN, which categorizes adolescence as 10-19 years of age and young people as 10-24 years in the South East Asia region.“This court is not turning a blind eye to cases where victims or survivors may, under the effect of trauma, convince themselves that the element of consent was present nor is the court justifying the genuineness of the accused in every case where the accused and minor girl were in a relationship. That will depend on facts and circumstances of each and every case,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said and pointed out that the accused boy and the girl are still in their early 20’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/punishing-teens-in-love-not-intent-of-pocso-hc/articleshow/80589931.cms||Srikkanth D
January 30, 2021||Surat||13-year-old boy detained for nine-year-old’s murder||Surat: A 13-year-old boy was detained by Surat city police on Friday in connection with the murder of a nine-year-old boy in Pandesara area on Thursday. According to police, Anshu Yadav (9) had gone missing on Thursday morning. He was last seen playing outside his home in Saraswati Avash in Bhestan area. After Anshu went missing, his parents began to search for him and after three hours found his body in shrubs a few meters away from their house.Anshu’s father Shrilal Yadav, in a native of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh.Sources said that Anshu had reportedly thrashed another minor boy in the area. When that minor boy’s elder brother (the accused) asked Anshu why he had beaten up his brother, Anshu also hit him with a stick and ran away. The 13-year-old boy followed Anshu into the shrubs and allegedly beat him up with a stick. Anshu later succumbed to the injuries.“The accused is a minor boy studying in Class VIII and his parents are labourers. He has confessed to beating Anshu,” said police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/13-year-old-boy-detained-for-nine-year-olds-murder/articleshow/80590811.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Gaur bites country-made bomb, dies||UDHAGAMANDALAM: An Indian gaur died near Ootupattarai area in Coonoor on Friday after allegedly biting a country bomb meant for wild boar. The gaur was found wandering in the Wellington area six days ago with an injury on its tongue . According to forest officials, the injury on its tongue might have been caused after the gaur bit a country bomb placed in that area. “The injured animal was monitored initially as it was wandering in the Wellington area. However, the gaur could not be tracked in the past three days,” a forest official said. He added, “The animal was found dead today near Ootupattarai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gaur-bites-country-made-bomb-dies/articleshow/80592290.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Aurangabad||Two women officers nominated for Covid Warrior awards||AURANGABAD: The National Commission for Women (NCW) has nominated Amravati commissioner of police Arti Singh and superintendent of Aurangabad rural police Mokshada Patil for ‘Covid Women Warrior: The Real Heroes’ awards to be given at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi on Sunday. The nomination for these awards were sent by the director general of police’s office to the state government, which forwarded the names to the NCW for the outstanding work done by the women officers, who led the personnel during the unprecedented pandemic clubbed with the imposition of lockdown. NCW’s joint technical expert Nazia Ahmed told TOI, “The awards are in recognition of the women frontline workers, from different departments including police, who played a crucial role in handling of Covid-19 crisis.” Patil did her post graduation in sociology from Mumbai before cracking the UPSC exams and is an IPS officer of the 2011 batch. The officer’s name for the prestigious award got recommended for her exceptional work during the lockdown, especially deploying police teams to distribute dry ration kits to the needy, personally ensuring supply of basics like milk for the children of migrant workers and providing sanitary napkins to the migrant women workers staying in the government provided camps. Singh, who is a 2006 batch IPS officer, is an MBBS doctor from Banaras Hindu University. She was even recognized for the work she did during her previous posting as superitendent of Nashik rural police. The officer was appreciated for shifting to Malegaon, which had become the hotbed of Covid-19 infection in the state and leading the situation from front. Currently, Singh is the only woman police commissioner in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-women-officers-nominated-for-covid-warrior-awards/articleshow/80589918.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 30, 2021||Goa||Bureaucratic rejig: North and South Goa get new collectors||PANAJI: Ravi Dhawan, a 2011 IAS officer has been appointed secretary, health. He replaces Amit Satija who was relieved of Goa posting this week after his transfer to Lakshadweep. Other portfolios assigned to Dhawan are general administration, Goa gazetter, printing and stationary, museum and protocol. Besides, he will also continue as chief executive officer and managing director of Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd. Tariq Thomas, has been appointed secretary urban development and chief executive officer (CEO) of Entertainment Society of Goa. He has also been appointed secretary transport, science and technology and factories and boilers. Ajit Roy has been transferred and posted as North Goa collector, while Ruchika Katyal, who was awaiting posting on transfer to Goa, has been appointed collector of South Goa. Mekala Chaitanya Prasad has been appointed special secretary home, vigilance and personnel. He has also been appointed director of sports and youth affairs. S K Bhandari is the new resident commissioner of Goa Sadan, New Delhi. Gurudas Pilarnkar has been appointed director of urban development with an additional charge of Goa urban development agency as its member secretary. Ashutosh Apte, additional Inspector General of Prisons (IGP), shall also hold the charge of IGP until further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bureaucratic-rejig-north-south-get-new-collectors/articleshow/80593633.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Rajiv Gandhi case: Seven-day SC deadline ends, Edappadi K Palaniswami calls on governor||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday called on governor Banwarilal Purohit to request him to take a “favourable decision” on the remission of sentence and early release of all seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The CM urged the governor to take a decision as per the “advice of the Tamil Nadu cabinet” and a resolution passed by it in 2018 calling for the release of the convicts. Based on a submission by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, a Supreme Court order uploaded on January 22 had said that an application filed by one of the convicts, Perarivalan, under Article 161 of the Constitution shall be considered by the governor “within a period of one week from today.” The CM’s visit comes on the last day of the deadline set by the SC. On January 21, the Supreme Court passed an order based on the submission of solicitor general Tushar Mehta that the application filed by petitioner Perarivalam under Article 161 of the Constitution shall be considered by the governor within a period of four weeks, while the SG had told the court it would be considered in the next three or four days. The following day, the SC had put out a revised order on its website, changing it to “within a period of one week from today.” Minister D Jayakumar, who accompanied the chief minister, said the CM had communicated the sentiments of the whole of Tamil Nadu on the release of convicts. “The governor was asked to take a favourable decision, and the former assured that he would take an appropriate decision,” the minister said. He took a dig at the main opposition, the DMK, for remitting the sentence of Nalini alone, while the Jayalalithaa government passed a resolution in the assembly for remission of all seven convicts. The cabinet had recommended to the governor to use his powers under Article 161 of the Constitution and release all seven convicts serving life sentences for three decades. In one of the hearings in November, the state government had submitted before the court that the governor was awaiting a final report of the multidisciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA) that was looking into the larger conspiracy of the assassination. “At this juncture, the court intervened to say that the conspiracy was to find out, if any other persons, besides those convicted in the assassination case was involved. The ball is now in the governor’s court,” a source said. It remains unclear if the governor will take a decision only in Perarivalan’s case or that of the remaining convicts, V Sriharan, T Suthendraraja, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, P Ravichandran and Nalini as well. In April 2018, the Union home ministry wrote a letter to the Tamil Nadu government saying, “in pursuance of Section 435 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, do not concur to the proposal of the government of Tamil Nadu… for grant of further remission of sentence to these seven convicts.” The CBI, too, opposed the state government’s proposal to release the convicts in the ‘interest of justice.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajiv-case-7-day-sc-deadline-ends-eps-calls-on-guv/articleshow/80592296.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 30, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural superintendent wins praise||AURANGABAD: State home minister Anil Deshmukh reached the office of the superintendent of Aurangabad rural police on Friday evening and interacted with women beat marshals. The Aurangabad rural division is the only police unit in the state to have women beat marshals in all of its 23 police stations. This step by superintendent of Aurangabad rural police Mokshada Patil has already brought her admiration from the top brass of the police and the state home ministry. Patil shortlisted 37 woman candidates on December 24, 2020, and trained them in handling and responding to different situations while heading a beat or a chowky. While addressing the women beat marshals, Deshmukh said the initiative was worth replicating across the state. Later, he distributed appreciation certificates to all the women beat marshals besides congratulating Patil for taking a series of steps in ensuring gender equality. He suggested that the women squads should be named pink squads and even their vehicles should be pink to establish their independent identity. Patil said, “I strongly believe that ensuring gender equality in every walk of life will pave way for a better world.” Patil said soon independent bikes would be given to the women beat marshals. She said the women beat marshals, who earlier had limited duties which did not require them to step out of a police station, would now be investigating cases in their respective beats, paying spot visits and so on. Patil said that many a times, women victims were not comfortable speaking before male cops and presence of women police officer eased the situation and facilitated women to speak about their ordeal more freely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-rural-sp-wins-praise/articleshow/80589940.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Making 60 crore doses for 27 crore above 50 a challenge: Task force member||PUNE: A key member of the national Covid-19 task force has said the biggest challenge in the coming months would be the vaccination of the nearly 27 crore priority beneficiaries who are above the age of 50. Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, Dr Randeep Guleria told TOI that vaccine manufacturers would have to ready 60 crore doses to inoculate this group - with each person getting two shots. “Many countries don't have this much in the overall population. Either the two companies that have secured approvals (Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech) have to make arrangements or vaccine makers who're in the process of getting approvals must step up. This is going to be a challenge," he said. Dr Guleria said another key challenge would be the coordination with vaccine makers to ready these doses. He said, currently, the government has enough vaccine doses for healthcare and frontline workers. “It will take some months to ready this large number of doses. But once manufacturers ramp up their production, it will be possible," he said. On whether the drive for frontline workers will be carried out sequentially or simultaneously, Dr Guleria said it is possible it could be in sequence. However, he added that decision was ultimately the government's to make. Dr Suresh Jadhav, executive director of the Serum Institute said the company has so far manufactured nearly 10.2 crore doses. "Of these, 2 crore doses have already been supplied to the India government. About 1.45 crore doses have been exported," he said. He added that Serum is currently manufacturing five to six crore doses per month and the capacity would be increased to 10 crore from April. He added that the company will be ready to meet demand when the above-50 and those with underlying conditions need to be vaccinated. Bharat Biotech told TOI in a statement that it's scaling up Covaxin manufacturing - at four locations in the country. “We are planning around 20 crore doses per year (in Hyderabad) and about 50 crore doses in other cities. By mid-2021, we will have 70 crore doses of capacity," the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/making-60-crore-doses-for-27-crore-above-50-a-challenge-task-force-member/articleshow/80592292.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Industrialists seek relief from rising cost of raw materials||COIMBATORE: The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia) has sent a set of demands to political parties, requesting them to include it in their assembly election manifestos. Focia urged the parties to form a committee to control the rising price of raw materials, a welfare board for the workers of micro and small units, and settlement of bill payments to MSMEs. “For the last three months, price of raw materials has been increasing, and despite submitting several representations to control it, no steps were taken. We request the government to form a raw materials price monitoring committee by including representatives from MSMEs and impose a one year-one price policy,” Focia coordinator J James said. “Price of raw materials while signing agreement with companies has gone up several times. We are forced to make products for loss as we have to handover products to companies, especially to the public sector, without delay to prevent from getting blacklisted.” While industrialists are expected to pay the goods and service tax (GST) within 30 days and are forced to pay the tax along with penalty for the delay, the government should take steps to ensure that the payments are settled to MSMEs within 30 days, James said. “It has been months since the government ordered companies to settle payment within 30 days after the products are supplied, but most of the corporate companies and public sector firms still take 60 to 90 days. During the delay, micro industries are forced to take more loans to manage expenses like salary, electricity bills and rent. Due to lack of support from banks, we are forced to approach private financiers.” Focia members also urged the government to form GST rectification and reforms committee with representatives from MSMEs, to form a separate welfare board for unorganized workers of micro units and to announce separate schemes and loans for the micro sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-seek-relief-from-rising-cost-of-raw-materials/articleshow/80592294.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 30, 2021||Goa||PWD cashier cheats govt of Rs 15L, dept blamed for not following procedure||Panaji: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in its report has rapped the public works department (PWD) for its lack of monitoring and failure to follow the control procedures, which led to a cashier to misappropriate Rs 15.2 lakh collected from the private contractor appointed to run the Circuit House at Altinho. The Circuit House or government guest house at Altinho with 41 residential rooms, six VVIP suites and a restaurant sees the room rent being collected by a private contractor. As per procedure, the rent by the contractor is handed to the assistant engineer of sub-division V of division I. The cashier of division I had to acknowledge the cash receipts, record it in the division cash book and remit the amount to the government account. The audit showed that the sub-division concerned had collected Rs 1.6 crore between April 2012 and April 2018. Of this amount, the Rs 26 lakh collected against 100 receipts saw the cashier of division I record only Rs 10.5 lakh in cash, thereby misappropriating Rs 15.2 lakh. “While the cashier acknowledged the actual cash receipts, he manipulated the transactions subsequently by posting reduced amounts in the counterfoils as well as the cash book and misappropriated the difference,” the CAG report states. The executive engineer of PWD division I was duty-bound to attest all the entries in the cash book, but this was not done regularly, states the report. “PWD division I confirmed the audit findings in September 2018. The accused cashier was placed under suspension by the PWD. The matter had been referred to the ACB, director of vigilance, for further investigations. The ACB registered an FIR in February 2019 and investigations were in progress as of March 2020,” the CAG report states. “The lack of monitoring and failure to follow the prescribed procedures facilitated misappropriation of government receipts of Rs 15.2 lakh by the cashier,” the report states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-cashier-cheats-govt-of-rs-15l-dept-blamed-for-not-following-procedure/articleshow/80593665.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC told to record statement on Sonu Sood||MUMBAI: After Bombay high court refused to give relief to actor Sonu Sood, police have told BMC to record its statement to register an FIR against him. Police said they had begun preliminary investigations and would register an FIR. Sood had moved Supreme Court challenging the HC order. BMC had filed a police complaint against Sood for allegedly converting a six-storey residential building in Juhu into a hotel without permission. It had told Juhu police to take cognisance of the offence under Maharashtra Region and Town Planning (MRTP) Act for unauthorised additions, alterations and change of user. In a letter to BMC’s K-West ward, Juhu police told BMC to send its engineer to record its statement so that police can register an FIR. “We have sent a detailed complaint to police. The engineer is down with Covid-19 now but we will cooperate and coordinate with police,” said Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner, K-West ward. “We have begun preliminary investigations and written to BMC to send its engineer to record his statement. Once that is done we will register the FIR,” a senior police official said. Activist Ganesh Kusmulu, who had filed a complaint with Lok Ayukta, said that the police must register an FIR. Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-told-to-record-statement-on-sood/articleshow/80593713.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 30, 2021||Delhi||North Delhi corporation brings out special property tax amnesty scheme||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday rolled out a special property tax amnesty scheme to extend benefits to taxpayers in different categories and not just residential neighbourhoods. The policy include giving rebates to those whose cases are in court — after they file an affidavit in court to withdraw their application. It will also cover properties with dishonoured cheques where a bank account or property has been attached, subject to payment of up-to-date tax. The scheme will be applicable to 544 unauthorised regularised colonies and godowns situated in urban and rural areas. “Taxpayers of residential properties in these unauthorised regularised colonies will have to pay property tax — only principal amount — for the financial year 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21 and all outstanding property tax dues will be waived off. Similarly in case of non-residential properties, taxpayers are required to pay property tax dues (only principal amount) of the last three years and current year, after which all outstanding property tax dues prior to these periods will be waived off. This scheme can be availed till March 3,” said the north corporation mayor. Similarly, godowns situated in rural and urban villages of Rohini, Narela and Civil Lines zone are required to pay property tax dues (only principal amount) of the last three years and current year to regularise their records. North DMC standing committee chairman, Chhail Bihari Goswami said that besides residential properties in planned areas, the amnesty scheme will also cover all the dishonoured cheques including cases where bank account and property has been attached, subject to payment of up to date property tax. “In case of dishonoured cheques, the taxpayer will have to pay bank charges imposed by the bank and postal charges if any. The government properties on which property tax is leviable will also be covered under this amnesty scheme that they will have to pay up to date property tax,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-brings-out-spl-property-tax-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/80593689.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||Power dept in dock for Rs 1.9cr loss over provident fund||Panaji: The electricity department did not make deductions towards the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) contribution from the wages of contractual staff and didn’t pay its own EPF contribution for five years, causing the government a loss of around Rs 1.9 crore, the latest CAG report has found. The non-deduction/payment of EPF contribution to the EPFO has created “liability of extra avoidable expenditure of Rs 1.8 crore as of March 2019 in the two divisions alone and deprived the workers concerned of statutory security benefits available to them,” the report, which was tabled in the assembly on Friday, stated. By not observing the provisions of the EPF Act and Scheme, the department failed to recover the contribution from the wages of contractual staff — line helpers and meter readers, among others — from two of its divisions. “We observed that the department neither deducted the employees’ contribution from their wages nor did it pay its own contribution to EPF organisation. The failure of the department resulted in denial of social security benefits due to these employees”. Besides paying Rs 1.1 crore, the department also had to pay interest at 12% per annum for non-payment of dues to the EPFO amounting to Rs 71.2 lakh. The audit, which was conducted only on two of the electricity department’s 18 divisions for the period 2013-2014 to 2018-2019, observed that the divisions had not deducted the employees’ share of contribution of Rs 1.1 crore while paying wages to contractual employees. An equal amount of Rs 1.1 crore, which was supposed to be contributed towards EPF as the employer’s contribution were also not paid by these divisions to the EPFO for five years. According to the Act, the employer must deduct 12% of pay from contract employees, contribute an equal amount and pay the employer and employees’ contribution within 15 days of the close of every month to the EPFO. Delay in payment attracts interest of 12% per annum under the Act. “These persons are employed on contract basis and their terms of employment do not provide for any social security benefits such as pension schemes, group insurance schemes, etc. It was the duty of the department to register these persons under the EPF scheme,” the CAG stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-in-dock-for-rs-1-9cr-loss-over-provident-fund/articleshow/80593671.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Disclosing interest must for personal information: RTI||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday modified an earlier order where it had made disclosure of interest of an RTI applicant mandatory while seeking information. Justice Pratibha M Singh clarified in her new order that the disclosure of interest would be necessary only when seeking personal information and modified the previous ruling, saying it was wrongly interpreted. Transparency activists had raised concerns, pointing out that the parent Right to Information (RTI) Act 2005 didn’t contain any such requirement and the Act provided enough safeguards. The court inserted the word “personal” in the operative part of the order, which now states, “This court is of the opinion that whenever personal information is sought under the RTI Act, disclosure of an interest in the information sought would be necessary to establish the bonafides of the applicant.” Earlier this month, HC had disposed of a plea while noting that an RTI applicant couldn’t be allowed to conduct a “roving and fishing enquiry”. It had upheld the order of Central Information Commission, represented by standing counsel Gaurang Kanth, to deny material sought by one Har Kishan about appointments made for multitasking staff at the President’s Estate. HC had also underlined that the information sought “is clearly protected under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act, which provides that any such information shall not be provided which constitutes personal information and is invasive of the privacy of individuals”. Alleging irregularities, the application had included a demand for complete residential address and father’s name of all selected candidates. Later, a probe had found that 10 candidates obtained jobs using fake certificates, and their appointments were terminated; but the Estate refused to furnish the details sought in the RTI. During the hearing, the high court had found Har Kishan’s daughter also applied, but it was not mentioned in the writ petition. He also hid the fact that he himself had worked at the Estate on an ad hoc basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rti-disclosing-interest-must-for-personal-info/articleshow/80592295.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC quashes 2012 case filed against developer||MUMBAI: Bombay high court quashed criminal proceedings against developer Atul Patel for allegedly attempting to usurp a property following a settlement with the complainant, Vijay Ramchandra Patil. EOW was probing allegations that Patel tried to usurp a dead man’s plot, estimated to be worth Rs 1.5 crore, by showing the owner, Vijay Ramchandra Patil, had sold it to him. Patel’s father was named in the FIR. Police had then said that Patel made part payment. The complainant had alleged that Patel did not pay the balance. Atul Patel’s lawyer, advocate Amit Chougle said the allegations were “patently false and frivolous without any substance’’. He moved HC for quashing criminal proceedings. “Patil approached my clients to withdraw his complaint by amicably setting it,’’ Chougle said. HC, in its order on October, 1, 2019, stated that Patil, had no objection to quashing of criminal proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-quashes-2012-case-filed-against-developer/articleshow/80593695.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||At 99%, Pimpri Chinchwad almost meets day’s target||PUNE: The daily vaccination count of priority healthcare workers hit 87%-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, despite technical glitches hampering the process during the first three to four hours of the day. Among PMR components, Pimpri Chinchwad recorded highest 99% immunisation for the day, with 889 out of the total 900 beneficiaries taking the shot on Friday. The Pune municipal areas recorded 88% vaccinations, followed by the rural parts (83%). “On the spot vaccination of listed but unscheduled beneficiaries and positive word of mouth are playing key roles in increasing the vaccination response in the Pimpri Chinchwad,” said a civic health official. A total of 4,880 of the 20,027 registered beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Pimpri Chinchwad in the last eight days. Among the registered beneficiaries, the maximum is from the private healthcare sector. Among the centres, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital continued to lead the numbers with 255 beneficiaries getting vaccinated in the on Friday. “The response from the private healthcare workers has been satisfying so far,” said Rajendra Wabale, dean, YCM hospital. Similarly, barring just two vaccination centres — Ruby Hall Clinic and Bharati hospital — most hospitals-cum-vaccination centres in the Pune municipal limits recorded over 60% vaccinations on Friday. Sachin Dandawate, general manager (administration), Ruby Hall Clinic said, “The technical glitches in the Co-WIN app halted the vaccination work between 9am and 1pm. Hence, we could not achieve the expected vaccination numbers on Friday.” A total of 51 of the expected 200 beneficiaries took the shot at Bharati hospital on Friday. “We could not vaccinate beneficiaries for the first three to four hours on Friday due to glitches in Co-WIN app,” said Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director, Bharati hospital. Confirming the snag, Ashish Bharati, chief of the health department, PMC said, “Most centres faced the technical glitches between 9am and 1pm. Hence, vaccination was also most nil during this period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-99-pimpri-chinchwad-almost-meets-days-target/articleshow/80592300.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Life convict, 43, dies of illness at central prison||COIMBATORE: A 43-year-old life convict lodged at the Coimbatore Central Jail died after falling ill on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as P Murugasamy, a resident of Udumalpet in Tirupur district. He was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 in October 2018 for abducting a nine-year-old girl and sexually assaulting her. The Tirupur mahila court had convicted him to life imprisonment in April 2019. Murugasamy had complained of breathing difficulties and used inhaler on Thursday, a prison official said. “His cellmate alerted us after he collapsed around 11.30pm. We providing first aid at the prison hospital and took him to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. But CMCH doctors declared him as brought dead,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/life-convict-43-dies-of-illness-at-central-prison/articleshow/80592299.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Tribute paid to 1971 Indo-Pak martyrs||Uttarkashi: The district administration, Armed forces and local residents paid tribute to martyrs of 1971 Indo-Pak war at an event organized by 9th battalion Bihar regiment under the aegis of Ibex brigade to commemorate the 50th anniversary of India’s victory. The event was organised at a war memorial in Uttarkahi. Officials lit the “Swarnim Vijay Mashaal”, which was lit by PM Narendra Modi on December 16 last year. Amra Devi, a war widow who had been married to late guardsman Sundar Singh, was felicitated. In order to spread awareness among people, particularly youths, a weapon and equipment exhibition was showcased by the Army. A debate competition was also organised for school students. Addressing the gathering, district magistrate Mayur Dixit said, “The glory and sacrifice of our soldiers will always motivate future generations”, as he encouraged youths to join the armed forces and use their energy for the country’s betterment. Colonel Rajendar Prasad, commanding officer of 9 Bihar, Major Karthick, 2nd in command of 9 Bihar and Robin, assistant commandant of 35 ITBP were among those present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tribute-paid-to-1971-indo-pak-martyrs/articleshow/80589935.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 30, 2021||Goa||Lapses at commercial tax dept caused Rs 8cr loss: CAG||Porvorim: Red-flagging irregularities in the department of commercial taxes, the comptroller and auditor general of India (CAG) has found that lapses by the department led to a Rs 8.4 crore loss to the state exchequer. The CAG found that the commercial tax department granted net present value (NPV) benefits to two industrial entities amounting to Rs 3.7 crore even though the entities were not eligible for the NPV scheme. In another case, the department exempted seven hoteliers from paying a total of Rs 1.4 crore as luxury tax, which was in violation of norms. “Scrutiny of assessment records of two luxury tax offices revealed that between March 2018 and January 2019 that though the payment of tax was delayed by five hoteliers and there were undisputed arrears in respect of two hoteliers, the luxury tax offices allowed the luxury tax exemptions while finalising the assessments,” the CAG report states. “This resulted in short levy of luxury tax of Rs1.4 crore by irregular grant of exemption,” said the CAG report. The CAG also identified instances where irregular allowance of input tax credit against entry tax paid after the tax period resulted in excess refund of Rs 1.1 crore. The CAG scrutiny also found that taxation officers failed to recover Rs 2.1 crore as interest on outstanding VAT owed by 14 taxpayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lapses-at-commercial-tax-dept-caused-rs-8cr-loss-cag/articleshow/80593693.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man-elephant conflict claims yet another life||COIMBATORE: A 47-year-old man was found killed in an elephant attack near Narasipuram on the outskirts of the city on Friday morning. The forest department identified the deceased as N Karthi, a resident of Selvapuram in the city. He was a painter. A forest officer said the body was found 3km away from the reserve forest. “It was local residents who spotted the body first and alerted us around 7.30am,” he said. Pointing out that the night patrol team had chased away a lone tusker into the reserve forest from a village near Narasipuram around 10.30pm on Thursday, the officer said, “Karthi would have been killed by the tusker before it entered the village,” he added. Preliminary inquiry revealed Karthi was an alcoholic and used to frequent a temple that was located near Narasipuram. “It is suspected that the tusker attacked him while he was on his way to the temple. The priest has confirmed that Karthi hadn’t visited the temple on Thursday,” the officer told TOI. He said there was only 1km to the temple from the spot from where they recovered Karthi’s body, which was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The officer said they would hand over Rs 50,000 to the family members of the deceased as immediate relief at the earliest. The remaining Rs 3.50 lakh of the Rs 4 lakh solatium provided by the state government would be issued to them in due course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-elephant-conflict-claims-yet-another-life/articleshow/80592297.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Nashik||Nashik doctors sick with constant delay in salaries||NASHIK: Around 200 doctors attached to the Nashik civil hospital, regional referral hospital and the rural hospitals treating Covid and non-Covid patients since the outbreak of the pandemic have been suffering because of the delay in the payment of their salaries. A delegation of doctors affiliated to the Maharashtra Association of Gazetted Medical Officers (MAGMO), group A, presented a memorandum to P B Gandal, deputy director of the divisional health department, to draw the attention of the government to the matter. The doctors told Gandal that while on the one hand, they were being eulogized for treating Covid-19 patients by risking their lives, on the other, they were not being paid salaries on time. While the monthly salary is expected in the first week of every month, this time, the salaries of the doctors have not been credited despite January almost coming to an end. Doctors said besides their basic expenditures, they also have to pay their monthly instalments. Meanwhile, in January and February, a good portion of the salaries goes in taxes. Once the taxes are deducted, the amount left in-hand is not enough to meet the monthly expenditure. While admitting about the delay in payment of salaries, Gandal said he has been following up the matter with officials of the concerned department and was hoping for the salaries of the doctors to be credited soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-docs-sick-with-constant-delay-in-salaries/articleshow/80589966.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Covaxin recipients’ count drops this week||PUNE: The response to the region’s only Covaxin vaccination site dwindled this week with 15 and 40 beneficiaries being vaccinated at the site on Thursday and Friday, respectively. The authorities of the District Hospital Aundh stated that most of the beneficiaries from their hospital had been vaccinated, but the new beneficiaries — mostly from other hospitals — seemed to be apprehensive about the vaccination. Varsha Doiphode, additional civil surgeon, Pune district, said, “Most of the beneficiaries now will be from other civic and private hospitals. The response will now hinge on how many of them are willing to take the Covaxin shot.” One of the vaccinators said many beneficiaries from the District Hospital Aundh had to be rejected because of their contraindicated medical condition, but most of the others had been inoculated. The positive word from the early vaccinees increased the confidence among the rest of the staff members in the latter part of the drive. The official said for a better part of the vaccination drive across the state, the confidence was increasing. Still, more awareness among the healthcare workers in line to get inoculated would prove to be a good idea, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covaxin-recipients-count-drops-this-week/articleshow/80592302.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||‘KTC bought 57 new buses in past 3 yrs’||Panaji: A total of 57 new buses have been purchased by the Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC) in the past three years, said minister for transport Mauvin Godinho to a question tabled by Nuvem MLA, Wilfred D’sa in the assembly Of the 57 new buses that were purchased since 2018, 34 are mini buses, 15 are semi-luxury buses, and three are luxury buses. Five are Volvo buses. Of these, the Volvo buses were the costliest. A majority of these buses are operating from the Porvorim depot. The total number of buses plying in the KTC’s fleet as of now is 520 buses. In addition to this, Godinho also stated that a proposal has been received to operate Kadamba buses in Nuvem constituency. However, there is a shortage in mini-buses, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-bought-57-new-buses-in-past-3-yrs/articleshow/80593699.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu set to become Apple products manufacturing hub||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is all set to become the new hub for manufacturing Apple products for the global market. The state cabinet, which met on Friday evening, cleared 34 industrial projects entailing investments of Rs 52,257 crore that includes component manufacturers for Apple such as Tata Electronics, Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, and Luxshare of Taiwan. The investments will result in creating employment for around 94,000 people in the state. “With Tamil Nadu already hosting manufacturing facilities of Foxconn and Salcomp, the clearances for investments from Tata Electronics, Pegatron and Luxshare will ensure that the entire ecosystem of manufacturing Apple products will be housed in Tamil Nadu,” a senior state government official told TOI. The cabinet also approved the New Industrial Policy of Tamil Nadu, which will be unveiled in February. Tata Electronics will invest Rs 5,763 crore and create 18,250 jobs in Krishnagiri district for making mobile phone components. Pegatron will invest Rs 1,100 crore in the first phase and create more than 14,000 jobs in its proposed unit to make mobile phones in Mahindra World City in Chengalpet district, about 60km from Chennai. Pegatron is the second largest contract manufacturer of Apple phones. Luxshare of Taiwan is investing Rs 745 crore and will create 4,000 jobs. It will make electronic components and wearables. It is taking over Motorola’s defunct manufacturing unit in Sriperumbudur near Chennai. Among other sectors, Sun Edison will be investing Rs 4,629 crore and employ close to 5,400 people in its unit to manufacture solar pv modules. Ola Electric will invest Rs 2,354 crore and employ nearly 2,200 people at its electric two-wheeler and batteries manufacturing plant at the Sipcot complex in Bargur in Krishnagiri district. In the case of some of the investors including Ola Electric, the state government has already entered into facilitation MoUs in order to enable them to do preliminary works. “Now, with cabinet approval, detailed legally binding MoUs will be executed,” the official said. Eickhoff Wind Ltd, a German company, will invest Rs 621 crore and employ more than 300 people in its facility to manufacture gear boxes for wind energy production near Chennai. It will be relocating its existing manufacturing plants in China and Germany, a state government release said. Among other projects, BASF of Germany, one of world’s largest chemical companies, will invest Rs 345 crore in a plant in Chengalpet district to make auto emission catalysts, while Lucas TVS will invest Rs 2,500 crore and employ 3,500 people in a plant to make lithium ion batteries in Tiruvallur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-set-to-become-apple-products-manufacturing-hub/articleshow/80592301.cms||D Govardan
January 30, 2021||India||Opposition parties back Tikait, call for more mobilisation||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Tens of thousands of farmers reached Muzaffarnagar’s GIC grounds on Friday afternoon to attend a ‘mahapanchayat’ called by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Naresh Tikait amid heavy police presence. Putting to rest all the speculation — some news portals on Thursday evening said that he has called for an end to the protest at Ghazipur border — Tikait asserted that the stir will continue. Leaders from several political parties as well as important khaps also shared the dais with Tikait. Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary and AAP MP Sanjay Singh addressed the gathering among others. Both Chaudhary and Singh called for the mobilisation of farmers from the western UP. The mahapanchayat resolved to throw its full weight behind the Ghazipur protest. Naresh Tikait’s emotive plea seemed to have propelled the crowd to head to the protest site at the UP Gate in Ghazipur and boost the numbers there. Tikait told the charged crowd to move towards the Delhi border, about 100km away. He, however, stressed that they should go peacefully and proceed in small groups rather than big ones. “We will continue to protest against farm laws until the government withdraws them,” he said. The GIC grounds witnessed a sea of participants while hundreds of tractors with the tricolour and flags of farm unions were parked along roads near the venue. As Muzaffarnagar became the meeting point for farmers from across the region, RLD's Jayant Chaudhary tweeted, "It is a matter of life and death for farmers, but do not worry. All have to stay together, united in this -- this is Chaudhary saahab's (Ajit Singh's) message." “Lathi se desh nahi chal sakta, sarkar ka ek iqbal hota hai jo isne kho diya hai (The country cannot be run by the use of force. The government has a prestige, which it has lost today,” Chaudhary told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-parties-back-tikait-call-for-more-mobilisation/articleshow/80595144.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 30, 2021||Chennai||After a decade, TNHB to again sell housing plots in Chennai’s suburbs||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) is returning to its core housing plots vertical again on the city’s peripheries. Decades after focusing on building tenements in and around Chennai, the state owned board will be launching a slew of layouts on the outskirts. Nearly 200 housing plots at Ponneri will be the first of them and tender has been floated to develop the identified land parcel. Another 110 housing plots at Manali in north Chennai is already up for sale. This apart, the housing board also plans to launch two smaller layouts at Padi near Anna Nagar and Mullai Nagar near Tambaram, having a collective 80 housing plots. Another project comprising 160 housing plots and multi-storeyed buildings near the Paranur toll plaza at Chengalpet is on the pipeline. The last housing plot project that was executed in the city and peripheries was more than a decade ago. High land acquisition cost in the view of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act has prevented acquiring land for new layouts. In fact, the land parcels near Ponneri railway station and Manali were under litigation for more than 20 years, according to official sources. “The properties had a long legal battle before coming to the hands of TNHB. Now, they’ll be given away as housing plots as planned,” a TNHB official said. This apart, the board’s 25-years-old Thirumazhisai Satellite Township project with plots and multi-storeyed buildings has not materialised. The TNHB was a pioneer in promoting layouts in the city more than 50 years ago. After launching a slew of housing layouts at Anna Nagar, K K Nagar and Korattur, the housing board started focusing on building flats. Before that, TNHB was known as City Improvement Trust (CIT). R Radhakrishnan, former national president of Builders Association of India, said, “The erstwhile City Improvement Trust was offering independent houses till the focus shifted on housing plots,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-a-decade-tnhb-to-again-sell-housing-plots-in-citys-suburbs/articleshow/80592328.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man accused of sex assault on minor gets bail over FIR delay||NEW DELHI: Pointing to a delay of eight hours in lodging a complaint and finding discrepancies in it, Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man accused of trying to sexually assault a minor. Justice Suresh Kait noted that though the claim in the complaint was that the accused Shiv Chander was intoxicated and beaten on the spot after forcing a two-and-a-half-year-old girl to perform oral sex, the medical report showed nothing. “This court has seen the CCTV footage and the father of the victim was seen outside the building. The complainant (an acquaintance of the victim’s father) entered the building and within a minute, he was seen catching hold of the petitioner and bringing him out. If such type of heinous crime had taken place, and that too with a two-and-a-half-year-old girl, why was the FIR not registered immediately?” observed justice Kait. The court flagged the “delay of eight hours in registration of FIR” and the fact that “there was no sign of beating and intoxication in the medico-legal case of the petitioner”. “If the neighbours had beaten the petitioner and he was in a state of intoxication, then the said fact should have come in the MLC, but it does not show any sign of bruises or abrasion, indicating that there was no public beating, which was alleged in the FIR,” the judge noted. The prosecution said on the day of the alleged crime, the survivor’s father was asked to help a shopkeeper unload goods. The shopkeeper, who is the complainant, saw Chander in an intoxicated state sitting outside the gate of the victim’s room. He later claimed he saw the accused take the victim on the main gate’s side. The zip of his pants was already open and he allegedly heard the accused insisting the survivor perform oral sex. In his defence, Chander claimed there were major contradictions in the material placed on record as the FIR and the chargesheet were both self-contradictory. He also cited his MLC not showing any sign of intoxication and abrasion. Taking a prima facie view, without commenting on the merits of the case, the court granted him bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-accused-of-sex-assault-on-minor-gets-bail-over-fir-delay/articleshow/80592309.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 30, 2021||Delhi||200m stretch a fortress now with 3-layer barricading, Delhi cops on alert||NEW DELHI: The otherwise quiet and leafy Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road with several foreign institutes and embassies on its length was the site of a minor bomb blast on Friday. The improvised explosive device went off near the footpath near the Israeli embassy, shattering the windshields of several vehicles parked nearby. Aniljit Singh, businessman and vice-chairman of India Namibia Trade Forum, who lives adjacent to the Israel embassy, said, “I was resting in my bedroom when my ceiling shook a bit. My gymnasium is right above the bedroom, so I thought someone had dropped the weights. Then seeing the domestic staff all agog, I checked and saw a plume of smoke towards the left of the Israeli embassy. I first thought it was a gas cylinder explosion, but later learnt it was a buried bomb. The police officials came to my house and have taken the CCTV footage.” In no time, the 200-metre stretch from Charles Venn Park circle to the intersection between Abdul Kalam Road and Prithiviraj Road — home to the Brazilian embassy, French Cultural Institute, Canadian residency and Meghalaya House — turned into a fortress. Security personnel created a three-layer barricading, with a bus blocking the road in addition to police barricades. Vehicles carrying high ranking police officials and special teams kept arriving amidst heavy media presence. A security guard in the neighbourhood said he heard a loud bang around 5pm and all the guards rushed out to see smoke near the Israel embassy. Around 7.30pm, crime scene investigators arrived with mobile forensic and retrieved samples from the blast site. Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava visited the incident site. He later told reporters, “I have just returned from the scene of the blast. A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated by the Special Cell. I cannot say anything more on this case right now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/200m-stretch-a-fortress-now-with-3-layer-barricading-cops-on-alert/articleshow/80593757.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Gujarati actor Arvind Joshi passes away||MUMBAI: Senior Gujarati film and theatre actor, playwright and director Arvind Joshi passed away at Nanavati Hospital in Vile Parle on Friday. He was 84. Born and bred in Mumbai, he featured prominently in Gujarati movies like ‘Gher Gher Matina Chula’ and ‘Dhola Maru’. Hindi audiences know him as the Thakur’s son in ‘Sholay’ besides films like ‘Ittefaq’, ‘Apmaan Ki Aag’ and ‘Ab To Aaja Saajan Mere’. Arvind was the father of actors Sharman and Manasi Roy, brother-in-law of veteran artiste Sarita Joshi and uncle to Ketaki Dave and Purvi Joshi. Manasi said, “He was a wonderful father. Sharman and I inherited our values and our acting talent from him.” Sarita told TOI, “I will always remember him as an actor first. Arvindji was a multifaceted person a good artiste, playwright and theatre director. He was affiliated with Indian National Theatre (INT) before setting up his own institute, Prasthaan.” Bella Jaisinghani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gujarati-actor-arvind-joshi-passes-away/articleshow/80593789.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
January 30, 2021||Navi-mumbai||‘Panje wetland drying as tidal inlets blocked’||NAVI MUMBAI: The environmental sub-committee that conducted the latest ground inspection at Panje wetland following complaints from activists has observed that the tidal water inlets were blocked with reinforced concrete, leading to its drying up. Environmentalists also complained that a few locals were carrying out landfilling at another spot for a cricket pitch.  “We have told the tehsildar and other district authorities to immediately reopen all the water inlets at Panje since the environmental department had also ordered the same,” said D Stalin, a member of the HC-appointed wetlands protection panel. When TOI contacted Uran tehsildar, B Andhare, he said: “I sent officials to the Panje site as soon as I got the feedback from the sub-committee about the blocked water channels... We will work on this issue based on state directions.” On the landfilling for the cricket pitch, he said that his staff has already visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/panje-wetland-drying-as-tidal-inlets-blocked/articleshow/80593785.cms||Vijay Singh
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Award-winning Velliangiri farmer producers’ organization now plans to increase exports||Coimbatore: The Velliangiri Uzhavan Producer Company Limited, which won the best performing farmer producer company— in governance category at the Republic Day celebration, plans to increase exports.The farmer producers’ organization (FPO) recently exported five tonnes of 15 types of vegetables to Qatar for the first time, its chairman Kumar told reporters on Friday. “We started the company to ensure that farmers get profitable prices for their produce. We are selling coconut, areca nut and vegetables directly to consumers. This eliminated several challenges and increased revenue for farmers of Thondamuthur. The company takes care of all the work from harvesting to marketing and payment to farmers’ bank accounts,” he said.The FPO’s annual turnover has increased from Rs 45,000 in 2013 to Rs 12 crore in 2020. “As many as 1,063 farmers in Thondamuthur are members of Velliangiri Uzhavan. Of these, 70% are small and marginal farmers and 38% are women farmers,” said Venkatrasa, coordinator of Isha Outreach.All farmers, irrespective of their farmhold, get the same rates for their produce. “In addition to direct sales, we provide fertilizers to farmers at subsidised rates, set up drip irrigation systems to overcome water scarcity and assist farmers to avail benefits from government schemes,” said Kumar.Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev congratulated the FPO on the award. “A praiseworthy display of commitment to sustainable agriculture, food security and economic growth. Congratulations to #VelliangiriUzhavan FPO on your remarkable performance and to #IshaOutreach on your indispensable guidance,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/award-winning-velliangiri-farmer-producers-organization-now-plans-to-increase-exports/articleshow/80592327.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Suitor from UK sends Andheri woman ‘gifts’, cons her of Rs 4 lakh||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old woman from Andheri (east) was cheated of Rs 4 lakh after her ‘friend’ on social media made her transfer money to claim some “expensive gifts” and UK pounds collectively valued around Rs 85 lakh that he said he had sent her. The man,who had sent her a friend request earlier this month, identified himself as Alexander Maritins. He told her that all the cash and gifts had been caught up at the Customs department office at Delhi airport. The accused told the woman that his wife had died in a road accident and he was keen on pursuing a matrimonial alliance with her. He claimed to be an engineer working for a shipping company in the UK and said he was posted on board a merchant ship. To lend credence to his claim, he had shared the courier parcel identification number so that she could track the movement and location of the parcel. The woman told the police that she believed him as he had even made a WhatsApp video call to her. The police have now sent out a request freeze bank accounts to which the funds sent by the woman have been credited, said an officer of Andheri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/suitor-from-uk-sends-andheri-woman-gifts-cons-her-of-rs-4l/articleshow/80515066.cms||V Narayan
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: 492 test Covid-19 positive, most in home isolation||PUNE: A total of 492 of the suspected 8,287 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, registering an almost 6% positivity rate. With this, the caseload of active patients has gone up to 5,146 in PMR, including 3,175 patients in home quarantine. The positivity rate among suspected patients has continued to hover between 6 % and 8% for the last more than two months and has not exceeded despite the winter season. On Friday, 409 people were discharged from various hospitals after complete recovery. With this, the total infections and discharges in PMR increased above 3.78 lakh and 3.64 lakh, respectively. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 201 cases were added in the PMC limits in the last 24 hours, followed by the rural areas (143) and the PCMC limits (103). As many as 8,272 tests of the suspected patients were conducted in the region on Friday. The region reported ten Covid-linked deaths in PMR in the last 24 hours. With this, the death toll in PMR increased to 9,046.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/492-test-ve-most-in-home-isolation/articleshow/80592329.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Appointment of member to elephant corridor committee welcomed||Udhagamandalam: Tribal members who are holding office in grama panchayats welcomed the appointment of conservationist Nandita Hazarika by the Supreme Court as a new member of the Sigur elephant corridor inquiry committee in the place of Ajay Desai, who passed away last November.Tribal members had written to Justice K Venkatraman, chairman of the three-member committee, to remove Desai and Praveen Bhargava. Hazarika is a biologist from Assam.Based on the 32 appeals upholding the direction of the Madras high court in 2011, the SC, on October 14, 2020, directed the Tamil Nadu government to notify the Sigur elephant corridor in the Nilgiris district. The apex court also appointed a three-member committee headed by Venkatraman to hear the complaints of resort owners against the action taken by the Nilgiris collector and other allied issues.However, Ponthuos Kuttan of toda tribe, president of the Nilgiris district panchayats, Keerthana of betta kurumbar tribe, panchayat union chairperson, Gudalur, and Madevi Mohan of irula tribe, president of the Masinagudi panchayat wrote to Venkatraman stating that direct conflict of interest in the case with reference to the two members would vitiate justice and the very objectives with which the SC appointed the committee and to remove the two members.“We welcome the appointment of Nandita Hazarika as one of the members of the inquiry committee,” said Kuttan.The SC order of the appointment of the new member, dated January 27, came after an application filed by the Hospitality Association of Mudumalai following the death of Desai.A report submitted by the Nilgiris administration to SC in 2018 mentioned that 821 buildings were identified in the corridor that connects to Bandipur and northeastern slope of the Nilgiris and further down. The report stated that there were 309 resorts, out of which 39 had restaurants. The rest of the structures include 390 houses and 27 other buildings such as temple, community halls, schools, water tanks and public toilets, besides nine other constructions.Nine estates and plantations are located within the corridor area. About 51.5 hectares of cultivation land is situated within the marked corridor area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/appointment-of-member-to-elephant-corridor-committee-welcomed/articleshow/80592373.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Avian influenza cases, bird deaths show steady decline across Maharashtra||PUNE: Avian influenza cases and bird deaths in Maharashtra have seen a steady decline in the past few days, with the number of mortalities and positive samples dropping since January 25. From the 900-1,000-plus deaths recorded from January 13 till January 25, the number of daily mortalities is now down to around 100-300. Maharashtra animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI that avian influenza might be receding in the state with the number of crow and other bird mortalities being on a decline during the past four-five days. “If the same trend continues for several days, we may consider that avian influenza has subsided in Maharashtra. Some ornithologists were also of the view that once the winter migration of birds to India reduces, the incidence of avian influenza will also drop. But more scientific evaluation would be needed to attribute a cause to the sudden dip in the bird mortalities,” said Singh. A week or so ago, a large number of bird casualties was being reported on several consecutive days. “This is not happening in the past few days,” Singh said. Another senior animal husbandry department official said sanitization activities in the one kilometre radius of the infected zones had been carried out in 16 districts. “There has been no recurrence of avian influenza cases there,” the official said. Animal husbandry department data revealed that 142 poultry birds were found dead on Thursday in districts such as Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, Latur, Osmanabad and Amravati. Mortalities were also reported in 11 other birds, like heron, sparrow, and parrot. Fifteen crows were found dead. On Wednesday, the department received results of tests of some samples from the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, Bhopal. None of the poultry bird samples tested positive for avian influenza. The positive samples ere that of a peacock from Khandala and an owl from Hangarga. Nanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/avian-influenza-cases-bird-deaths-show-steady-decline-across-state/articleshow/80592337.cms||Neha Madaan
January 30, 2021||Bareilly||Akhilesh to start 'cycle yatra' for Azam's Jauhar University||Rampur: Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has announced on Friday that the SP will launch a 'cycle yatra' across the state in support of Rampur MP Azam Khan's Muhammad Ali Jauhar University. The former UP CM said that he himself will lead the 'cycle yatra' and create awareness about the varsity. Akhilesh alleged that Jauhar University is being targeted because UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath doesn't want young people to get educated."Everyone knows the truth why Azam Khan is in jail. It is nothing but political vendetta," he said while addressing a press conference inside the University's meeting hall in Rampur.Akhilesh added, "Our entire party and its leaders are standing with Azam Khan and Jauhar University. Our MLAs, MLCc and MPs are continuously raising their voices inside the Parliament, assembly and councils and working hard to protect this institution.""We believe in the judicial system and the varsity will get justice. The entire machinery from lekhpal to the district magistrate are in the hands of the state government. Therefore, it is a legal battle and we will, hopefully, get justice."Akhilesh was accompanied by senior party leaders. He also visited Azam's house and met his wife Tazeen Fatma and other family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/akhilesh-to-start-cycle-yatra-for-azams-jauhar-university/articleshow/80411252.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune municipal commissioner tables Rs 7,650 crore budget for 2021-22||PUNE: Brace for an increase in your property tax which may go up by 11% if the proposal in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s draft budget presented by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Friday is accepted by the standing committee and ratified by the general body. But, if you have been a diligent property tax payer, rewards are on the way. The civic body has approved the idea of such a scheme in-principle. “Though the details have not been finalised as yet, some incentive will be made available to appreciate regular tax payers,” Kumar said. The huge Rs 7,650 crore outlay for the financial year 2021-22, up by Rs 1,421 crore from the last fiscal, did not propose any new source of income. The civic administration is banking on the property tax hike to rake in the income and public-private partnerships projects to develop roads, gardens and other civic works. Funds from corporate social responsibility and corporate environment responsibility will be used for such projects. The administration will introduce credit notes with an to develop roads and bridges. . A total of 11 roads and two bridges have been proposed to be developed through PPP at a cost of Rs 581 crore through use of credit notes. Municipal bonds of Rs 300 crore will also be explored. “The PPP will help speed up the construction of roads and other projects. We have selected 20 VVIP roads which will be developed this fiscal. As private parties will fund these projects, it will help save civic funds. This saving can be treated as revenue,” Kumar added. He said the civic body has 246 amenity spaces which will be given on long-term lease. Around 100 acres will also be leased out to generate revenue. As many as 23 villages will be merged with the PMC areas and GST revenue may increase after this inclusion. The civic administration suffered losses in revenue in 2020-21 due to the lockdown when building permissions and property tax payments were just a trickle. The PMC earned around Rs 3,300 crore and spent Rs 3,000 crore in the current fiscal. Around Rs 1,400 crore has been earned from property tax, while nearly Rs 300 crore have been generated from building permission as well as development charges and nearly Rs 43 crore has been collected as rent from civic properties. “The amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters and efforts to recover money from pending rents of civic properties brought income. We will come up with more such initiatives,” Kumar added. He said that initiatives like introduction of e-bikes services and construction cycle tracks will be taken for improving the public transport. Though key projects have got some provision in the budget, there has been no significant allocation for high capacity mass transit routes. Kumar said the Pune Metropolitan Urban Transport Authority will give its views about the project after which it will be implemented and funded. “The PMC and PCMC have to build a consensus about how the project is going to be executed. An option such as a neo metro can be explored. A meeting has been planned, and a final call will be taken after which the HCMTR will gather pace,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-lean-year-draft-budget-plans-11-property-tax-hike/articleshow/80592345.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 30, 2021||Ajmer||One dies, nine hurt as fire breaks out at petrol pump in Ajmer||AJMER: One person died while nine others were injured when a petrol pump caught fire in Adarsh Nagar area of Ajmer on Friday evening. The incident occurred when CNG was being filled in a vehicle. All the nine injured have been taken to JLN hospital. Police, ambulances and fire department rushed to the spot to control the fire. According to police, there was a blast in the generator when CNG was being filled in a vehicle. Ajmer SP Jagdish Chand Sharma said one Shabir Khan, 26, son of Babulal, a resident of Daurai, died. According to sources, condition of three injured is said to be critical. Eyewitnesses said they heard a blast at Khalsa petrol pump in the evening. They feared that more people might be trapped in the fire as there were lot of consumers who came to fill fuel. Vehicles caught fire and people rushed to rescue those who were trapped and to douse the fire. Ambulances and fire brigades also reached the spot to control fire. Injured were taken to hospital, while Shabir, who was the driver, died on the spot. Sharma monitored the rescue and directed an investigation into the matter. Sources in the hospital confirmed that condition of three injured is critical and they are under treatment. As the petrol pump was located in an isolated place, there was not much damage. Workers at the pump switched off fuel supply to control further damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/1-dies-9-hurt-as-fire-breaks-out-at-petrol-pump-in-ajmer/articleshow/80592363.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||When Mossad stomped streets with Delhi police||NEW DELHI: February 13, 2012. It was quarter past three and Tal Yehoshua Koren, the wife of an Israeli diplomat, was on the way to pick up her children from school. Seated in the rear of a Toyota Innova car bearing the number 109 CD 35, Koren reached the Aurangzeb Road traffic light when the vehicle suddenly went up in flames. Rushed to a nearby hospital, Koren survived the attack, which prompted an international investigation into the blast. Delhi Police's Special Cell did not have much to go on initially. The probe revealed that a motorcycle rider came from behind and attached a magnetic explosive device to the rear of the vehicle. However, when Israel's Mossad joined the investigation, the two agencies unravelled a larger conspiracy that pointed at the role of Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps and its Quds Force. Read AlsoBlast near Israel embassy, Delhi Police probing terror angleA low-intensity blast took place near the Israel embassy in New Delhi around 5pm on Friday, coinciding with the anniversary of India and Israel establishing full diplomatic relations on January 29, 1992. No one was injured, but window panes of three cars we​re damaged.“It was not an isolated attack. Similar attacks were carried out or attempted in other countries with Israel as the target,” retired anti-terror cop Ashok Chand, who investigated the case, told TOI. A similar bombing was attempted in Georgia on the same day, an explosive planted beneath the car of an Israeli diplomat, but it was detected and defused. In Thailand too, two suspects were arrested for plotting an attack after an accidental blast, while another suspect was arrested in Malaysia. “The person caught in Malaysia had applied for an Indian visa from the Indian embassy in Iran. He had mentioned his contact number on the visa form and this number was found in contact with an Indian number,” a Special Cell cop recalled. Read Also'Full confidence' that India will ensure safety of Israelis: Benjamin Netanyahu on embassy blastIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday expressed "full confidence" in the Indian authorities in ensuring the safety of Israelis and Jews in India following a blast close to the country's embassy in New Delhi.The India number belonged to Hoshang Afshar Irani, an Iranian citizen. Another police officer remembered, “Irani was the Delhi bomber. He had visited India between April and May, 2011, for the groundwork. He returned in January, carried out the attack on February 13 and took a flight out of the country the same day.” The investigators found Irani had stayed in room number 305 of Hotel High 5 Land in Karol Bagh. The forensic officials found traces of material used in making the stick IED on the ceiling of that hotel room. The cops subsequently arrested Urdu journalist Syed Mohammed Ahmed Kazmi from India Islamic Centre, charging him with being in constant touch with Irani during the time he was planning the attack. They also alleged financial transactions, but Kazmi refuted all accusations. He was arrested in March that year, but was later released on bail. The case against him is pending trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-mossad-stomped-streets-with-city-police/articleshow/80593793.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 30, 2021||India||Munde, ex-partner opt for mediation||MUMBAI: State cabinet minister Dhananjay Munde and the woman with whom he admitted to having had an extra-marital relationship and fathering two children have told Bombay high court they have decided to go for mediation to resolve their dispute. On Thursday, Justice Anil Menon was informed by the advocates of Munde and the woman that they have decided to refer their dispute to V K Tahilramani, former chief justice of the Madras high court. They also tendered consent terms signed by both parties. Last December, Munde had filed a defamation suit against the woman to protect his ‘right to privacy'. On December 16, 2020, on Munde’s plea for interim relief, Justice Menon was told by his advocate that “the defendant proposes to publish further materials which are private in nature”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/munde-ex-partner-opt-for-mediation/articleshow/80595149.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Notorious gangster Papla Gujjar remanded in judicial custody||JAIPUR/ALWAR: Notorious gangster Papla Gujjar, who was arrested by a special team of Rajasthan police, was remanded in judicial custody by a special court in Behor, while his woman companion was taken in police remand of seven days. He was sent to jail in the evening after he was tested negative for Covid in the RT-PCR test. Senior police officers stated that due to technical reasons Papla has been sent to jail and not been taken in police remand. “Actually, we need to have his identification parade where he would be identified by our policemen who were present at the Behror police station on September 6, 2019, when he escaped from jail. After his identification, we will apply for his police remand,” Hawa Singh Ghumeria, IGP, Jaipur Range, told TOI on Friday. Papla was taken to Behor early on Friday and was kept in a cell, while his woman companion Zia was kept in another cell of the police station. “His medical examination and RT-PCR test was also conducted. He was later sent to the Behror sub jail in the evening,” he added. Since the arrest on Thursday evening, senior officials kept interrogating Papla and his female friend. “He is not been cooperating. He is a hard nut to be cracked,” said an officer. On the other hand Zia would be interrogated to know when and how she came in contact with Papla. “She is accused of harbouring a criminal. So, she would be questioned since when she came in touch with Papla and since when he was staying along with her,” said an officer. At least 300 policemen cordoned the area when Papla was taken to court. In the evening, Bhiwadi SP Rammoorty Joshi suspended Sudhir Kumar, a constable who was sharing the movement of police to Papla and his aides. “Kumar was allegedly sharing every information on police movement,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/papla-remanded-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/80592413.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Victims preferred illegal hand-made liquor as it was cheap||Ajmer: Dalel Singh Rajput, 26, who died after consuming poisonous liquor in Saran Ka Kheda village of Bhilwara, got married just three months ago.A pall of gloom descended at his house when the family found Dalel’s body in his room. Brother of the deceased said that Dalel brought the liquor from somewhere and consumed it in his house and then had food. At about midnight, he felt uneasy and started vomiting and by the time the family could do anything, he died.Four people died and several fell ill after consuming poisonous liquor in the village. The whole excise department station was suspended and on Friday afternoon compensation cheques were distributed to the families of the deceased through Mukhya Mantri Sahayata Kosh.Police said it was confirmed that liquor was not consumed during any occasion, but different people purchased it from different shops. Bhom Singh, who fell ill after consuming the liquor, told reporters that he had a guest on Thursday night and brought the country-made from an illegal place. After consuming the liquor, he started feeling uneasy.Sources said illegal country-made liquor is popular in the region because it is cheap. Another victim said that he bought it from the Kanjar Basti outside the village and was a regular customer.A family member of a deceased victim alleged that the excise department and police were aware of the liquor racket, but they failed to act.Sources said rackets are working openly preparing illegal country-made liquor in the tribal regions of Ajmer and Bhilwara. Recently after the Bharatpur incident, the excise department and police had raided such places in Ajmer and Bhilwara, but were unable to bust the racket. In Saran ka Kheda village, too, the excise department had raided a few spots and arrested one Laxman Kanjar, but nothing more was done in the matter.A resident of Saran Ka Kheda village said most of the locals are addicted to alcohol and even women consume liquor, which is cheap and easily available. Santuri died, while two other women Neetu and Manju are under treatment in a Bhilwara hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/victims-preferred-illegal-hand-made-liquor-as-it-was-cheap/articleshow/80592396.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Woman who prepared spurious liquor dies after consuming it||Ajmer: The main accused of spurious liquor incident in Saran Ka Kheda village Santuri Kanjar died after consuming the liquor she had prepared.Preliminary probe found that the liquor was prepared for a get-to-gather occasion of Santuri Kanjar and was also shared by other families.Police is waiting for the lab report of the liquor, but sources informed that something went wrong while preparing the hand-made liquor. “We did not find traces spirit in the liquor which is usually used by illegal sellers and therefore it is an incident of preparing hand-made liquor in a family,” said an offical source.The liquor was prepared at Santuri’s home and most of the victims that went ill were from her family while Santuri died. “Last week, we had booked Babulal and Laxman of the village and destroyed illegal liquor and as such no mafia was active in the region,” added the source.Sources further said that it was customary in some communities to prepare hand-made liquor during family gatherings; however, the district administration keeps a vigil. But now they go out in jungles or isolated places to prepare liquor. “If it was illegal liquor mafia, then deaths should not have been concentrated in one place,” added the source.Officials said that on the direction of the state government, raids and arrests were already on in the district in a campaign against illegal liquor. The state government also suspended a large number of officials. “On the direction of the chief minister investigation will be carried out and a report will be submitted to the state government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-who-prepared-spurious-liquor-dies-after-consuming-it/articleshow/80592367.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||State records 59% turnout on 4th day of vac drive week 2||Bhopal: A total 50,994 health workers were vaccinated across 1,065 centres on the fourth day of the second Covid-19 vaccination week in the state on Friday.The vaccination turnout percentage remained 59%, as it was on January 28, but while 63,508 health workers were vaccinated on Thursday, only 50,994 health workers could be vaccinated on Friday.State capital Bhopal remained in the bottom five districts. Only 46% vaccination was reported in Bhopal. Thus, overall in four days of vaccination in the state this week, a total 2,07,903 health workers were vaccinated. This is nearly 50% of the total 4.31 health workers that have to be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination in the state. On Friday, total 86,899 health workers were scheduled for vaccination. Of this, a total 50,994 workers were vaccinated -- that is 59% of the total target for vaccination.It is noteworthy that in the first week of covid-19 vaccination in the state, an average 62% health workers were vaccinated. The highest vaccination turnout (100 per cent) was reported from three districts -- Alirajpur, Mandla and Dindori districts -- all tribal-dominated districts.The lowest vaccination turnout was reported from Guna district, where only 32% of the total health workers who were called for vaccination, could be vaccinated on Friday.In Bhopal, the turnout was 46% as out of 7,590 health workers who were scheduled for vaccination, only 3,503 were vaccinated. Likewise, in Jabalpur, it was 69% as against 5,364 health workers who were scheduled to get the jab, 3,714 were vaccinated, in Gwalior it was 50% as 917 out of 1,841 scheduled health workers were vaccinated.Vaccination was held at 1,065 centres across the state. Of these, the maximum 85 centres were in Indore district, followed by Bhopal which had 80 centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-records-59-turnout-on-4th-day-of-vac-drive-week-2/articleshow/80592417.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: 1.5 lakh establishments in 23 merged villages to add Rs 130 crore to civic kitty||PUNE: Nearly 1.5 lakh properties in the merged villages that will come under the property tax ambit will boost the income of the Pune Municipal Corporation by Rs 130 crore. The civic body has set Rs 2,400 crore as revenue from property tax alone. Special provisions have been made for civic infrastructural projects in these villages, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said. “Applications for building permissions are likely to increase in these areas. The volume of permissions will go up too. It will help add to the revenue for the civic administration. The unified development control rules will be applicable in these villages after the merger. It will scale up the income from development charges, premium and other fees,” Kumar said. The current GST revenue of around Rs 2,300 crore will get a boost, Kumar said, adding that PMC will spend on building new roads and water supply projects as well as sewage treatment plants in the merged areas. The process of merging the villages in the civic limits started after the draft notification was issued in December 2020. Suggestions and objections were sought. The deadline has now ended and a report will be sent to the state government. The PMC limits will increase to around 512 sqkm after this merger making it the largest municipal corporation. Areas like Wagholi, Khadakwasla and Manjari Budruk will be a part of the PMC post-merger. The decision to merge 34 fringe villages with the PMC was taken in 2013-14. The civic administration had merged 11 villages in PMC areas in 2017. It included nine villages which were partly added, and two that were fully added. The merger is significant as the civic elections are scheduled in February 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-5l-establishments-in-23-merged-villages-to-add-rs-130cr-to-civic-kitty/articleshow/80592418.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation plans health policy after pandemic scorcher||PUNE: The Covid-19 pandemic that has hugely impacted the city has also prompted the Pune Municipal Corporation to draft a comprehensive health policy. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said the administration will introduce a policy by February to strengthen health infrastructure and related services. The draft budget has allocated Rs 574 crore for the health department. Specialist consultants will conduct a study and draft a policy which will throw light on the gaps in the existing health infrastructure and suggest steps required to address them, he said. “We are looking forward at an in-depth analysis of health-related infrastructure. The document will guide the administration on how things can be improved,” Kumar said. Civic officials said the commission will send a committee to Pune examine the ground level preparations for the medical college. After their final approval the process to set up the college will start. The civic body is planning to start the first batch from the next academic year. Some construction work has started near Raja Bahadur Mill Road on the premises of a municipal school near Naidu Hospital. Two separate tenders for the construction worth Rs 1.6 crore have been finalized. The PMC has completed the process of the formation of a trust for the Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College. An educational trust with elected members of the civic body as members has been formed. The civic body had formed a special committee in August 2019 to study the operation of municipal medical college. The PMC’s medical college is being developed on lines of the one run by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in Gujarat. A delegation had visited Ahmedabad and studied its functioni ng.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-health-policy-after-pandemic-scorcher/articleshow/80592382.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi safai staff on strike wait for official order on demands||NEW DELHI: Another attempt to end the strike of civic staff over unpaid salaries remained unsuccessful on Friday. North Delhi Municipal Corporation called a meeting with agitating employees but some “uninvited” sanitation workers allegedly entered the meeting room and an argument among protesting workers disrupted the talks even before it began. As the strike entered the 23rd day, the sanitation condition across north Delhi has been deteriorating day by day. The corporation has now cleared the sanitation workers’ dues till December, but they are still on strike to support other employees who have not been paid for four months. They are also demanding regularisation of the remaining safai staff and medical cards. J P Tank, president of Delhi Nagar Nigam Shramik Sangh, said, “We reached the meeting room, but some sanitation workers who are not part of Confederation of MCD Employees Unions entered and started raising objections over not getting invited for talks. The session ended abruptly.” The confederation later met mayor Jai Prakash, who assured that the corporation had been working seriously to meet the demands. “We are waiting for the next meeting and an official order. Only after that a decision on getting back to work will be taken,” Tank said. The next meeting is scheduled to take place on Saturday. Jai Prakash, however, claimed that some sanitation workers had already returned to work after they were assured that the process to regularise contractual workers enrolled till 2006, those engaged on compensatory grounds till 2010, and left-out cases of 1998 would start soon, and they would get all benefits. “On Friday, I visited several residential areas along with sanitation staff to get garbage lifted and later arranged for sweeping too,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safai-staff-on-strike-wait-for-official-order-on-demands/articleshow/80592360.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Caution notices to 55 properties in Masinagudi||Udhagamandalam: At least 55 residential properties in Mavanallah and surrounding areas located close to the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) buffer zone were issued caution notices by the Masinagudi panchayat for utilizing the properties for commercial purposes. The properties were found used as resorts/homestays. This action was initiated after an inquiry into the death of a 50-year-old male elephant which suffered burn injury on its left ear in Mavanallah 10 days ago. The inquiry revealed that three rooms located in the first floor of the residential premise, where the elephant had strayed and sustained burn injury, were let out for tourists illegally. On January 22, the district administration ordered the lock and seal of the three rooms. Subsequently, an order was issued to the Masinagudi panchayat by the administration to identify residential properties utilized for commercial purposes as homestays and lodging. “We have identified 55 residential properties in Mavanallah, Achakarai and Masinagudi utilized as resorts/homestays. As per the instruction of the district administration, we have served caution notices to the owners of the properties,” president of Masinagudi panchayat Madevi Mohan said. She added the properties were issued licenses only for dwelling purposes. The 55 properties include 33 in Masinagudi area. An owner of the property in Masinagudi said, “Our property is located outside the elephant corridor. We have been paying property tax on a commercial basis and for the electricity connection too. We will close our establishments for now. We seek the intervention of the district administration to regularize and issue proper orders to run our establishments smoothly.” According to an activist, Sigur elephant corridor is a no conflict area. This is the first time a jumbo was cruelly treated by throwing a burning object on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caution-notices-to-55-properties-in-masinagudi/articleshow/80592466.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||CISF units at Delhi Metro, airports and govt buildings on alert||NEW DELHI: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which guards civil airports, vital nuclear and aerospace installations, Delhi Metro and central government buildings, has put on alert all its units across the country after a minor IED blast outside the Israeli Embassy in the capital on Friday evening, official sources said. The paramilitary force has directed its personnel to enhance vigil at the 63 civil airports and Delhi Metro under its cover, besides vital installations in the nuclear and aerospace domain. The CISF units that guard various government buildings in the national capital have been asked to maintain a “high level of alert”, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cisf-units-at-metro-airports-and-govt-buildings-on-alert/articleshow/80593835.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||From wrestler to gangster: Papla Gujjar avenged his mentor’s murder||JAIPUR/ALWAR: Vikram alias Papla Gujjar the notorious gangster who was arrested by the Rajasthan police on Thursday was a fitness freak who used to spend almost five hours daily in the gym. His story especially what pushed him into the world of crime can make a thrilling web series or a movie. Police team take the gangster from Pune to JaipurTOI on Friday spoke to senior officers of Mahendragarh police of Haryana and officers who are closely monitoring Papla’s activities in Rajasthan. Papla produced before court in BehrorAccording to the police, Papla made his first foray into the world of crime in 2014. Papla kept an Aadhaar card named as Udhal Singh to evade arrests while he was on a run32-year-old Vikram alias Papla is origionally from Papla village of Khairuli in Mahendragarh district of the state. He was inclined towards wrestling thus he started learning the basics under one Shakti Gurjar alias Dudhia who later became his mentor. Jubilant team of Special 26 lifting Sidhant Sharma, additional SP who led the operation.One Sandeep Fauji, hailing from Mahendragarh of Haryana, was a rivalry with his mentor. Thus, on February 4, 2014 Shakti Gurjar was eliminated in which Sandeep had given a contract of killing to one Surendra alias Chiku a member of a gang in Haryana. “Now this is when Vikram turned into a gangster and vowed to take revenge on Sandeep Fauji at the behest of Shakti Gurjar’s brother-in-law. Thus, he joined a gang in Haryana and in January, 2015 he allegedly killed Sandeep Fauji. Also, he is accused of killing Sandeep’s mother Bimala, maternal uncle Mahesh and Nana Shriram. Cases were registered one after the other in Mahendragarh and Narnaul. “He was arrested by Criminal Investigation Agency (CIU) of Narnaul police of Haryana on February, 12 for first four murders. But on September 5 2017 he escaped from the custody of Haryana Police during his appearance. During his escape from Haryana police he started using social networking platforms to allure youths to join him by posing pictures with guns and arms. “We were not aware that he was a dreaded criminal of Haryana and that’s how he escaped from Behor jail,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/from-wrestler-to-gangster-papla-avenged-his-gurus-murder/articleshow/80592425.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackera transfers Aseem Gupta to rehab department||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray transferred relief & rehabilitation secretary Kishor Raje Nimbalkar (2003 IAS batch) as member secretary of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, Mumbai, on Friday, while Aseem Gupta (1994 batch) was appointed principal secretary of relief & rehabilitation department. State general administration department appointed Dinesh Waghmare (1994) principal secretary of industries, energy & labour department at Mantralaya and Vijay Singhal (1997) as chairman and MD of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-transfers-aseem-gupta-to-rehab-dept/articleshow/80593837.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Scheme launched for owners of livestock killed by predators||The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) on Friday launched a scheme to provide interim relief for farmers who lost livestock to wild animals in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve.The project, launched jointly with Thalavadi Adivasi Munnetra Sangam (Tams), aims to prevent farmers from launching retaliatory attack on wild animals, a statement from WWF India said. “Tribals and other forest dwelling communities living in the hill villages of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) are dependent on livestock for their livelihood. Sometimes, livestock get killed by wild animals such as tigers and leopards. The state Government has a compensation scheme in place for the livestock owners. But the compensation reaches the owners after considerable time due to time taken for the government procedure. Tams, with the help of WWF India, aims to bridge the gap between livestock death and government compensation delivery with the interim relief. The project is expected to put an end to instances of farmers poisoning wild animals like tigers and leopards in anger,” it said.The scheme is a replication of a similar scheme in Bandipur Tiger Reserve, being implemented successfully by Mariamma Charitable Trust for the last 13 years.Launching the scheme at Hasanur, chief conservator of forests and field director of STR Nihar Ranjan lauded the initiative.He handed over cheques to first four beneficiaries of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/scheme-launched-for-owners-of-livestock-killed-by-predators/articleshow/80592421.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Bhopal||Half of active corona patients in MP are in home isolation||Bhopal: More than 55% of the 2,800 active Covid-19 patients of the state are in home isolation, as on Friday.It is noteworthy that the state government had closed the Covid care centres (CCCs) in the entire state, except in state capital Bhopal from January 1 onwards, as the number of active patients had started declining and CCCs were vacant. Sources said that one of the major causes of the vacancy in the CCCs was due to the fact that most of the patients preferred home isolation.Additional chief secretary (health) Mohammed Suleman confirmed that 55% of the active patients are in home isolation and the remaining are in hospitals.When TOI talked to the patients who were in the home isolation, a few patients said that they received regular calls from the control rooms and updates were taken, while others said that the calls had stopped after a week.“I was found corona positive and remained in home isolation. Now, I do not have any issues. During that period, people from the control room used to call us twice a day and enquired about my health condition. Now I am okay, but I am yet to get any recovery certificate,” said a 26-year old student from Arera Colony who tested positive on January 13.Another 46-year-old patient from MP Nagar zone I area of Bhopal said, “I had gone for tests as I was not feeling well. I was diagnosed as positive in the rapid test. I remained in home isolation and officials would call me every day for the first 7 days, then the calls stopped. I am totally fit and finenow, but I had also requested for a re-test which has not been done till now.”Sources said that with increase in awareness regarding Covid-19 precautions, a majority of the people have started opting for home isolation and with the relaxation in the Covid-19 lockdown norms, the number of people remaining in home isolation has increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/half-of-active-corona-patients-in-mp-are-in-home-isolation/articleshow/80592464.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: One more arrest in ecstasy pills seizure case||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested Ulwe resident Tejas Ghodke in connection with the largest seizure of ecstasy pills smuggled into India from Brussels via courier last year. Ghodke, who works with an angadia, had allegedly accepted money to transfer the drugs. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. In August 2020, the NCB searched a Goregaon courier firm and seized 3,056 ecstasy pills packed in cavities of cardboard boxes meant to transport soft toys. The recipient couple, Habib Choudhary and his wife Ruby, were arrested from Navi Mumbai. His brother Hafizur was also arrested later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-more-arrest-in-ecstasy-pills-seizure-case/articleshow/80593843.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Transporters firm on fare hike with fuel prices rising||PUNE: Transporters on Friday said the cost of carrying commodities would go up by at least 20% from February 1 if the Centre in its Budget did not announce steps to bring fuel prices down. The prices of petrol and diesel increased yet again in the city after a gap of two days. A litre of petrol cost Rs92.52 as against Rs92.28 on Thursday, while the price of diesel went up to Rs81.72 from Rs81.46 twenty-four hours before.  Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, told TOI that there would be large-scale protests across the country from February 1 if the Budget did not provide the transporters with some relief in terms of fuel prices. “The cost of transporting commodities will increase in the range of 15% to 20% from February because of the frequent increase in fuel prices ,” he said.  Guru Katti, president of cab drivers’ association Swarajya Vahan Chalak Sanghatna, said, “Going on a strike or staging a protest is not an option, as business for us has started picking up after the lockdown. But if the current trend continues, we will have to further increase our rates,”  Rajan Junawane, vice-president of the Pune Bus Owners’ Association, said, “The private bus owners are going through a tough time with business being at an all-time low. We will request the state to look into our causes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transporters-firm-on-fare-hike-with-fuel-prices-rising/articleshow/80592452.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Body of Arun Gawli’s party leader found||PUNE: The Hadapsar police found the body of Akhil Bharitya Sena’s city vice-president Suresh Renkuta from a field in Manjari on Friday evening. The Akhil Bharitya Sena is a political outfit floated by gangster-turned-politician Arun Gawli. Renkuta’s family had filed a missing complaint with the Yerawada police after he did not return home on January 26. DCP (Zone V) Namrata Patil told TOI, “We identified Renkuta’s on the basis of his clothes, bike and other marks Renkuta and his friend had visited a bar and had a dispute with a waiter. The waiter and other hotel staffers assaulted him with sticks.” The police have taken into custody the waiter and the owner and manager of the bar for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/body-of-gawlis-party-leader-found/articleshow/80592428.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||In jolt to Didi ahead of polls, another MLA quits TMC||KOLKATA: Former Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday resigned from the assembly as a Trinamool Congress MLA and quit the party soon after amid speculation that he would follow in former colleague Suvendu Adhikari's footsteps and join BJP. Coming exactly a week after Banerjee had stepped down from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, his exit as an MLA and a Trinamool member was to coincide with Union home minister Amit Shah's second visit to Bengal in just over a month until the latter cancelled his trip late in the evening. The buzz in BJP circles till then was that Banerjee would switch to saffron at Shah's scheduled rally in Howrah’s Dumurjala on Sunday. Banerjee is the second miffed Mamata acolyte to resign as an MLA before bailing out of Trinamool just like Adhikari did last December. Another former TMC minister, Sovan Chatterjee, remains the Behala Purba MLA even after joining BJP. Among the three, Banerjee is the only one not to be named as an accused in the Narada bribery sting or the Saradha scam. The manner of his exit was different, too. Carrying a photograph of "dalanetri (party chief)" Mamata, the ex-minister had given the impression while stepping out of the assembly after quitting as an MLA that he would stay put in Trinamool for now. "I am grateful to my dalanetri for giving me the opportunity to enter the assembly and become a minister," Banerjee said. "I have resigned as MLA but not left the party as yet." Within hours of that statement, Banerjee's resignation from the party reached CM Mamata, with a copy of the letter to TMC state president Subrata Bakshi. Former cabinet colleague Adhikari appeared to give away Banerjee's future plans when he welcomed "tested leaders like Rajib babu" to BJP. "I don’t know if Rajib babu is joining BJP. But BJP is the right place for him," he said. TMC minister Bratya Basu played down Banerjee's decision to sever ties with the party. "Some heads may choose to leave Trinamool. But the body — the ranks and supporters — remains," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-jolt-to-didi-ahead-of-polls-another-mla-quits-tmc/articleshow/80595151.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Another Pinjra Tod member denied bail||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has dismissed a bail plea of another Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in northeast Delhi riots case. It observed that the allegations against her were “prima facie” true and provisions of the UAPA law had been rightly invoked. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, the “pre-planned vociferous agitation” in the guise of Citizenship Amendment Bill, coupled with other resultant activities of confrontation and violence leading to riots, would show it was meant or intended to cause disaffection against the country. One of the contentions raised by Kalita’s counsel Adit S Pujari was that no video evidence was shown by the prosecution to demonstrate her role in the present case. Judge Rawat, however, observed, “In a conspiracy of such a large scale, not having a video is not vital, as generally conspiracy, by its very nature, is hatched in secrecy, and not having videos of such a conspiracy is obvious rather than doubtful.” The court went on to add that, in a case of conspiracy, even the presence of an accused at a site was not a sine qua non (essential condition) for establishing his or her role. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad referred to the chargesheet against Kalita and others to contend that the riot was a “pre-planned” conspiracy. He pointed out that a “flurry of calls” made on February 24, 2020 between various accused and other players in the riots showed a pattern and behaviour indicating a circumstantial evidence pertaining to the conspiracy leading to the riots. “In the present case, the presence of the applicant is established over a period of time. I am of the opinion that allegations against Devangana Kalita are prima facie true,” the court stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-pinjra-tod-member-denied-bail/articleshow/80592420.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Coimbatore||Diabetic kids to get free insulin pens, glucometer strips||COIMBATORE: As many as 36 children from poor background with type 1 diabetes being treated in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital will soon receive the latest type of insulin replacement therapy. City-based Idhayangal Charitable Trust (www.idhayangal.org) has decided to launch a special programme called ‘Kovai Thulir’, under which each of these 36 children will be given a refrigerator each to store insulin, a glucometer with 25 strips every month and an insulin pen or pump, where the needle is much finer than a normal injection needle, free of cost. "There is no point giving poor child insulin for a month, unless we give them a refrigerator to store it properly. We have given them glucometers, so the parents can detect early stages of glucose levels rising or dropping and correct it the same day or seek medical help before it leads to complication," says founding trustee Dr Krishnan Swaminathan. "The insulin pen’s needle is much finer and almost painless compared to the usual injection needles. The insulin quality is also better in a cartridge," he adds. Of the 36 children, around 10 to 12 who are over the age of eight may receive insulin pumps. The pumps like an artificial pancreas will keep giving insulin in small doses throughout the day. With a small press of a button, on a device resembling a pager, a child can increase or decrease their dose depending on their snack or exercise. "On Monday, we have called the older children who will receive pumps for a meeting and training session on how to use them," professor and head of pediatrics department at CMCH Dr V Booma Dr Booma said. The Rs 12 lakh a year project’s main sponsors are chairman of Roots group of companies, K Ramasamy and former CMCH alumni Dr Indira and her uncle Dr Veerappan Subramanian in the US. Doctors hope this will reduce the number of admissions with diabetic coma or major complications like kidney-failure in the long-term, because of uncontrolled glucose levels. Dr Booma said children with type 1 diabetes are completely dependent on insulin injections multiple times a day. "In their case the pancreas produces no insulin. So, they need life-long insulin injections generally four times a day," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/diabetic-kids-to-get-free-insulin-pens-glucometer-strips/articleshow/80592498.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Shirdi murder suspect flees Sassoon hospital||PUNE: An undertrial prisoner undergoing treatment at the Sassoon General Hospital after suicide attempt at the Kopargaon jail in Ahmednagar district fled the hospital premises around 4.30am on Friday. Sameer Akram Shaikh (30), who was lodged at the Kopargaon jail in a murder case, had consumed bathroom cleaning liquid on January 27. “He was shifted to the Sassoon hospital on January 28,” senior inspector Yashwant Gawari of the Bund Garden police said. A police personnel and a homeguard from Shirdi were deployed to keep an eye on Shaikh. “On Friday morning, Shaikh realized the two guards were not attentive and managed to pull his hand out of the handcuff and fled,” the officer said. “I have ordered an inquiry and will take action against the guards based on the report,” superintendent of police Manoj Patil (Ahmednagar) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shirdi-murder-suspect-flees-sassoon-hosp/articleshow/80592488.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police ‘identifies’ 300 farmers who took part in Red Fort ‘siege’||Rudrapur: Police in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district on Friday claimed to have identified at least 300 people, who it said were part of a mob which stormed the Red Fort and clashed with security personnel on January 26. “We have identified the farmers from Khatima, Sitarganj, Kichha, Rudrapur, Gadarpur, Bazpur, Kashipur and Jaspur towns of the district who created ruckus at the Red Fort. We are sharing the details with Delhi Police,” said Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Udham Singh Nagar. When contacted, president of Terai Kisan Mahasabha, Tejender Singh Virk, who has been named in the FIR filed by Delhi Police, said that farmers protesting at Ghazipur border had no role in the events that unfolded in the national capital. “The rally was joined by anti-social elements. We demand a high-level inquiry against those who swarmed the Red Fort and tried to malign our movement,” Virk said. He said the farmers will reply to the notices sent by Delhi Police. Another farmer leader booked by Delhi Police said that the stir will continue. “We will fight our cases in court. In addition, we will demand quashing of the FIRs from the government as they have implicated all the union leaders, even though we followed the fixed route plan for the parade as given by Delhi Police. At the same time, we adhere to our pledge of not going back home till the three laws are revoked,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of Kisan Andolan Committee Ghazipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-identifies-300-farmers-who-took-part-in-red-fort-siege/articleshow/80590073.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Civic poll effect: Spotlight again on lack of proper sewerage in Samrala||Samrala: With the Samrala civic body elections round the corner, locals are hoping to put an end to water logging that has been bothering them for long. Many residents complained that even with moderate rainfall, water accumulate in many areas of the town. “Definitely sewerage issue is going to be the main issue in the coming civic elections, as residents are suffering because of it. There are two aspects to the problem, one is that sewerage treatment plant is yet to be constructed and secondly there are encroachments in the ponds where the water would normally drain in rainy season. So, when it rains water gets accumulated in many areas of the city including Durlab Nagar, Chawla Road and Kamal Colony. Water would accumulate even in the main market. After we protested in July and August, the municipal council made temporary arrangement of using a tanker to drain it out,” said advocate Gagandeep Sharma, chairman of Social Welfare Society Samrala and president of Bar Association Samrala. “We stood in pooled water in Samrala to protest against the sewerage issue.” He added that they had demanded cleaning of water channels and removal of illegal encroachment on the ponds, but the authorities did not get it done. The residents said sewerage issue poses a serious health threat to residents. “Stagnant water becomes a source of mosquito-borne diseases like dengue and malaria and also gastrointestinal problems. We want that the representatives we elect to solve the problem, as it is a burning issue in Samrala,” said Tarlochan Singh, a local resident. Former president of the Samrala MC admitted that sewerage remains the main problem for the residents. “Though sewerage pipe has been laid till Tanday area but sewerage treatment plant is yet to come up at Bharthala Road where two-acre land has been acquired for it two years ago. In the absence of proper sewerage disposal system, we would pour the dirty water in a pond measuring 5 to 6 acres on Khanna Road and then in 2 acres field. However, even they are full now and cannot take more water,” said Former MC president Lala Mangat Rai, who is also councillor from ward number six.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-poll-effect-spotlight-again-on-lack-of-proper-sewerage-in-samrala/articleshow/80591209.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to challenge Bombay HC’s ‘skin-to-skin’ ruling in Pocso case||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government is in the process of challenging the Bombay high court judgment which held that ‘skin-to-skin contact’ was a must to attract an offence of ‘sexual assault’ under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. State advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told TOI on Friday that the state will be filing a special leave petition against the judgment by Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of Bombay HC. The ruling had led to an outcry and was stayed by Supreme Court. On Wednesday, a group of women lawyers at Bombay HC wrote to CM Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the law minister, to ensure that the state challenges the verdict before it “becomes a dangerous precedent”. The next day, they wrote to Kumbhakoni with the same plea. “It is imperative that the object and scheme of Pocso Act be kept in mind while interpreting its provisions,” said the letters. In the letters, advocate Anita Castellino of the informal group called The Interactive Session of Lady Lawyers pointed to the salutary provisions in the law. These were incorporated keeping in mind that the sexual abuse survivors are often children not close to the age for the ‘birds and the bees talk’. Justice (rtd) Abhay Thipsay of Bombay HC said interpretation of law quintessentially requires the judge to elaborate and discuss on the intention of the legislature; the judge has to give proper reasons. “The judgment does not throw any light on whether the point on what ‘physical contact’ means was raised and argued,” he said. “If the judge has interpreted it in the manner that she did, she should have come to the conclusion that the legislature had intended just that.” Care has to be taken that an interpretation doesn’t lead to absurd consequences, he said. Pocso is a special law enacted less than a decade ago to protect children from sexual predators. It recognises that India has acceded to the 1992 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child to “secure the best interest of the child” and to “ensure healthy physical, emotional, intellectual and social development”. The law sets out that “sexual abuse of children are heinous crimes” and “must be effectively addressed”. One of the provisions under Section 29 calls for ‘presumption’ by the court regarding certain offences including Section 7—sexual assault—under the Act. Sexual assault means and includes ‘touching, with sexual intent, vagina, penis, anus or breast’ or ‘does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration’ and attracts a punishment of minimum three years and maximum five years. The lawyers said: ‘“Pressing of breasts’ and “attempt to remove salwar’ of a twelve-year-old girl child are ‘serious allegations’ and ought not to be dismissed as non-serious allegations.” The state is not just a ‘prosecutor’ but has a role as a ‘parens patriae’, which the lawyers invoked. It means it is a legal authority to protect rights of persons who are unable to act on their own, like children. Advocate N S Nappinai said “Pocso provisions mandate strict interpretation” and “any dilution is impermissible”. She pointed out: “Groping is an offence. Groping over clothes is an offence.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-challenge-bombay-hcs-skin-to-skin-ruling-in-pocso-case/articleshow/80593851.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cops bust sex racket, rescue 13 women||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police rescued 13 women after busting an online sex racket on Friday and arrested a suspect running the racket with his two aides. “We laid a trap with a help of a decoy customer and arrested the suspect (36) from Vimannagar,” an officer said. The police rescued 13 women from hotels and guest houses at Baner and Hinjewadi. “The suspects would send photographs of women to customers. They would charge customers between Rs8,000 and Rs20,000,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-bust-sex-racket-rescue-13-women/articleshow/80592527.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Pune||Light & sound show resumes at War Memorial, attendees restricted to 150||PUNE: The light and sound show at the War Memorial in Ghorpadi has resumed. The 40-minute show is scheduled at 6.45pm every Friday, Saturday and Sunday. The Dakshin Maharashtra and Goa Sub Area (DMGSA) has restricted attendees to 150 due to the Covid-19 restrictions.The show was suspended after the lockdown was announced last year. The memorial facility has also undergone a renovation. The Army’s Southern Command has renovated one section of the memorial. It has installed eight ‘Pillars of Valour’ depicting major operations by the Indian armed forces since Independence, four murals depicting the valour in various battles and 21 busts of Param Vir Chakra awardees as part of the memorial. Southern Army Commander Lt Gen CP Mohanty, who will take over as the Vice Chief of Army Staff on February 1, laid a wreath at the renovated war memorial on Friday. He complimented all units involved in the work, including the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and a private firm. On the occasion, he felicitated army officers, personnel and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar for providing assistance in the work. “Units and establishments of the command and civil administration worked hard in the time of the pandemic and completed the work in three months. This place not only belongs to the Command but also to the people of the city,” said Lt Gen Mohanty in his speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/light-sound-show-resumes-at-war-memorial-attendees-restricted-to-150/articleshow/80592510.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||UBSE to announce dates for TET exams||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE), on Friday, announced the dates for Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) exams. According to the official communication, the exams will be held on March 24, 2021, in Uttarakhand. The aspirants can register themselves on www.uktet.com from January 29, 2021, to February 18, 2021 Meanwhile, applications for admission in private schools through the Right to Education (RTE) Act can be submitted from March 5, 2021, to April 30, 2021. Admission will be allotted through a lottery system for which the final results will be announced on May 31, 2021. The second lottery process will take place only if the available seats aren't filled in the first place. The results of the second lottery will be declared on July 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-to-announce-dates-for-tet-exams/articleshow/80590094.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||DGP inspects construction of 3 police stations in city||Ludhiana: Director general of police (DGP) administration cum MD of Punjab Police Housing Corporation (PPHC) on Friday had visited the city to check the status of ongoing construction work of three police stations. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said Jamalpur, Division number 8 and Division number 6 police stations will be shifted into new buildings as soon as they are completed. On Friday, DGP Tiwari inspected the construction work as well as the quality of material being used. The DGP has asked the PPHC official to complete the work in three months so that the police stations would be shifted to new buildings as per plan. The DGP also had a meeting with the local officers. He said soon the Ludhiana police will be equipped with modern infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dgp-inspects-construction-of-3-police-stations-in-city/articleshow/80591244.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Pune||Pune: Longer operation time a relief for restaurateurs, traders||PUNE: The state government’s Friday order extending the closing time for shops and restaurants to 11pm and 1am, respectively, has come as a big relief for the trade and hospitality sectors striving to revive after the Covid-induced lockdown. Fatehchand Ranka, president of the Federation of Trade Association Pune, said, “We welcome the decision. All big shops close around 9-9.30 and will probably continue to do so, while some will benefit from the decision.” Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association, said, “We are awaiting the Pune Municipal Corporation to pass on the order to us. We need a go-ahead from the civic chief. The extension of closing time will help restaurants recover the massive losses incurred due to the pandemic for most part of 2020.” The government said the 30% limit for staffers will remain and all establishments will have to adhere to the SOPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/longer-operation-time-a-relief-for-restaurateurs-traders/articleshow/80592535.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||CRPF man shoots comrade, injures another in Bastar||RAIPUR: A CRPF jawan, who was being treated for ‘mental instability’, shot dead a colleague, injured another and then turned the rifle on himself in a camp in Bastar on Friday. Police haven’t explained why Girish Kumar, 25, was retained in an insurgency-combat zone despite being under treatment for months. Bastar range IG P Sundarraj said the fragging took place around 8am in the camp of CRPF’s 241 Bastariya Battalion in Darbha. “Constable Kumar was undergoing treatment for mental illness in an isolation ward inside the camp. Everything seemed normal until he suddenly got up and snatched a rifle from a colleague. He shot him and another jawan standing a few metres away and then shot himself,” he said. “All this happened in less than two minutes. Other CRPF personnel rushed to the site and evacuated them to hospital. Constable Pramod Sari, 27, died on the spot. Constable Santosh Wacham, 26, and Kumar are in critical condition,” he said. The duo is being treated at Jagdalpur Medical College Hospital and will be shifted to Raipur. The trigger for the fragging isn’t known yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crpf-man-shoots-comrade-injures-another-in-bastar/articleshow/80595157.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chandigarh||Need for strict vigil on discharge of untreated water from industrial units to save Buddha Nallah||Col Jasjit Singh Gill (Retd.) In the inauguration of the Rs 650 Crore Buddah Driya rejuvenation project we the residents and environment conscious keepers of the city have seen watershed moment in the polluted history of this water body. Now the question arises about how well it will be executed, time lines to execute it, monitoring its project implementation and the financial resources to fund this rejuvenation. Firstly all nature loving and enthusiastic environmentalists deserve the highest accolades for highlighting the apathy of the successive governments towards continuous pollution of this once clear water river by the dyeing industry, the dairy clusters of Tajpur and Haibowal , by Municipal Corporation by Direct untreated raw sewerage, direct raw fecal discharge by the encroachers squatting alongside its banks as well direct discharge of various toilets made alongside its banks, the solid waste in the form of garbage, fish , chicken and meat shops bio waste, hosiery industry waste, animal carcasses and large amount of thermocol and plastic waste. A little about the history of sewerage of Ludhiana to know why we are here and because of what? Ludhiana got its sewer lines laid from the early seventies and eighties. Till 2007 total raw sewerage, all industrial and dairy waste of Ludhiana used to be dumped in the Buddah Dariya. The three plants of capacity 111MLD, 48 MLD and 152 MLD were initially set up at Village Bhattian, Jamalpur and Village Balloke respectively in the year 2007 on UASB Technology. Two more STPs of 50 MLD and 105 MLD on SBR technology were added at Bhattian and Balloke respectively . These three STP’s started functioning with the UASB (Up Flow - Anaerobic Sludge Blanket Reactor ) technology and later up gradation to SBR ( Sequencing Batch Reactors) Technology was taken up module wise. Still raw sewerage beyond the capacities of the STP’s is flowing into the Buddah River on to R Sutlej .The city still does not have any separate stormwater system and during roughly 49 days of rain in a year the sewerage system gets overloaded with rainwater and thus loses efficiency to a considerable extent including silting and choking of sewer lines. In addition throughout the year the Municipal Corporation supplies 280 litres of water per day per person against the national norm of max 235 liters per person per day adding to the load of the sewerage system. Having highlighted the kind of rampant pollution which this water body faced and still faces we now go little into the background of this man made fiasco and environmental disaster how it reached this monumental stage. If the Ludhiana city was sans Buddah River no municipal corporation would have dared to discharge the raw sewage in the underground water or into River Sutlej in the absence of the requisite amount and types of sewerage treatment plants from. So as they say it became a dumping ground of the raw sewerage as the city expanded and even nearby villages were too connected too these sewerage lines which kept discharging untreated sewage. Dyeing industry misused the river in the absence of CETPs which have recently been constructed and some are yet to be commissioned. The scattered dyeing industry units which are about 40-45 in number will need to be relocated, have in house treatment or can be connected to a chemical effluent treatment plant subsequently. Even though the electroplating industries are supposedly getting their water treated by a cost per liter of polluted water from a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) located in the indusial Area , I will leave it to the imagination of the reader that why an industry will be keen pay more to get their polluted water treated – so their lies the hidden input the electroplating industry does not give all their polluted water for treatment. When I did some research I found almost 50 % of the polluted electroplating industry water does not reach this CETP. On asking the solution to get 100% water out from industries I was told that they are ready to pay a tax/cess rather than per liter cost of Rs0.75 per liter of polluted water. Meaning thereby a government should pay the agency running the CETP for electroplating industry out of the pollution tax/cess thus collected rather than the industry accounting for each liter which they deliberately hide to save costs as per normal human greed levels. Meanwhile there are new units coming up which are not on radar of the Pollution Control authorities which has limited manpower resources to track the offenders and if ultimately caught they escape via the corruption route. This factor I have highlighted because the sewerage water will have a fair amount of pollutants from the electroplating industry flowing into the new treatment plants also despite their own functional CETP. Besides this the water will have other industrial wastes due to negligence, oversight and deliberate effort resulting from non installation or old and inefficient anti pollution treatment gadgets and equipment. Now coming to dairy waste problem although there is a provision to have exclusive ETP for the dairy waste but of late the effort has been to grant CLU to the dairy land allotted earlier and locating the dairies at one cluster away from the city to altogether eradicate this particular type of waste from system. Hopefully some solution should come out soon otherwise its biowaste load is a major pollution source pollution as well wastage of ground water as presently most solid cow dung waste is washed away in to the sewerage system with high pressure submersible pumps rather than be collected as semisolid and carted away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/need-for-strict-vigil-on-discharge-of-untreated-water-from-industrial-units-to-save-buddha-nallah/articleshow/80591282.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Turnout for jabs dips in Maharashtra but more takers for Covaxin||MUMBAI: Vaccination centres in the city saw a weekend rush of sorts as the turnout on Friday improved dramatically despite Co-WIN’s patchy performance through the day. From the 58% turnout on Thursday, a dozen centres managed to push the coverage to 72% on Friday. Even JJ Hospital in Byculla that has been consistently seeing a poor response with Covaxin saw the numbers surge. The state’s performance, though, dipped as it could cover only 71% -- lowest in six days -- of the intended number for the day. A total of 39,535 health workers took the vaccine of the 55,320 scheduled. In Mumbai, 5,510 were vaccinated of the planned 7,697 by 80 teams. In all, the state has completed vaccinating over 2.60 lakh of its health workers, including 33,505 from Mumbai. While the state has managed to cover around 33% of the 8 lakh health care workers in the nine days of the drive, Mumbai has finished vaccinating about 27% of the 1.24 lakh. The drive will continue on Saturday. The Friday turnout was impressive in spite of the drive starting with glitches on Co-WIN. The software remained unresponsive in several centres till the first half of the day, while in some, it powered up only after 2 pm. The ‘allot beneficiary’ option didn’t work for several hours, which slowed down things. At many centres, as queues began to swell, the teams did offline registrations if names were on the day’s schedule. BMC’s executive officer Dr Mangala Gomare said, “Of 5,510 vaccinated, more than 4,000 were walk-in beneficiaries”. She added that despite centres seeing long queues due to the software malfunctioning, turnout was good.Four minor cases of adverse events were reported. Kandivli’s Shatabdi Hospital saw one of the highest turnouts (928), followed by 802 in KEM, Parel, and 790 in Rajawadi, Ghatkopar. The centre at Nesco, Goregaon, started on Friday saw a turnout of 171. Physician Dr Shashank Inamdar said it was a good idea to start a centre at Nesco as the crowd would be distributed between the jumbo centre and Shatabdi. At SevenHills Hospital, Marol, there was a rush, particularly of those from the private sector. . Beed district saw the highest coverage (131%) followed by Satara, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar (over 100%). Covaxin saw an increase in uptake. Of the intended 700, 301 took it, registering a turnout of 43%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/turnout-for-jabs-dips-in-state-but-more-takers-for-covaxin/articleshow/80592688.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s biggest water fountain will open to public in March||NEW DELHI: A fountain at the AIIMS roundabout will be opened in March and New Delhi Municipal Council aims to conduct a trial run in mid-February. In May 2018, NDMC had decided to construct the biggest fountain in the city at one of the green islands near the AIIMS flyover, which also has eight giant steel sprouts. But the project failed to meet its several deadlines because of various hindrances. “We have been working on this project on priority as it got stuck for months in between due to the Covid pandemic. We also faced issues in getting labourers after the pandemic. But now, we have completed the construction work and are busy with giving final touches. It will be open to the public in March,” said an official. The giant cascading fountain will have 15 feet height and 30 metres width. The redeveloped landscape will also have LED lighting, decorative plants and shrubs. “There will be steps around the fountain so that water flows down the steps. The makeover of this lawn will improve the aesthetic of the entire area,” the official said. “The fountain will use treated water.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-biggest-water-fountain-will-open-to-public-in-march/articleshow/80592563.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Dole out tax sops to boost desi tourism, build infra: Industry||JAIPUR: Having been left in the cold and not finding a mention in special economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore announced in May last year, the tourism ministry is guarded in its expectation from the Central Budget 2021-22. But as it grapples for survival, there is a slimmer of hope that the Centre would make amends and provide something in the Budget to help the industry stand on its feet again. “International tourist movement won’t be starting anytime soon. So, all focus has be on the domestic segment, which itself is a huge market. More tourists go overseas than inflow of foreign tourists to India. The domestic captive segment is very large and can compensate for the loss of foreign tourists. The Budget should have measures to encourage domestic market,” said Sunil Mehta, who runs a couple of eco-tourism resorts. Mehta said that India needs to be a competitive destination compared to the neighbouring countries like Singapore and Sri Lanka. “The GST rates on the industry should be reduced so that our cost of accommodation becomes cheaper. Similarly, the tax incentives should be extended to people for encouraging people,” added Mehta. However, many are not optimistic of getting anything substantial from the Budget. It’s a case of one bitten, twice shy as the hospitality industry was given a raw deal in the Rs 20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar stimulus package announced to help various sectors to overcome the challenges of the pandemic. “Many hotels and business in the tourism and travel sector are struggling to stay afloat and survive the potential chances of falling into bankruptcy. Whatever relief was given earlier was a deferred payment. It did not solve any of our problems. We want something concrete. Hotel industry was one of the first to feel the heat and last to start recovery which is very weak,” said Randhir Vikram Singh, president of Indian Heritage Hotels Association. To encourage people to travel within the country, the government needs to improve infrastructure in around monuments and the experience as well. Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators, said, “The domestic travelers are now looking for experiences. For this, we need to have new activity-based facilities. There are huge opportunities for products like sports, adventure, and eco-tourism, etc. The government should incentivize creation of such experiences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dole-out-tax-sops-to-boost-desi-tourism-build-infra-industry/articleshow/80592595.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Visitors to be capped, no special trains for Kumbh||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government is all set to release the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the Haridwar Maha Kumbh, scheduled to commence on February 27. According to chief secretary (CS) Om Prakash, the government plans to put a cap on the number of visitors to be allowed at the mela site as a crowd-control measure. Prakash also informed that the state had requested the railways not to run any special trains for Kumbh so that the number of visitors to the two-month long event is limited. This is less than a week after the Central government made RT-PCR tests mandatory for Kumbh visitors. The move extinguished the hopes of local businessmen and tour operators who were hoping for a revival of tourist footfall during the mega fair. “The state is simply following the guidelines issued by the Centre, which made it clear in its recently-released guidelines that the number of pilgrims at Kumbh has to be limited. The maximum number of visitors to be allowed per day at Kumbh will be announced shortly. The final number will be fixed after a report of capacity of all ghats in the city is shared by Kumbh Mela officials. We will also announce the exact duration of the fair, which may get shorter,” Prakash told TOI. The state until recently planned to hold Kumbh Mela for two months but after the Centre’s SOPs were released, the duration is expected to be around 48 days only. A Kumbh usually starts in January and lasts four months. As for special trains for Kumbh, Prakash said a letter had been sent to the Railways on Friday, urging authorities to not run special trains for devotees to the Kumbh site. “Chief minister Trivendra Rawat will be speaking to CMs of neighboring states early next week to seek cooperation from them in proper management of Haridwar Kumbh,” the CS added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-of-visitors-to-be-capped-no-special-trains-for-kumbh/articleshow/80590126.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||‘No trace of drugs or alcohol in Khar murder suspects’||MUMBAI: The forensic analysis report of the two accused, Shree Jogdhankar (23) and Diya Padalkar (18), arrested for allegedly murdering Jhanvi Kukreja on January 1 showed no traces of drugs or alcohol, Khar police said. Kukreja was found dead on the staircase of Bhagwati Heights in Khar (W) where she, along with the accused and other friends, attended a terrace party on New Year’s Eve. The duo, police said, has claimed that they do not recollect the sequence of events and were under the influence of intoxicants. Police are still clueless about the murder motive and also how Kukreja was killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-trace-of-drugs-or-alcohol-in-khar-murder-suspects/articleshow/80593894.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Dhananjay Munde, ex-partner opt for mediation to settle dispute||MUMBAI: State cabinet minister Dhananjay Munde and the woman with whom he admitted to having had an extra-marital relationship and fathering two children have told Bombay high court they have decided to go for mediation to resolve their dispute. On Thursday, Justice Anil Menon was informed by the advocates of Munde and the woman that they have decided to refer their dispute to V K Tahilramani, former chief justice of the Madras high court. They also tendered consent terms signed by both parties. Last December, Munde had filed a defamation suit against the woman to protect his ‘right to privacy’. On December 16, 2020, on Munde’s plea for interim relief, Justice Menon was told by his advocate that “the defendant proposes to publish further materials which are private in nature”. The judge noted that Munde has admitted his relationship with the woman in his plaint and “no attempt has been made by the plaintiff to distance himself from the said relationship as set out in the plaint”. Stating that “prima facie case is made out for limited protection”, Justice Menon granted injunction against the woman restraining her “from uploading distributing or publishing any private photos, videos or audio-recording of the plaintiff or containing the plaintiff in any print, electronic or social media platform including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or WhatsApp”. In his Thursday order, Justice Menon recorded, “All disputes and differences are referred to the mediation of V K Tahilramani, former chief justice, Madras High Court.” He requested the mediator to fix a preliminary meeting at the earliest convenience. The judge also extended interim relief granted to Munde in December until further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/munde-ex-partner-opt-for-mediation-to-settle-dispute/articleshow/80593905.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 30, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur airport stops lifting exports consignments, business hit severely||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Small Industry Corp. Ltd. (RAJSICO), a state PSU, is the sole custodian of Air Cargo Complex (ACC) handling export and import cargo at Jaipur Airport since the very beginning. But in the second week of January, BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) warned airlines not to pick any export cargo from the facility. BCAS said that RAJSICO has not taken security clearance of cargo handling area and if airlines pick up cargo from the complex, they will have to pay heavy penalty. Since then, all exports from the city airport has stalled, forcing exporters to send their consignment from Delhi which involves additional transport cost and other material handling charges. An official in RAJSICO said that even if they want to apply for security clearance, AAI objects to providing map of the cargo handling area, one of the requisite documents to apply for the permission. He said RAJSICO pleaded with AAI to provide any other space where cargo could be handled so that export could go on smoothly, but the same remained unheeded by AAI. Rajiv Arora, president of Federation of Rajasthan Exporters, said, “I have requested industries secretary Ashutosh Pednekar and the chief minister’s office to intervene and take it up to authorities in central government and civil aviation ministry to resolve it earliest in the interest of exporters of Rajasthan.” Arora said he also brought this issue to the notice of chief secretary Niranjan Arya. “He assured that the state government will take up this issue and talk to concerned people in the central government to resolve it,” added Arora. Meanwhile, exports from Jaipur airport has ground to a complete halt. The situation may lead to loss of buyers in overseas markets for the delayed delivery of consignments. Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FORTI), said, “Regional director of BCAS has stopped the screening and storage of cargo at the Air Cargo Complex. As a result, valuable and common cargos, including perishables, have been pending for exports for the past 20 days. This has stalled Rajasthan’s exports and is hurting the industry and business.” RAJSICO has been working since 1979 as the only custodian of customs to facilitate Rajasthan’s trade for export and import of international goods. Security clearance was given by the Civil Aviation Security Bureau as a regulated agent (RA) recently. The business community links the decision of the BCAS to the Gautam Adani-led Adani Enterprises signing a concession agreement with Airports Authority of India (AAI) for operating and maintaining Jaipur airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-airport-stops-lifting-exports-consignments-biz-hit-severely/articleshow/80592630.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 30, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: No retreat from January tradition, but Covid puts distance in celebration||NEW DELHI: The curtains closed on the 4-day long Republic Day celebrations at the historic Vijay Chowk on Friday with 26 performances by the bands of Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force and Central Armed Police Forces. As the ceremony began, the President hoisted the Tricolour. Visitors stood to attention, their faces turned towards the national symbol, paying obeisance. As the flag fluttered in the cold Delhi wind, the mass formation of the bands began with a new composition “Swarnim Vijay”. The song, composed by Lt Col Girish Kumar U, commemorates 50 years of India’s victory against Pakistan in the 1971 War. Other new entrants included Tiranga Senani and Nidar Yodha by Air Force Band, Bharat Vandana by Naval Band and Sambodhan Echo and Bharat ke Jawan by Army Band. The centuries-old military tradition became an abiding part of Indian Republic when former sovereigns Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip visited India in 1950. A spectacular event was planned, which later became a yearly tradition. On Twitter, the Indian Air Force invoked the nostalgia related to the decades-old ceremony, posting a collage of four monochrome pictures that captured the Beating Retreat. “Vijay Chowk coming to life with the Beating Retreat half a century ago...” it wrote. The ceremony reflected changed times. Visitors maintained social distancing and there were more entry gates into the venue, and little crowd to sing along with the tunes. But the spirit of the Republic shone through. Before President Ram Nath Kovind reached Vijay Chowk, short clips recalling the extraordinary year portrayed how the Navy, Army and Indian Air Force rose to the occasion to repatriate people, help neighbouring countries with medical supplies and to guard our borders. A song “Hum Sher Tere Galwan ke”, sung by Kailash Kher and written by Arafat Mehmood and Shailendra Sharma, also recalled the sacrifices of the Jawans in Galwan Valley. The bands did not miss a single beat — their perfectly synchronised march around the historic chowk was a display of the armed forces’ strength and discipline. When the last tune — the haunting music of the penultimate Abide With Me — filled the air, it was reminder of Mahatma Gandhi’s idea of India. As the sun set over the horizon, Rashtrapati Bhavan drowned in the golden light of the winter sun. Buglers sounded the retreat and the bands marched back to the President’s residence. When President Kovind lowered the national flag, visitors got to their feet again. In just over an hour, with the national anthem and the last salute, the ceremony came to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-retreat-from-jan-tradition-but-covid-puts-distance-in-celebration/articleshow/80592719.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Jaishankar, US secy of state talk on security, vax supply||India and the US reiterated their commitment to peace and security, especially in the Indo-Pacific region, in a phone conversation between foreign minister S Jaishankar and new secretary of state Antony J Blinken. They also agreed to work together for safe and affordable vaccine supply. “Warm conversation with secretary of state @SecBlinken. Congratulated him on his appointment. Look forward to working with him again. Agreed that we could build further on the solid foundation of our partnership,” Jaishankar tweeted. The two also expressed their commitment to consolidate and expand the multi-faceted strategic partnership. “They appreciated the robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive health care collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages as its important pillars,” said the government in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-us-secy-of-state-talk-on-security-vax-supply/articleshow/80595158.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||State Congress top brass to attend 80km tractor rally in Santhal Pargana tomorrow||Ranchi: Congress on Friday said its senior state leadership will attend and spearhead the planned 80-km-long tractor rally from Deoghar to Godda in Santhal Pargana on January 31. “Our state president Rameshwar Oraon and Congress legislative party leader Alamgir Alam will attend the tractor rally in Santhal Pargana,” party spokesperson Rakesh Sinha told TOI. On Thursday, state agriculture minister and Jarmundi MLA Badal Patralekh had announced that the party will organize a 80-km-long tractor rally, which will commence from Deoghar’s Shaheed Chowk and culminate at Kargil Chowk in Godda. “At Kargil Chowk, there will be a massive Hul in support of the farmers’ agitation against new farm laws,” Patralekh had said. Poreiyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav, who joined Congress last year, has been made the convenor of the rally. “We are expecting a massive turnout of farmers on Sunday. Besides the tractor rally, there will also be a foot march,” Sinha said. Yadav’s phone remained switched off when TOI tried contacting him. Congress sources in Ranchi said formal invitations have been sent to like-minded parties for joining Sunday’s rally. Invitations have been sent to JMM, RJD, Left parties and civil society groups for the same, the sources added. JMM remained silent on its participation in the rally. Earlier, its working president and chief minister Hemant Soren had supported the ongoing agitation in national capital. However, the party is yet to hit the streets in support of the farmers. Meanwhile, Left parties on Friday said they have geared up for Saturday’s dharna in Ranchi. After paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi’s statue at Morhabadi, the participants would then march to Raj Bhawan and hold a dharna in support of the farmers’ agitation. CPM state secretariat member Prakash Viplav said, “Left parties, including CPM, CPI, CPI (M-L) and the Marxist Coordination Committee, will take part in the dharna at Raj Bhawan. As part of our agitation, we will inform people about the conspiracy to defame the farmers’ agitation in Delhi.” He added, “A memorandum comprising our demand for withdrawal of farm laws would be submitted to the governor Droupadi Murmu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-congress-top-brass-to-attend-80km-tractor-rally-in-santhal-pargana-tomorrow/articleshow/80591049.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||CoWIN glitch hits vax drive, 52% beneficiaries inoculated||Ranchi: The anti-Covid vaccination drive was affected across the state on Friday due to glitches in the CoWIN portal, which manages the inoculation nationally. However, the issuer were resolved late afternoon and the drive picked up some pace with 52% coverage across 162 vaccination sites in Jharkhand. Talking to TOI, Ravishankar Shukla, managing director of National Health Mission (NHM)’s state unit, said, “We had faced some issues with logging in into the portal at session sites on Friday morning. However, the site was restored by afternoon and we directed the session site in-charges to continue vaccinating the beneficiaries after manual verification.” Notably, glitches in the portal were reported across the country and some believe the snags occurred because of an increase in the number of session sites in the second week of the drive. “In Jharkhand, we have increased the number sites from 48 to 162. The same has been done nationally and it is because of this the portal developed some issues,” a senior official in the state health department said. In the morning sessions, Ranchi reported vaccination coverage in single digit before the issues were resolved. “The portal did not work in the morning and we vaccinated only five people until lunch. However, we have received directions from officials to conduct the drive manually,” said Dr Mithilesh Kumar, associate professor of community medicine and nodal officer for vaccine site at Rims, at around 2pm on Friday afternoon. However, a few districts posted good turnout of beneficiaries with Palamu topping the chart with 80% and Bokaro with 78%. Dumka had the lowest coverage at 38%. “We had set a target of 16,879 vaccinations on Friday and we have inoculated 8,759 beneficiaries. The numbers aren’t that bad keeping the technical glitches in mind.” As per health department data, 33,069 of the 57,524 beneficiaries picked for the first phase have been inoculated till date with an overall coverage of 57%. A total of 208 adverse events have been reported till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cowin-glitch-hits-vax-drive-52-beneficiaries-inoculated/articleshow/80591034.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||HC defers hearing on RJD chief Lalu’s plea for suspension of sentence||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court deferred the hearing on the suspension of sentence of RJD chief Lalu Prasad to February 5. The court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh while hearing the matter on Friday directed Prasad’s counsels to serve an affidavit filed on his behalf to the CBI. Prasad had filed an affidavit explaining his period of detention which was not available with the counsel for the CBI at the time of hearing. The court adjourned the matter to enable serving a copy of the affidavit to the CBI to respond in the matter. The affidavit filed by Prasad also mentions his ill health and need for being released from custody for better treatment outside Rims. He has also mentioned that he has completed more than half of the maximum sentence imposed on him by the CBI special court. Prasad has been sentenced to undergo seven years imprisonment in the fodder scam case related to fake withdrawals from the Dumka treasury. Allegations against Prasad are that he during his tenure as the chief minister of erstwhile Bihar had allowed financial irregularities leading to withdrawals of Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka treasury. So far as the conspiracy angle was concerned, the CBI has said that Lalu was the chief minister of Bihar and also held the portfolio of the finance minister of the state during the period of 1990-94 when the fodder scam was operating in full swing. The CBI has also said that Lalu shielded several corrupt animal husbandry department officials who regularly provided money to him. He continued to be the finance minister while being the chief minister of the state and never alienated the portfolio. He was also aware of the excess budget and expenditure in the AHD department showing transport of fodder for animals on scooters and motor bikes being the finance minister of the state. Lalu is in custody since December 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-defers-hearing-on-rjd-chief-lalus-plea-for-suspension-of-sentence/articleshow/80590876.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||Cov cases drop, temp scanning teams pulled from Ranchi stns||Ranchi: The state government has withdrawn its teams tasked to carry out thermal scanning of passengers arriving at the railway stations in Ranchi. The chief PRO of Ranchi station, Neeraj Kumar, said the railways was thermal scanning outgoing passengers but the state government, which was checking incoming passengers, has withdrawn its personnel. Kumar, however, added that the railways was implementing a host of measures to protect passengers from the pandemic. He said, “The seats at the stations have been arranged in view of the social distancing norms. The Covid protocols are also being followed during boarding. Only passengers with confirmed reserved tickets are being allowed to enter the stations. We are advising the passengers to reach the stations at least 90 minutes before departure.” The railway authorities said the movement of passengers at the stations increased in the recent past and most trains were running to full capacity. When contacted, Ranchi civil surgeon accepted that the state government has stopped thermal scanning at the railway stations, adding that manpower crunch could be one the reasons behind the decision. Meanwhile, the director of Birsa Munda International Airport, Vinod Sharma, said the movement of passengers was almost normal at the airport and nearly 80% of the flights have become operational again. He said passengers were being made to follow the social distancing norms during security check and boarding. The civil surgeon claimed that thermal scanning of outgoing and incoming passengers was being carried out at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-cases-drop-temp-scanning-teams-pulled-from-ranchi-stns/articleshow/80590452.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||Rims doctors remove 2ft-long iron rod from child’s body||RANCHI: In a rare and complicated surgical intervention, doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) saved life of a six year old girl from Hazaribag who was brought to them with a two feet long iron rod that pierced her torso. The patient (Anisha) had accidentally fallen on an iron rod protruding out of a pillar on the terrace on Thursday afternoon. When she fell on the rod it pierced her back and came out from the abdomen injuring her intestine as well as spine lamina. Due to body weight the rod, which was already weak due to rust broke off. The rare surgery was conducted on Friday morning by an inter-departmental team of doctors comprising Dr Abhishek Ranjan, Dr Nayanand and Head of department of paediatrics Dr Hirendra Birua; Dr Anand and Dr Dr Jatin of Neuro surgery and a team of anaesthesia doctors. . Neuro surgeons monitored the whole process as the two feet rod had pierced inches away from vertebral column Talking to TOI, Dr Abhishek Ranjan said: “The patient was brought to us around 9 pm on Thursday night and with the foreign body (two feet long rod) pierced through her abdomen which had damaged her intestine at many places. CT scan, MRI and X-Ray examination was done to determine the exact damage. A portion of Ileocolic junction (confluence of large and small intestine) was damaged . If the girl wasn’t brought to us on time the infection from foreign body could have proven life threatening,” added Dr Abhishek Ranjan. Neurosurgeon Dr Anand said: “The rod had pierced very close to the vertebral column. There was minor damage to the vertebrae column at a couple of places but the s[pine was safe” Anisha’s father Triveni Rana, said that they were nervous to she her condition but did not dare to remove the rod on their own. “I thought that pulling out the rod might result in bleeding so we took her to Hazaribag hospital in that position only,” he said. The doctors at hazaribag hospital refered her to Rims and she was immediately brought here on an ambulance. Dr Abhishek Ranjan said: “The patient has gained consciousness and is stable and currently on fluids. We will remove the fluid supply after four days and she will be able to start consuming food orally.” To prevent infection from the rusted rod she has been administered TT injection and is on antibiotics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-docs-remove-2ft-long-iron-rod-from-childs-body/articleshow/80591016.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||No rethink on contesting Bengal polls, Mamata alone cannot defeat BJP: JMM||Jamshedpur: JMM leader Supriyo Bhattacharya on Friday said it would not be possible for the Trinamool Congress to stop the BJP from coming to power in West Bengal on its own. He said the fact that the BJP won 18 parliamentary seats in the neighbouring state was proof of Mamata Banerjee’s inability to contain the saffron party in her own backyard. Bhattacharya was addressing the media here after the West Bengal CM criticised her Jharkhand counterpart and JMM working president Hemant Soren for holding a poll rally in Bengal’s tribal-dominated Jhargram. Bhattacharya also said JMM will contest about 40 assembly constituencies in West Bengal and added that the seats have already been identified. “We will contest polls to stop the BJP in Bengal and there is no question of reconsidering our decision,” he said. In a video that has gone viral on social media, Banerjee can be seen expressing her disappointment with Soren. She said: “Bengali people live in large numbers in Jharkhand. I could field candidates in Jharkhand if Hemant Soren could contest polls here.” “Mamata Banerjee’s party has previously contested elections in Jharkhand. Hence there is nothing new in her claim,” Bhattacharya said. He added that contesting elections is the right of every individual and outfit in a democracy. “One party getting annoyed with another for contesting election is surprising,” he said. Equating the BJP with Ravana, Bhattacharya said, “To defeat Ravana one needs bow and arrow, which is the party symbol of JMM. You cannot kill Ravana with flower and grass (symbol of the Trinamool Congress).” He said Banerjee should first acknowledge the fact that it will not be easy for the Trinamool alone to stop the BJP’s juggernaut. Bhattacharya also alleged that Trinamool workers had tried to attack and vandalise several vehicles ferrying JMM cadres to the rally venue. He said the Trinamool used its machinery to stonewall the rally, for the district administration gave the nod for Thursday’s rally late on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-rethink-on-contesting-bengal-polls-mamata-alone-cannot-defeat-bjp-jmm/articleshow/80590359.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||Overcast skies, rain trigger cold spell in Jharkhand||Ranchi/Garhwa: Overcast conditions and changed wind patterns brought back the chill factor in Ranchi and many other parts of Jharkhand on Friday. While the capital reported trace rainfall at isolated places, north-western districts of the state experienced light showers overnight. Lohardaga recorded 8mm rain overnight while Daltonganj recorded 5.2 mm. Bishrampur and Garhwa recorded 4.8 mm and 3.4 mm rain, respectively. Torpa in Khunti reported 2 mm rain while Koderma recorded 1.4 mm. Weather scientists at Ranchi’s India Meteorological Department (IMD) observatory said the overcast conditions were a result of a convergence of winds over the state’s atmosphere. The convergence was being caused by a cyclonic circulation which developed over Assam and its adjoining areas, they said. “Central and western parts of Jharkhand will experience overcast conditions on Saturday. In northern parts of the state, there will be a dense fog cover in the early morning hours,” Abhishek Anand, a scientist at IMD Ranchi, said. The north-western districts, which include Garhwa, Palamu, Latehar and Koderma, will witness night-time mercury hovering around 7-8 degree Celsius, while night-time temperature in Ranchi will range between 7-8 degree Celsius on Saturday. Notably, mercury levels are expected to fall four notches below normal on January 31. Ranchi’s day-time temperature stood at 21.2 degree Celsius on Friday, three notches below normal. Jamshedpur recorded 18 degree Celsius while Daltonganj recorded 19.3 degree Celsius, IMD Ranchi said in its evening weather update. The cold spell and plummeting temperatures threw life out of gear in Garhwa on Friday. Dense fog forced denizens to remain indoors till late in the morning. The district administration provisioned bonfires at various locations of the town to keep the poor warm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/overcast-skies-rain-trigger-cold-spell-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80590394.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||JPSC releases schedule for exams to fill up govt vacancies||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) has prepared a calendar for the host of examinations and interviews it will conduct with an aim to fill up the vacancies in various government departments during the current year. The schedule assumes importance as the state government has dedicated 2021 to employment and issued directions for recruitment in government jobs. Official sources said JPSC plans to conduct preliminary examination for Combined Civil Services Exam-2021 on May 2 while the main examinations will be held in the fourth week of September. The interview is scheduled between December 15 and 28 while the result is expected on January 31, 2022. Notably there are 230 vacancies even with three departments yet to submit their requirement. Furthermore, JPSC aims to conduct interview for 140 posts of assistant director and sub-divisional agriculture officers under the department of agriculture and animal husbandry in the third week of March and declare the results by April 15. Written examination for these posts have already been held and evaluation is going on. Also, interviews for 637 posts of assistant engineers in road construction, drinking water and sanitation departments will be held in the fourth week of April and the results will be declared on May 20. The interview for post of five scientific officers of mines and geology department will be held on February 19 and the results will be out on February 28. The written examination for 63 assistant engineers (civil, mechanical and electrical) in urban development department will be held from March 8 to 10. The interviews will be in June and results on July 8. JPSC has proposed to conduct main examinations for 16 posts of accounts officer in the urban development department from May 27 to 29. The interviews will be held in August with the results expected on August 31. The preliminary examination for Combined Civil Services (backlog) 2017 of the personnel department is on April 25 while main examinations in July. The interviews will take place in September with the results to be declared on September 30. Similarly, the interview for posts of 143 assistant public prosecutors is scheduled in March while the results are expected on April 15. The written examination for the posts has already taken place. It may be stated here that JPSC is also assigned responsibility for making appointment of faculty members in the universities for which the necessary exercise is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jpsc-releases-schedule-for-exams-to-fill-up-govt-vacancies/articleshow/80590513.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Ranchi||Ailing retired varsity employee dies ‘after being denied pension’||Dumka: The retired teachers of Sido Kanhu Murmu University (SKMU) here demanded for lodging a criminal case against the varsity authorities concerned for allegedly denying pension for the last eight months to a retired employee who died a few days ago after suffering from a kidney ailment. “Had his pension and other retirement benefits been disbursed on time, Digambar Prasad Singh would have been alive,” Girish Kumar Vajpayee, who is a retired SKMU staff, said. The 61-year-old Singh, who used to teach at the SKMU-affiliated Madhupur College, died on January 25 at the Madhupur sub divisional hospital in Deoghar district. According to sources, he was initially undergoing treatment at a Vellore hospital for his kidney disease. Soon after his retirement, he was running from pillar to post trying to collect his pension for continuing his treatment in the southern state. When he was denied of his benefits, he had to undergo treatment in Deoghar which, his relatives claimed, led to his death. Upon contact, SKMU vice-chancellor Sona Jharia Minj said, “I was shocked to know that Singh was not given his retirement benefits. The finance department did not act in accordance with the rules and appropriate action will be taken against those found guilty.” She added that the matter of pay fixation of both teaching and non-teaching staff is lying unresolved for years and urged the directorate of higher education to look into it. “The payment of gratuity funds of retired teachers is pending with the directorate for the last 10 years,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ailing-retired-varsity-employee-dies-after-being-denied-pension/articleshow/80590839.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Lifetime RTI ban imposed on whistleblower from Gujarat's Amreli||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat information commissioner delivered a serious blow to the Right to Information Act by imposing a lifetime ban on an Amreli man, who has exposed several scams in GSRTC through his applications. In what is probably the first-of-its-kind verdict in the country, the commissioner cited the applicant’s ‘cantankerous approach’ as a reason for taking away his right to know about government affairs -- a fundamental right guaranteed to him under Article 19 of the Constitution. The commissioner also stated that applicant Manoj Sarpadadia had ‘tried to harass the authorities’. Sarpadadia, a 46-year-old from Savarkundla, is a bus conductor with Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC). He had been suspended in March 2017 after he allegedly siphoned off money by not issuing tickets to passengers. He has so far filed 170 RTI applications from 2017 to 2020 regarding alleged irregularities in GSRTC as well as departmental action taken against corrupt employees. Sarpadadia had on September 12, 2019 filed an RTI plea seeking minutes of GSRTC’s vigilance meeting held in connection with an irregularity practised by an employee. However, Gujarat information commissioner Ramesh Karia observed that Sarpadadia’s act of filing RTI creates nuisance and disturbance for the state authorities and he has been filing the pleas to take vengeance. "Commission feels that applicant has a cantankerous approach and he is an applicant who creates constant nuisance and disturbance for the state authorities. This has been reflected in the long lists of his RTI applications where it seems that an employee has been trying to make mockery of his institution by seeking irrelevant information under RTI just because he is aggrieved and wants to take revenge," states an order issued by Karia on December 12, 2020, a copy of which was obtained by Sarpadadia on Monday. The order also mentions that Sarpadadia has been making mockery of RTI Act. "Sarpadadia has not sought any information which seems relevant with the motto of the act as mentioned in its preamble. The preamble of the Act puts stress on fixing accountability of government officers but this applicant has been acting in such a way that he seems to be putting pressure of government employees," it adds. Sarpadadia told TOI, “I was suspended wrongfully because I had raised objections against corruption in the ST. However, this gave me time to file RTIs and expose corruption in GSRTC, but they have taken away that right, too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lifetime-rti-ban-imposed-on-whistleblower-from-amreli/articleshow/80591257.cms||Ashish Chauhan
January 30, 2021||India||Maoists kill cop in front of his kids, set body on fire||RAIPUR: A surrendered Maoist, who had joined the District Reserve Guard after giving up arms, was murdered in front of his family and children when he had gone to meet them in Bijapur on Thursday. Preliminary reports said constable Somdu Ram Poyam alias Mallesh was killed by his own brother who is still with Maoists. He was beaten, stabbed and then set on fire as his family watched in horror. Police said he had gone to his native village Kotrapal. His brother, Burka Poyami alias Kosa knew about his visit and carried out the attack. Investigators suspect Mallesh was killed for trying to persuade Kosa to surrender. Bastar range IG P Sundarraj said Kosa’s role in the murder is being verified. Mallesh had surrendered in 2014 and joined DRG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maoists-kill-cop-in-front-of-his-kids-set-body-on-fire/articleshow/80595160.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||SC notice to Assam NRC coordinator||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday sought the response of Assam NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma on petitions filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind and All Assam Minorities Students Union challenging his decision to review the final National Register of Citizens (NRC) and take steps to delete names. A bench headed by CJI S A Bobde issued notice after the petitioners agreed and dropped the plea for initiation of contempt proceedings against Sarma for going beyond the orders of the SC, which had supervised the finalisation of the NRC. The petitioners, through Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, questioned the circular issued by the state coordinator in October last year for initiating steps for identification and deletion of names of ineligible people from the finalised NRC. The state coordinator had on October 13 last year issued directions for deletion of "ineligible persons belonging to the categories of declared foreigner, doubtful voter and pending cases before foreigners' tribunal along with their descendants” from the NRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-notice-to-assam-nrc-coordinator/articleshow/80595162.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||China lauds Jaishankar, but says border issue mustn’t be linked to ties||NEW DELHI: While appreciating foreign minister S Jaishankar’s suggestions for improving relations, China on Friday said that issues related to the disputed border should not be linked with overall bilateral relations. “We have noted minister Jaishankar’s remarks,” China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in Beijing while responding to a question on the online address by Jaishankar to the 13th All India Conference of China Studies. Zhao said Jaishankar had stressed the importance of India-China relations and that it showed that the Indian side attached importance to relations with China. “We appreciate this,” Zhao said. “Meanwhile, we stress that the boundary issue shall not be linked with the overall bilateral relations. That is an important experience we have gathered through many years’ effort to keep the relations moving forward,” the spokesman added. “We hope the Indian side will work with us to properly manage the differences, promote practical cooperation and bring bilateral relations back on track,” Zhao said. In his address on Thursday, Jaishankar outlined eight broad principles and three “mutuals” to mend strained relations between India and China, and said the two countries are truly at crossroads and their choices will have profound repercussions not just for them but for the entire world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-lauds-jaishankar-but-says-border-issue-mustnt-be-linked-to-ties/articleshow/80595164.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Junk farm laws, protests will spread to cities if deadlock persists, says Rahul||NEW DELHI: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi warned the government that protests would spread to cities if the deadlock with farmers was not resolved soon, even as he urged farmers to not budge an inch on their demands. He said the government should put the three laws in the “wastepaper basket”. At a press conference, Rahul slammed the police action on farmers at the Singhu border and Ghazipur, saying what was being done to them was “absolutely criminal”. “We’re telling the farmers that we are with you, don’t step back even an inch,” he said. He addressed his message to the “youth of the country” who he said should understand the implications of the three farm laws — explaining that they will end the agriculture markets, allow unlimited storage of grains to four-five big businessmen which would make it impossible for farmers to negotiate prices and ensure that farmers can’t move courts in case of a grievance. He said the middle-classes too would get a big shock as food prices would skyrocket because of the laws. “All farmers I spoke to in Kerala and Tamil Nadu have not fully understood these laws. In Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, they have understood. The PM should not think that this movement will stop here.” This will move from farms to cities, because there are lakhs of youth there whose jobs have been snatched away by these four-five people (big businessmen),” Rahul said. To a question about continuing protests, Rahul shot back, “If a thief intrudes into your house at night, will you not try to stop him? Modi is putting thieves in the farmers’ houses.” While urging the government to hold talks with farmers and repeal the agricultural laws, he said spreading of protests and instability would not be in national interest. To a question, He said if the government can pause the laws for one and half years, why can’t it junk them? “Try to bring them after three years but in consultation with farmers. We will help you. We also believe the agri sector needs reforms but you have made a mistake and please accept it,” he added. He dubbed the laws as the “biggest transfer of wealth from the largest number of people to the smallest number of people”. tnnarguing that farmers are angry because “five people have everything and we have nothing and what we have is also being snatched from us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/junk-farm-laws-protests-will-spread-to-cities-if-deadlock-persists-says-rahul/articleshow/80595180.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Rahul declaring ‘war’ on Indians, giving call for ‘violence’, says BJP||NEW DELHI: BJP on Friday accused Rahul Gandhi of declaring “war” on Indians and giving a call for “violence” after the Congress member threatened the government that if farmers’ protests are not defused, their agitation will spread across the country. At a press conference, Union minister Smriti Irani alleged that Gandhi wanted violence, which the national capital witnessed during the farmers’ protest on the Republic Day, to be replicated across India. “Rahul said if PM Narendra Modi does not support his political stand, then cities will burn. This is nothing but a desperate effort to set the country on fire,” she said. “Never before in our democratic history have we witnessed a political leader inciting people to resort to violence instead of seeking and promoting peace," said the minister. She also hit out at the Congress leader for not speaking a word of support for over 300 police personnel who were injured in violence during the tractor parade in Delhi. “This is shocking but expected of him,” she said. “He not only wants law and order breakdown but also supports anarchic elements daring to insult the tricolour and break the country,” she alleged. Irani said the Congress leader is frustrated over not seeing “dead bodies” after Delhi police exercised restraint in tackling the situation. “Today was not the day for Rahul Gandhi’s yet another “childish” comment but to behave seriously and also express solidarity with the Delhi police personnel, who have been at the receiving end of violence in the national capital and its borders,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-declaring-war-on-indians-giving-call-for-violence-says-bjp/articleshow/80595181.cms||---
January 30, 2021||India||Tharoor and six journos now face FIRs in 5 states||NEW DELHI/GURGAON/NOIDA/BENGALURU: A day after Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six senior journalists, including Rajdeep Sardesai, were booked for sedition and other crimes at Noida’s Sector 20 police station, similar FIRs with same charges were registered against them in Gurgaon and Bengaluru on Friday. On Thursday, the Noida police had filed FIR against Tharoor, Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath, Vinod K Jose and ‘others’ under charges of sedition, promoting enmity and other sections of IPC for “broadcasting and tweeting misleading news” about a protester who died in an accident after a tractor overturned during farmers’ protests that turned violent on Republic Day in Delhi. On Friday, the seven were booked for the same charges, including sedition, on the basis of complaints at Cyber police station in Gurgaon and Parappana Agrahara police station in Bengaluru. Another FIR — minus the sedition charge— was filed against them at IP Estate police station in Delhi on Friday. With this, FIRs against the seven accused have been filed at police stations across four states and one Union territory since Thursday — Delhi, UP, Karnataka, Haryana and MP. The Delhi FIR, a copy of which is with TOI, was filed on the complaint of Chiranjiv Kumar, a resident of Mata Sundri Road. The FIR invokes IPC sections of criminal conspiracy, provoking people with intent to cause riot, provocation to break public peace and fear or alarm to the public. It stated that the accused had “deliberately and without any authentication, fact-checking and verification, purposefully posted fake, misleading and wrong information to instigate the protesters and to add fuel to fire for their own political and personal advantage”. At Cyber police station in Gurgaon, an FIR was filed identical to the one filed in Noida’s Sector 20 police station. The complainant from Gurgaon was a 34-year-old private executive, Pankaj Singh. “Other than IPC Section 124A (sedition), the other sections invoked are 120B (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) and 505(2) (statements promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes),” said ACP (DLF) Karan Goyal. In Bengaluru, the FIR was filed after a complaint by one Rakesh BS, 37, an employee with a private firm. Rakesh said in his complaint that he had heard that journalists Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Ananth Nath and Vinod K Jose and MP Tharoor had tweeted saying that a farmer had died in police firing during the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26. Police registered a criminal case under IPC sections 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc), 153b (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 295a (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 298 (uttering, words with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings), 506 (criminal intimidation), 124a (sedition), 504 (whoever intentionally insults and gives provocation) against the suspects. The same seven persons were also booked at Misrod police station in Bhopal under IPC sections 153A, 153A (1b) and 505 (2) — promoting enmity, committing an act that is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between communities, making statements to create enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes. They have not been charged with sedition though the complaint had asked for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tharoor-and-six-journos-now-face-firs-in-5-states/articleshow/80595186.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid vaccination: 49% of Phase I target achieved in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: On the second consecutive day, Gujarat recorded over 55,000 daily vaccinations for Covid-19. On Friday, 56,935 healthcare workers (HCWs) got vaccinated at 1,387 vaccination centres, taking the total to 2.12 lakh. As the state has 4.33 lakh registered HCWs, the state has achieved 49% of the target - 55% of the total vaccination took place on Thursday and Friday alone. “It is the direct result of increase in the vaccination centres and sustained campaign to include as many HCWs as possible on a daily basis,” said a senior state health department official. The senior officials had earlier mentioned that they intend to wrap the first phase of vaccination – for HCWs – by the first week of February. Thereafter, the vaccination for frontline workers including central and state government employees, police and military forces, local governance bodies, etc. will be done. “More and more hospitals and government facilities are joining the drive and the doctors and senior officials are encouraging their peers and subordinates to get the shot. The high numbers show that the strategy of providing the role models for the process has worked,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/49-of-phase-i-target-achieved/articleshow/80591294.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||'Access to bare necessities has improved in all states'||NEW DELHI: Availability of “bare necessities” such as housing, water, sanitation, electricity and clean cooking fuel — has improved across all states in the country in 2018 compared to 2012, the Economic Survey for 2020-21 showed. According to the first ever BNI (bare necessities index), released as part of the 2020-21 survey on Friday, access to these is the highest in states such as Kerala, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat, while it is the lowest in Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Tripura. Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverageThe BNI has been developed for rural, urban and all-India level using data from two NSO (rounds 69 and 76) on drinking water, sanitation, hygiene and housing conditions. The index summarises 26 indicators on five dimensions — water, sanitation, housing, micro-environment, and other facilities (assessed using indicators like access to type of kitchen, ventilation of the dwelling unit, access to a bathroom, electricity and type of fuel used for cooking). The BNI also indicates that inter-state disparities in the access to “the bare necessities” have declined in 2018 when compared to 2012 across rural and urban areas. Access to “the bare necessities” has improved disproportionately more for the poorest households when compared to the richest households across rural and urban areas. “The improvement in equity is particularly noteworthy because while the rich can seek private alternatives, lobby for better services, or if need be, move to areas where public goods are better provided for, the poor rarely have such choices,” the survey said. Data from the National Family Health Surveys have been studied to correlate the BNI in 2012 and 2018 with the infant mortality rate and the under-5 mortality rate in 2015-16 and 2019-20, respectively. The survey reports that improved access to “the bare necessities” has led to improvements in health indicators and correlates with future improvements in education indicators. In rural India, the highest access to bare necessities in 2018 was recorded in Punjab, Kerala, Sikkim, Goa and Delhi, while the lowest was in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Manipur and Tripura. In urban India, no state is showing the lowest level of BNI in 2018, and the states showing improvement over 2012 include Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur. However, to bridge the gaps, it is recommended that there must be effective convergence in scheme implementation at the Centre-state and local levels. “For this purpose, a BNI based on large annual household survey data can be constructed using suitable indicators and methodology at district level for all/ targeted districts to assess the progress on access to bare necessities,” the report states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/access-to-bare-necessities-has-improved-in-all-states/articleshow/80595190.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Surat||Eight held for kidnapping Surat businessman||SURAT: Eight persons were arrested on Friday for being allegedly involved in the kidnapping of the 36-year-old businessman from Karimabad society on Ghod Dod Road in Surat. Police also recovered Rs 99.14 lakh ransom money paid by the victim Komil Dudhwala’s family for his safe release. Dudhwala was kidnapped on Thursday morning from near his house and was released 10 hours later under mysterious circumstances. According to police, the kidnappers were paid Rs 1 crore as ransom by Dudhwala’s family following which he was released. Those arrested include Ajay Damla (21), Chirag Yadav (20), Sonu Goswami (20), Faijankhan Usman (21), Arvind Vaghel alias Vadher (46), Istiyak Shaikh (33), Irshad alias Chhotu Multani (26) and Santosh alias Sahid Patil (26). One accused Kano Bharwad is still absconding. Two country-made pistols, three cartridges, two cars and a motorcycle were also recovered from the accused, who were nabbed from near Kosamba highway bridge during early hours on Friday. Police said that the kidnappers, who had formed two teams to execute their plan, had come in two cars to divided the ransom money. According to police, Multani was the mastermind behind the kidnapping. He had a debt of lakhs of rupees which he was unable to pay. He had his money requirement with Shaikh who contacted Damla for help. All the accused involved people interested in making quick money and planned Dudhwala’s abduction. “The state government and the police department has decided to give a reward of Rs 1 lakh to the team involved in the investigation,” said Ajay Tomar, Surat police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-held-for-kidnapping-surat-bizman/articleshow/80590823.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Rajkot||Amreli SP was on hit list of dreaded Dangar hitman||Rajkot: Amreli superintendent of police (SP) Nirlipt Rai had been on the hit list of sharp-shooter and notorious criminal Ashok Boricha for the past eight months. Boricha, a member of the once-dreaded gangster Sonu Dangar gang, was arrested on Wednesday. He had been evading arrest for more than two years and was wanted in 32 serious offences like murders including that of his own sister and uncle. According to sources, Boricha had done Facebook live twice eight months ago, in which he threatened to target Rai. In 2019, Dangar herself had circulated a video using abusive language about Rai and a woman police sub-inspector and also issued threats. Following this, Rai’s security had been beefed up. It is learnt that Boricha and his men had also conducted a recce of the IPS officer’s movements. On the day of arrest, Boricha also fired two rounds at the police party in an attempt to escape. Large quantity of arms and ammunition including a pistol loaded with magazine and 50 live cartridges When contacted, Rai told TOI: “We got certain such leads during his interrogation and we are are working on them.” Rai refused to elaborate further. “Boricha was aware that he would never come out of the jail once arrested as he committed serious offences and GujCTOC invoked against him. He had developed a do-or-die mindset and wasn’t scared of attacking cops,” sources in Amreli police told TOI. According to sources, Boricha was Dangar’s hitman, but the gang leader herself was afraid of his fierce temper. “Dangar had told us that we should keep a close watch on Boricha as he was capable of striking any time anywhere. She herself was scared of being targeted by him,” said a police official who was part of the team that had arrested her from Udaipur in December 2019. Dangar’s gang, which has some 12 criminals, was allegedly involved in serious organized crimes including murder, robbery, extortion and possessing and selling illegal arms and explosives. Nearly 20 offences are registered against Dangar in various police stations for murder, attempt to murder, threatening, kidnapping, extortion and hurting religious feelings in various districts like Rajkot, Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Ahmedabad and Amreli. All have been booked under the stringent Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-sp-was-on-hit-list-of-dreaded-dangar-hitman/articleshow/80591039.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 30, 2021||Vadodara||Godhra could be AIMIM’s entry point in state politics||Vadodara: Godhra, the ground zero of 2002 Gujarat riots, could also be the ground zero from where the Asaduddin Owaisi led AIMIM tastes some success in its debut in Gujarat. This seems to be a distinct possibility not only because of the high minority population in the town but also because the BJP and Congress have not been contesting on the minority-dominated wards in the municipal election there.Godhra where the 2002 Sabarmati Express carnage took place triggering riots across the state has seen an unstable and inefficient municipality. It has 11 wards that elect 44 councillors most of whom are independents. Out of the 44 seats 20 seats are in the five wards in minority-dominated areas. Since BJP and Congress did not field candidates here, all the corporators from here were elected as independents in 2015. Five members of the majority community were elected on other seats in the town taking the tall of independents to 25. The BJP won on 18 seats and Congress won on one seat.The AIMIM, expectedly, has become active in these circumstances. State general secretary of the party Abdul Hamid Bhatti said that persons from Godhra had been in touch with the party since quite some time. “We are set to contest the polls from Godhra and will put up a good show and even be in a position to establish majority,” said Bhatti. He added that five former corporators had already joined the party and many others would do so in the coming days.But the AIMIM is willing to give tickets to persons from other wards too. “Presently, we are collecting profiles of probable candidates. We want to contest on all seats in 11 wards,” said Hanif Kalandar who leads he party in Godhra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhra-could-be-aimims-entry-point-in-state-politics/articleshow/80589902.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||Govt likely to introduce 20 bills in budget session||NEW DELHI: The government is expected to introduce as many as 20 new bills in the Budget session and take up for consideration and passage at least seven others that were referred to standing committees after being introduced in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. While the presentation of the Budget and discussions that follow will be key to the session, Parliament will also discuss the Motion of Thanks to the President’s Address, where the opposition is likely to raise the issue of the farmers’ protest and demand a repeal of the three farm laws. “The opposition parties’ decision to boycott the President’s Address was merely to show solidarity with farmers. However, when the Motion of Thanks is discussed, we’ll certainly raise the issues of farmers because this was a part of the President’s speech,” a senior Congress member said. In terms of priority, the Motion of Thanks to the President’s speech is expected to be the first business to be taken up after the Budget is presented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-likely-to-introduce-20-bills-in-budget-session/articleshow/80595188.cms||Swati Mathur
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: No confirmation, no pay for Covid doctors hired by BBMP||BENGALURU: Around 200 Covid medical officers hired by the BBMP in June last year, when the number of cases started rising, have been left in the lurch with no confirmation if their services are required now. What’s worse, they haven’t been paid for the past two months. The doctors, all MBBS graduates working in the private sector and some running their own clinics, responded to the BBMP’s call to be part of the the city’s crucial Covid management. In January second week, these doctors met health minister K Sudhakar, requesting they be continued on the rolls for another year at least, in addition to payment of salaries. The doctors haven’t received salaries for December and January. “After we met the commissioner and the health minister, the salary for November was paid on January 28,” said one doctor. During their appointment, it was agreed they would be be paid Rs 60,000 per month. Doctors said they were recruited in June, the peak of the pandemic, when several doctors working with the BBMP in urban primary health centres had gone on leave. “We managed the urban primary health centres for Covid testing, ran fever clinics and conducted Covid tests in public places, including bus stands, railway stations, slums and factories. Now, we are managing the vaccination drives. We risked our lives to work for the city’s public health when some BBMP staff were not to be seen,” a doctor told TOI. Govt has not considered our work: DoctorsSome doctors themselves suffered from the infection during the course of work. “It was not easy to convince our families when we joined as Covid medical officers. Some of us got infected. But we worked because there was a crying need. The government has not considered our work,” said doctors. “We requested the government to utilise us in mass vaccination drives,” they said. Covid medical officers played a key role in testing and contact tracing, admit BBMP officers who worked closely with them. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said he was aware of the matter and measures have been taken to pay the salaries. “An order has been issued to continue their services for some more months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-no-confirmation-no-pay-for-covid-doctors-hired-by-bbmp/articleshow/80595221.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 30, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh emerges as the top banana exporter in country||VISAKHAPATNAM: For the first time ever, Andhra Pradesh has emerged as the country’s top banana exporter, having exported over 45,000 metric tonnes (MT) bananas in the 2019-20 fiscal, surpassing Maharashtra and Gujarat. Andhra Pradesh is expected to export over 75,000 MT bananas in the current fiscal, all set to retain the top spot in the export of the Green Cavendish. Andhra Pradesh stands at the top in area under cultivation, production and export of bananas in the country. The state government has identified banana as one of the growth engine crops owing to proactive steps taken by the department of horticulture. The area under banana cultivation has increased tremendously from 79,360 hectares in 2014–15 to 1.04 lakh hectares in 2019–20, along with a steep increase in productivity to 60 metric tonnes per hectare. The majority of banana farmers in the state grow Karpura Chakkerakeli, Tella Chakkerakeli, Budida Chakkerakeli, Amruthapani, Red-Banana, Sugandhalu (Karpura), Karpuravali (Budida Arti) and Rasthalu varieties. In 2018, the state horticulture department came up with a novel initiative on fruit-care activities through PPP (public-private partnership) projects with banana exporting companies and promoting marketing and export of banana. Banana produce from Andhra Pradesh found acceptance in countries such as the UAE, Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Iran. Beginning with a modest 246 MT in 2016–17, Andhra Pradesh was able to scale up export to 40,000 MT in 2020 despite the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, horticulture commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary said that banana export has started a little early in 2021 and the first rake with 43 refrigerated containers of this season was moved from the Tadipatri railway station, which exported 946 MT of bananas. The second rake left on January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-emerges-as-the-top-banana-exporter-in-country/articleshow/80590867.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC transfers senior bureaucrat from general admin department||Amaravati: State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has transferred senior IAS officer Praveen Prakash from the post of principal secretary, general administration department (GAD). He also barred him from interacting with district collectors and SPs till the completion of panchayat elections in the state. Interestingly, Praveen is also the principal secretary to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. GAD is an additional charge for him. It is not clear as to how the senior-most official in the CMO can be barred from speaking to district administrations. The SEC invoked his plenary powers, citing Article 243 read with Article 324, to transfer Praveen, stating that the decision is required to ensure free and fair elections. He also said the IAS officer was chiefly responsible for not implementing the SEC’s orders, seeking action against nine officials including two district collectors. He said his instructions were implemented on January 26, several months after they were first issued. The SEC said he has also made discreet enquiries to come to a conclusion that the officer was primarily responsible for scuttling the video conference convened on January 23 to review poll preparedness in the state. He alleged that Praveen also seems to have imparted instructions to collectors and SPs as well as to other officers not to participate in the commission meetings. Praveen, in his explanation submitted to chief secretary Adityanath Das on Friday, wondered if the SEC was unaware of the fact that GAD principal secretary is not an independent office. He said he was only assisting the chief secretary who is the head of the GAD just like five other principal secretaries. He requested the CS to take the issue to the notice of the SEC to address all future communication to the office of the chief secretary and not to the principal secretary. He said he had issued transfer orders of two district collectors within a few hours after getting instructions from the SEC on January 25 and it was duly communicated to the SEC. Dismissing the allegations that he had scuttled the video conference of district collectors and SPs, Praveen said as the matter was in court and status quo was maintained till the final verdict of the Supreme Court, the same was communicated to the SEC as well as the field level officers, which was the sole reason for AIS (All India Service) officers not attending the video conference with the SEC on January 23. Meanwhile, the state government has appointed disaster management commissioner K Kannababu as secretary to SEC. While the government sent a panel suggesting the names of Vijay Kumar, Kannababu and Rajababu, the SEC opted for Kannababu. Subsequently, the government has shifted him to the SEC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-transfers-senior-bureaucrat-from-general-admin-department/articleshow/80590911.cms||Samdani MN
January 30, 2021||Business||'Government farm laws are a remedy, not a malady'||NEW DELHI: The farm reforms legislated by the Centre are a “remedy, not malady” that was long overdue even as India’s agriculture sector has shown its resilience and contributed to green shoots of the economy with a growth rate of 3.4% despite the Covid-induced lockdown, said the Economic Survey. In the backdrop of current protests against the central farm laws, the Survey noted that these reforms were, in fact, recommended many times in the past 20 years but could not see the light of day till September last year. Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverageIt said the move would now enable creation of ‘One India, One Market’ for agriculture products and create innumerable opportunities for farmers to move up the value chain in food processing — from farm to fork, create jobs and increase incomes. “The reforms in agricultural sector were more overdue than even the labour reforms as the existing laws kept the Indian farmer enslaved to the local ‘mandi’ and their rent-seeking intermediaries. While every other category of producer in India had the freedom to decide where to sell his/her produce, the Indian farmer did not,” said the survey in the context of the new law on agri-market which seeks to provide farmers choice to sell produce outside the state-regulated ‘mandis’. The pro-reform lobby has read the interests of “arthiyas (intermediaries)” as a significant factor in the protests since they have the most to lose. Referring to APMC markets, the survey said local monopolists created by this legal infrastructure enabled the intermediaries to prosper at the cost of the farmer, especially the poor ones without the wherewithal to store their produce. “The three agricultural reform legislations are designed and intended primarily for the benefit of small and marginal farmers which constitute around 85% of the total number of farmers and are the biggest sufferers of the regressive APMC regulated market regime,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-farm-laws-are-a-remedy-not-a-malady/articleshow/80595228.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||Accused to be shifted to mental care hospital||Tirupati: The parents who killed their two daughters at Madanapalli in Chittoor district on Jan 24 would be shifted to government hospital for mental care in Visakhapatnam. Madanapalle sub-jail authorities, after obtaining permission from the local magistrate based on the recommendations of Dr G Radhika, government psychiatrist at Madanapalle government hospital, first shifted V Purushotham Naidu and his wife Padmaja to SVRR government general hospital in Tirupati on Friday morning. A team of doctors from the psychiatry department of the hospital recorded the medical history of the patients and after completing a basic assessment of their mental state, advised that they needed to undergo a complete psychiatric assessment under the watch of a psychologist. Due to non-availability of a psychologist and two dedicated cells to house and treat them, they would be admitted to the government hospital for mental care in Visakhapatnam where the facilities are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/accused-to-be-shifted-to-mental-care-hospital/articleshow/80590962.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 30, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka launches second serosurvey||BENGALURU: Karnataka launched its second serosurvey earlier this week (January 25) with the objective of determining the extent of exposure people have had to the SARS-CoV2 virus. Besides the 30 districts, each of the eight zones in BBMP has been considered a separate unit for the survey. In each of the 38 units, 1,050 people above 18 years of age will be tested for Covid-19 antibodies. Those who will be tested will include pourakarmikas, vendors, unvaccinated healthcare workers, people accompanying patients to hospitals and pregnant women frequenting hospitals. Select populations will be categorised as low, moderate, and high risk groups. A total of 290 healthcare centres across the 38 units has been chosen for the survey. “We consider pregnant women and attendees of patients visiting OPDs as low risk groups,” said technical expert committee members involved with the survey. Bus conductors, auto drivers and vendors in vegetable markets, healthcare workers ranging from doctors to receptionists in hospitals (who are not vaccinated for Covid), pourakarmikas and those who work in congregation settings such as markets, bus stops, malls, railway station and hotel staff will fall in the moderate risk category. The high risk category will include elderly segments of the population and those with comorbidities. “Those who are already infected, people have been vaccinated, those unwilling to provide blood samples for tests, those refusing to provide informed consent and those who were part of the first serosurvey will be excluded,” said health department officials. Those participating in the survey will undergo both Covid-19 and antibody tests. Blood test for IgG antibodies will signal an infection in the recent past. However, unlike the first survey, this time, the government will conduct only RT-PCR tests on swab samples. “Analysis of survey data will be useful for decision-making at the unit level and officials can mount a response,” a release from the health department said. The first serosurvey conducted between July and August 2020, showed close to 16% of the population had already been exposed to the virus. Nine ICMR-approved labs have been mapped to conduct tests. Besides National Institute of Virology, Nimhans and Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute in Bengaluru, they include one government medical college each in Mysuru, Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Shivamogga, and Hassan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-launches-second-serosurvey/articleshow/80595245.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka launches second serosurvey||BENGALURU: Karnataka launched its second serosurvey earlier this week (January 25) with the objective of determining the extent of exposure people have had to the SARS-CoV2 virus. Besides the 30 districts, each of the eight zones in BBMP has been considered a separate unit for the survey. In each of the 38 units, 1,050 people above 18 years of age will be tested for Covid-19 antibodies. Those who will be tested will include pourakarmikas, vendors, unvaccinated healthcare workers, people accompanying patients to hospitals and pregnant women frequenting hospitals. Select populations will be categorised as low, moderate, and high risk groups. A total of 290 healthcare centres across the 38 units has been chosen for the survey. “We consider pregnant women and attendees of patients visiting OPDs as low risk groups,” said technical expert committee members involved with the survey. Bus conductors, auto drivers and vendors in vegetable markets, healthcare workers ranging from doctors to receptionists in hospitals (who are not vaccinated for Covid), pourakarmikas and those who work in congregation settings such as markets, bus stops, malls, railway station and hotel staff will fall in the moderate risk category. The high risk category will include elderly segments of the population and those with comorbidities. “Those who are already infected, people have been vaccinated, those unwilling to provide blood samples for tests, those refusing to provide informed consent and those who were part of the first serosurvey will be excluded,” said health department officials. Those participating in the survey will undergo both Covid-19 and antibody tests. Blood test for IgG antibodies will signal an infection in the recent past. However, unlike the first survey, this time, the government will conduct only RT-PCR tests on swab samples. “Analysis of survey data will be useful for decision-making at the unit level and officials can mount a response,” a release from the health department said. The first serosurvey conducted between July and August 2020, showed close to 16% of the population had already been exposed to the virus. Nine ICMR-approved labs have been mapped to conduct tests. Besides National Institute of Virology, Nimhans and Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute in Bengaluru, they include one government medical college each in Mysuru, Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Shivamogga, and Hassan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-launches-second-serosurvey/articleshow/80595246.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka launches second serosurvey||BENGALURU: Karnataka launched its second serosurvey earlier this week (January 25) with the objective of determining the extent of exposure people have had to the SARS-CoV2 virus. Besides the 30 districts, each of the eight zones in BBMP has been considered a separate unit for the survey. In each of the 38 units, 1,050 people above 18 years of age will be tested for Covid-19 antibodies. Those who will be tested will include pourakarmikas, vendors, unvaccinated healthcare workers, people accompanying patients to hospitals and pregnant women frequenting hospitals. Select populations will be categorised as low, moderate, and high risk groups. A total of 290 healthcare centres across the 38 units has been chosen for the survey. “We consider pregnant women and attendees of patients visiting OPDs as low risk groups,” said technical expert committee members involved with the survey. Bus conductors, auto drivers and vendors in vegetable markets, healthcare workers ranging from doctors to receptionists in hospitals (who are not vaccinated for Covid), pourakarmikas and those who work in congregation settings such as markets, bus stops, malls, railway station and hotel staff will fall in the moderate risk category. The high risk category will include elderly segments of the population and those with comorbidities. “Those who are already infected, people have been vaccinated, those unwilling to provide blood samples for tests, those refusing to provide informed consent and those who were part of the first serosurvey will be excluded,” said health department officials. Those participating in the survey will undergo both Covid-19 and antibody tests. Blood test for IgG antibodies will signal an infection in the recent past. However, unlike the first survey, this time, the government will conduct only RT-PCR tests on swab samples. “Analysis of survey data will be useful for decision-making at the unit level and officials can mount a response,” a release from the health department said. The first serosurvey conducted between July and August 2020, showed close to 16% of the population had already been exposed to the virus. Nine ICMR-approved labs have been mapped to conduct tests. Besides National Institute of Virology, Nimhans and Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute in Bengaluru, they include one government medical college each in Mysuru, Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Shivamogga, and Hassan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-launches-second-serosurvey/articleshow/80595247.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Two held for running fake job racket, Rs 30,000 recovered||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna Lanka police on Friday arrested two people for cheating 10 persons in the guise of fetching jobs in the transport department. The accused have been identified as Nokathoti Surender Kumar (53) and P Swarna Kumar (46). According to the police, they received a complaint from the state transport department that a person named Mohammed Saifuddin had come with a fake appointment letter for the post of motor vehicle inspector (MVI). As per the documents produced by Saifuddin, a total of 10 candidates were said to have been selected for the post of MVI in the transport department. Investigation revealed that Saifuddin had obtained the document from Surender Kumar, who posed as an IAS officer. Around Rs2lakh was agreed to be paid in exchange. As part of the agreement Rs82,000 was given to Surender Kumar on Thursday and the balance was supposed to be paid after joining. Police arrested Surender Kumar and his associate on Friday and recovered Rs30,000 from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-held-for-running-fake-job-racket-rs-30k-recovered/articleshow/80590987.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Erode||509 new Covid cases, 6 deaths in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state added 509 Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the viral infection on Friday. This pushed the cumulative case tally in Tamil Nadu to 8,37,327 and death toll to 12,345. There were 4,601 people still under treatment for the viral infection. The recovery rate has gone up by 0.5% to 98% in January compared to December 2020, and the active cases have gone down by 0.6% from 1% during the same time period. The case fatality rate, however, is at 1.5% since September 2020. "While the world is going for a second lock down, we are seeing a dip in case, deaths, hospital admissions, positivity rate and increase in recovery rate and doubling period," health minister C Vijayabaskar told reporters after a meeting with an expert medical team along with Chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami on Friday. An analysis showed that the seven day average of daily cases between Jan 22 and Jan 28 fell to 544 compared to 1,086 in the week between December 18 and 24. During the same time period, the average number of daily deaths fell from 13 to 6 and the test positivity rate fell from 1.5 to 0.9%. "Ten districts had a positivity rate above the state average. At least 27 districts in the state are reporting less than 15 cases a day for the last ten days," health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. The doubling time for positive cases has crossed the four digit mark compared to around 350 days in the first week of December 2020 and 530 days in the last week of 2020. Covid incidence per million is around 10184 in Tamil Nadu. The incidence is the highest in Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Coimbatore. Six districts - Chengalpet, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Thanjavur and Vellore - reported one death each on Friday. Of the 509 fresh cases, Chennai had 169 and Coimbatore reported 53. All other districts reported below 50 cases and at least 24 districts reported a single digit increase.  Earlier, during a video conference with collectors, the chief minister said the government had spent 7,605 crore towards Covid management so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/509-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80595998.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Salem||509 new Covid cases, 6 deaths in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state added 509 Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the viral infection on Friday. This pushed the cumulative case tally in Tamil Nadu to 8,37,327 and death toll to 12,345. There were 4,601 people still under treatment for the viral infection. The recovery rate has gone up by 0.5% to 98% in January compared to December 2020, and the active cases have gone down by 0.6% from 1% during the same time period. The case fatality rate, however, is at 1.5% since September 2020. "While the world is going for a second lock down, we are seeing a dip in case, deaths, hospital admissions, positivity rate and increase in recovery rate and doubling period," health minister C Vijayabaskar told reporters after a meeting with an expert medical team along with Chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami on Friday. An analysis showed that the seven day average of daily cases between Jan 22 and Jan 28 fell to 544 compared to 1,086 in the week between December 18 and 24. During the same time period, the average number of daily deaths fell from 13 to 6 and the test positivity rate fell from 1.5 to 0.9%. "Ten districts had a positivity rate above the state average. At least 27 districts in the state are reporting less than 15 cases a day for the last ten days," health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. The doubling time for positive cases has crossed the four digit mark compared to around 350 days in the first week of December 2020 and 530 days in the last week of 2020. Covid incidence per million is around 10184 in Tamil Nadu. The incidence is the highest in Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Coimbatore. Six districts - Chengalpet, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Thanjavur and Vellore - reported one death each on Friday. Of the 509 fresh cases, Chennai had 169 and Coimbatore reported 53. All other districts reported below 50 cases and at least 24 districts reported a single digit increase.  Earlier, during a video conference with collectors, the chief minister said the government had spent 7,605 crore towards Covid management so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/509-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80595999.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||509 new Covid cases, 6 deaths in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state added 509 Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the viral infection on Friday. This pushed the cumulative case tally in Tamil Nadu to 8,37,327 and death toll to 12,345. There were 4,601 people still under treatment for the viral infection. The recovery rate has gone up by 0.5% to 98% in January compared to December 2020, and the active cases have gone down by 0.6% from 1% during the same time period. The case fatality rate, however, is at 1.5% since September 2020. "While the world is going for a second lock down, we are seeing a dip in case, deaths, hospital admissions, positivity rate and increase in recovery rate and doubling period," health minister C Vijayabaskar told reporters after a meeting with an expert medical team along with Chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami on Friday. An analysis showed that the seven day average of daily cases between Jan 22 and Jan 28 fell to 544 compared to 1,086 in the week between December 18 and 24. During the same time period, the average number of daily deaths fell from 13 to 6 and the test positivity rate fell from 1.5 to 0.9%. "Ten districts had a positivity rate above the state average. At least 27 districts in the state are reporting less than 15 cases a day for the last ten days," health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. The doubling time for positive cases has crossed the four digit mark compared to around 350 days in the first week of December 2020 and 530 days in the last week of 2020. Covid incidence per million is around 10184 in Tamil Nadu. The incidence is the highest in Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Coimbatore. Six districts - Chengalpet, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Thanjavur and Vellore - reported one death each on Friday. Of the 509 fresh cases, Chennai had 169 and Coimbatore reported 53. All other districts reported below 50 cases and at least 24 districts reported a single digit increase.  Earlier, during a video conference with collectors, the chief minister said the government had spent 7,605 crore towards Covid management so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/509-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80595250.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||‘Support quality childcare to get more women into workforce’||NEW DELHI: Calling for investment in institutional support to boost affordable and quality childcare facilities and incentives to support and encourage more women to join the workforce, the survey highlights that the Labour Force Participation Rate of females in the productive age (15-59 years) was a poor 26.5% in 2018-19 as compared to 80.3% for males (rural+urban). The low female LFPR is attributed to high participation of women in domestic duties in the 15 years-and-above age group (55.7% in rural areas, 59.1% in urban areas in 2018-19). Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverageWhile 54.7% of urban women were employed in the regular wage/salaried category, about 59.6% of rural females were not only self-employed but 37.9% among them were helpers in household enterprises. Quoting India’s first ever Time Use Survey (TUS-2019), the Economic Survey said: “Time spent on employment-related activities by female members is 127 minutes lower than male (in a 24-hour time period. Among unpaid caregiving services for household members, females spent disproportionately higher time on childcare and instruction as compared to males.” The report further recommends that there is also a need to promote non-discriminatory practices at the workplace, like pay and ca-reer progression and medi-cal and social security benefits for female workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/support-quality-childcare-to-get-more-women-into-workforce/articleshow/80595224.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Vijayawada||High court dismisses pleas seeking suspension of panchayat elections||Vijayawada: The high court on Friday dismissed a batch of petitions seeking suspension of panchayat elections in the state, stating that the court cannot intervene once the election process has started. As many as 20 petitions were moved with multitude of grievances and seeking urgent hearing of the matter. The grievances included not following reservation rules, missing names in electoral rolls even after having valid voter identity, and losing the right to vote because of old electoral rolls. Arguing for one of the petitioners, senior counsel Vedula Venkata Ramana said while the courts usually do not intervene once the election process is initiated, as per Supreme Court guidelines, they can pass orders in specific cases where a person’s rights are getting affected. Another advocate, Anand Seshu, argued that as many as 3.6 lakh voters are losing their right to vote as the elections are being conducted according to 2019 electoral roles instead of 2021 rolls. He sought directions to stall the elections in those panchayats where eligible voters’ names are not included in the electoral rolls. N Ashwani Kumar, the counsel for state election commission, said the courts cannot intervene once the election process is initiated. He said the Supreme Court has said the same thing on many occasions, and cited the example of Kishan Singh Tomar case, where the apex court noted that if updated electoral rolls are not available at the time of notification, elections can be conducted with previously available electoral rolls. Justice DVSS Somayajulu, after hearing the arguments from all sides, dismissed the petitions observing that the court is not inclined to intervene in the election process at this stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-dismisses-pleas-seeking-suspension-of-panchayat-elections/articleshow/80591032.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 30, 2021||Goa||Ajgaonkar faces heat over Rs 33cr promotional events||Panaji: The opposition cornered tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Friday over his department’s expenditure of over Rs 33 crore on various promotional events in the last four years. The discussion on the question tabled by Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai lasted for about 50 minutes and witnessed the duo trading corruption allegations. The Fatorda MLA asked the government why a pre-audit of destinations was not conducted despite an assurance to the House by then chief minister Manohar Parrikar a few years ago. Sardesai termed the expenditure towards promotional activities as a waste of money. Ajgaonkar said a pre-audit was not conducted by his ministry. In 2019, as per the survey conducted by a consultancy agency, 1.5 crore international and domestic tourists visited Goa. “I may be a small businessman, but I know that when you invest Rs 25 lakh, the returns have to be Rs 100 lakh,” the tourism minister said, justifying the expense. Sardesai also asked the minister, “How much refund did the tourism ministry receive from the three agencies after the events were called off?” Agencies were appointed for the tourism department’s participation in international trade fairs, but the events in Portugal, Russia and Berlin were cancelled due to the pandemic. Sardesai repeatedly asked Ajgaonkar how an agency could be allowed to retain the amount paid towards pavilion space even after the event was cancelled. He termed it as “golmaal” as Ajgaonkar failed give a proper explanation. Ajgaonkar then accused Sardesai of indulging in corruption when he was TCP minister. The heated exchanges between the two would have continued if not for chief minister Pramod Sawant’s intervention. Sawant told the House that two agencies were not paid at all. The amount paid to the third agency was retained by the organiser and not the agency. Sawant said that if Goa tourism’s policy changes at a future date and it decides not to participate in an event at Portugal, it still has the option to seek a refund. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that since the ministry has managed well without a public relations agency for the past two years, in the future too, it should manage without one. It will save Rs 90 lakh to Rs 1 crore, he said. Sawant said a decision about it will be made by the tourism promotion board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ajgaonkar-faces-heat-over-rs-33cr-promotional-events/articleshow/80593588.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu will begin vaccination of govt frontline workers on February 1: Minister||CHENNAI: The public health department will start vaccinating frontline workers in home department, local administration and revenue department from across the state from February 1 and allow nearly 200 private hospitals to start vaccinating staff in their facilities, health minister C Vijayabaskar announced on Friday. The state has inoculated less than 20% of its healthcare providers since January 16. On Friday, 8,659 healthcare workers took the vaccine, which pushed the total number of vaccine recipients in the state to 97,126 against the total of 5.19 lakh people registered in the portal. Earlier this week, the state had urged the centre to allow simultaneous vaccination of frontline workers. Until Friday, the state has registered 1.8 lakh employees of the home department, 1.7 lakh employees of local administration department and 1.2 lakh from revenue department in the Cowin portal, and is hoping to add at least one lakh more names in the portal. "We will start vaccinations for all pre-registered government employees from Monday," Vijayabaskar told reporters. Meanwhile, smaller hospitals with 150 or more healthcare providers have been asked to collect the vaccine from respective regional vaccination centres and offer it to their employees. "We have a database of the employees registered in the portal. They can collect the vaccines from us and offer it to their staff at their own hospitals. Hospitals that have fewer staff can visit the nearest government centre for the vaccine," he said. The smaller hospitals should have adequate space, four vaccination officers, vaccinators and observation rooms to set up the inhouse camp. Officials say increasing the number of sites will encourage more doctors and healthcare providers to take the vaccine. On Friday, for the second consecutive day, the state increased the number of sites to 286 from 236 on Thursday and 166 on Wednesday. The number of sessions was increased to 298 from 250 on Thursday. The state which had the capacity to vaccinate 29,800 healthcare providers but only 8659 people showed up. In the last 14 days, the state had the capacity to vaccinate more than 2.6 lakh healthcare providers, but the state has managed to vaccinate only 37% of its capacity. "Many people still hesitate to take the Covaxin. I took it and I am fine," Vijayabaskar said. So far, 2,332 people have received the Bharat biotech vaccine. Earlier, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the government had made arrangements to vaccinate 20% of the population, which is 1.60 crore, this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-will-begin-vaccination-of-govt-frontline-workers-on-february-1-minister/articleshow/80595259.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||Oppn casts doubt on tourist footfall data||Panaji: The periodic data released by the tourism ministry about tourists is usually looked upon with skepticism by trade bodies. On Friday, the Goa legislative assembly saw even the opposition raising doubts over the tourist footfall data. Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai quoted a reply given to his question to justify the anomalies. Referring to a reply that in 2020, Goa received 9.8 lakh domestic and 7,935 international tourists, he said it was unbelievable as during the pandemic period, international tourists could not travel to Goa owing to air travel restrictions. “How did you arrive at this figure? There is a serious discrepancy,” said Sardesai. Earlier, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar told the House that he cannot give figures about the tourist arrivals during the pandemic period as a survey has not been conducted. The minister’s written reply said figures for 2020 were provisional and the data for December 2020 was yet to be received from the stakeholders. Sardesai said figures did not tally with the written reply given by the tourism minister in the assembly. Fatorda MLA also pointed out that the chief minister had said – not in the House - that 40 to 45 lakh tourists entered Goa between Christmas and New Year. The chief minister responded saying that during the pandemic, there was a change in the trend of tourist arrivals and most preferred to visit Goa using road transport and stayed in unregistered hotels and guest houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-casts-doubt-on-tourist-footfall-data/articleshow/80593628.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Business||Among states with higher population, Maharashtra under-performed in battling Covid: Eco Survey||NEW DELHI: Among states with large populations, despite having a lower population density than Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra has under-performed the most in restricting the spread of Covid-19 cases and in saving lives, the Economic Survey 2021 shows. Comparing the three states in terms of estimated cases, the survey finds that being densely populated, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have much lower number of cases than what was naturally expected while Maharashtra had a much higher number. “This ultimately held India in good stead,” said the survey, referring to the lower numbers in UP and Bihar. Apart from UP and Bihar, Gujarat too did well in containing the spread of Covid-19, whereas Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have saved the most lives. Lauding India’s implementation of early and stringent lockdown, the economic survey said India has been “outlier in its experience with Covid-19 ”. “Globally, many European countries and US have been facing deadly second and third waves around this time with easing of lockdowns and increasing mobility. Most countries had to re-impose intermittent lockdowns while India has been increasingly unlocking. These trends reinforce that India has been effective in combating the Covid-19 pandemic,” it said, underlining the lockdown as a critical instrument in “flattening the curve” and saving lives. Based on a model using estimated number of deaths across countries, the survey concludes that India has effectively controlled deaths despite having a significant population of elderly people. “Though India has a young population with only around 10% share of people above 60 years of age, the population of people above 60 years of age is significantly higher in India than in any of the 30 countries that account for 86% of the cases,” the survey said. Elderly and people with co-morbidities are at higher risk of mortality due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/among-states-with-higher-population-maharashtra-under-performed-in-battling-covid-eco-survey/articleshow/80595261.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Goa||State will seek extension to settle forest rights claim||Panaji: The Goa government will seek an extension to the June 30, 2021, deadline set by the Supreme Court to settle forest rights claims, chief minister Pramod Sawant said in the assembly on Friday during calling attention. Sawant was grilled by opposition MLAs over the undue delay in settlement in land rights of forest dwellers in different parts of Goa, leading to protests from tribals from Sattari to Canacona. Sawant also admitted that there is a shortage of surveyors in the state and said that he has instructed officials to fill the gap in availability of surveyors. The CM said that it is also up to the forest rights claim (FRC) settlement committees to expedite the procedure of settlement of the claims. Sawant said the government would also try at its end to fast-track the process. “It is a lengthy process, which is on for several years. We are going to ask for extension in the Supreme Court deadline. A tribal can lay claim even if one generation has been residing at the place and for non-tribals it has to be proven that three generations have been living there,” said Sawant. He said the maximum number of 21 sanads under FRC have been issued in the case of Sattari taluka to date. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar said that the tribal community especially in the talukas of Sanguem, Quepem, Canacona, Dharbandora and Sattari are worried about their future due to ‘inconsistency in government policy decisions as well as lethargic approach of the government with respect to Forest Right Claims under Forest Right Act 2006’. “The forest department itself does not know where their own forest boundary ends and where the land cultivated by tribals starts. There is a lack of spot verification machines and one machine can help verify a maximum of three properties a day. This is leading to too much of a delay in settlement of the claims,” said Gaonkar. Sawant said that slow functioning of local-level committees is also posing a hurdle. There is a lack of spot verification machines and one machine can help verify a maximum of three properties a day. This is leading to too much of a delay in settlement of the claims||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-will-seek-extension-to-settle-forest-rights-claim/articleshow/80593668.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Man who stabbed woman found hanging by EB pole in Chennai||CHENNAI: A spurned lover who stabbed his 'girlfriend', an engineer, after barging into her house on Thursday, was on Friday found hanging from an electric post near Madhavaram. He allegedly took his life believing that police were after him. Police identified the man as Sudhakar, 25, who was said to be in a relationship with Latha from their school days. Latha is employed at a software firm in Ambattur, while Sudhakar ran a mobile phone recharge outlet. Inquiries revealed that the woman had been avoiding Sudhakar over the past couple of months citing his behaviour and the company he kept. When she stopped picking his calls, Sudhakar began stalking her. Following this, Latha filed a complaint against him. On Thursday, Sudhakar went to her house at 5 am and attacked her with a knife. He dumped a profusely bleeding Latha in the bathroom and escaped. Her mother noticed Latha lying unconscious and rushed her to a hospital with neighbours' help. Puzhal police registered a case and launched a hunt for Sudhakar. Latha's mother claimed that she was not aware of their relationship, and she told police that her daughter looked tense for more than a week. The injured woman recuperating in a hospital.  Madhavaram police have sent Sudhakar's body to the Government Stanley Hospital for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-man-who-stabbed-woman-found-hanging-by-eb-pole/articleshow/80595264.cms||---
January 30, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: MTC to install hi-tech GPS speakers in 500 buses||CHENNAI: The Metropolitan Transport Corporation, Chennai, will soon be installing GPS-based speakers in 500 city buses which will announce details including the next bus stop for the benefit of passengers. Official sources said six speakers (two each at front, rear and middle) will be fixed in each bus to announce forthcoming bus stops and the final destination. MTC has borrowed the idea from Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) for the Public Address System (PAS) project to boost their falling patronage. The setup includes a GPS receiver, antenna and an audio amplifier along with speakers. Announcements will be made at least 200 to 300 metre before the bus approaches a halt. "Though announcements will be made in Tamil, we have tried to use simpler English words wherever it is necessarry to avoid confusion. This setup will be of great help to passengers unfamiliar with city routes. They need not depend on other passengers in the bus to know when they will reach their destination," said a senior MTC official. Tenders floated to install these devices were closed on January 29 (Friday) and work orders will be issued in a month or two after bid evaluation process. This is a 'no-cost project' for MTC. Successful bidder gets to pay a certain amount to MTC on a daily basis. In return, the bidder is allowed to play advertisements on the speakers in between announcements. Welcoming the move, R Rengachari, a transportation activist said, "Instead of fixing them in all areas, MTC could choose only those buses which connect Chennai Central, Egmore Railway Stations, Meenambakkam Airport and Koyambedu Bus Stand, which are frequented by outsiders". MTC currently has not finalised the list of bus routes along which the speakers will be fixed. Earlier, in December 2019, it had conducted a six-month trial run on 50 buses along routes such as 25G, 101 and 570 which connects areas like Poonamalle, Anna Square, Thiruvottiyur, Broadway and Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-mtc-to-install-hi-tech-gps-speakers-in-500-buses/articleshow/80595268.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 30, 2021||Business||‘Focus must be on long-term public-health spend, infra’||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 pandemic has brought healthcare centre stage, highlighting how a health crisis can become a major economic and social challenge, the Economic Survey 2021 said suggesting the need for higher public spending and agile health infrastructure to be able to respond to pandemics. The survey also points out that healthcare policy should not over focus on the recent phenomenon and rather continue to focus on long-term priorities. Drawing on the fact that countries with higher health spend have struggled to contain the pandemic, the survey concludes that better infrastructure may not assure that a country would be able to tackle a pandemic. Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverage“Across all the states, the proportion of households with health insurance increased by 54 per cent for the states that implemented PM-JAY while falling by 10 per cent in states that did not. Similarly, the proportion of households that had health insurance increased in Bihar, Assam and Sikkim from 2015-16 to 2019-20 by 89 per cent while it decreased by 12 per cent over the same period in West Bengal,” it said. “Healthcare policy must not become beholden to “saliency bias”, where policy over-weighs a recent phenomenon that may represent a six-sigma event,” the survey tabled in the Parliament on Friday said. Underlining that though Covid is a communicable disease and has tested India’s health system preparedness, the survey pointed out that “71 per cent of global deaths and about 65 per cent of deaths in India are caused by non-communicable diseases”. “The next health crisis may not possibly involve a communicable disease. Therefore, India’s healthcare policy must continue focusing on its long-term healthcare priorities,” it said. Highlighting poor health outcomes, lack of access and high out-of-pocket expenditure as the persistent problems of the country’s health system, the survey said the richer states spend less of their GDP on healthcare but the limiting factor often is the lack of human resources. “State-level variations in the density of health workers and the skill mix reflects that while Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir have a high density of doctors, states like Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have a larger number of nurses and midwives but a very low density of doctors. Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Tamil Nadu reflect a better balance of doctors and nurses and midwives,” it added. It also stressed on the need for a sectoral regulator to monitor the healthcare sector, particularly because the private sector provides a bulk of healthcare services. The survey also said that the focus on National Health Mission (NHM) must continue. “The National Health mission (NHM) has played a critical role in mitigating inequity as the access of the poorest to pre-natal and post-natal care as well as institutional deliveries has increased significantly. Therefore, in conjunction to with Ayushman Bharat, the emphasis on NHM should continue,” the survey said. According to the survey, health outcomes of the states that adopted Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) improved when compared to the states that did not adopt the insurance scheme. “From 2015-16 to 2019-20, infant mortality rates declined by 12 per cent for states that did not adopt PM-JAY and by 20 per cent for the states that adopted it,” the survey said. 'Maha lagged behind Bihar, UP in Covid war'Among states with large populations, despite having a lower population density than Bihar and UP, Maharashtra has underperformed the most in restricting the spread of Covid cases and in saving lives, the Survey shows. “This ultimately held India in good stead,” it said referring to the low numbers in UP and Bihar. Gujarat also did well in containing Covid, whereas Kerala, Telangana and Andhra have saved the most lives, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/focus-must-be-on-long-term-public-health-spend-infra/articleshow/80595265.cms||---
