January 31, 2021||Chennai||Frontline wrokers were honoured at Citi Centre||It was an evening to honour the bravehearts of Tamil Nadu, who served the society selflessly during the coronavirus pandemic last year. Frontline workers from different parts of the city and the state came together for an evening of mutual appreciation at an awards ceremony held at a city mall. They not only got along like a house on fire, but also kept cheering for their ilk, as each one of them opened up about their stories and challenges. They also took some time out to pose for the shutterbugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-salute-to-corona-frontline-warriors/articleshow/80605320.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa sets May deadline for Smart City works, claims funds no constraint||BENGALURU: Amid the pandemic-induced slowdown, chief minister BS Yediyurappa has set an ambitious deadline of May 2021 for completion of ongoing road works under the Smart City project in the central business district (CBD). Funds will not be a constraint for development works in Bengaluru, he claimed. “By May, most road development works will be completed, while in March 2022, the rest under Smart City project should be over. I’ll again inspect the progress in March or April. I’ve asked officials to focus on quality work rather than worrying about availability of funds,’’ he said. The CM inspected works on Raja Ram Mohan Roy Road, Raj Bhavan Road, Hayes Road, Tata Lane, Wood Street, Race Course Road, Head Post Office Junction and Planetarium Road. As many as 37 works worth Rs 903 crore have been taken up in Bengaluru under the project, which include development of 37 roads and assistance to Covid-19 hospitals. “The projects are in various stages. While four have been completed, 29 are under progress. Four projects are at the tender level,’’ said Rajendra Cholan, managing director, Smart City projects, adding the government has spent Rs 103 crore so far. Lake revival & tree gardensYediyurappa also reviewed works under Bengaluru Mission-2022 which was launched last month. He directed officials to complete the tender process for development of 12 high-density corridors by April and start the work. Work on Kengeri line of Namma Metro will be completed by June. And, those on Whitefield and Electronics City lines will be expedited, he added. The CM said rejuvenation and development of 25 lakes have been taken up. Bellandur and Varthur lakes are also being revived. Six tree gardens are being developed in different parts of the city. By April-end, a 400-acre tree park at Turahalli will be dedicated for public use. Others at Kadugodi (102 acres) and Machohalli (98 acres) will be thrown open in May and June respectively, the CM said. A simplified integrated digital portal to issue birth and death certificates, khatas of properties, sanctioning of building plans, etc will also be ready by April. Chief secretary P Ravikumar has been asked to review works under the Bengaluru Mission every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cm-sets-may-deadline-for-smart-city-works-claims-funds-no-constraint/articleshow/80605878.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Two lithium battery plants will come up in Hubballi, Chikkaballapura||BENGALURU: Two lithium battery-manufacturing plants will be set up in the state to promote e-vehicles and reduce air pollution, deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday. One unit will come up in Hubballi-Dharwad and another near Chikkaballapura. “We’re yet to finalise the exact location,” he added. “The state was preparing an exemplary energy policy to provide a major leg up for e-vehicles,’’ he said, after launching the e-vehicle rally. In 2018, Karnataka was the first in the country to implement e-vehicle policy. Under this, concession has been given to consumers and Rs 5 per unit is being charged in place of Rs 9, which is the rate of electricity for commercial usage. “We plan to give more sops in our upgraded policy. This could make e-vehicles much cheaper,’’ he said. Battery banksAccording to the minister, the new policy will facilitate setting up of battery banks on the lines of petrol bunks across the state. Bescom will work as the nodal agency for establishing more charging stations in Bengaluru. It has already set up 150 charging stations. The power utility has been asked to work in collaboration with National Thermal Power Corporation to create an EV-charging ecosystem in the state. “If everything goes as planned, consumers will be able to hire and use pre-charged batteries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-lithium-battery-plants-will-come-up-in-hubballi-cballapura/articleshow/80608395.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Fresh permits soon for e-cycle firms in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) has invited firms to deploy electric bicycles and scooters in the city. The move comes a month after TOI published an article, ‘Mobility firms exit, DULT’s much-hyped cycle-sharing goes off track’. The DULT has now issued permits to set up and operate public bicycle sharing (PBS) and shared micro mobility system (SMMS) in Bengaluru. In October 2018, DULT had given permission to four firms to operate 4,300 cycles in the Phase-I cluster, comprising areas like HSR Layout and Vidhana Soudha.  The operator will also be allowed to use bicycles as a medium for advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fresh-permits-soon-for-e-cycle-firms/articleshow/80605883.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mysuru||Seven injured after leopard invades village in Karnataka's Mandya||MANDYA: Seven persons, including two children, sustained injuries after a leopard entered a village near Melukote in Mandya on Saturday. Jayaramu, a farmer in P Hosahalli, was working on his field along with members of his family when the leopard sneaked into the farm. Many of those who were fleeing from the big cat tripped over stones. They are being treated at a hospital in Pandavapura. The leopard was spotted at Tottilamadu, a popular tourist destination in the district. Forest department officials visited the village and promised residents they’ll set up a cage to capture the animal. The foresters will also patrol the area regularly to prevent untoward incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/seven-injured-after-leopard-invades-village-in-mandya/articleshow/80605888.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Suicides touched 11-year high in 2020; experts blame Covid||BENGALURU: Bengaluru reported the highest number of deaths by suicide (2,162) in 11 years during the pandemic year of 2020, according to police’s City Crime Records Bureau (CCRB). Suicides had last touched a three-decade high (2,429) in 2007 and the number was 2,167 in 2009, the years of global recession. The figure dipped to 1,778 in 2010. Between 2011-2020, a total of 19,541 suicides were reported, the highest in the past three decades. Between 1991-2000, 12,813 persons in Bengaluru took the extreme step, while 18,039 died by suicide in the following decade (2001-2010). Dr A Jagdish, psychiatrist, Abhaya hospital, said the situation in 2020 for many living in urban areas was similar to 2008. Despair was, in fact, higher last year as people were unable to move from one place to another, which led to mental health issues. Some were staying alone in their houses, while their loved ones were elsewhere. It was not just socio-economic issues that drove many to end their lives, but also the fear of contracting Covid-19, he explained. Kala Seetharam Sridhar, professor of Centre for Research in Urban Affairs, Institute for Social and Economic Change, said, “Migrants are the backbone of the urban economy and it took a massive hit due to the lockdown and Covid-19 scare. Unorganised and vulnerable sector employees became major victims. Industries such as hospitality and real estate were massively hit. The economy was severely affected, taking a toll on people’s mental health.” Bharathi Singh, founder CEO and managing trustee of Sa-Mudra Foundation, an NGO which works for youth empowerment and mental wellness, said the suicide number would actually be much higher than what is reported. Due to social stigma, many families hide the information from police, resulting in cases going unreported. The foundation, which basically deals with youth, transformed into a generic helpline in 2020. “Most of those who called us were in the age group of 25-30. The youth faced uncertainty over job loss, loans, insecurity and helplessness. We also received calls from the elderly who were paranoid after watching news channels and had lost hope,” she said. The pandemic led to psychosocial issues and momentary depression, which led to many ending their lives, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/suicides-touched-11-year-high-in-2020-experts-blame-covid/articleshow/80605949.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Probe against staff must be over within timeline: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: In the matter of holding inquiry proceedings against a delinquent employee, the state government and its instrumentalities have to adhere to the timeline stipulated in the official memoranda in letter and in spirit and not place the same in cold storage, the high court has said. The court made the observation while coming to the rescue of a retired official of Mysore Urban Development Authority. Not only did the HC quash the de novo ( fresh) probe initiated against BS Rangaswamy in June 2018 — six years after his superannuation — but also directed MUDA to pay Rs 25,000 as costs to him. Apart from ordering release of all pending terminal benefits in 15 days with 6% interest, the court held that Rangaswamy is entitled to promotion if the same is withheld on account of pendency of proceedings. “This court notices with pain in umpteen number of cases where disciplinary proceedings are initiated by issuance of chargesheet and are not concluded within a reasonable time, and the employee is kept on the tenterhooks and denied service and terminal benefits that would become available to him,” Justice M Nagaprasanna said. The judge also pointed out that in the official memoranda issued on May 31, 1997, a cap of 21 months was fixed and the same modified by another memoranda issued on June 28, 2001, by which the time limit was reduced to 9 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/probe-against-staff-must-be-over-within-timeline/articleshow/80605980.cms||Vasantha Kumar
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Businessman nabbed as Jaguar hits tree near CM’s house||BENGALURU: A 24-year-old businessman was arrested after his Jaguar car hit a tree near the chief minister’s official residence off Windsor Manor junction in the wee hours of Saturday. Police said it happened at 12.30am when Shreyansh Shah lost control of his luxury vehicle and rammed a tree which was on the footpath. He sustained minor injuries and was shifted to a private hospital by staffers at the CM’s residence. Shah’s blood samples have been collected to ascertain whether he was drunk, High Grounds traffic police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bizman-nabbed-as-jaguar-hits-tree-near-cms-house/articleshow/80605981.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: FOBs at 6 metro stations by 2022||BENGALURU: In a relief to passengers, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited has decided to build foot over bridges at six Metro stations by 2022. They will come up at Yeshwantpur, Dasarahalli and Nagasandra stations of Metro Phase-1 and Mailasandra, Jnanabharathi and Chikkabidarkallu (Jindal) stations of Phase-2. Officials said tenders will be finalised by February-end and the project worth Rs 12.1 crore is expected to be completed in a year. BMRCL is planning to allow non-Metro commuters to use its facilities for free. This means they can use stairs, escalators and elevators at stations to go from one point to another during operational hours. Get student bus pass by Feb-end Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation decided to allow students to travel in their buses with old passes till February-end. However, BMTC urged students to get new passes before February 28 by applying online and collecting them from BangaloreOne centres. The transport utilities are allowing students to travel from their homes to school/colleges in ordinary bus services by producing passes issued for 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fobs-at-6-metro-stations-by-2022/articleshow/80605985.cms||---
January 31, 2021||World||UK MPs express horror at attempts to clear farmer protest sites on Delhi borders||LONDON: Two British Sikh Labour MPs who support the Indian farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws have expressed horror at the way “mobs and the police” are trying to clear the three protest sites on Delhi’s borders. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camped in the freezing cold at the Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders for the past two months demanding the repeal of laws that they say will destroy livelihoods. On Friday night Labour MP Preet Gill tweeted a video of a tent being forcibly dismantled and wrote: “Makeshift camps of peaceful farmers are being taken down to silence them. Heart-breaking that this is happening to women, girls and the elderly as police stand and witness the attacks.” “The images being shared globally are heart-breaking. Police using force against its own citizens. India should be proud of the contribution of farmers who are referred to as ‘aandata (food providers)’. Former World Bank chief economist Kaushik Basu has spoken out in support of the farmers,” she told TOI. “The world is watching," wrote MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, as he tweeted images of protesters covered in blood being beaten up. “Violence can’t be condoned,” he tweeted. “But if people in power abuse peaceful protesters, it’ll merely make their movement stronger. Shocked to see mobs and police trying to intimidate and clear Delhi #FarmersProtest after stopping their water, electricity and internet.” “The authorities must allow the protesters, the overwhelming majority of whom are peaceful, to make their voice heard,” he told TOI. Twenty-three gurdwaras and Sikh organisations have written to UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab calling on him to carry out an urgent assessment of the “deteriorating situation in India” and to raise “human rights violations against the protesting farmers” with the United Nations and the Indian government. The letter asks Raab to urge the Indian authorities to “act with restraint and resume peaceful dialogue with the farmer groups”, and reminds him how the UK often raises concerns about China’s crackdown on protests in Hong Kong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-mps-express-horror-at-attempts-to-clear-farmer-protest-sites-on-delhi-borders/articleshow/80606138.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 31, 2021||World||China launches 2nd advanced warship for Pakistan Navy||ISLAMABAD: China has launched the Type-054A/P frigate, the second of four “most advanced” warships it is building for Pakistan, amid deepening defence and economic ties between the two allied nations, the Pakistan Navy said in a statement on Saturday. The development comes as both the countries are locked in border tensions with their common neighbour India. The Pakistan Navy said that Chinese state-owned Hudong Zhonghua Shipyard in Shanghai held the launching ceremony for the frigate, with Chief Naval Overseer (China) Commodore Azfar Humayun and senior Chinese officials in attendance. The Navy said the warships are state-of-the-art frigates equipped with modern surface, subsurface and anti-air weapons. “They will also be fitted with a range of electronic warfare, air and surface surveillance and acoustic sensors integrated through state-of-the-art Combat Management System,” the statement read. The statement did not mention the cost of the military vessels, but reported estimates are more than $350 million each. Addressing the ceremony, Commodore Humayun said the addition of the new warships to the Pakistan Navy’s fleet would “significantly enhance Pakistan’s maritime defence and deterrence capabilities”. The launching ceremony for the first frigate was held in August last year. Once constructed, the ships will be one of the largest and technologically advanced surface platforms of the Pakistan Navy fleet, boosting its capability to respond to future challenges. Hudong Zhonghua Shipyard is expected to deliver all four units to Pakistan by the end of 2021, which Chinese media said could “double the combat power” of the Pakistan Navy fleet. In June 2019, Pakistan Navy had announced that it was purchasing two multirole Type-054A/P frigates from China for bolstering its war-fighting capability. It had also said that Pakistan’s fleet of Type-054A/P warships would grow to four by 2021. China started building the first ship in January 2020 under a defence agreement between the two countries. Pakistani officials said the Type-054A/P frigate is in service with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Navy and recognized as its backbone. The PLA Navy has about 30 of the Type-054A ships, each of which has a loaded displacement of 4,000 metric tonnes and is equipped with advanced radars and missiles. China and Pakistan are jointly producing various military-related hardware, including the JF-17 multirole combat aircraft, demonstrating the strong mutual defence ties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-launches-2nd-advanced-warship-for-pakistan-navy/articleshow/80606252.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 31, 2021||World||China launches 2nd advanced warship for Pakistan Navy||ISLAMABAD: China has launched the Type-054A/P frigate, the second of four “most advanced” warships it is building for Pakistan, amid deepening defence and economic ties between the two allied nations, the Pakistan Navy said in a statement on Saturday. The development comes as both the countries are locked in border tensions with their common neighbour India. The Pakistan Navy said that Chinese state-owned Hudong Zhonghua Shipyard in Shanghai held the launching ceremony for the frigate, with Chief Naval Overseer (China) Commodore Azfar Humayun and senior Chinese officials in attendance. The Navy said the warships are state-of-the-art frigates equipped with modern surface, subsurface and anti-air weapons. “They will also be fitted with a range of electronic warfare, air and surface surveillance and acoustic sensors integrated through state-of-the-art Combat Management System,” the statement read. The statement did not mention the cost of the military vessels, but reported estimates are more than $350 million each. Addressing the ceremony, Commodore Humayun said the addition of the new warships to the Pakistan Navy’s fleet would “significantly enhance Pakistan’s maritime defence and deterrence capabilities”. The launching ceremony for the first frigate was held in August last year. Once constructed, the ships will be one of the largest and technologically advanced surface platforms of the Pakistan Navy fleet, boosting its capability to respond to future challenges. Hudong Zhonghua Shipyard is expected to deliver all four units to Pakistan by the end of 2021, which Chinese media said could “double the combat power” of the Pakistan Navy fleet. In June 2019, Pakistan Navy had announced that it was purchasing two multirole Type-054A/P frigates from China for bolstering its war-fighting capability. It had also said that Pakistan’s fleet of Type-054A/P warships would grow to four by 2021. China started building the first ship in January 2020 under a defence agreement between the two countries. Pakistani officials said the Type-054A/P frigate is in service with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Navy and recognized as its backbone. The PLA Navy has about 30 of the Type-054A ships, each of which has a loaded displacement of 4,000 metric tonnes and is equipped with advanced radars and missiles. China and Pakistan are jointly producing various military-related hardware, including the JF-17 multirole combat aircraft, demonstrating the strong mutual defence ties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/china-launches-2nd-advanced-warship-for-pakistan-navy/articleshow/80606254.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Data glitch hits drive in 19 govt hospitals in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Nineteen healthcare institutions run by the central government in Bengaluru have not yet started Covid-19 vaccination because of CoWIN mapping issues. The Centre had done the registration of beneficiaries, but problems in linking the institutions to vaccine supplying agencies have delayed the programme. A total of 13,000 healthcare workers are employed at these facilities and they are waiting for their first dose. The facilities include ESI Model Hospital, Rajajinagar; Command Hospital; Air Force Institute of Dental Sciences, Composite Hospital CRPF; Railway Health Unit, Yeshwantpur; Railway Hospital; National Institute of Unani Medicine; AIR India Limited; and Siddha Clinical Research Institute. For security reasons, the data of the employees was not shared with BBMP or Bengaluru Urban district authorities, according to an official. The Centre uploaded it on the CoWIN portal. “In the case of ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar has been mentioned as the taluk when no such taluk exists. These minor errors have also mattered. We are waiting for the government’s direction to supply vaccines to these centres. It is likely to happen in a couple of days,” Dr Srinivas GA, who is the Bengaluru Urban district health officer, told STOI. A doctor at ESI Hospital lamented the delays. “The Covid-19 vaccine becomes effective 14 to 15 days after the second dose. While the rest of the state received vaccine supplies two weeks ago, we are still waiting for them,” the doctor added. On January 16, when BBMP and health department officials were coordinating with several hospitals for the smooth launch of vaccination sessions, the 19 facilities had no idea when they would receive the doses. “We thought they would arrive in a couple of days, but it has been two weeks now. The technical problems came to light only after doctors at the hospitals started making enquiries with the state government,” said a doctor from another affected hospital. The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, or Nimhans, is a central facility, but it has not faced these issues. Dr Arundhati Chandrahsekar, mission director (Karnataka), National Health Mission, confirmed that vaccines had not been distributed among the 19 hospitals because of data mismatches. “The details of healthcare workers serving in these hospitals were uploaded by the government of India. The details have been uploaded against the wrong block or district. We have flagged this issue with the government. Mapping these hospitals with the cold chain points is to be done,” Dr Arundhati added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/data-delay-leaves-hosps-out-of-drive/articleshow/80606327.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 31, 2021||Business||May need to provide fiscal support for up to 2 years: CEA||NEW DELHI: Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian on Saturday backed higher spending on infrastructure over demands for tax cuts while indicating that fiscal support may need to be provided for the next 18-24 months till the economy returns to the pre-Covid growth path. “In FY23 (2022-23), we should be able to reach (growth of) 6.5% or thereabouts. For India, the potential growth is between 6.5% and 7.5%. By FY 23, many of the effects of the reforms will be felt and the growth expected next year will lift a lot of firms. That might be the right time to start the consolidation,” he said during an interaction. The Economic Survey 2020-21, where he is the lead author, had suggested that the government should ignore the fiscal targets and rating agencies for the moment and boost spending to spur economic activity. Subramanian, however, made it clear that spending has to be for asset creation to ensure that there is a boost to sectors such as cement and steel along with job creation. “If you do Re 1 of revenue spending, the multiplier is 0.98. But if you spend on infrastructure, you will get around 2.5. Over the entire period of infrastructure, you get around 4.5,” he said adding that spending on roads, ports and power along with reforms will help speed up the recovery process. While underlying the need to wind down the stimulus once growth returns, the CEA also dismissed suggestions that a loose fiscal policy could fuel inflation like 2008. “Inflation was certainly high (in 2008) but a lot of it was in services. There was a big real estate bubble and those are demand-side factors. Second, we are very cognizant of the fact that when demand comes back and if supply does not respond, there will be an inflationary phenomenon. That’s why reforms have been launched. After the financial crisis, there was money floating around but no reforms were done. As a result, supply did not respond.” While the Survey has touched upon high stock market valuations, something that RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had also cautioned about, Subramanian did not directly respond to the issue. “Stock markets value future growth... Over the next decade, India could be the fastest-growing large economy, especially because of the reforms undertaken. In the short-term, advanced economies have expanded the fiscal and monetary support, resulting in a lot of liquidity looking for return... This is likely to slowly unwind around FY24 or so. That’s something that must be kept in mind.” He, however, backed the idea of a bad bank to take over the troubled assets of lenders, who many, including the RBI, fear may have to grapple with a large pool of bad debt in coming months. “The idea of a bad bank is something that has merit. If it is in the private sector it will be more efficient because restructured assets need very quick decision-making. With the three Cs etc (CAG, CBI, and CVC), it does not happen in the public sector.” Subramanian, however, said the build-up in NPAs may not be as high as many experts anticipated as several lenders had learned from their earlier experience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/may-need-to-provide-fiscal-support-for-up-to-2-years-cea/articleshow/80605936.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai restaurants welcome move to stay open till 1 am, say it will improve sales||It’s been a tough past year for the hospitality industry that suffered heavy losses on account of being shut due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With 2021 underway and a hope for a new and better normal, they’re looking to get their footfalls back. The eateries had reopened in the first week of October and have been trying to recover their losses. And now, in the latest development they can also stay open until morning, quite literally! The Maharashtra Government has recently issued a directive announcing an extension for operational timings for restaurants and shops, where the restaurants can be operational till1 am. The move is being welcomed by the city’s hotel and restaurant industry as a sign of going back to normalcy. Says Pradeep Shetty, Sr Vice President, Hotel and Restaurant Association Of Western India (HRAWI), “We are absolutely thrilled with the Maharashtra Government's decision. The extension will definitely be a boost for businesses and will encourage several restaurants to re-open which have continued to remain shut since the lockdown. At present, diners have to be at the restaurant before 9.30 pm max to ensure they have a table and the last order is taken latest by 10.30 pm. With the hospitality industry in grave losses, we had been pleading with the Government to relax the timings for restaurants. This is a most welcome move as it has the potential to generate anywhere between Rs.50 Cr to Rs.75 Cr revenue per day for the industry.” 'We lost a lot of revenue during season time like Christmas and New Year, so hopefully this will give impetus to the industry'  Amit Jambotkar, director of several restaurants in the city, says, “We are very happy with this extension of the operation hours for the restaurants as this will improve our night business. We lost a lot of revenue during season time like Christmas and New Year, so hopefully this will give impetus to the industry. Also, with trains opening up for general public, it will help in staff mobility. We had rented few spaces for staff accommodation near our restaurants, but now that can ease out. It’s a huge relief to get back to normalcy slowly.” Tarak Bhattacharya, CEO of a donut chain also hails the move and says, “This is indeed good news for the hospitality industry, and a great start to the year! We welcome government's decision as the extension till 1am, it will help us improve sales, especially in a city like Mumbai known for late-night eating. With trains opening for general public, it will help our staff to come to work more conveniently every day. We hope that this move will help us reviving back to normal situation. After a lot of hardship, this announcement gives a ray of hope to the entire food and hospitality industry and we may expect better sales and revenue with this new guidelines “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-restaurants-welcome-move-to-stay-open-till-1-am-say-it-will-improve-sales/articleshow/80601730.cms||Ismat Tahseen
January 31, 2021||India||All-woman crew in Ladakh runs LPG plant that Army depends on||LEH: Every morning, Tsering Angmo leaves her two-year-old son with neighbours and commutes 20 km a frozen landscape from her home in Choglamsar, a settlement near Leh, to work at Ladakh’s only LPG bottling plant near Leh. Angmo is part of a 12-member all-women crew making sure the 50,000 Indian soldiers eyeballing the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) in Arctic temperature do not have to march on empty stomachs. The plant, built by state-run Indian Oil, together with refills stored by Hindustan Petroleum, is Ladakh's only source of cooking gas and a lifeline after once snow snaps road connectivity with the rest of the country. About 40% of the refills produced at the plant go to the defence establishment. It is also the country’s only LPG unit to be operated by women. The women work the production line, check the quality of seals etc. and manage security. All the crew members, except security officer Tsetan Angmo, are contract workers. Only loading, involving heavy lifting, is handled by five men. In their 20s and 40s, managing the plant and family seem to come naturally to these women. Times ViewBy the very nature of their engagement, some heroes — soldiers, sportspersons, social workers — grab our attention. The women at Ladakh LPG plant are performing a vital task under difficult circumstances. They may seem ordinary people, but they are heroes too.“I have to start early as I have to get my son ready before leaving. I can’t afford to miss the bus to the plant where the shift starts at 9 a.m. If I miss the bus, getting transport to the plant can be difficult,” says Tsering Angmo. “The ease with which the ladies of our LPG plant deliver day in and day out, in heat and in dead cold, exemplifies the power of women,” says Sujoy Choudhury, ED at IndianOil’s Punjab state office which is in charge of the plant. The commute is longer for Rigzin Lado from Karu, 35 km from Leh. But she doesn’t mind. “Before joining I did not even know how to fix a regulator (to a cylinder). Now I feel responsible for each refill that goes out. It is our bit for the country and the army.” Padma Tsogyal, also from Choglamsar, said the team double-checks refills for defence as a mark of respect. “My family also now truly appreciates the worth of LPG cylinders because they are aware of the hard work that goes into making them available.” Security officer Angmo feels “women workers are more diligent and careful about safety”, which makes it “easier” to manage HSE (health safety and environment) parameters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-woman-crew-in-ladakh-runs-lpg-plant-that-army-depends-on/articleshow/80607645.cms||Sanjay Dutta
January 31, 2021||India||700 vehicles will leave Punjab for Tikri today||BATHINDA/PATIALA: A farmers’ caravan of at least 700 vehicles, including tractor-trolleys, cars, buses, and other means of transport, will march towards Delhi’s Tikri border on Sunday “to bolster the agitation” against the three farm laws. BKU (Ekta Ugraha) Punjab general secretary S S Kokarikalan said, “At our meeting on Saturday, we decided to give a call for a farmers’ march towards Delhi from Khanauri border. More than 10,000 farmers will reach Tikri. We will take sufficient ration with us. The gathering at Tikri border is huge, but more farmers have been asked to mobilise and reach the protest site.” He added that a large section of farmers from Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Patiala, and Moga districts will take part in the march. “This time, farmers may not move from the Dabawali border,” he said in Patiala. Meanwhile, a day after a mob pelted stones at and clashed with activists of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which has been blamed for the January 26 violence in Delhi, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) on Saturday sent hundreds of its activists from Tikri border to Singhu to provide support to KMSC. Read AlsoCentre will appoint panel to look into farmers’ issues, Anna Hazare’s suggestionsThe Centre has decided to set up a high-powered committee headed by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to look into several farm issues, including minimum support price (MSP). The decision was hurriedly taken in order to prevent social activist Anna Hazare from going on his scheduledPolice, however, stopped them nearly 5km from Narela and did not allow them to proceed. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann described this as an attempt by police to provoke farmers again. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) — one of the largest farm groups in Punjab — and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha that is spearheading the agitation had distanced themselves from KMSC after the latter was blamed for violence during the Republic Day tractor parade. Mann said they decided to help KMSC activists after they were attacked by over 150 people on Friday. On Friday, announcements were made from several village gurdwaras to reach Delhi borders after reports of farmers being attacked reached them. A large number of farmers had already reached Delhi on Friday and Saturday. Ekta Ugrahan’s support for KMSC protesters at the Delhi border came as it did not get help from activists in the SKM camp. KMSC’s camp is located only about 100 metres from SKM’s but is separated by a small area barricaded by Delhi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/700-vehicles-will-leave-punjab-for-tikri-today/articleshow/80607950.cms||Neel Kamal
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Demanding cash from wife not harassment: HC acquits man in suicide abetment case||NAGPUR: Demanding money from the wife is a “vague term” and can’t be considered harassment as per Section 498A of the IPC, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has ruled while acquitting a man who was accused of abetting wife’s suicide nine years after their marriage. “The evidence is with regard to a quarrel between husband and wife where he used to beat her for money. The demand of money is a vague term and in absence of other particulars to establish the link, the offence of harassment, as contemplated under Section 498A, isn’t made out,” Justice Pushpa Ganediwala said while allowing petitioner Prashant Jare’s appeal for acquittal earlier this month. Relying on his conduct, Justice Ganediwala inferred that he was more interested in his wife’s company than letting go of her. “From time to time, he brought her back from her father’s place (after their fights) and also issued notices for restitution of conjugal rights. Moreover, he took her to the hospital and refused to hand over her body to her father for the funeral,” she said. Justice Ganediwala’s recent verdicts have courted controversy with the Supreme Court staying one of the orders and also withdrawing recommendation to the Centre, proposing her elevation as a permanent judge. She had ruled that groping breasts of minor without removing her clothes isn’t a sexual offence. She then held that opening the zip of pants by a man in front of a minor, holding her hands and asking her to sleep in bed with him also did not amount to sexual offence. In another case, she held that a man on his own cannot rape a woman without any scuffle. In all these cases, she acquitted the accused from charges framed under the Pocso Act. The marriage between the couple was solemnized in 1995. However, she died by suicide on November 12, 2004. The deceased’s father lodged a complaint at Darwha police station alleging that his daughter was harassed by the husband and in-laws for not getting dowry. The Yavatmal sessions court convicted Jare on April 2, 2008, under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of IPC. He was awarded three years behind bars for the first offence and one year for the second, which he challenged in the HC.  His family members were acquitted by the court. Justice Ganediwala pointed out that their minor daughter deposed before police that she was present when the incident took place and Jare had beaten her mother and also forced her to consume poison. “However, the prosecution, surprisingly, registered the case as suicide,” she wrote in the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demanding-cash-from-wife-not-harassment-hc-acquits-man-in-suicide-abetment-case/articleshow/80607971.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 31, 2021||Business||Myntra forced to revamp logo after outrage||MUMBAI: People found something new to get angry about this week—the letter ‘M’ designed with overlapping shades of pink and orange to serve as a logo for Myntra. A social worker and some social media trolls found it “indecent, derogatory and denigrating to women” and forced the leading e-commerce store for fashion and lifestyle products to revamp its five-year-old visual brand mark. The cyber police at BKC had met officials from Myntra earlier in January after they received a written complaint from Ekta Naaz, founder-director of Avesta Foundation, in December, demanding "the logo be changed" or they may face legal action. The brand also drew abuse on social media after Patel took up the matter on online forums and social networking sites. "Pursuant to our meeting, we wish to inform you that we have decided to revise the Myntra Logo," read a letter from the online fashion retailer to the senior inspector, cyber police, with an image of the new logo with its colours tweaked. DCP (cyber) Rashmi Karandikar said, "We found the logo offensive in nature and company officials have assured us they will change it, but it will take a month to execute it across all platforms." While Myntra in their letter to police said they would "soon take necessary steps to revise the logo on the website and app", they noted they would be able to start using the new logo in their packaging and marketing material after exhausting their inventory of "physical pre-printed material with existing logo across India". Times ViewThis is another face of intolerance. A brand being forced to change its logo because the overactive imagination of a few people who find it offensive is unacceptable. Logos are a crucial part of brand-building and a successful brand like Myntra would have spent crores in establishing its logo as a familiar symbol in the minds of its customers. All of that money, time and effort has now been laid waste for no fault of the company.Advocates for Naaz — Rakesh Rathod and Vijayalaxmi Khopade — in their complaint stated "the overall placement of the colour scheme" of the letter "M" in the logo was "obscene to the eyes of any person of normal prudence" and claimed it was "deliberate placement of the colour scheme" to "depict a woman’s vagina and such is again highlighted with the colour scheme of depicting her legs spread out in a suggestive manner". The complaint alleged that "such portrayal of a woman and her private parts… as an object of lust" would "corrupt the mind of the viewers and even excite them" and "this will lead to further victimisation of women in our society". Nandita Gandhi of Akshara Centre, who has played an active role in the women’s movement for decades, told TOI, "When I heard about the controversy I took a relook at the logo. As women’s movement activists, we have looked at the larger issue of objectification of women in visuals, especially in ads, but I could not find it in this rather abstract logo. Neither did I find any stereotyping, nor was it pornographical in nature." Myntra’s capitulation comes at a time when brands and marketing campaigns have been frequently courting hate-fuelled backlash on social media, forcing them to pull down ads than risk attacks not just online but even at their door. Case in point: The Tanishq ad featuring a Muslim family organising a baby shower for their Hindu daughter-in-law. Advertising veteran Sumanto Chattopadhyay, chairman & chief creative officer of 82.5 Communications, Ogilvy Group, explained why companies usually succumb to such pressure. "We’re living in a hyper-connected society where everyone has a voice and brands and advertising make for easy targets as they’re considered to be all about profit. With a vast army of people waiting to take offence and in a climate where things don’t die down quickly, it’s not an ideal situation for any brand even if they’re innocent and something has been misinterpreted. Brands are about perception and companies cannot ignore the slightest outrage as it can snowball beyond control," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/myntra-forced-to-revamp-logo-after-outrage/articleshow/80607986.cms||Mohua Das
January 31, 2021||India||HP private univ sold 36k fake degrees in 17 states||SHIMLA: Manav Bharti University in Solan in Himachal Pradesh has sold 36,000 fake degrees across 17 states in over 11 years, a special investigation team (SIT) probing a fake degree racket has found. The probe also revealed that of the total 41,000 degrees issued by the university, only 5,000 have been found genuine so far. The university is run by the Manav Bharti Charitable Trust, which operates private universities in Himachal and Rajasthan. Police have now initiated the process to extradite trust chairman Raj Kumar Rana, his wife Ashoni Kanwar and daughter Aina Rana — both trustees — and son from Australia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hp-private-univ-sold-36k-fake-degrees-in-17-states/articleshow/80608031.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Charges framed against Chautala under PMLA||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Saturday framed money laundering charges against Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) chief and former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala in connection with a disproportionate assets case. The special court posted the matter for trial on February 27. Chautala and his son Ajay were convicted in 2013 and sentenced to 10 years in jail in a separate case related to the teachers’ recruitment scam. The ED has sought Chautala’s prosecution under PMLA. In 2019, it had attached his assets worth Rs 3.68 crore in Delhi, Panchkula and Sirsa in connection with the money laundering case against him and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/charges-framed-against-chautala-under-pmla/articleshow/80608037.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Chirag skips invite to NDA meet amid buzz of JD(U) ire||NEW DELHI/ PATNA: Lok Janskhakti Party chief Chirag Paswan stayed away from a meeting of the NDA parliamentary party despite an invitation by the Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to attend the gathering of the ruling alliance. LJP sources attributed the absence of Chirag, whose status as an NDA ally had looked ambivalent since he targeted JD(U) in Bihar assembly polls in November, to his indisposition. However, political circles remained abuzz with speculation whether it had to do with JD(U)'s unhappiness especially because Joshi's invitation had attracted a strong protest from another Dalit ally in Bihar, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi's HAM. Manjhi, who returned to NDA at the instance of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, said a seat for Chirag at the NDA meeting would send a wrong message. He also said he was deeply hurt by BJP’s decision. “The man who caused immense loss to the alliance by fielding candidates of his party against us in the assembly elections shouldn't have been invited to the meeting of NDA,” he said, adding the party would discuss the development with its top functionaries. JD(U) chief RCP Singh refused to answer questions on the subject saying he would not comment on the affairs of another party. However, PTI quoted party's secretary general K C Tyagi as saying that LJP was no longer an NDA ally, an assertion which brought out anger in the party's ranks against Chirag who targeted JD(U) in the Bihar polls, badly denting party's tally and bringing RJD- led opposition alliance to the brink of a victory in a contest where NDA had been seen as an overwhelming favourite. Although Chirag, contrary to assertions, fielded candidates against BJP candidates too, it was JD(U) which bore the brunt of the "sabotage". The party has been upset also with BJP for not reining in Chirag. BJP is unapologetic, with sources pointing out that it was JD(U)'s refusal to do business with Chirag and insistence that the saffron party alone picked up the tab for LJP's support which resulted in Paswan walking away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chirag-skips-invite-to-nda-meet-amid-buzz-of-jdu-ire/articleshow/80608042.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Patna||Won’t deviate from Gandhi’s path: CM||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday said he could not go away from the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi. “We are totally committed towards the ideals of Gandhi and will not deviate from it,” Nitish told reporters after paying floral tributes to Bapu on his death anniversary at the Gandhi Ghat here. Responding to a query, the CM said, “We are doing all works keeping in mind the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi. Bapu had said so many things on the issue of environment protection when he was alive. His thoughts on the environment are still relevant. Bapu had once said the Earth provides enough to satisfy every man’s needs, but not every man's greed. We are working to inform the younger generation about all such good thoughts of Bapu.” Nitish said his government had launched the ambitious ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan’ for environment protection and to minimise the bad impacts of climate change on the Earth. “Clearly-visible display boards have been put up in front of every government office, school and other institutions in the state to educate people about the seven social sins described by Bapu. Moreover, children are being taught lessons about the thoughts and ideals of Mahatma Gandhi in all government schools,” Nitish said. He added, “I firmly believe that even if only 10% to 15% of youth adopt the ideals of Bapu, the country will be changed and there will be an automatic control on negative works in the society.” “Today, on the occasion of the Martyrs’ Day, people should not only pay floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, but also take necessary steps to follow Gandhian principles in their own life,” the CM said while calling upon the new generation to follow in the footsteps of Bapu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wont-deviate-from-gandhis-path-cm/articleshow/80605366.cms||Madan Kumar
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||UK MPs tweet photos images of clash at Delhi borders||London: Two British Sikh Labour MPs, who have been raising issue of “violation of human rights” of farmers protesting at Delhi borders, have tweeted video and photos saying “mobs and the police” are trying to clear the three protest sites. On Friday night, MP Preet Gill tweeted a video of a tent being forcibly dismantled and wrote: “Makeshift camps of peaceful farmers are being taken down to silence them. Heart-breaking that this is happening to women, girls and the elderly as police stand and witness the attacks.” “The images being shared globally are heart-breaking. Police using force against its own citizens. India should be proud of the contribution of farmers who are referred to as Aandata (food providers). Former chief economist of the World Bank Kaushik Basu has spoken out in support of farmers,” she told TOI. Another MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi tweeted images of a protesters covered in blood with “#“TheWorldIsWatching”. “Violence can’t be condoned,” he tweeted. “But if people in power abuse peaceful protesters, it’ll merely make their movement stronger. Shocked to see mobs and police trying to intimidate and clear Delhi #FarmersProtest, after stopping their water, electricity and internet.” “The authorities must allow the protesters, the overwhelming majority of whom are peaceful, to make their voice heard,” he told TOI. In UK, 23 gurdwaras and Sikh organisations have written to their foreign secretary Dominic Raab “to carry out an urgent assessment of the deteriorating situation in India” and to raise “human rights violations against the protesting farmers” with the United Nations and the Indian government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-mps-tweet-photos-images-of-clash-at-delhi-borders/articleshow/80607027.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 31, 2021||Ludhiana||Farmers hold protest during BJP meeting||Patiala: BJP functionaries — including Punjab president Ashwani Kumar Sharma and former minister Madan Mohan Mittal — faced protest by farmers in Mandi Gobindgarh, Fatehgarh Sahib district, on Friday night when they were holding a meeting with party workers. Sharma and Mittal had reached a party worker’s house in Mandi Gobindgarh on Friday evening and held a meeting with all workers to discuss strategy for the upcoming municipal council elections and distribution of tickets. However, some farmers gathered near the party worker’s house and started raising slogans around 8pm. Police reached the spot on getting information about farmers protesting against the BJP leaders. The situation got heated for a while as BJP workers started raising counter slogans in favour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Police, however, managed to take BJP leaders out safely. “We protested peacefully against the BJP leaders and will continue to do so until the BJP government at the Centre does not repeal the farm laws. We warn BJP leaders not to visit Mandi Gobindgarh again,” said one of the protesters, Gurjit Singh. BJP workers blamed Congress for the protest and said the protesters were its workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-hold-protest-during-bjp-meeting/articleshow/80607015.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata duo’s film sheds light on a blind boxer’s dreams||KOLKATA: A 17-year-old from Maharashtra’s Beed has made a name for himself in a film on boxing. Shabir Sheikh, who lost his sight due to an infection, has now acted in a film which is perhaps India’s first movie on boxing where a visually impaired actor has played a blind boxer. Sheikh was trained in boxing so he could face the camera for engineers-turned-filmmakers Bijoy Banerjee and Kaushik Mondal’s film ‘Ali -The Blind Boxer’. “Boxing is considered to be an exclusive privilege of the sighted. There’s no place for a blind person in this sport, not even in para-Olympics. Surprisingly, other contact sports like judo and taekwondo are included in the para-Olympics,” said Banerjee. “We wanted to understand if this is just a mindset issue or a technical impossibility,” said Mondal, an electronics engineer from IIT-Kharagpur. Their hour-long film was born with the intention of carrying out a “reality check” on this. However, films on blind boxers are not uncommon internationally. Arne Totz’s ‘Dear Enemy: The Journey of Bashir’ explores the unique journey of blind boxer Bashir Ramathan in Uganda. Cheung Sum’s ‘Blind Boxer’ is about how a visually impaired boxer defends himself against crooked promoters. But ‘Ali -The Blind Boxer’ is different from such projects because it is more of a social experiment. “In our film, when the coach is shown researching on blind boxing, he watches Ramathan’s YouTube clip,” said Banerjee, a civil engineer from Jadav-pur University. Casting for the film wasn’t easy since the makers were clear that the objective couldn’t be achieved if the lead was played by a sighted actor. When the directors spotted their lead at the Pune Blind School, Sheikh was in Class X. The other members of the cast were also non-actors with most facing the camera for the first time while shooting this film. For four months, international body building champion and trainer Aakash Awate, national level boxing champion Tejashre Bhame and Maharashtra state-level boxing champion Sahil Waghmare trained Sheikh in boxing and fitness. “For a sighted boxer, it’s natural to think that I can be easily knocked out. But to knock me out, they need to come very close. That’s when I strike. I know that I’ll get hit and I’ve trained to absorb punches. But I’ve trained to punch back too. Being blind does not make me a sitting duck inside the ring,” Sheikh said. Making this film wouldn’t have been possible without the support of Sheikh’s family. When Sheikh injured his lip while boxing with a sighted opponent, the directors had wanted to stop shooting. But both Sheikh and his father would have none of that. “After watching him box in real life with a champion sighted boxer, a coach in Pune has pledged to train him. With proper support, he may become India’s first blind boxer,” Banerjee said. Having received accolades in the disability category at film festivals, the directors are hoping that this movie will be an inspiration for people with disabilities and show them they are no less than anybody else.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-duos-film-sheds-light-on-a-blind-boxers-dreams/articleshow/80605738.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 31, 2021||Patna||As Bihar budget nears, Shaibal is missed||PATNA: The 2020-21 Economic Survey report of Bihar, which will be laid on the floor of the state legislature during the budget session beginning February 19, is the last one prepared under the guidance of economist Shaibal Gupta, who passed away on Thursday. Though Gupta, the member secretary of Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), a think tank on economic, education, health, politics, environment and social issues, is not there to get feedback from the state’s lawmakers on the Economic Survey, his imprint on the exhaustive report will be visible. According to Amit Baxi, a faculty of ADRI, the Economic Survey report prepared under the guidance of late Gupta is almost complete. “It is in the drafting stage. The challenges were more this time because of Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Baxi said Gupta had got feedback from the members of the team drafting Economic Survey report after their meeting with deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio, earlier this month. Finance department secretary S Siddharth was in constant touch with Gupta to seek suggestions from him. Gupta’s demise has left senior politicians, ministers, bureaucrats and people from different sections saddened. “He had worked with former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi for long. The vacuum created by him will be difficult to fill,” a senior finance department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-state-budget-nears-shaibal-is-missed/articleshow/80605428.cms||Ramashankar
January 31, 2021||Patna||Services of 7 intercity trains extended: ECR||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has extended the services of seven pairs of special trains running on different routes to cope with the rush of passengers. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Saharsa-Patna intercity special (02567/02568) will continue to run until further orders and halt at Simri-Bakhtiarpur, Mansi, Khagaria, Begusarai, Mokama and Bakhtiarpur. The Patna-Bhabua intercity special (03243/03244) will also run via the Gaya Junction and stop at Punpun, Pothi, Nadwan, Taregana, Nadaul, Jehanabad, Tehta, Makhdumpur, Bela, Gaya, Kashta, Paraiya, Guraru, Ismailpur, Rafiganj, Zakhim, Anugraha Narayan Road, Son Nagar, Dehri-on-Sone, Sasaram and Kudra stations. “The railways has extended the service of the Rajendra Nagar-Jayanagar intercity special (03225/03226) with stoppages at Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Bachhwara, Dalsinghsarai, Samastipur, Laheriasarai, Darbhanga, Sakri, Madhubani and Rajnagar stations. The Rajendra Nagar-Saharsa intercity (03227/03228), on the other hand, will halt at Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Begusarai, Sahebpur Kamal, Khagaria, Mansi, Badla Ghat, Dhamara Ghat, Kopria, Simri-Bakhtiarpur and Sonbarsa Kacheri stations,” the CPRO told this newspaper. The services of the Danapur-Sahebganj (03235/03236), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Banka (03241/03242) and Jayanagar-Manhari (05283/05284) intercity specials have also been extended until further orders. While the first will run via the Kiul-Mokama route for six days, the second will run on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays from Rajendra Nagar Terminal-end and Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from Banka-end. The third intercity special will run via the Murliganj-Saharsa-Mansi-Samastipur-Darbhanga route. More coaches: The Gorakhpur-Kolkata special passenger trains (05047/05048, 05049/05050, 05051/05052) will have 22 coaches from February 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/services-of-7-intercity-trains-extended-ecr/articleshow/80605432.cms||Kumod Verma
January 31, 2021||Patna||Patna University library to turn into modern information centre||PATNA: The century-old Patna University Central Library will soon turn into a modern information centre, serving the academic needs of scholars. It will no longer remain merely a storehouse of nearly three lakh books and journals as efforts are on to convert it into an e-library soon. PU vice-chancellor (VC) Girish Kumar Chaudhary said that the library automation software, KOHA, had already been installed for bar coding the books. “More than 18,000 books have been bar coded and 30,000 uploaded to the server following their digitization,” the VC added. PU central library has also been linked with the National Digital Library (NDL) where study materials in more than 60 languages are available throughout the year. “More than 3,000 scholars of the university have registered themselves with the NDL,” Chaudhary said. The central library’s chief Abhay Kumar pointed out that all the PhD theses lying in the possession of the library would also be digitalized. “The research scholars have been directed to deposit both soft and hard copies of their theses in the library for plagiarism check,” Kumar said. PU has installed an anti-plagiarism software, ‘Urkund’, and more than 970 PhD theses have already been checked. The library’s assistant director Ashok Kumar Jha told this newspaper, “Each scholar is required to deposit his thesis for a week in the library for plagiarism check. It will not be accepted for evaluation if more than 20% of its content is found to be plagiarized.” A 2009 notification of the University Grants Commission (Minimum Standards and Procedures for Award of MPhil/PhD Degree) mandates submission of electronic versions of theses and dissertations by researchers in universities so that the academic community has open access to them. Online availability of electronic theses through centrally-maintained digital repositories also helps raise the standard and quality of research and overcome the problem of duplication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-library-to-turn-into-modern-information-centre/articleshow/80605435.cms||B K Mishra
January 31, 2021||Patna||LJP to contest Bengal, Assam assembly polls||PATNA: The LJP, led by Chirag Paswan, has decided to contest the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam. The party’s secretary general, Abdul Khaliq, said the decision to contest the assembly polls was taken after consulting the functionaries of the state units of the LJP. “The exercise is aimed at strengthening our support base and expanding the party in other states,” he claimed without disclosing whether the LJP would forge a pre-poll alliance with other political combinations or not. The LJP founded by former Union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000 had contested the assembly polls in Bihar on its own. Although the party had fielded its candidates on 135 seats, it finished with only one seat. Sources said the LJP was set to join hands with non-Bengal parties and contest the West Bengal assembly elections alongside the BJP, Shiv Sena, AIMIM, JMM and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-to-contest-bengal-assam-assembly-polls/articleshow/80606450.cms||Ramashankar
January 31, 2021||Varanasi||Dates for further rounds of Covid vaccination released||VARANASI: With the arrival of the schedule of further rounds of vaccination against Covid-19, the dates of mop-up rounds have also been announced to give a last opportunity to those registered healthcare and frontline workers who did not turn up to get the first vaccine shots on the scheduled dates. After the four rounds of the first Covid-19 vaccination completed on Friday, the health department on Saturday released the schedule of further rounds of the first vaccination for remaining healthcare and frontline workers. Additional chief medical officer (administration) Dr NP Singh said, “The remaining beneficiaries in the category of healthcare workers will receive the first dose of vaccine on February 4 and 5. Whereas, those left in the category of frontline workers will be covered on February 5, 11, 12 and 18. The second dose of vaccine will be administered to healthcare workers on February 15, 19, 25, 26, March 4 and 5, while the same will be given to frontline workers on March 5, 16, 12 and 18, said the additional CMO. The dates of mop-up rounds for administering first and second vaccine doses to the healthcare workers are February 15 and March 15 respectively, said Singh. Mop-up rounds for giving first and second dose of vaccine to frontline workers will be held on February 22 and March 22 respectively. With the arrival of these schedules, health officials have geared up to identify places other than hospitals and health centres, where vaccination can be carried out for a larger number of beneficiaries. Officials said that the figure of registered frontline workers—policemen, jawans of paramilitary forces including central and sanitary staff—is likely to go above 35,000, and all of them will have to be covered on four dates. Covering such a large number of beneficiaries at hospitals and health centres will not be possible, and hence more places like police lines, police stations, schools and other official complexes are being explored to set up vaccination centres, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dates-for-further-rounds-of-covid-vaccination-released/articleshow/80607439.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Vadodara||Abducted 6-year-old rescued after two months from Gujarat's Morbi||VADODARA/ANAND: A six-year-old girl who was kidnapped in December from Tarapur in Anand was rescued by Anand police after almost two months from Morbi district, which is 270km away. After a rigorous search operation of 45 days, police received information about the girl was seen loitering near a temple in Morbi district. The alleged kidnapper Guddu Maliwal is, however, absconding. Police said that Maliwal had lured the girl by offering her biscuits on December 3 last year and took her away. The girl’s mother, who does masonry work, had then registered a complaint of kidnapping at Tarapur police station. “When we received the complaint, we had no information about the accused but after a preliminary investigation, we learnt that the abductor was a casual labourer named Guddu from Madhya Pradesh,” said inspector D D Simpi of Tarapur police station. He added that after questioning several people, more details about the kidnapper were known. Cops had a difficult task ahead as Maliwal did not use a phone, he had not met his family in years and had no fixed place of work. Police visited 13 locations including his native place to search Maliwal, but they hit a dead-end. “We decided to focus on Saurashtra as the accused had worked several times there. Our team remained in touch with hundreds of people who used to work in and around the industrial areas and through that network, we could find a lead,” said Simpi. On January 25, police received a call about the girl and after confirming her identity they brought her back to Anand. Maliwal was not found as he had abandoned the girl and fled. The girl had an injury on her head and she was taken to a hospital and she was discharged after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/abducted-6-year-old-rescued-after-two-months-from-morbi/articleshow/80605361.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Patna||Online verification of PwD certificates starts||GAYA: As part of a monthlong drive, which was launched on Thursday, the Gaya district administration has begun online verification of PwD (persons with disabilities) certificates and issuance of unique disability ID (UDID) cards. In a letter issued to the civil surgeon, district manager of Buniyad Kendra and block development officers (BDOs), district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh pointed out that no new or duplicate PwD certificates would be issued from April 1 because only the ones verified online would be valid. The DM also asked the BDOs to appoint a nodal officer for each panchayat under their jurisdiction where camps would be organised twice a week. According to sources, PwD certificates are verified on the basis of documents like photograph, Aadhar card and residential certificate. Registration of the beneficiaries is done on www.swavlambancard.gov.org and the UDID card issued by the civil surgeon with the help of an enrolment number within two days of registration. A UDID card is a single document of identification and verification of persons with disabilities for availing various benefits. The drive will continue till February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-verification-of-pwd-certificates-starts/articleshow/80606511.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Court rejects firm’s plea on ‘Covishield’ trademark||Pune: A commercial court in Pune on Saturday rejected a Nanded-based biotech firm’s plea seeking an injunction against vaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII) over the use of trademark ‘Covishield’ for its Covid-19 vaccine.The firm, Cutis Biotech, had primarily argued that it had applied for registration of the trademark in April 2020 as against Serum’s registration application in June last year. Commercial court judge AV Rotte pronounced the operative part of her order rejecting the plea. A full text of the order was to be released in due course, the judge said.Senior lawyers S K Jain and Sunita Kinkar, who represented the SII, told TOI, “The court has held that no prima facie case has been made out by the plaintiff (Cutis Biotech) for the grant of an injunction. No irreparable loss will be caused to the plaintiff. On the contrary, the defendant will suffer hardship.” Lawyer Aditya Soni, who represented Cutis Biotech, told TOI, “We will take a call on exercising our further legal remedies once we go through the full text of the court’s order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/court-rejects-firms-plea-on-covishield-trademark/articleshow/80607026.cms||Vishwas Kothari
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal towns lock horns over moa legacy||KOLKATA: A “sweet” battle has broken out between two Bengal towns claiming the legacy of a winter delicacy. Manufacturers of moa — puffed-rice balls laced with jaggery, cardamom and dry fruits — from Joynagar in South 24 Parganas and neighbouring Baharu have locked horns over its origin. The sweet, which has a GI tag and has earned itself a logo — was exported for the first time last week and there are reports of repeat orders. Sweet shop owners and manufacturers in Baharu claim that Joynagar is an administrative block under which Baharu and Joynagar towns are located. Hence, both should get equal rights. The manufacturers in Baharu have now decided to approach the government to resolve the issue. In November 2014, moa made of khoi (popped rice) had bagged a geographical indication tag for its uniqueness that would only be found across two blocks of Joynagar. “Moa is made in a lot of places in this area, but the one which has received the GI tag is also prepared in Baharu and is as good as the one from Joynagar, if not better. But after the GI tag in 2014, moa has become synonymous with Joynagar and Baharu has been left out. We cannot give up our claim,” said Ganesh Samanta, who owns a moa producing unit in Baharu, less than three kilometres from Joynagar. However, manufacturers and sweet shop owners of Joynagar do not agree. “Joynagar is a block where moa is manufactured in several towns. Baharu is one of them. When we had applied for the GI tag, moa was already referred to as ‘Joynagar er moa’. Everybody is a stakeholder,” said Asok Kumar Kayal, secretary of the Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-towns-lock-horns-over-moa-legacy/articleshow/80605752.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Drive to trace missing kids from February 1||JAISALMER: A special campaign, Milap-1, will be launched in the entire state on the orders of police headquarters from February 1 to 28 to trace missing children. This campaign will be carried out in all the districts to find those children who are lost or do not have any identity or working as child labourers. A meeting in this regard was organised at the SP’s office under the chairmanship of SP Ajay Singh. CWC president Ameen Khan and police officers were present. The SP gave detailed information about searching the children and their rehabilitation and directed the members of child welfare and special adolescent unit formed at police stations to screen children at shelter homes, railway platforms, bus stands and religious places. He sought action under various sectisaid ons of juvenile justice act so that child labour can be stopped and heinous crimes against kids can be prevented effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drive-to-trace-missing-kids-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80605830.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Patna||Strive to meet revenue target: Deputy CM to depts||PURNIA: Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad on Saturday said all government departments should make purchases through Government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal for greater transparency. “Income of the people had gone down due to Covid pandemic. However, the situation is changing fast. We will have to utilise our resources in a better manner so that revenue target can be achieved,” the deputy CM said at a meeting to review management of internal resources here. Sources said the Purnia district transport department has achieved 78% revenue target, mines department 52%, land revenue department 73.12%, registration department 81.8%, Purnia Municipal Corporation 49.3% and energy department 91%. Meanwhile, the deputy CM also laid foundation for pollution control building-cum-laboratory here. Members of the Gulabbagh Merchants’ Association felicitated the deputy CM at the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/strive-to-meet-revenue-target-deputy-cm-to-depts/articleshow/80606469.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Patna||Bihar registers 123 more corona cases, four deaths||PATNA: Altogether 123 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,60,603. Four deaths, including two each from Patna and Aurangabad, were also reported after which the toll reached 1,499. However, with 2,57,856 recoveries, there are 1,246 active cases in the state. According to the information shared by the health department, as many as 184 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 98.95%. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna reported the death of an 83-year-old man from Bahadurpur in Patna district. The hospital’s nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that one patient was admitted and seven discharged on Saturday. On the other hand, two Covid patients were admitted to the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Of the 123 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, 52 were from Patna. With 51,099 recoveries and 415 deaths, the district has 722 active cases now. Corona cases were also found in Gaya (12) and Aurangabad (11). Other districts reported less than 10 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-registers-123-more-corona-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/80605411.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||What does BJP know of tricolor’s grace?: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to Tarun Chugh||CHANDIGARH: Calling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary Tarun Chugh’s remarks on his Army background as reprehensible, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday retorted, “What does the BJP or its leadership know of Army honour or the grace of the national flag?” “We in Punjab know the pain of seeing the bodies of our sons and brothers, wrapped in the national flag, come home every second day,” he said, alleging that BJP clearly had no empathy or sensitivity towards the soldiers losing their lives to protect India’s honour and integrity. “Neither Chugh nor his party could relate to the anguish of those very soldiers on seeing their farmer fathers and brothers being beaten up and tear-gassed while fighting for their rights,” the chief minister added. Attacking the BJP national general secretary over his remarks on the ‘Republic Day grace’, he said BJP, “which had systematically ripped the constitutional fabric apart over the past six years and most notably over the draconian farm laws, had lost all moral and ethical right to talk of the honour of the R-Day”. “What was wrong in my statement that “maligning the farmers (for the Red Fort violence) could cause the morale of the armed forces, 20% of which is from Punjab, to go down? How does that amount to insulting the Republic Day grace and my own Army background,” asked Captain Amarinder. “What happened to the grace of the R-Day when the central government, which BJP leads, trampled over the federal and constitutional rights of the states to unilaterally bring in the farm ordinances without consulting anyone? Where is the grace in letting the poor farmers, who are feeding you along with the billion plus people of India every day, shiver out in the cold on the roads, with many of them dying out there,” Amarinder asked. Reacting to Chugh’s accusations that he had backed those who had insulted the Tricolour at the Red Fort, Amarinder said far from supporting anyone involved in the violence in any way, “I was among the first to outright condemn the violence and the dishonour to the symbol of independent India”. Reiterating, however, that he did not believe it was the farmers who created the trouble, Amarinder alleged it was miscreants, including BJP’s own supporters, who were seen inciting the trouble at the historic Red Fort in the national capital on the Republic Day. He repeated his demand for a thorough probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-to-chugh-what-does-bjp-know-of-tricolors-grace/articleshow/80607025.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Congress begins ‘Kisan Satyagraha’ from Gandhi’s ‘karmabhoomi’||BETTIAH: Away from the farmers’ stir around Delhi, Congress workers led by Bhakta Charan Das, its new Bihar-In-Charge, held a padyatra from Murali-Barwa village to the Gandhi ashram at Bhitiharwa in West Champaran on Saturday. The party chose the Mahatma’s martyrdom day to walk on the track Gandhi took 104 years ago to lead the peasantry battered by the excesses of European indigo planters. In doing so, the Congress — increasingly being seen as a comatose and dwindling party—seeks revival. “ We have chosen to launch this Kisan Satyagraha Yatra here in Gandhi jee’s karmbhoomi since the Indian farmer is once again at the mercy of corporates. From Indigo excesses, the farmers are being pushed into the vice-like grip of the IndiCo,” Das earlier told this newspaper on the sidelines of the Padyatra. Accompanied by BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha and a host of prominent Bihar Congress leaders, including Amita Bhushan, Shakil Ahmad Khan, Anand Shankar, Akhilesh Singh, Shashwat Kedar, Vinay Varma, Chandan Yadav, Amit K Tunna and Rajesh Ram, the ‘padyatris’ numbered around 400. “We spoke to farmers in villages on the way and were surprised that they have been receiving below-MSP rates for their paddy crop,” Das later said. “The purpose of this march is to identify issues and narratives of Bihar. We seek to understand the plight of farmers and organise them for agitation,” Das added, even as he admitted that the party needs to connect with people at the grassroots to resurrect itself. “We must work at the Panchayat level,” he reiterated. Das bids to revive the party fortunes with a vigorous membership drive. Seeking to bring in new leaders at the district and block levels, he said that the second phase of shoring up leadership at the ground level would commence after the AICC organizational polls in a few months. “I shall be spending a fortnight every month in Bihar. Also, several observers will tour and camp in the districts to build and buttress the organization,” he said. Since assuming charge, Das has so far toured Patna, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur and East Champaran districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-begins-kisan-satyagraha-from-gandhis-karmabhoomi/articleshow/80605386.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
January 31, 2021||Shimla||Study underlines feral dog problem in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: The wildlife wing of Himachal Pradesh forest department conducted a first of its kind study on feral dogs through the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Kolkata under the SECURE Himalaya Project of the Government of India, Global Environment Facility (GEF) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The study was aimed at understanding the distribution pattern, population status and feeding resources of feral dogs in the Lahaul and Pangi landscape. Himachal Pradesh has feral dog density of 2.78 individuals per 100 square km on an average, ranging from 1.4 to 5.5 individuals per 100 square kms in Lahaul and Pangi. Archana Sharma, chief wildlife warden-cum-state project director, SECURE Himalaya, said the issue of feral dogs in high altitude areas, which form the habitat of wildlife species like the Snow Leopard, is a matter of concern since feral dogs are reported to lead to biodiversity loss, depredation of wildlife species and competition among large carnivores like the Snow Leopard. Since few studies have been conducted around the world to document the impact of feral dogs on wildlife, this study was conducted to understand their current population status and impact, Archana Sharma said. Lalit Kumar Sharma, scientist, ZSI, Kolkata said camera trapping, trail sampling, non-invasive genetics and questionnaire survey was used to gather information on feral dogs in Lahaul-Pangi landscape. Anil Thakur, chief conservator of forest (wildlife)-cum-state nodal officer, SECURE Himalaya Project, said according to the ZSI report, micro-histological analysis of the feral dog suggested the presence of some wildlife species such as marmot, blue sheep and rodents in their diet, which is otherwise dominated by domestic livestock. This, he said, is also a cause for concern. Thakur said although the population density of feral dogs in the landscape has not reached alarming levels, this is the right time to start mitigation planning of the imminent threat in the high-range Himalayan ecosystems. If required, long term monitoring and more intensive studies will be undertaken in future to understand the possible impact of feral dogs on wildlife, using different monitoring protocols, he said. Manoj Thakur, state project officer, SECURE Himalaya Project, said on the basis of the findings of this report, Himachal Pradesh forest department and UNDP, in collaboration with other line departments and local community-based organisations, will start implementation of the strategy proposed by ZSI for feral dog management. As part of this, dog sterilisation and awareness generation activities on responsible dog ownership will be undertaken on priority this year. Thakur said UNDP is working closely with the forest department and other line departments to ensure sustainable management of the high-range Himalayan ecosystems and to address their conservation and livelihood challenges under SECURE Himalaya Project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/study-underlines-feral-dog-problem-in-himachal/articleshow/80607024.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Patna||Woman strangles ex-lover in Bihar's Siwan||PATNA: A 34-year-old woman surrendered before police after allegedly strangulating her former paramour, Mohammad Ramzan (21), to death in her house at Garibganj village in Siwan district on Friday. The accused, Khudaija Begum, was forwarded to judicial custody by a Siwan court on Saturday. The woman, mother of two, walked around 5km from her house to reach Gautam Buddha Nagar police station in two hours to surrender. The victim was a resident of Bartwalia village, around 2km from Khudaija’s house. The woman stayed put at her house with Ramzan’s body until daybreak, police said. SHO of Gautam Buddha Nagar police station Pramod Kumar Singh said the accused told police that Ramzan had reached her house in an inebriated state by jumping the boundary wall. “Khudaija committed the crime around midnight. The woman told police that she strangled Ramzan with her scarfs after he fell asleep. According to her, the victim had tried to outrage her modesty before falling asleep,” the SHO added. “Ramzan’s body was found lying in bed. His 60-year-old father, Navi Jaan, has lodged an FIR against Khudaija, accusing her of killing his son by calling him home,” the SHO said, adding that the woman had eloped with Ramzan six months back, but returned home within five days due to family pressure. She then ended her illicit relations with Ramzan. Singh said Khudaija’s husband works in Assam while her 12-year-old son lives with one his aunts. “Her nine-year-old son lives with his grandparents,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-strangles-ex-lover-in-siwan/articleshow/80606426.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 31, 2021||Patna||SJVN bags hydroelectric project in Nepal||PATNA: The Nepal government has allotted 679MW Lower Arun Hydro Electric Project to Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) through competitive bidding. “The investment board of Nepal, in its meeting held on January 29, awarded the project to the SJVN,” an official of SJVN said here on Saturday. He added the meeting was chaired by Nepal’s PM K P Sharma Oli. Chairman and managing director of SJVN Nand Lal Sharma, who met the Nepal PM in Kathmandu, expressed his gratitude to the latter for awarding the project to the Nigam and assured him that it would be completed on time. He said the SJVN bagged the project through global bidding after competing with several international companies, including those from China. The project is located in Sankhuwasabha and Bhojpur districts of Nepal. On completion, the project will generate 3,561 million units of electricity per annum. Sharma said the projects being developed by SJVN in Nepal would result in overall development and boost mutual economic growth in India and Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sjvn-bags-hydroelectric-project-in-nepal/articleshow/80606484.cms||Madan Kumar
January 31, 2021||Patna||Opposition accuses Centre of trying to intimidate agitating farmers||PATNA: Braving biting cold, thousands of farmers on Saturday joined the human chain organised by the opposition parties in districts against the three farm laws recently enacted by the Centre. In Ara, a two-minute silence was observed to pay tributes to the farmers who have died in the country during agitation. The farmers were seen participating in human chain under the banners of the CPI (ML), RJD, Congress, CPI and CPI (M). RJD’s Bhojpur district president Birbal Yadav said the human chain started from Ara railway station and passed through Nawada, sadar hospital and Shivganj before culminating at Dharhara. Another chain was formed from the overbridge to the Zero Mile. In Bhagalpur and Banka districts, the human chain was organised in 16 and 11 blocks, respectively. Netas and supporters of RJD, Congress and Left parties participated in the human chain along with a section of farmers and social activists. Bulo Mandal, former Bhagalpur MP and national president of youth wing of RJD, said the human chain was formed to express solidarity with the agitating farmers and oppose the newly enacted farm laws Similarly, the human chain was formed from Begusarai bus stand to Kutchery Road. Opposition leaders said the government was trying to weaken the farmers’ agitation by sponsoring attacks on them. “Police forces are being used to intimidate the agitating farmers,” they said. CPI MLA Awadhesh Rai, former CPI (M) MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, former RJD district chief Asjok Yadav, CPI (ML) leaders Diwalar and Chandradeo Verma and Congress’s district chief Arjun Singh participated in the human chain. In Nalanda, hundreds of Mahagathbandhan leaders, farmers and members of social organisations participated in the human chain at different places. The human chain in the district started from Dhoba bridge near Harnaut to Giriak bordering Nawada district. Nalanda district president of Congress Dilip Kumar said the BJP, VHP and right wing organisations tried to sabotage the peaceful protests of farmers, but they were exposed. In Nawada, a 1km-long human chain was formed from Prajatantra Dwar to the civil court complex. RJD’s Nawada MLA Vibha Devi and Govindpur MLA Mohammad Kamran as well as the party’s district president Mahendra Yadav also joined the chain. In Gaya, the chain was formed from Grand Trunk road to Makhdumpur. Congress’s Magadh zone spokesman Bijay Kumar Mithu said common people also participated in the protest. Congress district President Chandrika Prasad Yadav said the human chain was a big success in Gaya. (With inputs from Praveen in Ara, Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur, Rajiv Kumar in Begusarai, Farrukh Nadim in Biharsharif, S B Sinha in Nawada and Alok Kumar in Gaya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-accuses-centre-of-trying-to-intimidate-agitating-farmers/articleshow/80606365.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Patna||Immunisation coverage fails to increase in Bihar||PATNA: Though the state health department has increased the number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated per day, the Covid immunisation coverage remained almost the same even on Saturday when just 54.5% of the registered beneficiaries took vaccine shots. The number of session sites has also been increased from 300 to 575. Altogether 63,906 healthcare workers were registered for vaccination on Saturday against around 27,000 on Thursday. However, just 34,835 of them took vaccine shots. While 34,282 beneficiaries took Covishield shots, 553 others vaccinated with Covaxin. This number of beneficiaries and session sites has been increased in a bid to complete the first phase of vaccination drive by February 10. Altogether 4.64 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been registered for the vaccination in the first round. Covid-19 vaccination was launched across the state on January 16. So far, 1.41 lakh of 2.55 lakh registered healthcare workers have taken vaccine shots in eight days. The health department has left it to the district magistrates and civil surgeons to take calls on number of vaccination days. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh said vaccination will be done six days a week in the district from Monday to Saturday. “Private health facilities can carry out the drive even on Sunday,” Singh said, adding the target will be completed by February 10. “Number of session sites in the district has been increased from 17 to 47, including eight private ones,” he added. Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology (IGIC), one of the new session sites in the city, achieved 100% vaccination target on the first day on Saturday. IGIC deputy director Dr A K Jha said all registered beneficiaries took vaccine shots after proper counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/immunisation-coverage-fails-to-increase-in-bihar/articleshow/80605398.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 31, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 21-year-old Supaul man stabs sister’s boyfriend to death||PATNA: A 22-year-old man was stabbed to death in front of his girlfriend by her brother who was opposed to their relationship. The accused, his father and even his sister were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday. The 21-year-old accused Mohammad Mahboob’s sister Shahnaz Parveen, 19, and father Mohammad Rahmat, 46, were arrested on charges of conspiring to murder Manoj Kumar Sah. The incident took place around 7 am on Friday when Manoj and Shahnaz were meeting secretively at Birpur. “Police got information about the murder around 10.15 am when Manoj’s family members traced his body,” police said. They had started looking for Manoj when he left home early in the morning and stopped responding to phone calls. Both families are residents of Birpur. Supaul SP Manoj Kumar on Saturday said it was yet not clear whether it was a pre-planned murder. “Manoj’s father Rambabu Sah pressed charges against all three for conspiring and killing his son after which they were arrested on Friday and forwarded to judicial custody on Saturday,” he said. The SP said Mahboob spotted Manoj following his sister after she left home. “He followed them and later stabbed Manoj to death and fled,” he added. Kumar said Mahboob was arrested within three hours of the incident, adding Manoj and Shehnaz were in a relationship for around seven years. “Police also came to know that Mahboob had threatened and thrashed Manoj on several occasions after coming to know about his relationship with his sister. He finally killed him on the same issue,” the SP said. Kumar said Mahboob’s elder brother Mohammad Aslam is also behind bars in another murder case which took place a few months back. Police sources said Shehnaz told the police that her brother had attempted to kill her too but she managed to flee. “Two stab wounds were visible on the neck while one was visible in ribs of Manoj’s body. Shehnaz told police that Manoj was killed before her eyes,” a police officer privy to the investigation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21-year-old-supaul-man-stabs-sisters-boyfriend-to-death/articleshow/80606480.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid memorial launched with a wife’s tale of grief; to help cope with trauma||KOLKATA: Covid-19 has claimed more than 1.5 lakh lives in India during the pandemic. The loss has been painful but the circumstances, which did not allow a proper homage to the deceased, have left families, friends and relatives traumatized. Now, National Covid Memorial (NCM), an online platform, has opened up the gate from them to grieve, pour their hearts out and pay tributes to the departed souls. “I never expected that my husband would leave us in such a way. Though he is not around me and my son physically, he would always be in our hearts. Thanks to the people of Shyambazar for standing by us and NCM for taking up this initiative,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, wife of physician Pradip Bhattacharya while unveiling the online memorial on Saturday. Popular in the Shyambazar locality, people’s doctor Bhattacharya died due to Covid on August 10. In fact, people in Shyambazar had raised funds for his treatment. An initiative by Covid Care Network (CCN) family, friends and relatives can share photographs, obituaries to pay their tribute to the Covid martyrs in this digital memorial. “When my mother was battling Covid-19, I was thousands of miles away from Kolkata. And when she succumbed to the infection, I could not even come down to bid her farewell in person due to travel restrictions. As a teacher in a school in Bankura, she had always worked for girls’ education. It is very difficult for me to accept that I have lost her to the pandemic,” said an emotional critical care intensivist Shantanu Mukherjee, who works in the UK while attending the virtual inauguration of the memorial from the UK. “As a society, we could not bid them farewell in dignity the way we would have loved to. Even as their families are the most pained, this NCM is an initiative where we can share their grief from stories and memorials that come from them,” said hepatologist Abhijit Chowdhury, mentor to CCN and the brain behind the initiative. Suggestions also came from some advisers during the Saturday inaugural functions to take this initiative forward by reaching out to those families ruined financially and emotionally with help. Kin of those who died in Covid can log onto www.nationalcovidmemorial.in and submit their tribute, blog along with a photograph of the deceased. Alternatively, they can also email all relevant material to nationalcovidmemorial@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-memorial-launched-with-a-wifes-tale-of-grief-to-help-cope-with-trauma/articleshow/80605747.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 31, 2021||Gurgaon||Prompt FIRs, like in sedition case against Shashi Tharoor, scribes, not common at cyber police station||GURUGRAM: The cyber police station, where a sedition case was filed last week against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six senior journalists the same evening the complaint was received, converts a low percentage of complaints that come to it into FIRs, police data shows. That’s because FIRs are usually filed after a preliminary investigation determines the merit of the complaint and recommends the need for further investigation. In 2018, for instance, when the police station was set up as the need for a dedicated team was felt to tackle the surge in cybercrime, 49 FIRs were registered while the total number of complaints received was 4,629. In 2019, the police station received more than 7,000 complaints and registered 118 FIRs. Last year, when the number of complaints received rose to almost 10,000, 186 FIRs were filed. This year, January has been a busy month — the police station has received 987 complaints so far and converted 10 into FIRs. Instances of FIRs being lodged immediately are rare. The last one was in April 2020, in the early weeks of the lockdown, over a controversial text message on a WhatsApp group related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which had set off a massive contact-tracing exercise as a ‘super-spreader’. The case was filed for spreading rumours and disharmony through social media. Within two days, a tax consultant from Baskushla was arrested in connection with the case. The complainant, in this case, was a person who had received the accused’s text as a forward. Another instance of an FIR immediately following a complaint was in August 2019 when the cyber police station booked an unknown person for allegedly recording and sharing videos on social media in which a self-styled ‘baba’ was seen with minor girls. The complaint was filed by family members of the minors. Asked about the FIR against Tharoor and the others —Rajdeep Sardesai, Paresh Nath, Ananth Nath, Vinod K Jose, Mrinal Pande and Zafar Agha — a senior police officer said cases are registered promptly when a complainant provides evidence. “In most cases where complainants submit supplementary evidence, FIRs are filed promptly. Only in cases like ATM fraud, online fraud, banking fraud and other kinds of fraud do we conduct a preliminary investigation to validate the allegation and collect primary evidence before registering an FIR,” said ACP (DLF) Karan Goyal. He added that the FIR against Tharoor and the others related to social media posts (on the Republic Day violence in Delhi, during the farmers’ tractor rally) and the complainant had submitted details of the tweets and the posts. “Now, we will write to the social media companies and issue notices to the persons named in the FIR for further investigation,” Goyal said. He also claimed FIRs are registered at local police stations as well, based on complaints filed at the cyber police station. The data on complaints and FIRs at the cyber police station, however, does not capture this. Police commissioner KK Rao said any FIR is filed on the basis of a complaint, and police’s job is to investigate without bias or favour. “The concerned police station will conduct the investigation as per the law,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/prompt-firs-like-in-sedition-case-against-tharoor-scribes-not-common-at-cyber-police-station/articleshow/80607793.cms||Bagish Jha
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Polio Sunday today: Don’t miss due to Covid fear||NAGPUR: The annual pulse polio vaccination drive will be held on Sunday across the country. Like every year, all children up to 5 years of age will be given polio doses for which more than 3,800 booths have been marked across the district. A 1,529 booths are in city. Doctors have appealed that all parents should immunize their kids without having any doubt or fear about the spread of Covid-19. “Polio dose is must and we are going to be a part of world’s largest immunization exercise. Follow physical distancing and wear masks on faces while you take your kids for polio dose. There is no need to fear about Covid-19 as the virus never spreads through such type of immunization exercises,” said Dr Deepak Selokar, the Nagpur district health officer. A majority of health officers who will be administering polio dose to the children are already vaccinated for Covid-19 and it’s completely safe as they will follow the Covid rules and regulations. Covid-19 vaccination is conducted on weekdays only. Hence, there will be no burden on the health manpower for Sunday’s polio drive. In Nagpur city, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B will formally inaugurate the drive at the Mahal health centre of the NMC at 9am. Last year, over 2.7 lakh beneficiaries were vaccinated in Nagpur. Polio booths will be installed at residential areas, temples, mosques, malls, railway stations, bus stations, airports etc. Vaccination facility would also be available in slums, factory areas and other remote places in Nagpur. From Monday, 10 zonal medical officers and 10 health inspectors would visit every house in their zones in order to vaccinate the children. Earlier, the pulse polio immunization drive was scheduled to be held on January 17. It was postponed due to the Covid-19 vaccination of health workers which got under way in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/polio-sunday-today-dont-miss-due-to-covid-fear/articleshow/80605833.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 31, 2021||Allahabad||UP: Delayed by six months, CTET to be held today||PRAYAGRAJ: Authorities of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) would be conducting the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) on Sunday. This is the first time that the exam will be held since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. The CTET also got delayed by six months owing to the pandemic. The exam authorities have arranged for 114 test centers across the city wherein around 63,000 candidates would be appearing in two shifts, morning shift from 9.30am to 12 noon, and in the evening shift of 2pm to 4.30pm. Given the Covid-19 norms that have to be followed, only 12 candidates are allowed in each room of the respective exam center. In addition to thermal screening at the centers, compulsory videography will also be done. Candidates will have to carry a declaration of their well-being. The examination is going to be conducted for the first time after the validity of CTET being extended to lifelong by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE). Candidates have to report at the center two hours before the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/delayed-by-six-months-ctet-to-be-held-today/articleshow/80607386.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CCMB decodes genes that metabolise medicines||HYDERABAD: Scientists at the city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) have decoded the gene that helps in the metabolism of medicines in the body, paving way towards personalised medicine. If the CCMB study has its way, doctors will now decide the right dosage for each individual depending on the sequence of his or her gene called cytochrome-P450-2C0 or simply CYP2C9. This will not only help in effective treatment of the diseases but also ensure that there are no side effects or adverse reactions. “The healthcare is now moving towards personalised medicine. Our studies on the genetic diversity of India will play an important role in this transition,” said CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra. Doctors prescribe dose of the drugs on the basis of gender, age and body mass index (BMI) of the patients. However, sometimes it fails to treat the disease. Rather it causes reaction like rashes, vomiting and nausea. Often, the medicines do not work at all and doctors prescribe another medicine. This is because drugs need to be broken down in the body for their action to take place. Enzymes are a class of proteins that metabolise the drugs. The functions of these proteins are dictated by their structures. The blueprint of their structures is held in their respective genes in every person. Individuals in a population have variations in their genes. More endogamous (marriage within community) the population such as in many communities of India, lesser is the variation expected among their genes. According to CCMB scientists, this gene is needed for metabolism of a wide range of drugs, including anti-epileptic drug ‘phenytoin’ and anti-hypersensitive drug ‘losartan’. Any changes in the sequence of CYP2C9 gene may affect the production of CYP2C9 protein in human liver. This can cause slower metabolism of drugs slower or a reduced rate of excretion of the drug. CCMB scientist Dr K Thangaraj and his team studied the diversity of this gene among 1,488 Indians across 36 population groups, representing different linguistic groups, castes and tribes among other parameters. They also looked into genes of 1087 individuals from other countries of South Asia. “We found eight new variants of the CYP2C9 gene, making a total of 11 known variants of the gene in south Asia,” said Dr Nizamuddin, first author in the study. A few Indian populations have more than 20% people with a deleterious variant of CYP2C9 gene - CYP2C9*3. Those with this variant are at a disadvantage in their ability to metabolise drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-decodes-genes-that-metabolise-meds/articleshow/80607023.cms||Syed Akbar
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Won’t miss deadline to make Panchkula stray cattle-free: Mayor||PANCHKULA: After setting the deadline to make Panchkula stray cattle and dog free, mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said the deadline for the same will not be missed this time as the MC team has started working to catch stray cattle in the district. The mayor said teams have started catching the stray cattle from the city roads. The cattle have been kept at the newly built cow shed with a capacity of 250 cows at Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham Trust. After the Mansa Devi Gaudham will reach its full capacity, the cows will be kept at the Sukhdarshanpur Cow shed having a capacity of 1,200 cows. “Panchkula will be stray cattle free before March 31,” said Goyal. When asked about the deadline of June 23 for stray dog-free city, Goyal said they are inaugurating the dog kennel at Sukhdarashanpur village on February 5 and a drive to catch stray dogs will start the same day. The dog kennel has a capacity of 850 stray dogs and a dog hostel with a capacity of 150 pet dogs. This will be expanded later. “I have promised the public to make the city stray cattle and dog-free and I am regularly keeping a close eye on the updates. The deadlines will not be missed at all and the city residents will see the result,” said the mayor. The gaushala and dog kennel at Sukhdarshanpur have been provided 22 acres of land, but the construction work of the gaushala and dog kennel has been done within four acres of the land. The rest of the land also belongs to the gaushala for further expansion. The Panchkula administration had missed various deadlines of making the city stray and dog-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wont-miss-deadline-to-make-pkl-stray-cattle-free-mayor/articleshow/80607033.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
January 31, 2021||Agra||Mercury dips to 5.3 degrees Celsius as icy winds sweep Agra||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: Severe cold day conditions fanned by icy winds prevailed in most parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Saturday with mercury dipping to below 6 degrees Celsius in many places. While Agra recorded a minimum temperature of 5.3 degrees Celsius, Meerut was 5.6 degrees and Bareilly registered 6.1 degrees Celsius. Dense to very dense fog occurred at a few places. Agra, Meerut and Bareilly cities were enveloped in a thick fog in the morning. Visibility was less than 50 metres in Meerut. The weatherman attributed the cold conditions to heavy snowfall in the Himalayan region. Therefore, temperatures were below normal at many places. In Agra, the maximum temperature was recorded at 23.5 degree Celsius. On the minimum scale, the mercury level was recorded at 5.3 degree Celsius, which was 3 degrees less than normal. Similarly, in Meerut, the maximum temperature at 20.8 degrees Celcius was 1 degree below normal and the minimum temperature at 5.6 was 2 degrees below normal. At 6.1 degrees Celsius, Bareilly’s minimum temperature was 4 degrees below normal, while maximum temperature at 16.7 degrees Celsius was six degrees below normal. The weatherman has predicted a further drop in temperatures over the next three days in Agra. The cold will continue till February 5. Meerut is likely to witness a rise in temperatures by the end of next week, according to Brij Mohan, met in-charge, Meerut. Likewise, Bareilly too will experience cold conditions till February 5, the weatherman said. Elsewhere in Uttar Pradesh, temperatures were below normal in Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Lucknow, Kanpur and Jhansi divisions. The lowest temperature in the state on Saturday was recorded at 2.7 degrees Celsius in Churk in Sonbhadra district while the highest temperature at 21.2 degrees Celsius was recorded at Najibabad in Bijnor district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mercury-dips-to-5-3-degrees-celsius-as-icy-winds-sweep-agra/articleshow/80605310.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Civic staff get allowance for service during lockdown||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has started paying Rs 150, per day, as Covid-19 allowance to staffers, who were on duty during the lockdown from March 24 to May 17 and July 14 to July 23, 2020. The allowance will be paid to staffers based on the number of days they were on duty during the lockdown. PCMC deputy commissioner Manoj Lonkar said that staffers from the education, anti-encroachment, fire brigade, water supply, health and medical departments as well as Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited played a key role during the lockdown. Over 5,000 staff members would be eligible and many have already been paid. The order was passed in October 2020 and the payment is still underway. A municipal teacher, who surveyed containment zones, said that he and over 200 others are yet to be paid. “Whenever we visit the corporation, we are asked to produce some document. Such is the trouble that many teachers have given up on the allowance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-staff-get-allowance-for-service-during-lockdown/articleshow/80607031.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 31, 2021||Pune||NCC cadets bring laurels to state at R-Day parade, dream of serving India||Pune: Senior wing cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) Kashish Methwani, Samruddhi Sant, Tanya Nalawade and Gyanvee Kakonia brought laurels to the state at the Republic Day parade this year. The cadets are bound together by a strong desire to join the Indian armed forces. All the cadets hail from a non-military background. “I want to become a fighter pilot,” said Methwani, a second-year integrated BTech student at Savitribai Phule Pune University. She won the best cadet (air wing) award at the R-Day event. Sant, a final-year BCom student from Jalgaon, commanded the girl’s marching contingent. “It was a big honour to lead the contingent. I was a bit nervous when I was told barely three days before the parade that I was commanding the contingent but I was confident about doing the job,” she shared. Sant wants to carry on with her father’s legacy by practicing law profession. She intends on joining the Judge Advocate Branch (JAG) of the army. Nalawade, a third-year BSc student, and Kakonia, a third-year BTech student, both from Modern College in Pune shared similar aspirations. “I was confident about the competition as our mock group discussion, interview and other preparations were excellent. I just had to hold my nerve and deliver and I did it,” said Nalawade, who stood second in the overall merit list for the NCC Naval wing. This year, the Maharashtra NCC Directorate had tasked the Pune NCC group to carry out the training of all cadets before shortlisting them for the parade. In total, 16 senior division cadets were part of the Maharashtra directorate contingent, which bagged the second best trophy at the Prime Minister’s NCC rally on January 28 at New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncc-cadets-bring-laurels-to-state-at-r-day-parade-dream-of-serving-india/articleshow/80607035.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Disha accused’s lawyer to defend Andhra Pradesh couple||TIRUPATI: A group of students taught by lecturer couple, Dr V Purushotham Naidu and his wife Padmaja who are accused in the murder of their daughters, have come forward to provide legal assistance to the couple. The students have hired the services of senior advocate PV Krishnamachari to defend the couple in the double murder case. The lawyer had previously represented the four accused in the rape and murder of a veterinary doctor near Hyderabad in November 2019. On January 24, the couple had allegedly killed their daughters, Alekhya and Divya, believing that they would be resurrected in the Satya Yug. The couple are still said to be in a state of trance with jail authorities referring them to a mental health hospital for psychiatric treatment. Advocate Rajini, who is part of Krishnamachari’s team, interacted with Dr Purushotham after obtaining special permission from jail authorities. She has now sought permission for an interaction with Padmaja. Speaking to reporters, Rajini said several old students approached Krishnamachari and requested him to represent the couple’s case. “The couple have trained and shaped many students, who are now working as doctors, advocates, engineers and in many other professions. How can the couple, who shaped the future of many youngsters throughout their careers, destroy the very future of their own daughters? It has to be probed as to how the entire family was driven into a state of trance and by whom,” said Rajini. “There are some reports that the elder daughter Alekhya got attracted to some spiritual philosophies. So it has to be probed if someone instigated her and through her managed to get the family into a state of trance,” she added. Meanwhile, police ruled out financial gain motive behind the double murder. “Both Purushotham Naidu and Padmaja are wealthy and their net worth runs into several crores. With both their daughters dead and both parents behind the bars, who stands to benefit from their wealth now?”, Rajini sought to know. The post mortem report of the young women is yet to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/disha-accuseds-lawyer-to-defend-ap-couple/articleshow/80607825.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Missing since 2005, girl reunited with kin||Hyderabad: A girl who went missing in 2005, when she was two-and-half years old, was reunited with her family by Telangana police during Operation Smile, which was held in the last 28 days of this month. Telangana police said that in 2005, the girl’s family, who are from Kurnool district, went to visit Charminar, where she went missing. The family made efforts to search for the girl but it went in vain. Police said that the girl was in a children home at Uppal for some time and later, she was shifted to another child care center in Miyapur. As part of Operation Smile, a police team went to the child care center in Miyapur and compared the residing children’ details with their database. It was during this effort that the girl’s details matched with details of a 2005 missing case. Operation Smile was held from January 1 till 28th and 3,178 children were rescued. Among them, 2,188 children were reunited with their families and 990 were sent to rescue homes. Officials said that 630 children were found working as bonded labourers, 147 children were found as brick kiln workers, 116 children were beggars and 717 were found as street children. Police registered 380 cases in connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-since-2005-girl-reunited-with-kin/articleshow/80607010.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Post AAP-Azad alliance, Mohali MC polls to see a tight battle||MOHALI: Mohali is all set to witness a quadruplet contest these MC elections slated for February 14. AAP recently announced merger with Azad Group as their alliance partner and declared to contest on 15 seats and Azad Group to put up 35 candidates. The Azad-AAP alliance will be against political giants Shirmoani Akali Dal (SAD), BJP and Congress. Congress has already declared its candidates to contest on all the 50 seats, whereas SAD and BJP are yet to declare the entire fleet of candidates as till date they have declared candidates on 28 and 29 seats, respectively. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced the first list of 28 candidates for the MC elections on January 9. All the former SAD candidates have been given the ticket. This time, former councillor Harmanpreet Singh Prince and his wife Inderpreet Kaur Prince have also been given the ticket. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had constituted a committee for the Mohali MC elections with Prem Singh Chandumajra as the chairman of the committee and N K Sharma, Charanjit Singh Brar and Kamaljit Singh Ruby as other members of the committee, which held several meetings during the last few days. After snapping ties with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), BJP on January 29 declared the names of 29 candidates to contest on 50 seats. Only three names of former councillors figure in the list and the rest are new faces. BJP Mohali unit team, led by K D Bhandari, former CPS Punjab; Mohali unit president Sukhvinder Singh Goldy and Sanjeev Vashisht announced the names of the 29 candidates. BJP managed to win on six seats out of 50 in the last MC elections, which were a mere 12% of the total house and later couple of their candidates joined SAD. BJP won six seats as SAD did not flank its candidates from those seats from where BJP candidate contested and the fight remained between BJP-Congress and SAD-Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/post-aap-azad-alliance-mc-polls-to-see-a-tight-battle/articleshow/80607032.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 31, 2021||Rajkot||Two drunk men steal an ambulance in Gujarat's Bhachau||RAJKOT: Their urgency was definitely greater than all collective medical emergencies for sure. Or else, how can you explain about two drunkards in Kutch’s Bhachau who fled with an 108 ambulance on Saturday afternoon? The duo, identified as Shyamji Koli and Karshan Koli, were loitering around the community health centre in Bhachau in an inebriated condition. At the same time, an ambulance arrived at the health centre with a pregnant woman. In a hurry to ensure that the patient gets the required medical attention, the ambulance’s pilot and the paramedical staffer accompanied the woman inside the centre, while the pilot cleanly forgot to take the key off the ignition. They may have been drunk, but not blind to an runaway opportunity like this and so, Shyamji and Karshan, took maximum advantage of the situation and sped away with the ambulance. But, by the time the ambulance’s pilot realized his folly, it was already speeding far away from him! He quickly followed the absconding duo in another ambulance. Meanwhile, the two drunkards sped towards the Chirai over bridge but rammed into the road divider before approaching the bridge. The duo got out of the ambulance and started rambling incoherently, creating a ruckus and bringing traffic to a grinding halt. Locals nabbed the duo and handed them over to the cops. Police said that two separate offences of vehicle theft and under prohibition law will be registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-drunk-men-steal-an-ambulance-in-bhachau/articleshow/80605329.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Agra||Mathura mahapanchayat announces plan to block Yamuna Expressway by 10,000 farmers||AGRA: A day after the massive mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, thousands of farmers from western Uttar Pradesh gathered in Mathura on Saturday to attend a similar event organised by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) to express solidarity with their counterparts protesting against the new farm laws near the Delhi borders and announced plans to block the Yamuna Expressway. Final decision to block e-way next weekAt the Mathura event, called the ‘Mahapanchayat of Khaps’ held in the district’s Bajna town, farmer leaders said that 10,000 farmers will block the expressway in the coming days to put pressure on the government to withdraw the farm laws. However, the final decision will be taken in the next mahapanchayat, scheduled for next week. Confirming this, BKU district president Raj Kumar Tomar told TOI, “We have to put pressure on the government as it’s not listening to our grievances even after 66 days of the agitation.” He said the mahapanchayat also considered the proposal put forward by Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary that at least one member of every farmer’s family should join the ongoing protest at the Ghazipur border. However, a final decision on this, too, will be taken in the next mahapanchayat, Tomar said. The BKU leader added that all farmers were behind Rakesh Tikait. “The government should not make farmers responsible for violence in Delhi. They should punish the culprits and not target the entire farming community,” said a section of farm leaders during the mahapanchayat, adding that they have decided to “socially boycott” BJP leaders. The mahapanchayat condemned the lathicharge on the protesting farmers at the Delhi border and raised slogans in their support. In his address, Jayant Chaudhary said, “I will campaign in Mathura for a week and motivate farmers to join the ongoing protest at the Ghazipur border and Palwal.” Later, Chaudhary told TOI that a campaign to unite and further strengthen the farmers’ movement will be launched on his father Ajit Singh’s birthday on February 12 as “a tribute to his sacrifices for the farming community”. Samajwadi Party MLC Sanjay Lathar, too, attended the mahapanchayat. While the administration allowed the mahapanchayat, heavy police force was deployed in Bajna to avert any untoward incident. Additional police force was deployed on Yamuna Expressway in order to maintain smooth vehicular movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-mahapanchayat-announces-plan-to-block-yamuna-expressway-by-10000-farmers/articleshow/80605318.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Auto driver cheated of Rs 21,000||AHMEDABAD: In the second such incident reported in past four days, an auto driver was cheated of his cash and mobile phone totalling Rs 20,623 by someone pretending to be the son of a high court judge in need of money to buy medicines. Kanusinh Chavda, a 64-year-old resident of Isanpur, lodged a complaint with Maninagar police in this regard on Friday. He told police that he had parked his vehicle near Kenyug Crossroads in Satellite when the accused asked him to take him to LG Hospital. “On arriving at the hospital, the accused told Chavda that he was going to purchase medicine but might fall short of cash. Introducing himself as the son of a retired judge, he told the driver that he may have to borrow some money which he promised to return promptly,” police said. He gave the accused Rs 1,000 in cash, his ATM card, as well as his cellphone. The man went inside the hospital but never returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-driver-cheated-of-rs-21000/articleshow/80605892.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Admissions at deemed medical univs may go online next yr, agents face axe||MUMBAI: The high-stress admissions at deemed medical universities, which involve frantic travel and last-minute deals, maybe eased from next year. In what may promote transparency and weed out agents and deal-makers who auction medical seats, the ministry of health is contemplating taking over the entire admission process of deemed medical universities across India. With that, institutional seat-filling, which experts describe as a “seat-auctioning round”, may be scrapped. Instead, all admissions may take place online. TimesViewThe health ministry move, if implemented, will bring about much-needed transparency in medical admissions. Parents and students often complain that colleges demand cash and show seats were given away at the last minute at discounted rates. But in a country where lakhs aspire to join the MBBS programme and seats are rather few, taking the admission process entirely online will ensure merit is respected and cash deals and auctions are done away with.The Medical Counselling Committee handles admission for deemed universities across the country and after it closes online rounds, vacant seats are filled by respective institutes at their individual level. That is when, experts say, parents and students are put through immense “financial distress” as NRI seats, the ones that are five times higher than the regular seats, largely remain unfilled. “What happens is that when students visit colleges for the last round, they feel cornered as there are merely three days to close admissions and how much can they travel? Deemed universities make candidates wait till the last minute as they try to fetch the highest price for each seat. With the process going online, all this will be streamlined,” said a health ministry source. The ministry may have to move court to change the procedure.  “When candidates visit these colleges in the last round, negotiations take place. The benchmark for admission is only one: The ability to pay the highest sum for a seat. That is the only merit,” said Sudha Shenoy, parents’ representative for medical aspirants. She added, “The college agrees to take partial sum in cash and the rest in cheque. Later, the management shows government authorities that fees were brought down to fill the seat at the last minute.” Data on this year’s admission reflected interesting trends. For instance, at a deemed university in Nashik, 10 NRI seats filled on the last day of admission, January 15, were taken by students of various categories, including economically weaker sections. This year, the government of India, for the first time, has not permitted deemed universities to charge NRI seat fees to Indian students. But that has not changed much for these colleges as cash component or donations have made a comeback. When online admissions by the MCC closed, a total of 2,463 (1,090 MBBS) seats in deemed universities remained vacant, most of them, 764, under the NRI quota. “How all these seats get filled by the last day is anyone’s guess. But who these seats go to, or is merit followed in granting admission, is never known,” said Dr Vivek Korade, founder of Forum Against Commercialisation of Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/admissions-at-deemed-medical-univs-may-go-online-next-yr-agents-face-axe/articleshow/80605909.cms||Hemali Chhapia
January 31, 2021||Rajkot||Doc, guard attacked at Sir T hospital||Rajkot: A doctor and a security guard of Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar were attacked by three persons in inebriated condition in the wee hours of Saturday. Police said that the trio reached hospital and asked the security guard to meet the doctor as one of them had pain in ears. As the doctor was in his room, the guard Sajubha Zala asked them to wait there until he calls the doctor. When Zala entered Dr Udit Chavada’s room, the three accused barged in and created a ruckus by insisting that they be examined immediately. When the doctor realized that they are in inebriated condition, he asked them to come the next day during OPD hours. Hearing this, they got enraged and stabbed Chavada and Zala before fleeing from the hospital. Based on Zala’s complaint, an offence was registered against three unidentified persons. Police are trying to identify the three attackers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/doc-guard-attacked-at-sir-t-hospital/articleshow/80605317.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||State should sanction Rs 500 crore for Mahajyoti: Padalkar||Nagpur: The state government should immediately sanction Rs500 crore for Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Research and Training Institute (Mahajyoti), which was set up by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for uplift of OBCs, said BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar on Saturday. "Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has deliberately ignored the welfare of several of the 348 OBC communities," he added. Addressing a press conference here, Padalkar said OBC welfare minister Vijay Wadettiwar should resign if he cannot secure necessary funds for OBCs. "I had demanded Rs10,000 crore for welfare of OBCs in the legislative council. However, as this government is cash-strapped it should at least sanction Rs500 crore," said Padalkar. The BJP leader further said Fadnavis had sanctioned Rs380 crore for Mahajyoti. "However, after a few months assembly elections were held. Other parties formed the government by back-stabbing BJP. The new government did not give a single penny for OBCs for months. After a lot of hue and cry it sanctioned Rs80 crore, which is a pittance when the OBC population in the state is taken into cognisance," he added. The BJP leader said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, had allocated a huge sum for Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (Sarthi). This institute was set up for uplift of Marathas. "Pawar has enough money for Sarthi but when it comes to Mahajyoti his hand shakes," said Padalkar. Further slamming Wadettiwar, Padalkar said the minister had announced he would train 10,000 OBC youths for police recruitment. "However, this was just a hollow announcement. There is no planning for manpower, lodging and boarding of trainees etc. Wadettiwar made this announcement just to get a huge round of applause," he added. Turning to the Dhangar community, Padalkar said the Fadnavis government had approved several schemes for it. "However, this government has withdrawn all the facilities," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-should-sanction-rs-500-crore-for-mahajyoti-padalkar/articleshow/80605902.cms||Ashish Roy
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Rogue loan apps: Two Tibetans held in Bengaluru||HYDERABAD: Four persons, including two Tibetan refugees, were arrested by the cyber crime sleuths of Hyderabad police on Saturday for their alleged involvement in the loan apps harassment case. Joint commissioner of police Avinash Mohanty said Niranjan Umapathi and Usha, who are residents of Bengaluru, and two Tibetan refugees -- Yeshi Gyatso and Nyichak Dhondup -- were arrested in Bengaluru. The accused were allegedly associated with 19 apps through which loans were disbursed. Many of the persons who had failed to return the loans within seven days were defamed by representatives of the apps by making phone calls and by sending messages to all the persons who were on the contact list of the loanees. Police said the accused had set up a call centre with 200 employees to make calls to defaulters and harass them to return the money. During the investigation, police came to know that the four accused have been working as directors of two different companies in Bengaluru. They were hired by two Chinese nationals -- chief executive officer Cheen Wu and vice-president Andy Lu Wenjie. The duo is believed to be residing in China. After setting up the call centres in India, the Chinese nationals have gone back to their country, police said. The four arrested persons were directly reporting to the two Chinese nationals, the police said. The directors told cops that they came to know about the job opportunity through an advertisement. After they applied, they were offered a job with a salary of Rs 1 lakh a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rogue-loan-apps-2-tibetans-held-in-bluru/articleshow/80607842.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Graft-accused PSI’s relative surrenders||AHMEDABAD: Devendra Natha Odedra of Upleta, brother-in-law of PSI Shweta Jadeja, surrendered before the city session court on Friday, after he was declared an absconder in a graft case of Rs 35 lakh. Allegedly, he had accepted the bribe on behalf of PSI Jadeja, who was then arrested by Special Operations Group (SOG) and suspended. She is now is out on bail. At the time of the incident, she was posted in Women’s police station. Earlier, the Gujarat high court had rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Odedra. Investigators said they had taken Odedra into custody as he handed over to them on a four-day remand by the court. “We are interrogating him about the case and its details,” said an investigator. According to investigators, Jadeja is accused of asking for Rs 35 lakh as bribe from a man for not booking him under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/graft-accused-psis-relative-surrenders/articleshow/80605931.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Citco told to submit report on steps to develop Sector 42 Lake||CHANDIGARH: UT adviser Manoj Parida has directed the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (Citco) to submit a comprehensive report on steps initiated to develop the Sector 42 Lake as a new tourist attraction spot in the city. The directions were issued during the recent review meeting. UT adviser Manoj Parida said the officials concerned have apprised him of the progress done, but he has asked them to submit a detailed report of the same. The UT administration wanted to develop the Sector 42 Lake as a new tourist attraction spot in the city. The administration is also planning for a number of activities for tourists at the lake. A senior Citco official said they have already invited expression of interest (EoI) for amusement activities at the lake. According to the new expression of interest, Citco has invited proposals from interested parties for setting up, operation and management of amusement and entertainment activities, including children amusement park, adventure sports, simulated sports, amusement rides etc. The interested firms can submit their bids by February 4. Earlier, the department had not received even a single bid from private players for operating and managing pedal boats (two and four seaters) at the new lake in Sector 42. Thereafter, the issue was discussed at the higher level and it was decided that private players will not come forward only for boating and there should be other activities too. Accordingly, Citco then floated a fresh expression of interest for light and sound show and water adventure activities. The administration and Citco will have to develop more facilities, like food outlets to make the site a tourist destination as people will not come only for boating, sources said. “The authorities will have to check water storage capacity of the lake and find out how deep it is as pedal boats require sufficient space to operate properly. The UT will also have to justify use of tubewell water to fill the lake for operating boats,” added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citco-told-to-submit-report-on-steps-to-develop-sec-42-lake/articleshow/80607039.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||186 Covid-19 cases, two deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 186 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, even as the number of active cases in the state further reduced to 2,354 and less than 1,000 of them are hospitalized. The state has so far recorded 2,94,306 cases of Covid-19 and the death toll so far is 1,598, while 2,90,354 people have recovered from the infection in the state. The recovery rate has meanwhile improved to 98.65% in the state. This is better than the country average of 96.9%, while the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is 0.54% as against the country average CFR of 1.4%. So far 70% of the patients have been asymptomatic patients while 30% had symptoms. On Saturday, 33,088 samples were tested for Covid-19, 90% of which were tested in government testing centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/186-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-t/articleshow/80607030.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Agra||After Tikait’s appeal, faction with considerable mass base in Braj region joins hands with him||AGRA: After Rakesh Tikait's impassioned appeal at the Ghazipur border on Friday, a group of Bhartiya Kisan Union, called the Bhanu faction, which has a considerable support base among farmers in the Braj region, has come out in support of Tikait. Going against the leadership, the faction’s national general secretary, Kuldeep Pandey, has declared support for Rakesh Tikait and decided to resume protest against the three farm laws. On Saturday, hundreds of members defied BKU (Bhanu) national president Bhanu Pratap Singh’s decision to withdraw from protests at Delhi’s Chilla border after the R-Day tractor rally violence and reached the Ghazipur border to join hands with Rakesh Tikait. Talking to TOI, Kuldeep Pandey said, “To withdraw from the protest at Chilla border was a personal decision of Bhanu Pratap Singh. Majority of the workers were not in favour of it. The incident of Rakesh Tikait breaking down at the Ghazipur border resulted in a massive discontent among farmers and our members. I have decided to part my ways with BKU (Bhanu). The leadership of the organization is hand in glove with the government. They have lost all respect among farmers.” “I have called for a kisan mahapanchayat in Kasganj on February 5. Here, leaders of the BKU (Bhanu) faction will tender mass resignation. We will be marching to the Ghazipur border in large numbers to support Rakesh Tikait. The central government will have to take back the three farm laws and guarantee MSP for the farmers,” he said. Meanwhile, BKU (Bhanu) spokesperson Upendra Pal Singh said, “The decision to withdraw from the protest at the Chilla border was taken after violence during the tractor parade. Union leaders present at the protest site were consulted before taking the decision. During the meeting on Saturday, discussions were held on ways to take the farmers’ protest forward in a peaceful way. Union workers have been directed to go to villages and take feedback from farmers. Workers who are violating the decision to withdraw from the Delhi borders are being identified. Disciplinary action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-tikaits-appeal-faction-with-considerable-mass-base-in-braj-region-joins-hands-with-him/articleshow/80605324.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||National memorial for Covid-19 victims launched||HYDERABAD: An online national Covid memorial for people who have succumbed to Covid-19 was launched on Saturday, as India officially entered the second year of the pandemic. The first confirmed case in the country was recorded on January 30 last year. The Covid memorial that went live on Saturday will allow family members and friends to write a blog, tell their stories and post photographs of loved ones who have departed. These will require authentication and are aimed at providing a closure to grieving family members and friends who could not be with the loved ones in their last days. Covid restrictions, including the necessary isolation periods of patients and the lockdown had meant that a lot of people could not spend the last moments with family members. During the initial days of the pandemic, relatives were not even allowed to touch the dead bodies and the last good byes lacked of the basic human dignity in many ways. Sharing her story of the contracting the virus and living through the dread of living her last days in loneliness, Debra Joseph, a head nurse working in a private hospital in Hyderabad said that this platform could be a hope for people in the situation she was in. “When a person is in isolation and knows that the next is death and that nothing can be done, there is no one with them and they will go down without being able to communicate or share what they feel, this is something will make them feel somebody is there thinking something about them,” she said. “ We want to send this message to all who have lost almost everything to the deadly virus that we are all with them in agony and they are not alone in grief,” said Dr Abhijit Chowdhury, mentor, Covid Care Network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/national-memorial-for-covid-19-victims-launched/articleshow/80607037.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Need more VPAT, EVM transparency, experts tell ECI||CHENNAI: Electronic voting machines (EVMs) cannot be assumed to be tamper proof. The electronic voting system should be redesigned to be software and hardware independent in order to be verifiable and the VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) system should be re-designed to be fully voter verified, stated a set of recommendations from the Citizens Commission on Elections (CCE). The commission, which consists of former bureaucrats and former judges of the Supreme Court and the Madras high court, and members of civil society, was constituted in March 2020. The group of experts have researched about the functioning of EVMs since. “There are several concerns regarding the  process. The base of any democracy is honest and transparent elections. The aim of the commission is to bring in a discussion among people on such issues,” said Justice (retd) Hari Paranthaman, the Madras high court. On Saturday, a 42-page interim report on EVMs and VVPAT was released in Chennai by him with other members of the panel joining through video conferencing. The report was based on depositions from a range of professionals including bureaucrats and academicians from various reputed institutions including IITs and universities in the US and Australia. The democratic principles that any voting process for public elections should adhere to is that the voting process be transparent such that the general public can be satisfied that their vote is correctly recorded and counted, the report stated. “The voting and counting process should be publicly auditable. There should be verifiability in the counting of votes and ascertainment of the results reliably without too much special knowledge.” The members of the CCE expressed concerns that in the present system of EVM, where votes are recorded electronically at the press of a button, there is no way for a voter to confirm that his/her vote was cast as intended. The commission recommended that the integrity of VVPAT slips and EVMs after polling and before counting be ensured in a manner that is verifiable by all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/need-more-vpat-evm-transparency-experts-tell-eci/articleshow/80605928.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Business||ED arrests bizman, establishes common link in Agusta payoffs||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of businessman Anoop Gupta, director of leading rice brand India Gate Basmati, in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper money laundering case, the Enforcement Directorate has established a common link through which payoffs were received by Indian politicians, bureaucrats and Air Force officials in two UPA era defence deals. The court has remanded Gupta to five days of ED custody on Saturday for further interrogation. The arrest of Gupta followed after ED recently found fresh evidence related to laundering of bribes received in the Rs 3,600 crore VVIP chopper deal through a subsidiary controlled by Gupta. Earlier, the agency had attached assets worth Rs 15 crore of Gupta-controlled KRBL in Sangrur, Punjab in the UPA era Embraer defence deal. In the 2019 attachment order, ED had claimed alleged payoffs of Rs 26 crore was received by defence dealer Vipin Khanna and some officials of the defence ministry through a subsidiary of KRBL. In the fresh evidence received by the ED, the agency has claimed that a part of the Euro 70 million bribes received in the AgustaWestland deal was transferred through an entity controlled by Gupta’s KRBL. “Euro 70 million proceeds of crime were laundered through two channels for payments of kickbacks to various political persons, bureaucrats, Air Force officials and others to influence the contract for 12 VVIP helicopters in favour of AgustaWestland,” the ED has said in its remand application before the court on Saturday. The agency further said that “IDS Information Tech, Tunisia has received bribes to the tune of Euro 24.37 million from AgustaWetland and out of this about 12.4 million were further transferred to Intersteller Tech Ltd, Mauritius which again transferred these proceeds of crime to Rawasi Al Khaleej General Trading, Dubai which was incorporated by KRBL DMCC, Dubai in 2007 and accused Gupta was one of the director of the company”. The KRBL DMCC, Dubai is a subsidiary of KRBL Ltd, India of which Gupta is Joint MD. In the Embraer deal, ED had claimed that “Embraer, Brazil had engaged middleman Vipin Khanna to secure the contract for supplying EMB-145 aircrafts to India as a platform for Airborne Early Warning and Control Project.” The ED found Gupta as the common link in laundering bribes received in both AgustaWestland and the Embraer deals. Investigation revealed that the accused had laundered kickbacks to India through KRBL Ltd via its Dubai based entity KRBL DMCC. “KRBL Ltd played an active role to bring the proceeds of crime paid as commission by Embraer SA, Brazil to India via Dubai through banking channels. It has also been revealed that Gautam Khaitan had played a crucial role to launder the proceeds of $5.6 million (Rs 26 crore),” the agency had earlier claimed. Gautam Khaitan is also an accused in the AgustaWestland bribery case and ED has already attached his assets worth over Rs 8.5 crore in India while tracking bank deposits worth several hundred crores in Singapore. In the Embraer case, Khaitan was a director in KRBL Ltd and is known to Anoop Gupta, Anil Mittal and Arun Gupta, all of whom are directors of KRBL Ltd, the agency said. Khaitan was also known to Vipin Khanna and his sons. After the deal was signed by the UPA government with Embraer, “kickbacks amounting to Rs 15.32 crore out of total kickbacks of Rs 26 crore were received in the Indian company KRBL Ltd”. “KRBL DMCC, Dubai executed a sham agreement with Interdev Aviation Services Pte Ltd, Singapore to launder the proceeds of crime to India through banking channels. Investigation revealed that the proceeds of crime amounts to Rs 15.32 crore received by KRBL Ltd in the form of dividend from KRBL DMCC which is nothing but a part of the amount of the kickbacks paid by Embraer,” ED had claimed in its attachment order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-arrests-bizman-establishes-common-link-in-agusta-payoffs/articleshow/80608056.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Passenger limit now raised to six on Pench safari vehicles||Nagpur: The district collector, who is the chairman of disaster management authority, has eased restrictions on tourists for visiting wildlife sanctuaries and parks under Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) and Bor. The rule will also be applicable for Mansinghdeo and Umred-Karhandla wildlife sanctuaries and under buffer zone. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, till now only four persons were allowed in one safari vehicle. Besides, children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 were not allowed. Now, the collector has allowed six persons in one vehicle. Similarly, 20 tourists will be allowed in a 24-seater canter and 15 in 18-seater canter. Pench CCF and field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “We have issued directions at the entry gates to allow six persons. Due to weekend holidays, it will take a couple of days to reflect online.” Nagpur divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar on January 22 promised to ease the restrictions. The order to this effect has been issued by district collector Ravindra Thakre on January 29. Tipeshwar drivers, guides suspended Tipeshwar divisional forest officer (DFO) Subhash Puranik has suspended three guides and safari drivers for obstructing the path of tiger T2C3 during a safari on January 28. These guides were nailed based on a video that went viral on social media. These vehicles not only went close to the tiger but also tried to stop the walking path.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/passenger-limit-now-raised-to-six-on-pench-safari-vehicles/articleshow/80605951.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu crosses one lakh vaccinations, 36% of target||CHENNAI: The number of healthcare providers who received the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu crossed the one lakh-mark on Saturday to 1,05,543 after 8,417 inoculations until 7pm. This is 20% of the 5.19 lakh people registered in the centralised Cowin portal and about 36% of its fortnightly target. In the 2,900 sessions held since January 16, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 2.9 lakh healthcare providers, but hesitancy limited the average daily recipients around 7,000. On Saturday, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 29,400 people through the 294 sessions it had organised, but many vaccination centres were vacant through the day. In Tirupattur, where there were seven centres with a capacity to vaccinate 700 people, only 17 recipients turned up. Aranthangi, Virudhunagar and Cheyyar health units, which had capacity to vaccinate 700, 600 and 500 people, vaccinated only 23 healthcare providers each. There were 26 vaccinations (14 people took Covaxin, 12 Covishield) done at Pudukkottai which had a capacity to vaccinate 200 people. Ramanathapuram vaccinated 26 healthcare providers and Poonamallee health unit vaccinated 29. In absolute numbers, Chennai topped the list on Saturday with 1,607 vaccinations followed by 633 in Salem, 618 in Coimbatore and 525 in Madurai. However, with 6,965 recipients against a capacity of 6,100 in the past 15 days, Coimbatore was the only district to overshoot its 15-day target. The Nilgiris has vaccinated nearly 80% of its 15-day target and Salem 73%. The directorate of public health (DPH) has increased the number of vaccination centres to 295, opened up centres in private hospitals, allowed healthcare workers who have not pre-registered to get themselves vaccinated, but nothing has helped the state improve its numbers. On Friday, the state said it will simultaneously make the vaccine available to frontline workers in police, home and local administration departments from February 1. “We have also written to the Centre asking if we can offer the vaccine to the elderly population simultaneously,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. With cases of Covid-19 coming down swiftly, experts such as senior virologist Dr T Jacob John insist on targeted vaccination strategy. “The aim should be to eradicate the viral infection altogether. To do that, we have to use the vaccine wisely for vulnerable groups as early as possible,” he said. “Inadequate vaccinations may increase transmission, force lockdown and even make it redundant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-crosses-1l-vaccinations-36-of-target/articleshow/80605964.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Many private hospitals keen to join vaccination drive, says Suresh Kakani||MUMBAI: Many private hospitals have expressed interest in becoming Covid-19 vaccination centres, additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani said here on Saturday, but BMC has to check if they have the facilities and staff required. Data on the staff and facilities at the hospitals will be ready by February 15, he added. Officials said hospitals need three rooms to become a centre. “They need a waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. After we get data on the facilities they have, we will train their staff. They will need a five-member team for each shift. Once private hospitals are roped in, vaccinations can be done faster across the city,” Kakani said. In the phase 2, the BMC hopes to vaccinate 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh frontline workers. Now, it can vaccinate around 12,000 people a day, but in phase 2 it is looking at around 50,000. At present, vaccinations are done only at civic and state-run hospitals and centres. In round 2, frontline workers from police, BMC, BEST, MSRTC, fire brigade, security guards at hospitals, maintenance staff, catering and house-keeping staff at hospitals will be vaccinated. Currently, 80 booths across 12 centres are carrying out the vaccination drive in the city, while across state 540 booths are operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/many-pvt-hosps-keen-to-join-vaccination-drive-kakani/articleshow/80607051.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 31, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Jamnagar civic body staffer kills sister, takes own life too||RAJKOT: An employee of Jamnagar Municipal Corporation ended his life after he killed his own elder sister at their home in Rameshwarnagar area on January 26. A murder case was registered at Jamnagar City B Division police station on Friday. According to police, 52-year-old Anil Jethwa strangulated his sister Harshida (67) when nobody was present at home in the afternoon of January 26 and fled away. The killing came to light when the third sibling, Jitendra, returned home from work in the evening. While searching, he found Anil’s body was found behind the RTO office near Lakhota pond the next day. Post-mortem revealed that Harshida died due to strangulation while Anil died by consuming poison. On Friday, Jitendra filed a police complaint stating that his brother had strangulated their sister over unknown reason and later took his own life too. “The reason behind the killing is not known as the complainant said that there was no enmity between the two siblings,” said inspector K J Bhoye. Cops suspect that Anil may have reacted in impulse over some issue and later regretting his act may have killed himself too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-civic-body-staffer-kills-sister-takes-own-life-too/articleshow/80605341.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Price of pandemic: Moneylenders drive sex workers to the brink in Telangana & Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA/HYDERABAD: Out of work for over a year now, scores of sex workers across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, have suddenly found themselves at the mercy of local moneylenders. Desperate for funds, many have succumbed to these abusive pawnbrokers’ demand for steep interests – up to 45% a month – pledged whatever little valuables they had to loan meagre sums or even given in to their sexual demands. TOI spoke to at least 12 of them who are battling such harassment every day. With the lockdown bringing the shutters down on their daily trade and financial institutions being out of bounds – because the majority of them have no relevant documents – they say local moneylenders are their only option, ironically, hoping for their regular customers to return to their doors. The many struggles of the job notwithstanding, these women confess that their usual dhanda is monetarily more rewarding. “At least it saves us from the clutches of these men who like to cash in on our miseries,” said Jyothi*, speaking for her others ‘sisters’ from Yadagirigutta where prostitution is a key trade. Now, with the queue of clients drying up they have taken up temporary jobs – as tailors, house maids, daily wagers – to run their homes and meet medical requirements. But even then, the money is often not enough to buy three meals. On the other side of the border, in Vijayawada, the situation is much worse for those like B Haritha*. The 37-yearold had to keep her hard-earned gold – worth ₹45,000 – as surety, only to avail of ₹10,000 to run her home. “Though I am paying back the interest on time, the moneylender is threatening to sell off the gold and tell my family that I am sex worker, if I deny him sexual favour,” a distraught Haritha said. Sailing in the same boat is K Nirmala*, 24. Burdened with a loan on a 35% interest per month, she is forced to oblige her lender sexually too, to prevent him from revealing her trade to the family. CAUGHT IN THE CLUTCHES OF ABUSEOut “I borrowed 8,000 from my house owner at 45% interest. When I failed to repay, he took away my television and refrigerator. I begged for time but he didn’t listen and insisted on sexual favours. When I denied, he threw me out of the house,” said Karimunnisa* from AP. Over 300 km away in Karimnagar, even Mala’s* fate has taken a similar turn. “I am trying to look for a new house, but they want an advance and I do not have any money. The little I earn from a house maid’s job goes towards paying for the 30,000 I borrowed from three people,” she said adding, “I can’t even approach my clients as all of them want me to do a Covid test first...I don’t know what to do.” Though some organisations have stepped forward to help these women with basic necessities, it clearly isn’t enough. “The situation is pathetic. Though we have supported 130 sex workers and supplying ration and financial support for the last six months, this issue will get resolved only when we can find an alternative mode of income for them. The government should support these women and help them establish small shops and provide skill development,” said N Rammohan, secretary of Help an organisation dealing with trafficking victims in AP. (*Names changed to protect identities of sex workers)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/price-of-pandemic-pushed-to-the-brink-sex-workers-struggle-for-survival/articleshow/80607844.cms||Venu Lanka
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Price of pandemic: Moneylenders drive sex workers to the brink in Telangana & Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA/HYDERABAD: Out of work for over a year now, scores of sex workers across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, have suddenly found themselves at the mercy of local moneylenders. Desperate for funds, many have succumbed to these abusive pawnbrokers’ demand for steep interests – up to 45% a month – pledged whatever little valuables they had to loan meagre sums or even given in to their sexual demands. TOI spoke to at least 12 of them who are battling such harassment every day. With the lockdown bringing the shutters down on their daily trade and financial institutions being out of bounds – because the majority of them have no relevant documents – they say local moneylenders are their only option, ironically, hoping for their regular customers to return to their doors. The many struggles of the job notwithstanding, these women confess that their usual dhanda is monetarily more rewarding. “At least it saves us from the clutches of these men who like to cash in on our miseries,” said Jyothi*, speaking for her others ‘sisters’ from Yadagirigutta where prostitution is a key trade. Now, with the queue of clients drying up they have taken up temporary jobs – as tailors, house maids, daily wagers – to run their homes and meet medical requirements. But even then, the money is often not enough to buy three meals. On the other side of the border, in Vijayawada, the situation is much worse for those like B Haritha*. The 37-yearold had to keep her hard-earned gold – worth ₹45,000 – as surety, only to avail of ₹10,000 to run her home. “Though I am paying back the interest on time, the moneylender is threatening to sell off the gold and tell my family that I am sex worker, if I deny him sexual favour,” a distraught Haritha said. Sailing in the same boat is K Nirmala*, 24. Burdened with a loan on a 35% interest per month, she is forced to oblige her lender sexually too, to prevent him from revealing her trade to the family. CAUGHT IN THE CLUTCHES OF ABUSEOut “I borrowed 8,000 from my house owner at 45% interest. When I failed to repay, he took away my television and refrigerator. I begged for time but he didn’t listen and insisted on sexual favours. When I denied, he threw me out of the house,” said Karimunnisa* from AP. Over 300 km away in Karimnagar, even Mala’s* fate has taken a similar turn. “I am trying to look for a new house, but they want an advance and I do not have any money. The little I earn from a house maid’s job goes towards paying for the 30,000 I borrowed from three people,” she said adding, “I can’t even approach my clients as all of them want me to do a Covid test first...I don’t know what to do.” Though some organisations have stepped forward to help these women with basic necessities, it clearly isn’t enough. “The situation is pathetic. Though we have supported 130 sex workers and supplying ration and financial support for the last six months, this issue will get resolved only when we can find an alternative mode of income for them. The government should support these women and help them establish small shops and provide skill development,” said N Rammohan, secretary of Help an organisation dealing with trafficking victims in AP. (*Names changed to protect identities of sex workers)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/price-of-pandemic-pushed-to-the-brink-sex-workers-struggle-for-survival/articleshow/80608392.cms||Venu Lanka
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Former GLDC officer booked by ACB||Ahmedabad: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) booked the retired joint director of Gujarat Land Development Corporation (GLDC) Karshan Parmar on Saturday, for possessing assets worth Rs 1,65,96,829 more than his known legal sources of income over the years. ACB sources said this figure was 72.01% greater than his legal income. ACB sources said the investigation done based on an application received by them. “With the help of a financial advisor, they assessed his transactions, and property documents obtained from various offices. We have booked him for having assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. ACB sources said the investigation found that Parmar’s legal income during his service years was Rs 2.39 crore while the money he had spent and invested was Rs 4.05 crore. ACB officials said in the last four years 18 offences have been registered against officials of the Gujarat Land Development Corporation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-gldc-officer-booked-by-acb/articleshow/80605956.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Road safety panel backs uniform speed limits||Chandigarh: Speed limits should be rationalised with common limits on similar roads and focus should be on encouraging responsible road behaviour and not just challaning. Deputy commissioner and transport secretary Mandip Brar issued the directions to traffic police, transport and engineering departments during the first meeting of ‘Member of Parliament District Road Safety Committee’ that the transport department had notified on January 14 at the UT guest house on Friday. Officials of the engineering departments of both the administration and the municipal corporation (MC) were told to take immediate action on black spots and accident-prone areas and send an action taken report to the traffic police. Recently, the transport department had sent back the file of proposed changes in the detailed speed limit notification to the traffic police, seeking more clarification on certain points. The police had proposed certain changes in the notification issued back in 2013, suggesting it be simplified so that a layperson can understand the recommended speed limits on particular roads. Although the notification identifies all roads as V1, V2, V3, V4, V5 and V6, traffic police officials recommended that the roads be termed as six-lane, four-lane and two-lane. The police had sought clarity on why speed limit for vehicles was different on roads leading to Mohali as compared to those in the city. In the meeting, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma suggested resident welfare associations and traffic police should meet regularly to discuss steps to control violations, citing instances of auto- drivers commonly breaking the rules. Additional secretary, transport, then replied that diesel autos were banned in the city and only those on CNG/LPG allowed. 60KM ON MADHYA MARG, 50KM ON UDYOG MARG The maximum speed limit is 60km per hour for four-wheelers and 45km per hour for two-wheelers on Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg. On Udyog Marg, it is 50km per hour for cars and 45km per hour for motorcycles. According to rules, speed limit is 60km per hour for four-wheelers on six-lane roads and 45km per hour for two-wheeler. For four-lane roads, the limit is 50km for four-wheelers and 45km per hour for two-wheelers ‘Improve infra at black spots’ Rationalise speed limit with common limit on similar roads Increase number of boards displaying speed limits on roads Speed limit boards should be visible; tree branches should not be covering them Take immediate action to improve infrastructure at black spots and accident-prone areas TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS Licences suspended | Offence 5,192 | Overspeeding 2,815 | Drunken driving 2,095 | Red light jump (Data is from January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2020) Overspeeding (2,146) and riding without helmet (2,007) were among the major violations in 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/road-safety-panel-backs-uniform-speed-limits/articleshow/80607044.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana hopes Centre will loosen purse strings||HYDERABAD: After getting a raw deal in the last year’s budget, Covid-battered Telangana is hoping for more funds and grants in 2021 Union budget. Apart from asking the Centre to enhance the borrowing limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act from 3% to 5%, the state has sought release of backward areas grant, GST compensation and special grants as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. The TRS government has also appealed to the Centre to bear the vaccination cost in the state as it has done for Bihar. Outlining the priorities, finance minister T Harish Rao said to revive the economy from the pandemic and its impact, there is a need to promote public investment. “The additional borrowing limit of 2% of GSDP being allowed to states in the current year needs to be continued in 2021-22 without any conditions,” Harish Rao told STOI. The minister, who wrote a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on budget proposals a few days ago, said it’s an established practice to treat the recommendations of the Finance Commission on transfer of funds to states as an award. For the first time, the Centre has deviated from this practice pertaining to the recommendation relating to special grants to the states to make up for the short fall in tax devolution in 2020-21 when compared to the corresponding amount in 2019-20. “As a result of this, Telangana was denied the special grant of Rs 723 crore in the current year,” he explained. Senior government officials said one of the main concerns of the state is over poor share from the central taxes pool. Though taxes are being increased by way of levying cess and surcharges, the proceeds are not shared with states now, much to their chagrin. “A majority of the cess and surcharges are levied despite the fact that they are included in the state list, impinging on the autonomy of states. There is a need to merge some of the cess with basic rates in the Union budget,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-eyes-more-moolah-from-union-budget/articleshow/80607038.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||BMC bags awards for distributing food kits during lockdown||BMC was awarded a nutrition award at RISE World Summit 2021 for its programme of distributing food kits to the needy during Covid-19 lockdown last year. Officials said BMC won nutrition awards for fighting the hunger pandemic. It also won the award in the open category for the best public-private partnership (PPP) model of its Milkar initiative. It’s planning department, headed by assistant municipal commissioner Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, distributed around 3.7 crore meals averaging around 7.5 lakh meals a day during lockdown, from April 2020. Officials said approximately 4.5 lakh dry ration kits were also distributed. “Dry ration kits were distributed through a software system by introducing Mahadhanya app. The procedure, from selecting the needy to distribution, was online and was audited at every level so we could reach every needy person, including the homeless, jobless, disabled divyang and even commercial sex workers (CSWs), and those from the third gender,” a civic official said. The awards were organised by RISE Infinity Foundation and Idobro Impact Solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-bags-awards-for-distributing-food-kits-during-lockdown/articleshow/80607104.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Divorce or death: Man finds new love||AHMEDABAD: A 32-year-old Bapunagar woman lodged a complaint with the local police on Friday stating that her husband is in an extramarital affair and is threatening to kill himself unless she leaves him. The complainant, Merelin Amin, has said that her husband, Hardik Amin of Rakhial, mentally and physically tortured her. She said he wants to marry the woman with whom he has the extramarital relationship. Bapunagar police have lodged an offence. According to the FIR, the complainant was married to the accused in November 2016. She has mentioned in the FIR that in 2018 she gave birth to a daughter. The FIR said that in recent times, the woman noticed a change in her husband. “The complainant has alleged that her husband began telling her she has become fat and he doesn’t like her any more,” said a police official. “He also began physically torturing her.” The complainant has said her husband has told her father that he wants to marry the other woman. The complainant has mentioned in the FIR that as her husband’s torture intensified, she moved to her parents’ house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/divorce-or-death-man-finds-new-love/articleshow/80605970.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kanpur||Three killed in mishap on Agra-Lucknow e-way in Kannauj||KANPUR: A car carrying four passengers rammed into a truck on Saturday morning due to dense fog on Agra-Lucknow expressway in Saurikh police area of Kannauj, killing three people and injuring one. Ajit (40) of Arjunganj, Lucknow and Manish (40) of Aliganj, Lucknow, besides Pankaj (30) of Shiv Nagar colony in Pratapgarh died on the spot, while one other identified as Kanchan of Surajdeep Complex, Lucknow, who sustained serious injuries, was admitted to a hospital. The four were returning from Agra when the accident occurred near Nagla Vishuna village under the Saurikh police station. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, the police added. UPIEDA security officer Manohar Singh said, “It appears that the car was moving at high speed and rammed into a truck moving at a slow pace on the road. Unable to see due to the dense fog, the car driver lost control of the wheel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-killed-in-mishap-on-agra-lko-e-way-in-kannauj/articleshow/80607519.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Job given to Kothagudem DMHO’s wife||HYDERABAD: The wife of Dr G Naresh Kumar, deputy district medical and health officer (DMHO) Kothagudem, who succumbed to Covid-19 last year, has been appointed as an administrative officer at the director of public health’s office. An government order issued on Saturday, announcing G Pavani’s appointment stated that it was a special case and she was offered the job on compassionate grounds. Dr Naresh Kumar was one of the first Covid warriors to have died of the virus while performing his duties as nodal officer at the Covid-19 care centre in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. “After careful examination of the matter, hereby permit director of public health & family welfare to appoint G Pavani as administrative officer Grade II,” the GO stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/job-given-to-kothagudem-dmhos-wife/articleshow/80607042.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Don’t cut trees for Panchkula bridge for now: HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana government to not cut any tree for the construction of a bridge connecting sectors 20 and 21 with trans-Ghaggar sectors in Panchkula till a decision is taken on the representation of a petitioner. A division bench of chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha and justice Arun Palli issued the directions on January 29 while disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Swathay Shiksha Sahyog Sangathan. Haryana’s additional advocate general submitted the authorities shall take a decision on the representation dated December 22, 2020, filed by the petitioner at an early date and the decision would be communicated to the petitioner. The NGO had filed a PIL against cutting of trees for the project. It had submitted a representation to the Haryana government in December 2020 but had filed the PIL after receiving no response. Haryana assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had inaugurated the construction work of the bridge on February 11, 2020. The width of the bridge would be 16 metre. The work of the construction was allotted to a firm for Rs 60 crore. The government had claimed that with the construction of the new bridge, distance between trans-Ghaggar sectors and sectors 20 and 21 would be reduced by about 4km to 7km. At present, there is no bridge connecting Sectors 24 to 28 with Sector 20. The court order said, “In view of the undertaking made by additional advocate general, Haryana, the petition stands disposed of. In the meanwhile, till the decision of the petitioner’s representation, the respondent authorities shall not proceed to cut any tree in respect of the dispute raised and involved in this petition.” Recently, the Punjab forest department had transferred half an acre required for the project to Panchkula. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had laid the foundation of the project on September 12, 2019. KEY PROJECT The bridge is part of ring road PR-7 connecting Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh Will act as by-pass road for traffic moving from Delhi to Shimla and back, cutting off Zirakpur town in Punjab Traffic moving to Chandigarh airport from Yamunanagar in Haryana and Saharanpur and Roorkee in UP and back will also bypass Zirakpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-cut-trees-for-pkl-bridge-for-now-hc/articleshow/80607048.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 31, 2021||Trichy||Trichy MSMEs turn to railways to produce components locally||TRICHY: With a fall in work orders from Bhel Trichy, the ancillary MSME units that were relying on the company have started exploring other opportunities in the least explored sector to survive. A group of entrepreneurs involved in the fabrication and engineering sector have commenced preliminary discussions and field visits with southern railway to produce components for railway establishments in Trichy. With more than 100 ancillary units that were producing components for Bhel Trichy having closed down due to lack of work orders and mounting debts, Bhel Small Scale Industries Association (Bhelsia) said that they approached the Railway ministry for work orders. As an outcome of representation made with minister Piyush Goyal, representatives of Trichy MSMEs on Saturday visited the Golden Rock railway workshop to ascertain the type of components that can be locally manufactured. The workshop management presented the requirements. Bhelsia sources said that they can manufacture components for passenger coaches and good carriers. The components in the railway track system including posts can be manufactured here. Around 70 to 80 components in the first phase were identified as potential products for local production. “So far, the Golden Rock workshop was outsourcing its products to MSMEs that are located far away places. Since we have the potential to manufacture them locally, giving us the orders will be a win-win situation for us. We can deliver quality components in a short span of time,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president, Bhelsia said. As there are logistical and quality advantages, the MSMEs here said that stainless steel and carbon steel components can be produced in Trichy using the existing expertise of Bhelsia members. “As our MSMEs are experts in welding technology, we can produce components for the railways using the existing infrastructure,” Rajappa said. Around 50 MSMEs found the production of railway components viable and have planned to commence the production by April 2021 after availing required clearances. Each of the engineering MSMEs does a turnover between Rs 5 and Rs 15 crore per year and has prior experience in welding technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-msmes-turn-to-rlys-to-produce-components-locally/articleshow/80607055.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 31, 2021||Chennai||2 who travelled to Kerala among 505 fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Five people died and the state added 505 fresh cases to its Covid-19 registry on Saturday, when the state had intensified its strategies for “goal zero” deaths. The cumulative toll rose to 12,350 and case tally to 8,37,832. On Saturday, 526 patients recovered and here were 4,575 active cases until noon on Saturday. “We have aggressively pushed the curve down but we can’t afford to ignore face masks, social distancing, screening and testing or vaccinating vulnerable people,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “We should learn our lessons from the rising cases in Brazil, where cases have peaked after a fall. Everyone thought there was herd immunity, but it did not help them,” he said. Public health experts say increasing evidence show that herd immunity can wane and newer strains may be able to trick the immune system. Two of the new patients had travelled from Kerala by road, public health officials said. On Saturday, barring Ariyalur, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram, all districts reported fresh cases. Chengalpet topped with two deaths, Chennai, Namakkal and Tirupattur had one each. The worst affected district, Chennai, reported 145 cases. Coimbatore came next with 48 cases and Chengalpet 46. All other districts reported less than 25 cases and 20 of them reported less than 10. The 11 northern districts had 262 new cases and four deaths, the eight western districts 128 cases and one death. The southern districts clocked 63 cases, the central zone 52 cases and no deaths. The northern districts together had 2,486 people still under treatment. While the west had 1,143 active infections, there were 552 in the south and 386 in the central districts. Active cases were below 20 in five districts — Tirupattur (19), Ariyalur (15), Ramanathapuram (11), three each in Kallakurichi and Perambalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-who-travelled-to-kerala-among-505-fresh-cases-in-tn/articleshow/80606000.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Need to learn art of living with Covid: Nitin Gadkari||NAGPUR: Appealing to citizens to continue taking precautions against novel coronavirus, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said the need is to learn the art of living with Covid-19. “Even today, we cannot say that we have completely defeated the virus and that life has come back to normal. Vaccines have still not been given to the majority of the citizens,” he said. Gadkari was speaking at a programme organized on Saturday to felicitate NGOs from city which helped needy persons during the pandemic. “Citizens of Nagpur are a perfect definition of ‘humanity’. Amid the peak of Covid-19, when the city was seeing almost 3,000 cases a day, these organizations came forward and helped the needy,” he said. More than 400 organizations were felicitated in presence of NMC officials and dignitaries at Suresh Bhat auditorium. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, chairman of NMC standing committee Vijay Zalke, former mayor Nanda Jichkar, additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, DCP zone 3 Lohit Matani and other prominent persons from the city were present. In his welcome speech, Zalke recalled the initial days of lockdown when everyone was afraid of moving out of their houses and everything was shut, “but these selfless citizens and organizations came forward to help others”. Tiwari in his address thanked the efforts taken by the organizations. He spoke about how food was provided in abundance to every member who was quarantined with help of various organizations. Tiwari said, “The doctors and health workers did not care about themselves and worked day and night to treat the Covid patients. Such selfless efforts can never be forgotten.” “Many organizations took care of the old who were unable to move out of their home and provided food and vegetables to them. Some organizations also looked after home of people who were in institution quarantine. Such examples are inspirational for all of us.” The programme was moderated by deputy commissioner Milind Meshram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/need-to-learn-art-of-living-with-covid-gadkari/articleshow/80606050.cms||Anchal Bhatia
January 31, 2021||Trichy||Part of semi-ring road to open next year||TRICHY: With the construction work on two major bridges between Trichy-Madurai and Trichy-Pudukottai national highways put on fast track mode, National highways authority of India (NHAI) is confident of completing a portion of the much-delayed semi-ring road project by 2022. The 11-km stretch that links the two national highways branching off from Trichy city will minimise travel duration and eliminate congestion in the core city. NHAI Karaikudi project implementation unit (PIU) sources said that civil work for a two-lane bridge across Koraiyar river near Trichy corporation’s STP is nearing completion with only approach roads pending. Similarly, a road over bridge (RoB) across the railway tracks in Kumaramangalam village has been taken up as the design suggested by NHAI was approved by the railway board recently. The RoB is slated to be completed by early 2022. Once the two bridges take shape, officials said that the 11-km stretch between Panjappur (Trichy-Madurai) and Mathur (Trichy-Pudukottai) will get two more BT layers for commissioning. “If there is no unseasonal rain, we are sure about completing the Panjappur-Mathur stretch in a year,” an official source said. Due to the absence of the link, vehicles approaching Trichy international airport situated on Trichy-Pudukottai NH from Madurai and southern districts were taking a 19km congested stretch through the city. Once the link happens, the time duration in reaching the airport will come down by 15 to 20 minutes during peak hours as the TVS tollgate and Subramaniapuram localities can be bypassed. Once the work on the two bridges is completed, people can even access the Trichy-Thanjavur national highway through the Panjappur-Mathur stretch as Mathur is already connected with Thuvakudi on Trichy-Thanjavur NH through another stretch of the semi-ring road. “We have to lay one more BT layer on Mathur-Thuvakudi stretch. The road will be commissioned in less than a month,” the NHAI source said. Conceived in 2006, the semi-ring road aims at decongesting Trichy city by linking five national highways passing through the city including Trichy-Karur, Trichy-Dindigul, Trichy-Madurai, Trichy-Pudukottai and Trichy-Thanjavur. The 43-km-long semi-ring road is sectioned into stage 1 and stage 2. While stage 2 covering Panjappur to Thuvakudi is nearing completion, stage 1 is in land acquisition phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/part-of-semi-ring-road-to-open-next-year/articleshow/80607040.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 31, 2021||Pune||Stress on Fuchs’ diagnosis as cataract surgeries resume||Pune: Pashan resident Vinayak (60) continued to complain about blurred vision even after undergoing cataract surgery earlier this month. Upon investigations, he was diagnosed with Fuchs’ dystrophy — an inherited corneal condition, which also manifests in old age like cataract, but needs deeper evaluation and a different line of treatment.As four in 100 patients with cataract are likely to have Fuchs’ dystrophy too, doctors have warned against missing out on the condition while treating the patients. There has been a flurry of patients presenting with fully mature cataracts after Covid cases have started declining. The resumption of cataract surgeries post-Covid decline calls for detailed investigation of deeper corneal conditions like Fuchs’ dystrophy for better vision and quality of life, experts said.“Many patients have been delaying their cataract surgery due to fear of contracting Covid-19 at hospitals during the early months of the pandemic. These patients are now presenting with dense and fully mature cataracts. In quite a few cases, we have observed that this deeper corneal condition (Fuchs’ dystrophy) was overlooked resulting in less or almost no vision improvement from cataract surgery,” eye surgeon Jai Kelkar of the National Institute of Ophthalmology (NIO) said. NIO is a tertiary care eye hospital in Pune.Most of these patients were operated on for cataract at hospitals in the rural areas. “When the two conditions come together, the cornea may need a replacement, despite the person having undergone flawless cataract surgery,” she said.“There is the likelihood of missing out on the condition even in cases of mild cataract. The condition is subtle and it may not get picked up on routine slit-lamp examination,” Kelkar said, adding “Specular microscopy is an immensely useful tool to diagnose early forms of such cases.”Eye surgeon Yogesh Chowgule, said, “Patients with Fuchs’ dystrophy may also develop cataracts. In cases of mild or moderate Fuchs’ with cataracts, cataract surgery may be the only recommended treatment. The Femto-assisted cataract surgery is another technological advancement which offers safer cataract surgery in these challenging cases.”However, in cases of advanced Fuchs’ dystrophy, both cataract surgery and a corneal transplant may be recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stress-on-fuchs-diagnosis-as-cataract-surgeries-resume/articleshow/80607053.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 31, 2021||India||UP police open history sheets of Kafeel Khan, 80 other ‘criminals’||LUCKNOW: Suspended paediatrician at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College, Dr Kafeel Khan, is on the list of 81 ‘criminals’ whose history sheets were opened by UP Police on Saturday. Khan currently has four cases lodged against him, including in one that relates to the death of 63 infants. “The history sheet enables police to keep round-the-clock vigil on a criminal,” said a senior police officer. Reacting to UP Police’s move, Khan posted a video on Twitter. “UP government has opened my history sheet. They will keep a watch on me throughout my life. It would have been better if they deployed two policemen to keep 24-hour watch on me. At least, I would have been saved from fake cases slapped on me. Return my job to help me work for the nation,” he said in the post. Arrested in 2017 after 63 infants died at BRD Hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage, Khan landed behind bars again in 2018 on charges of creating nuisance at Bahraich district hospital. On January 29 last year, Khan was arrested for his speech at an anti-CAA protest. NSA was invoked in the charges against him. He was released after eight months on Supreme Court’s directive. He’s out on bail and presently residing in Jaipur. Circle officer (City), Virendra Pratap Singh confirmed to TOI that Khan’s history-sheet was opened because at least four cases are registered against him. Khan’s advocate K N Tiwari said police have filed chargesheets in three of them: for the deaths of 63 children at the Gorakhpur hospital; for hate speech in Aligarh last year; and for creating nuisance at a district hospital in Bahraich in 2018. “The 2018 bank fraud case in Gorakhpur’s Gulheria Bazar police station is still under investigation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-police-open-history-sheets-of-kafeel-khan-80-other-criminals/articleshow/80608068.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Six pairs of special trains announced||AHMEDABAD: Western Railway has started six pairs of festival special trains that will pass through Ahmedabad. These will run from February to April. Divisional railway manager Deepakkumar Jha said one of them, Bandra-Ahmedabad-Jaisalmer will be a weekly special train. It will originate from Bandra at 12.15pm on Fridays and will leave Jaisalmer at 7pm on Saturdays. The second train, from Bandra to Jammu, will also be weekly train. It will leave Bandra on Saturdays at noon and Jammu on Mondays at 5.45am. The third will be from Gandhidham to Tirunelveli. It will leave Gandhidham on Mondays at 4.40am and Tirunelveli on Thursdays at 7.40am. The fourth train which will be between Okha and Howrah. It will leave Okha at 8.40am on Sundays and Howrah on Tuesdays at 9.10pm. The Porbandar-Howrah train will leave Porbandar at 8.50am on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The sixth train will be from Gandhidham to Bhagalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-pairs-of-special-trains-announced/articleshow/80606030.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Trichy||CEO warns of action against digital transfer of money for votes||TRICHY: Chief electoral officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo said that appropriate action will be taken against those who make digital transfer of money to voters for votes. He was speaking to reporters after participating in the valedictory function of the training programme for the returning officers of 20 districts in Trichy. To a query on political parties digitally transferring money to voters’ account for vote, Sahoo said, “Election Commission of India has issued clear cut instructions to check all such issues. We had a meeting with all the enforcement agencies such as income tax, customs, enforcement directorate and officials from Reserve Bank of India and other bank officials. Clear cut SOPs are getting ready. We will act against such practices, based on the evolved procedure laid down by the election commission.” Sahoo said that as per the order of the ECI, a four-day training programme for returning officers was organized in Trichy. National-level master trainers imparted training to 118 participants from 20 districts, he said. On increasing the number of polling stations and booths considering the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, “The respective district election officers (district collectors) will prepare the list of the state, central and public sector employees. Based on their strength the number of polling booths will be decided.” Moreover, the ECI has come with standard operating procedures (SOP) such as disinfecting polling booths, sanitization, social distancing, wearing masks and gloves to deal with the Covid-19 situation, he said. On the preparation to conduct the polls, he said, “Since several EVMs have arrived from various states, all of them have to be checked properly. First level checking has been completed in 26 districts and steps are taken to complete the process in the remaining districts before February 5. District election officers are in the process of preparing the required polling stations, booths.” When asked whether the election will be held in a single phase of multiple phases in Tamil Nadu, he said that all the political parties in the state had appealed to conduct the polls in a single phase. However, the election commission has to take the final decision, Sahoo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ceo-warns-of-action-against-digital-transfer-of-money-for-votes/articleshow/80607078.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Trichy||Demand for subways on Trichy-Madurai highway to avoid vehicles hitting animals||TRICHY: Incidents of wild animals getting hit by speeding vehicles while crossing the Trichy-Madurai national highway near Manapparai in the district has been on the rise as it is posing a threat to both commuters and wild animals. On Saturday, a car hit an Indian Gaur near Akkiyampatti while it was crossing the highway. The animal didn’t suffer major injuries and managed to run into the forest. The frontal portion of the car was partially damaged. “There has been 20 such incidents in the last two months,” said S Venkatesh, 35, a local from Akkiyampatti village. Most of these incidents go unnoticed if there are no casualties. “On most occasions, the animal dies after it is hit by lorries or buses,” said a senior official from the forest department. There is a sizable Indian gaur population of Thuvarankurichi forest range besides wild boar, spotted deer, rabbits and peacocks. The population of Indian guar is migratory in Thuvarankurichi as they migrate from Western Ghats through Dindigul. While it is usual for these animals to cross Thatchamalai to Periyamalai reserve forest, they often meet with accidents while corssing the Madurai – Trichy national highway passing in between the two reserve forests. A 2.5km stretch of the highway that bisects the two-reserve forest is preferred by the animals to cross the highway. Forest department officials said that a subway could be a possible solution to avoid such accidents. Forest officials from Thuvarankurichi range had submitted a proposal to the district forest officer last year in this regard. They had suggested subways at three locations on the 2.5km stretch so that animals can cross the two forests without hitting vehicles. “While there has not been any development over it year while Covid-19 also stalled discussions on the project, forest department is expected to restart talks with the highways department,” said a senior official from the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-for-subways-on-trichy-madurai-highway-to-avoid-vehicles-hitting-animals/articleshow/80607061.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 31, 2021||Lucknow||Herculean task: Two rounds to go, 59% health staff still unvaccinated||LUCKNOW: District health authorities face a Herculean task of vaccinating nearly 30,000 health workers against Covid-19 in the next two rounds. Of about 51,000 health workers to be vaccinated in six rounds of phase one, around 41% have got the jabs in the first four sessions conducted so far. This means that the authorities need to cover the remaining 59% in the next two rounds to be held on February 4 and February 5. The mop-up round for those who missed out in phase one will be held on February 15, the day when the second dose of the vaccine will be administered to those who got the first shot on January 16. Considering the fact that the overall turnout against the target in four rounds of phase one has been 56%, health officials will have to come up with a strategy not only to make full use of the vaccination capacity in the city, but also motivate health workers to come forward for vaccination. An analysis of the rounds held on Thursday and Friday shows that the turnout was low at community health centres meant for rural health workers. Main factors for low turnout include discrepancies in the lists provided to centres and personal issues like hesitancy for vaccination. Nearly 10% health workers were in exempted category, that is, those who have health issues due to which vaccination is not recommended to them. What has made the task even more challenging is that as per government’s instructions, the second phase also needs to be completed in February. Meant for frontline workers like police and civic personnel, the four rounds of the second phase will be held on February 5, February 11, February 12 and February 18, besides the mop-up round on February 22. In Lucknow, 61 hospitals, both in private and public sector, have been made vaccination centres with total 180 booths. If they work in full capacity, over 18,000 people can be vaccinated in a day. However, maximum 43 centres (round three and four) have been used so far. "We will have to work with full capacity to meet the target. A meeting to review performance of centres which have recorded 40% or lower turnout against their target has been called by the district administration on Monday-Tuesday. A point-wise analysis of factors for low turnout will be done. Based on the conclusion, a strategy will be made for the remaining rounds," district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/herculean-task-two-rounds-to-go-59-health-staff-still-unvaccinated/articleshow/80607602.cms||Yusra Husain
January 31, 2021||Trichy||DVAC seizes cash from sub-registrar’s office||TIRUVARUR: Sleuths from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) raided a sub-registrar’s office in Mannargudi and recovered Rs 40,600 unaccounted cash. Based on a tip-off that the officials and staff of the sub-registrar office Panthaladi area in Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district had been indulging in widespread irregularities and accepting bribes to violate rules, the DVAC sleuths headed by deputy superintendent of police, Nandhagopal arrived at the office on Friday evening. At around 7pm, the team entered the office and conducted a search. During the process, officials recovered Rs 40,600 cash reportedly received by the staff as bribe. Following that, the team conducted interrogation with the sub-registrar Sangeetha, clerk Senthilkumar and a broker Sekar till Saturday morning. Based on their statements, the DVAC authorities booked all the three under various sections. Further investigations are on, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dvac-seizes-cash-from-sub-registrars-office/articleshow/80607089.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kanpur||Kidnapped Jhansi doc dumped in MP, crawls to freedom||JHANSI: A 62-year-old doctor from Jhansi, who had gone missing on Friday morning, was found in Morena, Madhya Pradesh, where he was chained and dumped in the fields by kidnappers. The doctor lay in the open through the cold night and then gathered courage and crawled for over a kilometre till he reached the main road and sought help from a passerby in unshackling him. Dr R K Gurbakshani, a physician who lives in Sipree Bazar area of Jhansi had gone on morning walk on Friday as usual, but did not return home. His family members got anxious and informed the police. A case of kidnapping was lodged under Section 365 IPC and police launched a hunt by setting up two teams. Police started investigation and saw him walking towards the highway in CCTV footage, but failed to get further leads about his whereabouts till late night. On Saturday morning, police got a call from the Civil Lines police station in Morena, MP, informing that Dr Gurbakshani was there. A police team and his relatives rushed to bring him back. Dr Gurbakshani revealed that three men had kidnapped him at gunpoint and bundled him inside a car saying they needed him to treat someone and assured to release him later. They travelled the whole day along highways, roads and villages. Later, he was shifted on a motorcycle and then made to walk. In the late evening, the kidnappers took him to a lonely farm field, tied him up using iron chains and locks, dumped him there and left. After lying in the open for almost the entire night and the kidnappers not returning, the doctor mustered courage and crawled for over a kilometre till the main road and sought help from a passerby in unshackling him. Soon, he saw a policeman coming and told him about the incident. A PRV team arrived and took him to hospital and informed Jhansi police. Dr Gurbakshani told reporters three men kidnapped him from Jhansi saying he is being taken for treating someone, but he later overheard them talking about making a ransom call on Saturday. SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P, said, “We are probing all the clues minutely and trying to identify the kidnappers. The victim is in a deep state of shock and so we have asked him to rest. We will talk to him once he becomes normal to collect more details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kidnapped-jhansi-doc-dumped-in-mp-crawls-to-freedom/articleshow/80607547.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Union Budget 2021: Biotech & pharma sector look for finance minister’s healing touch||HYDERABAD: With the Covid-19 pandemic putting the spotlight firmly on the biotech and pharma sector, after years of being ignored by successive FMs the industry has its fingers crossed for key prescriptions in the upcoming Union Budget for boosting the health of the sector. K Anand Kumar, managing director, Indian Immunologicals Limited, pointed out that while the pandemic demands increased budgets for improving healthcare infrastructure at all levels, the sector expects some tax relaxations on R&D to ensure affordable vaccines and drugs for the masses. Pointing out that the sector is not only of national importance but a large exporter as well, Parag Agarwal, CFO, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, urged the FM to restore the weighted deduction on R&D expenditure as well as the exports incentive scheme. Agreeing, Pharmexcil director general Uday Bhaskar said the sector expects not just restoration of the weighted deduction benefit but enhancement of the limit from 150% to 200% and introduction of new R&D incentive schemes that are easy to implement. He also pointed out that the sector is suffering because of mismatch of GST on APIs (18%) and finished formulations (12%) and suggested a simple mechanism to ensure that companies do not suffer due to blockage of input tax credit on account of inverted rate of taxation. “The Budget can focus on aspects that help India emerge as a major supplier of not just vaccines but pharmaceutical products. In PLI-2, the government must try to attract investments from MNCs that have manufacturing bases in other countries including China, to set up units in India as well. It would not only result in reduction of pharma imports but would also boost exports,” said, Sanjay Singh, partner, deal advisory and head of life sciences, KPMG. He also rooted expects the FM to lay a roadmap for increasing in spends on healthcare from the existing 1.3% to 3% in a phased manner. Natco Pharma Ltd’s CEO Rajeev Nannapaneni said he expects a large allocation in public health institutions as we need to build a strong public health care system that can deal with chronic illness and pandemics. Bulk Drugs Manufacturers Association of India (BDMAI) senior vice president, RK Agrawal said there is an urgent need to improve the ease of doing business and sought measures for tighter regulation of imports. In the agri biotech space, Ram Kaundinya, director general, Federation of Seed Industry of India (FSII), sought improved IP protection, reduced bureaucratic approvals & NOCs and a positive recognition for firms investing in biotech R&D.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biotech-pharma-sector-look-for-fms-healing-touch/articleshow/80607046.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Delhi deputy chief Manisha Sisodia awarded for work in education||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday was given the Mahatma award for promoting excellence in education. He was also the chief guest at the Mahatma Award ceremony held on 73rd death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The award is instituted by Aditya Birla Group to celebrate the work of social impact leaders and change-makers. Rajashree Birla and Ratan N Tata have been some of its recipients. The other awardees this year include Azim H Premji, founder chairman, Wipro, and Shabana Azmi, actor, among others. Speaking at the event, Sisodia, said, “What’s unfortunate is that even in today’s India, there are people who are subscribing to the ideology that killed Mahatma Gandhi.” Acknowledging that quite a lot of work had gone into improving the education system since the independence, he said, “Delhi government is working towards setting up a minimum benchmark for quality education in its schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-awarded-for-work-in-edu/articleshow/80607065.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Lucknow||UP Police opens history-sheet of Dr Kafeel Khan and 80 others||LUCKNOW: The history-sheet of 81 criminals were opened by UP Police on Saturday and the list includes suspended paediatrician of Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College, Dr Kafeel Khan, who currently has four cases lodged against him. Arrested in 2017 after 63 children died at BRD Hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage, Khan again landed behind bars in 2018 on charges of creating nuisance at Bahraich district hospital, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. On January 29 last year, Dr Khan was arrested for his speech at an anti-CAA protest in Aligarh Muslim University. NSA was invoked in the charges against him and he was released after eight months on Supreme Court’s directive. He’s out on bail and presently residing in Jaipur. ‘History-sheet opened as Dr Kafeel has four cases against him’Circle officer, City, Virendra Pratap Singh, confirmed to TOI that Dr Kafeel’s historysheet was opened as at least four cases are registered against him. “The history sheet enables police to keep round-the-clock vigil on a criminal,” said a senior police officer. Kafeel’s advocate, K N Tiwari, told TOI that Kafeel has been booked in four cases, in which police have filed chargesheets in three, including deaths of 63 children in Gorakhpur hospital, hate speech in Aligarh last year and for creating nuisance at a district hospital in Bahraich in 2018. “The 2018 bank fraud case in Gorakhpur’s Gulheria Bazar police station is still under investigation,” he said. Reacting to UP Police’s move, Kafeel posted a video on Twitter. “UP government has opened my history-sheet. They will keep a watch on me throughout my life. It would have been better if they deployed two policemen to keep 24-hour watch on me. At least, I would have been saved from fake cases slapped on me. Return my job to help me work for the nation,” he said in the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-police-opens-history-sheet-of-dr-kafeel-and-80-others/articleshow/80607615.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 31, 2021||Varanasi||Girl raped in Kushinagar||GORAKHPUR: A seven-year-old girl was raped under Nebua Naurangia area of Kushinagar district on late Friday evening. The girl has been referred to Gorakhpur Medical College. On the complaint of the girl’s father, a case was registered against unidentified person on Saturday. ASP, Kushinagar, AP Singh, gave directions on resolving the case after inspecting the spot. MLA Vijay Dubey visited family members of the girl in the village on Saturday. As per reports, the girl, along with her family, was sitting around a bonfire near door of her house on Friday evening. Around 7 pm, family members went inside for dinner, but girl was there only. Later, when family called her inside, she was found missing. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/girl-raped-in-kushinagar/articleshow/80607488.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 31, 2021||Lucknow||UP Lokayukta junks plaint against former information commissioner||LUCKNOW: UP Lokayukta Justice Sanjay Mishra has issued a show-cause notice to one Urvashi Sharma who had filed a complaint against former state information commissioner in 2018. Sharma’s security money has also been forfeited as her complaint has been seen as “malicious and frivolous” under section 13 of the UP Lokayukta Act, 1975. Sharma had accused Bisht of not hearing cases as per RTI rules, of taking land from the Lucknow Development Authority in violation of rules etc. The Lokayukt had issued a notice to LDA for an explanation which submitted that there were no discrepancies found in the matter. The show-cause notice says that based on the replies by LDA and the government, there is no need for any further action in Sharma’s complaint and has sought her reply on whether her complaint was made with any malafide intention. The Lokayukta has now dismissed Sharma’s complaint, and has sought explanation on why proceedings under section 13 should not be initiated against her for filing frivolous complaint that “appears to be malicious with a motive to tarnish the image on baseless allegations”. She has been asked to furnish reply by February 22, 2021. The section under which action has been initiated provides for imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and a fine if found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lokayukta-junks-plaintagainst-ex-ic/articleshow/80607605.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC seeks reply on dumpsite plans||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday asked the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) to file a report in response to a PIL complaining about the Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) decision to create a garbage dump in the middle of the city, by planning a refuse transfer station in residential area. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora on Friday also asked the Bhavnagar civic body to justify its decision of setting up of solid waste management project in the residential area called Chavdi Gate. The HC has sought replies from the authorities by February 26, when the court will take up the matter for further hearing. This happened over a PIL filed by Bhikhabhai Jajadia through advocate Sandip Munjyasara. The petitioner urged the high court to quash a resolution passed by the BMC in October 2019 to make a solid waste management project – refuse transfer station to dump the garbage of entire city at one location for further processing and treatment. The site selected for this project is Chavdi Gate which is in the middle of the city. The PIL cited a BMC report which revealed that by 2018 end, as much as 185 tonnes of garbage generated in the city every day was collected by the garbage collection vehicles and was transported directly to the dumpsite located on Kumbharvada-Nari Road, nearly 6km from the city. The PIL questioned whether the civic body had obtained any green clearance for the project and studied its feasibility because existence of such dumpsite will adversely affect on the health of citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-reply-on-dumpsite-plans/articleshow/80606005.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Anti-fraud units, AI to prevent graft in health insurance scheme||JAIPUR: The health department has put in place a system to identify fraud claims using artificial intelligence. Anti-fraud units have also been constituted to take forward suspected fraud filing of claims under the Ayushman Bharat–Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya BimaYojana 2021-2023 (AB-MGRSBY) re-launched by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday. Now, it won’t be easy for hospitals to encash fraud claims under AB-MGRSBY.The health department claimed that alleged incidents of filing of fraud claims came into light in Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojna, which was launched by the previous BJP government in 2015. The state government has taken the complaints seriously which pointed out the involvement of corruption in the scheme. “Anti-fraud units will ensure any sorts of filing of fraud claims,” said Gehlot, during the re-launching of AB-MGRSBY. The state government is now taking help of technology for identifying suspected fraud insurance claims processed by hospitals under AB-MGRSBY. Through artificial intelligence, the health department will analyse all claims booked under the scheme. The artificial intelligence will point out patterns which are not common. These cases will be scrutinized further through medical and data audit before being declared as fraud cases. By making use of data available of filing of claims by hospitals, artificial intelligence will immediately pick the uncommon pattern and indicate the anti-fraud unit to conduct scrutiny of the claims. If any hospital, which does not have facilities for cardiac surgery, and the hospital filed a claims of cardiac surgery, the use of artificial intelligence will immediately pick the odd filing of the claims. The health department had found a hospital which was doing a particular surgery which was not happening in any other hospital in the numbers which it was doing. The hospital performed 96% cases of that particular surgery, which drew suspicion. Gehlot, after coming to power, had directed the officials to take measures for preventing such irregularities which were allegedly reported in newly launched Ayushman Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/anti-fraud-units-ai-to-prevent-graft-in-health-insurance-scheme/articleshow/80606036.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Dehu Road Cantonment gets a site at Aundh chest hospital, 20 km away||Pune: Healthcare workers and doctors working with the Dehu Road Cantonment Board will be vaccinated at the Aundh Chest Hospital, about 20 km from area. The distance has caused worry among registered beneficiaries here. Resident medical officer, Dr Suneeta Joshi, said they have been asking about a vaccination plan for cantonment ever since Covid inoculations began in the district. “Authorities had earlier said they would only start a vaccination site at the Pune Cantonment Board hospital and that other staffers from the two other cantonments would be vaccinated there. But a few days ago, the administration started a site at Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB). Now they have told us to send our staff in batches over the next one week to the Aundh chest hospital,” Joshi told TOI on Saturday. A total of 325 health workers, including six doctors, are registered beneficiaries from the Dehu Road Cantonment. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Zilla Parishad Pune said, “It would not be possible for us to open vaccination centres at each place in the district. We will be vaccinating them at nearby sites. We might start a booth at Dehu Road Cantonment during the second round of the drive.” Health workers at the Dehu Road Cantonment said vaccinations are yet to start for the Dehu cantonment. “We had to pursue the matter with them. Why didn’t they consider us in the first place? It’s been two weeks since the drive started everywhere, but not a single staffer has been vaccinated here,” said a health worker who was on Covid duty at the cantonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dehu-road-cantonment-gets-a-site-at-aundh-chest-hospital-20-km-away/articleshow/80607059.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Surat||Insurer to pay businessman mediclaim for treatment in blacklisted hospital||SURAT: The Surat district consumer dispute redressal forum has ordered a private insurance company to pay a businessman Rs 2.65 lakh mediclaim which it had rejected on the grounds that the hospital in which he took treatment was ‘black listed.’ Businessman Ankur Narang, a resident of City Light, had moved the consumer court in 2017 after his medical claim was rejected by IFFCO-TOKIO General Insurance from whom he had purchased a policy of Rs five lakh for one year beginning September 2015. Narang had suffered injuries after a blast in his factory godown after fire. He was rushed to ‘Metas of Seventh Day Adventist Hospital’ on July 26, 2016 and got discharged on July 29. He was operated for for fracture on his right hand and a plate was inserted. However, the plate got cracked later and he was again operated in November 2016 when he incurred Rs 2.65 lakh as treatment cost. Narang’s claim was rejected by the company saying that the hospital was in its ‘excluded list.’ “We were neither informed by the company about the blacklisted hospitals nor informed that the claim will be not passed if we taken treatment there. We were not given any list of blacklisted hospitals at the time of insurance purchase,” Narang stated in his complaint. Later, a compromise was reached between Narang and the company which agreed to pay him the actual medical expense. The court upheld the compromise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/insurer-to-pay-bizman-mediclaim-for-treatment-in-blacklisted-hospital/articleshow/80605350.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 31, 2021||Madurai||J P Nadda confirms alliance with AIADMK for assembly polls, appeals for TN people support||MADURAI: Breaking the ice over the alliance, BJP’s national president J P Nadda on Saturday confirmed that the party that entered into an alliance with the AIADMK for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls would continue for the assembly polls. The two parties would work together for the development of the state and the nation. It ended uncertainty over the alliance after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam openly declared that their party would continue the alliance with BJP in the presence of home minister Amit Shah during a government programme in Chennai on November 22. Though the leaders met Shah in the hotel later on the day and had a closed-door meeting for nearly 20 minutes, nothing came concrete over the alliance until today. The BJP leaders, both national and state level, have been dodging the question over the alliance. “BJP’s alliance with the AIADMK is confirmed for the ensuing Assembly elections. The two parties would work together for the development of the state and the nation,” said Nadda while a public meeting of the party, which was stated to be the launch of the party’s election campaign. He also recalled the AIADMK founder and former CM M G Ramachandran and his procedure Jayalalithaa and hailed them that they always strived to ensure development for the state through nationalism. He also appealed to the public of TN to support BJP and said, “Only the BJP can protect the culture of Tamil Nadu, and the people of the state should come forward to support the party.” Earlier in the day, AIADMK ministers C Vijayabaskar, Sellur K Raju and R B Udhayakumar called on Nadda. Not missing the opportunity to extol the classical Tamil language to strike a chord with the people of the state, Nadda said Tamil is the oldest language in the world and Prime Minister Narendra Modi quotes Tamil language in many places and even recited Thirukkural to inspire the soldiers in Ladakh. “If people of Tamil Nadu take care of the Kamalam (Lotus/BJP), the Kamalam will take care of them,” he said, seeking support of the TN people for a win-win situation. He recalled Modi’s speech at UN and said he recited Kaniyan Pungundranar’s “Yaadhum Oore Yaavarum Kelir and said, “`When the right person is in the right place, right decisions are taken,’’ he said. He continued that the development and safety of the nation had been assured when Modi assumed charge as the PM, and the destiny of Tamil Nadu also changed. BJP leaders, including state president L Murugan, said that it had been proved many times that when an election campaign was launched in Madurai, it ensured that the party was able to win and establish its rule in the state. BJP Tamil Nadu state president in his speech said that the NDA alliance was strong in the state and that they would sweep the elections. The Thevar sentiments were also played upon by the speakers, who highlighted the importance of the late leader, in their speeches. Ealier in the day, Nadda held a meeting with the core committee of state unit and social media/IT Wing to discuss the party prepardeness for the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-aiadmk-tieup-intact-nadda/articleshow/80608005.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
January 31, 2021||Lucknow||Consultancy clinic at Lucknow University to provide paid ‘Paramarsh’||LUCKNOW: The subject experts from Lucknow University will now provide consultancy services to private and public sector organizations and will charge a fee for their services. The service will be provided through LU’s Consultancy Clinic (LUCC) named ‘PARAMARSH’ that was launched on Saturday. On the day of the launch, the university got four clients — one from government sector and three private ones. From government sector, the quality control department of the city’s premier medical institute, King George’s Medical University, registered for the consultancy services by paying a token fee of Rs 500. KGMU’s quality control department has requested the university to do a cost-benefit analysis of a certain process. Among the private companies seeking the university’s constultancy services, two are from travel and legal domains while the third is a service provider for non-banking finance services. All the four will send a detailed proposal for which they need consultancy to LU’s PARAMARSH and thereafter depending on their requirements, the university will decide which department holds expertise in the respective area and will be assigned the consultancy responsibility. The university holds expertise in various areas, hence the consultancy services will be a source of additional revenue generation for LU which has been struggling with financial constraints and is largely dependent on government aid and grants. “From providing legal consultancy to finding out about government schemes for an organization to testing a product like conducting a sanitizer quality test, all of this can be done in LU laboratories. The university will provide consultancy in various sectors,” said PARAMARSH director Ritu Narang, a faculty of business administration department. She said LUCC for PARAMARSH’ stands for ‘Lucknow University Consultancy Clinic Provides Analytical Review with Audited and Measured Assistance and Recommendation for Sustained Handholding’. The clinic will provide services to private and public sector organisations, government departments and agencies, NGOs, co-operative societies and financial institutions. It will advise the clients in designing, implementing, measuring, analysing and reviewing policies, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/consultancy-clinic-at-lu-to-provide-paid-paramarsh/articleshow/80607598.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Lucknow||Soon, Ganga aartis from Bijnor to Ballia at 1,100 sites along river||LUCKNOW: The state government plans to begin Ganga aartis at 1,100 sites along the river course between Bijnor and Ballia to boost religious tourism, connect citizens with the Clean Ganga campaign and turn it into a people’s movement. A government spokesperson said, this would be a cultural and spiritual inspiration for youth and strengthen their bonds with Ganga. The department of Namami Gange has identified 1,038 villages along both sides of the river in a 200km stretch, where the tourism department will create new platforms for performing aarti, a major draw at Kashi’s Dasaswamedh ghat. These sites will be managed in collaboration with residents and the ritual will be performed at a scheduled time every day. The state government spokesperson said, the ghats will be constructed in all 1,038 villages, which would be developed as religious sites. 14 districts set to get STPsThe first point of the ‘aarti’ will at Bijnor, where the Ganga enters UP and end at the last village in Ballia, the far-east district touching Bihar. The Jal Shakti department issued directions to various departments in December to develop ancient and historical religious sites and temples in these villages and promote them as tourist spots,” he said. As part of Clean Ganga programme, the government will begin sewage treatment plants in 14 districts. Once these are completed, the state will have 41 districts with sewage treatment plants (STP). “At least 62 STPs will be set up to link with Clean Ganga programme and other rivers too. The Namami Gange department revealed the capacity of 62 under-construction STPs will be 1,522.12 million litre per day,” the official said. He added there are 104 STPs operational in the state, whose total capacity is 3,298.84 MLD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-ganga-aartis-from-bijnor-to-ballia-at-1100-sites-along-river/articleshow/80607613.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 31, 2021||Trichy||Kanimozhi says AIADMK has made progress only in corruption||TRICHY: Taking a dig at the advertisement campaign by the AIADMK, which says the state is marching gloriously in the development path, DMK MP Kanimozhi on Saturday said that development is only in corrupt practices of the state ministers. Kanimozhi was in Pudukottai district on the second day of her campaign on Saturday. Addressing a gathering at Malaiyur near Karamabakudi, she said that several crores are spent on the poll campaign of the chief minister in the name of Vetrinadai Podum Tamilagam (triumphantly marching Tamil Nadu). She said that the chief minister has been mocking DMK leader M K Stalin for meeting farmers, but proclaims himself to be a farmer who can understand their issues. Like Stalin, DMK leader M Karunanidhi was also not a farmer, but he waived of farm loans to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore and gave free electricity to farmers. “One need not be a farmer to solve farmer’s issues but requires compassion and human approach. Both these qualities are lacking in the CM,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kani-says-aiadmk-has-made-progress-only-in-corruption/articleshow/80607109.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Trichy||TN Aids society joint director dies in accident||TRICHY: Dr J Stanley Michael, the joint director of Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (Tansacs), died after the car he was driving rammed a truck near Siruganur in Trichy district in the early hours of Saturday. He was 49. Michael hailed from Coimbatore. The accident occurred when he was returning to Chennai after visiting his sister in Crawford in Trichy. When the car was approaching Nedungur village on the Trichy – Chennai national highway, a truck going in front of the car came to a sudden halt. Michael lost control and the car rammed the rear end of the truck. He died on the spot. The Siruganur police retrieved the body and sent it to a government hospital for postmortem. Police arrested the truck driver and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-aids-society-joint-director-dies-in-accident/articleshow/80607094.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Lucknow||LDA hikes rates of vacant plots in Vrindavan Yojana||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Development Authority has increased rates of its vacant plots in Vrindavan Yojana on Rae Bareli Road. According to LDA officials, 250 plots under the project will now be available at Rs 24,000 per square metre. Earlier, the rate was Rs 20,500 sqmt. As per LDA records, a total of 3.79 lakh square feet land will be sold at an estimated cost of Rs 84 crore. The development authority will open registration for the vacant plots from February 1. Registration of plots can be done at LDA headquarters in Gomtinagar. LDA is also planning to set up camps at Vrindavan Yojana for registration process. “The decision is set to increase the revenue of the development authority. The income will be used in paying salaries to employees and providing additional services to LDA allottees,” said LDA vice-chairman Abhishek Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-hikes-rates-of-vacant-plots-in-vrindavan-yojana/articleshow/80607592.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Rajkot||Absconding rape accused arrested in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A rape accused who had been on the run for the past two months in Rajkot was arrested by Ahmedabad crime branch from Amreli and handed over to Rajkot police on Saturday. The accused identified as Jaimin Patel was booked along with four others for raping a woman at Abu, Ahmedabad and Gandhidham under the pretext of helping her get a job. The woman had come in contact with key accused Maldev Bharwad who called her to Ahmedabad and took her to Mount Abu to attend a corporate event. The accused intoxicated her and raped her. Later, they raped her repeatedly at Bopal in Ahmedabad and also in Gandhidham. Acomplaint of rape was filed at Mahila police station against the five. Cops had nabbed the four accused, while Jaimin was absconding. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/absconding-rape-accused-arrested/articleshow/80605358.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Insurance sector pins hope on Budget||HYDERABAD: With the pandemic driving home the importance of having adequate protection against risks, the insurance sector has its hopes pinned on the government taking steps to boost insurance penetration in the country. Krishnan Ramachandran, MD & CEO, Max Bupa Health Insurance pointed out that currently, 18% GST is levied on health insurance premium, which not only makes in-patient care expensive but is also a serious impediment in building out-patient products, which constitutes around 60-70% of healthcare spends. “The government should consider lowering the prevailing GST rate on health insurance. This will not only enhance penetration but also help the government collect more tax by broadening the customer base,” he added. He also suggested increasing the deduction on purchase of health insurance policies for parents from Rs 25,000 to Rs 50,000 (parents less than 50 years) and from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh for parents over 60 years of age to encourage more people to opt for health insurance for elderly parents. On the life insurance front, Santosh Agarwal, CBO- Life Insurance, Policybazaar.com, said currently, under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the taxpayers can avail a maximum exemption up to Rs 1.5 lakh on investments made under life insurance, bank FD’s, ELSS, PPF, NSC, SSC and SSSC. “Over the years, with rising incomes, it is difficult to leverage all possible deductions within the current limit. Considering the utmost importance of life insurance, it is important to either consider making a separate deduction section for premiums paid for life insurance or enhance the current limit of Section 80C from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh,” he added. He also said that FM must look at making pension received from annuity plans tax-free to encourage more people to invest in pension products and financially secure their life post-requirement. Meanwhile, talking about the overall insurance sector, Aatur Thakkar, director, Alliance Insurance Brokers Pvt Ltd, said the government should look at boosting the insurance sector through funds infusion by raising the FDI limit from 49% to 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/insurance-sector-pins-hope-on-budget/articleshow/80607054.cms||Swati Rathor
January 31, 2021||Trichy||295 women constables turn eligible for RPSF duty||TRICHY: The passing out parade of the fifth batch of 295 women recruits for the Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) was held here on Saturday. The mass recruitment of about 3,000 women constables was conducted across the country last year for RPSF to ensure better security of women passengers and children travelling on trains, officials said. The fifth battalion of RPSF in Trichy was entrusted to impart training for 295 recruits. The training commenced on November 25, 2019. However, due to lockdown, the training session was suspended for three months. The recruits hailing from various states were taught on functioning of railways, security and crime on railways, forensic, disaster management. They were also taught about Railway Act, Railway Property Unlawful Possession Act, minor acts during the training. Besides, they were also imparted practical training in bomb disposal, firefighting, mob dispersal and they also handled advanced weapons, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/295-women-constables-turn-eligible-for-rpsf-duty/articleshow/80607102.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||15 properties sealed over tax in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In a drive conducted against property tax defaulters, the AMC sealed 15 properties in the North West and South West zones of the city on Saturday. These properties had tax dues ranging from Rs 1.10 lakh to nearly Rs 5 lakh. AMC officials said that nearly 100 properties have been sealed over the past week in these two zones. The officials said that of the 15 properties sealed on Saturday, eight were in the South West Zone. Of the eight, three were in the Jodhpur ward. The sealed Jodhpur ward properties were situated in Shivalik Corporate, Shyam Tirth Apartments, Dev Priya Complex, and Pushpak Apartments. One Jodhpur property was occupied by a tenant. The owner of a property in Sarkhej had not paid property tax to the tune of Rs 4.98 lakh. The other three properties sealed in the South West Zone were in Vejalpur. The properties were in Shiv Complex, Sankalitnagar, and Karishma Complex. The seven properties that were sealed in the North West Zone were all in Sola. Of the seven, two were in Ganesh Meridian and the remaining five were in Shapath Hexa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-properties-sealed-over-tax/articleshow/80606037.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Udaipur||LLB student arrested in Udaipur for rape threats to journalist||UDAIPUR: Udaipur police on Saturday arrested an LLB student for giving rape and life threats to a Delhi-based journalist. Rohini Singh, the scribe, had taken to the social media and complained to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Udaipur IG Satyaveer Singh urging the government to take action against the man. “Our team arrested Kapil Singh, 26, son of Padam Singh Meena, a resident of Semari, for threatening the lady journalist on social media. He is presently living in Sector 14 at a relative’s home,” the IG told reporters. Surprisingly, the accused is a second-year student of LLB course and the cops too were amused that someone graduating in law would dare such an act despite knowing the consequences. A case has been registered under Sections 506 and 509 of the IPC and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act. During interrogation, the accused told police that he did not agree with the posts that the journalist posted on her twitter account regarding the farm laws and the farmer’s movement. He was infuriated by her views and hence he sent her the threatening posts. On receiving the post, Rohini had tagged Ashok Gehlot and IGP Udaipur demanding urgent action. Gehlot instructed the police department to take quick action. The cyber cell and technical experts were pressed into service which traced the culprit within a few hours and nabbed him. Later, Rohini through her tweets said disagreements should never be an excuse to indulge in abuse and rape and murder threats. ‘We need safer spaces for women-online and offline’. Later, in another tweet she also said that she knew the seeds of hatred had not been sown by the accused, neither is he responsible for making questioning a crime in democracy. ‘Hence, I request the police to let him go after counselling’, she tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/llb-student-arrested-for-rape-threats-to-journalist/articleshow/80606038.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Trichy||DIG bags award for project to curb crime against women||TRICHY: Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Z Annie Vijaya, won the Asia-Pacific SABRE award for her initiative to bring down violence against women and children. She received the award and a certificate from the director of SABRE, Hester Cecilia, at an event held in Bharathidasan University on Saturday. It was project Shield, a brain-child of Annie Vijaya, that fetched her the honour. The five-month-old project aims at creating a safe and violence-free community for women and children. Under this project, crimes against women and children that took place in the last five years in Trichy and nearby districts were analysed. Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Pudukottai besides Trichy district were brought under the purview of the project. Following this, a total of 150 hotspot villages, where more number of criminal cases were registered, were identified. As many as 12 activities were planned under the project including community-based awareness creation, petition mela, setting up of free counselling centres and providing training to police personnel. “Over 50,000 people have been reached out to over the past five months for redressal of their complaints. Through this initiative, confidence among women was increased so that they believe in police and there is deterrence among the perpetrators of crimes,” said M Devasitham, head, strategies development, International Justice Mission (IJM), which is part of the Shield project. Terming it a team effort, Annie Vijaya thanked SABRE for recognising the work of all people who worked with project Shield. She said only a society which respects women and children can progress. She added that they were planning to reach out to more number of schools and colleges so that a better society could be created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dig-bags-award-for-project-to-curb-crime-against-women/articleshow/80607123.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Varanasi||AISA, ABVP students clash on Banaras Hindu University campus||VARANASI: Two groups of students belonging to All India Students Association (AISA) and Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) clashed on Banaras Hindu University campus on Saturday evening over display of an alleged poster during a demonstration of AISA in support of farmers agitation. The BHU chief proctor Prof Anand Chawdhary said, “Without seeking prior permission for holding any event as per the rule of varsity the students associated with AISA had started demonstration at Mahila Mahavidyalaya crossing. In the meantime students belonging to ABVP also reached there and a scuffle took place between both groups. Proctorial board personnel and police separated both groups. Future course of action in this episode will be decided soon.” Earlier, the AISA activists carrying placards and handheld drums were raising slogans in support of farmers protest and also against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union agriculture minister Narendra Sigh Tomar. They also burnt posters of Tomar. In the meantime some students passing through the area raised objection over a poster containing a slogan- ‘Na Modi, Na Yogi, Na Jai Shri Ram, Desh ko bachayega mazdoor kisan’- when they were pushed back by the protesters. Within few minutes those students returned with ABVP activists and they also indulged in lauding slogans like Jai Shri Ram. Later, a clash took place between them when ABVP supporters tried to snatch the placard with such slogan. SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi, who reached there with heavy police force said that both the groups had been separated and asked to return their hostel rooms. Further action in this episode would be initiated after getting BHU proctorial boards report, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/aisa-abvp-students-clash-on-bhu-campus/articleshow/80607465.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Kerala files RTI plea, seeks probe details from Customs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an extraordinary move, the Kerala government has filed an RTI application with the Customs preventive commissioner office here, seeking clarifications on the general procedures binding on the agency in duty evasion cases and the details of the ongoing probe into the import of dates by the UAE consulate from the Middle East. The RTI query, in general, seeks clarifications from the Customs’ side on the basic procedures the agency might follow while dealing with cases pertaining to violation of conditions under which it gives duty exemption for import of goods. It asked the agency, in particular, to reveal the progress of the ongoing investigation (into the dates import case), persons involved in it and their organizational affiliations. Customs had registered a case against the import of 17,000kg of dates to Kerala, using diplomatic channels, without paying taxes. The agency is of the view that there was gross mismatch in the quantity of dates brought and the amount distributed in the state by the government. A similar case was registered by Customs in connection with the import of Holy Quran. Both cases were registered close on the heels of the detection of the gold smuggling case involving misuse of diplomatic baggage by high-profile individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-files-rti-plea-seeks-probe-details-from-customs/articleshow/80608119.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Gandhi Darshan Corners to be set up in schools: CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said Gandhi Darshan corners will be set up in higher secondary schools of the state to introduce the new generation to Gandhi’s ideals. He said it will provide a suitable platform to students to familiarize with Gandhiji’s ideas.He was speaking after inaugurating the renovated office of the newly established Wildlife Research and Conservation Awareness Centre and Gandhi Study Centre at Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur, through video conferencing. He said that the thinking of the state government is to spread the ideas of truth, non-violence and satyagraha of the Father of the Nation to the new generation.The chief minister said the Gandhi Study Centre would play an important role in disseminating Gandhiji’s ideas to the youth. He also announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the centre.Gehlot said that Gandhi Study Centres already been established in the universities of the state will be revived. He assured full support from the state government for opening Gandhi Study Centres in other universities as well.Gehlot said that Bapu’s contribution to the freedom movement is being given place in the school curriculum.Eminent Gandhian thinker Dr N Subba Rao said that today the language, religion and regional divides are separating people. In this way, Gandhiji’s idea of keeping humanity connected is very relevant. He said all the countrymen should take a pledge to make India violence-free, hunger-free, drug-free and corruption-free, an India of Gandhijis dream.Minister of arts and culture B D Kalla, minister of state for higher education Bhanwar Singh Bhati, JNVU VC Pravin Chand Trivedi, were among those who spoke on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gandhi-darshan-corners-to-be-set-up-in-schools-cm/articleshow/80606043.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Underground BSNL cables worth Rs 80,000 stolen in Kilpauk||CHENNAI: The theft of underground cables worth Rs 80,000 from open drains has left many Kilpauk residents in the lurch with about 250 BSNL connections being affected. Police have registered a case. BSNL officials said four incidents of copper cable thefts were noticed since December last year in Kilpauk. The officials said the theft had disrupted 250 BSNL lines in the area. The modus operandi has been the same — using open storm water drains to steal the cables. According to the complaint lodged by the sub-divisional engineer, Kellys, of the BSNL, the recent theft reported on Wednesday on the side of Poonamalee High Road where stormwater drain work is in progress. Police accessed the CCTV camera footage from a nearby traffic junction and found that three people were involved in stealing the cables around 3am near the Gurusamy Road junction. Police tracked the suspects. They were found them roaming suspiciously at Tailors Road junction near Ega theatre on Thursday night. A BSNL official said a similar cable theft was reported near Ritherdon Road junction and two other places in Vepery and Kilpauk. Some of the BSNL staff-arranged for surveillance at Vepery and Kilpauk and managed to pick up a bike,, belonging to one of the cable thieves. It was later handed over to police. However, police are yet to track the suspects. Surveillance in the areas have been stepped up to apprehend the cable thieves after the theft on Tailor’s Road junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/underground-bsnl-cables-worth-rs-80k-stolen-in-kilpauk/articleshow/80606051.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Rampal Jat denied entry into Raj Ghat, detained in Delhi||EDITED: 410Jaipur: While the farmers protesting against the agriculture laws observed ‘Sadbhavna Diwas’ on Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary by holding a day-long fast at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border, Rajasthan’s farmer leader Rampal Jat was detained at New Delhi’s Daryaganj police station as he started observing fast at the pavement across the road after being denied entry into Raj Ghat on Saturday morning. Among others who were detained were Haryana’s Nehra Khap head Satyanarayan Nehra, Kisan Mahapanchayat state general secretary Jagdish Narayan Khudiala, Batti Lal Bairwa, state youth general secretary Pintu Yadav. They were later released at 9pm. “We observed fast at the police station in a peaceful manner. We had informed the Delhi police commissioner about our fast through an email on Friday. However, we were denied entry into Raj Ghat due to VIP movement at 10am on Saturday. So, we started observing fast inside our vehicle,” said Rampal Jat. “Around 12.30pm when we again reached the samadhi (Raj Ghat), we were not allowed to enter. We paid obeisance to the samadhi, observed silence for two minutes and continued our fast at a pavement across the road. Later, police took us to Daryaganj police station,” he added. “They released us at 9pm. Asked about the reason for detention, police officials said that under Section 65 of Delhi Police Act they are empowered to detain anyone for 24 hours. I told them that this is a violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. They can’t detain anyone without a solid reason. This is a debatable matter and can be challenged,” said Jat. “This is an insult to the farmers and farmers’ leaders. In this country, undoubtedly, a ruler in the form of Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) has taken over, who doesn’t care about farmers and labourers. They only want to weaken the farmers’ movement,” he added. On Mahatma Gandhi’s Martyrdom Day, the protesting farmers observed a day’s fast at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border on Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s call. A goodwill march was also taken out by the farmers from Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha in a statement said, “The oppressive attitude of the government failed to crush the movement led by Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border.” “The farmers have decided that the agitation will not end till the Centre’s agricultural laws are repealed,” it added. Meanwhile, Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) and Loktantraashala organised a rally at Bhim in Rajsamand remembering Mahatma Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rampal-jat-denied-entry-into-raj-ghat-detained-in-delhi/articleshow/80606048.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Youth kidnaps, weds minor girl, arrested||CHENNAI: A 27-year-old youth was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act for kidnapping and marrying a minor girl at Melmaruvathur temple, police said on Saturday. The accused and the girl were traced to a house in Perumbakkam and the minor was rescued. The girl was produced before a judicial magistrate and admitted to the government home for girls in Chennai. She will be handed over to her parents after a medical examination to confirm sexual abuse. Police said the youth, Praveen of Kodungaiyur, had met the girl at Government Stanley Hospital where he was being treated as an in-patient last month. The girl regularly visited a relative admitted at the same ward as Praveen. The two grew close and chatted over phone. On January 18, the girl did not return home after attending a function in a relative’s house, following which her family lodged a person missing complaint. Police tracked her mobile number and learned it was last turned off on January 18 near Theradi in Thiruvottiyur. Her last call records led them to a number that was still active near Perumbakkam, using which they traced her. The girl told police that she had informed Praveen about her visit to Thiruvottiyur and that he had taken, wed her in Melmaruvathur temple. The Thiruvottiyur all-women police have booked for kidnapped and under relevant sections of the Pocso Act. He was remanded in Puzhal prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/youth-kidnaps-weds-minor-girl-arrested/articleshow/80606064.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Khaps’ message in Hisar & Jind: Protest must go on||JIND/HISAR: Khaps (social clans) in Haryana’s Jind and Hisar districts continued to come in support of the farmers protest on Saturday, four days after the agitation had come under fire over violence during the January 26 tractor parade in Delhi. In Jind, 17 khaps organised a mahapanchayat (meeting) at Khatkar toll plaza on the Jind-Patiala highway to press the Centre for repealing three contentious laws. In Hisar, Satrol khap, during another mahapanchayat in Narnaund, decided to ban the entry of leaders of ruling BJP-JJP coalition in Haryana in its 42 villages and to also set up a camp at Tikri, one of the protest venues bordering Delhi. In the mahapanchayat at Khatkar, presided over by Khera khap president Satbir Pahalwal, khaps decided to remove flags of all political parties, begin a campaign for fixing kisan union and tricolour flags on houses in villages, and start a padyatra (march on foot) in support of the protest on February 7. They also warned the BJP-JJP state government of highway blockades if it continued to shut down internet services. Satrol khap, during the meeting in Narnaund’s Dada Devraj Park, said it had also kept 20 tractors and 1,000 people on standby in case help was needed at at any of the protest venues bordering Delhi. Thousands of people — men, women and khap leader — turned up for the mahapanchayat in Jind, held in the wake of a video which has gone viral in which a teary-eyed farm leader, Rakesh Tikait, says he would die but not let the agitation stop. Tikait is expected to reach Kandela village of Jind on February 3. sarvjatiya Daran, Khera, Majra, Thuwa, Deshwal, Chahal, Binain, Mor, Boora, Lohan, Baraha and Naugama are among the khaps which attended the Jind mahapanchayat. Satrol khap president Ramnivas Lohan said the government should cancel the three laws at the earliest and enact a new law guaranteeing MSP, otherwise it would have to suffer in future.  In Jind, the state government also faced criticism for shutting down internet services in 17 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khaps-message-in-hisar-jind-protest-must-go-on/articleshow/80607160.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ludhiana||More villages pass resolution to join farmers’ protest||Ludhiana: There were many who had thought that the farmers’ agitation would fizzle out post the violence during the tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, but farmers across Punjab, including those from Ludhiana, have managed to dispel all those thoughts with their never-say-die approach. The mobilization drive in many villages in Ludhiana district suggested that more farmers have started going to the dharna site near Delhi borders. Many villages in the district have passed resolution asking the villagers to fully support the farmers sitting on protests near Delhi borders and become a part of the agitation. “We are getting tremendous support from the village panchayats in Samrala as many of them have passed resolutions asking the villagers to move towards the dharna sites to support the farmers. On Friday night, we got 50 farmers from villages in Samrala and the number is expected to increase in the coming days. The number at dharna sites is expected to increase drastically in coming days,” said Sanjok Singh, Samrala president of Lok Chetna Lehar, a social organisation that is part of farmers’ mobilization programme. Talking to TOI from Kundli border, he said, “The agitation may have had a setback, but there is more enthusiasm among the farmers now as compared to mood in the past few days.” He alleged that the government’s cruelty acted as a catalyst for the extensive support to the farmers’ agitation. Mobilization drives are in full swing in several villages in Jagraon area. “Two days ago, a local youth club, which is sending farmers to the protest site, carried out a tractor rally in the village and asked villagers to move towards Delhi border in groups. A bus, carrying around 50 farmers including me, is on the way to the dharna site. We will continue to go to the Delhi borders to support our brothers till these laws are not repealed,” said Maha Singh of Chakar village. A prominent villager from Chakar, Chamkaur Singh, whose son Kamaljit Singh also left for Tikri border on the same bus, said buses carrying farmers have also left from Dalla, Kaunke, Malla. A cavalcade from Kaunke also started from the village on Saturday. He said jathas (group of people) from many other villages would also leave for the dharna sites in the coming days. “Everywhere announcements are being made to strengthen the farmers’ agitation,” he said. Meanwhile, many villages in Samrala have passed resolution lending support to farmers’ agitation. “We passed a resolution on Friday wherein we extended full support to the ongoing agitation. We decided that five persons from village will go to the dharna site after every three days to support our brothers sitting on a protest on Delhi borders. We will continue to fight peacefully till the government doesn’t repeal these farm laws,” said Avtar Singh, sarpanch of Samaspur Diwala village in Samrala. He said village panchayats in Dhindsa, Barma, Bondal and Mushkabad have also passed similar resolutions. Box: Morale booster Mushkabad was the first village in Samrala where a panchayat decided to move a jatha (group) to Delhi to boost “morale” of farmers in the aftermath of violence in Delhi. Malwinder Singh, sarpanch of Mushkabad, had confirmed that they held a meeting of villagers on Thursday and decided to send one member from each family in the village to Delhi border to motivate the farmers. He said if any family doesn’t obey to this decision, they will have to pay Rs 1,500 as expenditure for travel of that person as penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-villages-pass-resolution-to-join-farmers-protest/articleshow/80606057.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 31, 2021||Thane||RPF duo saves man falling into platform gap at Kalyan station||KALYAN: Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) constables at Kalyan station saved a 79-year-old man trying to board a moving train on Friday. They saved him from falling into the gap between the train and the platform.  RPF officials said when Punjab Mail was leaving platform 4, passenger Masoor Bafuur Ahmed, a south Delhi resident, tried to board the moving train. He was about to fall into the gap between the train and the platform. Constables S P Yadav and Jeetendra Gujar posted at the platform rushed to pull him onto the platform. Later, Ahmed thanked the RPF personnel for saving his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/rpf-duo-saves-man-falling-into-platform-gap/articleshow/80607190.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Election commissioner reviews poll-related work in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Election commissioner Rajiv Kumar had a meeting with the officers at the collectorate during his three-day visit to Jaisalmer and took feedback about election-related activities and processes. He also discussed various measures to improve the election process and sought information about simplification of website and app used in election system.District collector Ashish Modi , SP Ajay Singh , ADM and other officers were present in the meeting. He informed the officers about many activities related to elections. Kumar also spoke about the benefits of e-EPIC, necessary improvements and suggestions to make it more effective and popular etc.He discussed various ways to ensure concrete plans so that youth can get their voter IDs on turning 18. Ashish Modi told Kumar that the EVMs are kept safely under the security of guards and are inspected every month inspection. He informed Kumar about the geographical, historical aspects of the district and about the registered voters, SVEEP activities etc.Further simplification of election system was also discussed.Prior to the meeting Kumar visited the Indo-Pakistan border adjoining Tanot and boosted the morale of BSF jawans and officers there. He was received by BSF sector north DIG AK Singh and Commandant DS Ahlawat.He paid tributes to soldiers killed in the line of duty during 1965 and 1971 wars at Vijay Stambh in Tanot area. He also offered prayers at Tanot Mata temple. Kumar also visited Shahgarh Bulj, the remote desert area. He also went to the shifting dunes area and boosted morale of jawans deployed there. He visited Ramdeora and prayed for peace and prosperity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/election-commissioner-reviews-poll-related-work-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80606054.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Remove premium cap, include NFSA families: Gehlot to Modi||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to cap the funding of Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme and maintain its financing in the 60:40 Centre-state ratio.Rajasthan is currently bearing around 80% cost of the national health scheme, which the state has widened to almost double the number of beneficiaries here and rechristened it as Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojana.Chief minister Gehlot, while launching a revised version of the scheme in the state on Saturday, urged the PM to add the beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) in the Ayushman Bharat scheme, as has been done by Rajasthan.The Centre’s version of the health insurance scheme includes just the beneficiaries of a socio-economic community survey conducted by the Centre in 2011. As per the 2011 survey, the insurance scheme would have covered nearly 59 lakh families in the state, but by adding the NFSA beneficiaries, the Ayushman Bharat scheme in Rajasthan has been extended to around 1.10-crore families.“This scheme should be implemented across the nation after clubbing NFSA and socio-economic community survey beneficiaries, like we have done in Rajasthan,” Gehlot told reporters.He added, “The Centre should remove the cap of Rs 1052 premium per family for the scheme. In Rajasthan, the premium has come to Rs 1662 per family, but the Centre is paying 60% of Rs 1052. The difference is being borne by Rajasthan. The government of India has limited itself to just 59 lakh families in the state going by its 2011 survey."The chief minister said that health has been the top priority of his government and recollected the implementation of Jeevan Raksha Kosh around two decades ago and the free medicines scheme in 2010. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that around 86-crore people benefitted from the free medicines scheme, while nearly 34-crore benefitted from the free tests scheme. Rajasthan is now working on allowing ‘inter-state portability’ to benefit patients travelling to other states for treatment. "We are second in the country in corona vaccination; we will be a leader in implementing the health insurance scheme too," said Sharma.In response to a question, principal secretary for finance Akhil Arora said that all procedures of CONFED shops have been made online to address complaints of non-availability of medicines prescribed for pensioners. "The facility would be available by next month. Funds have been arranged and procedures have been simplified," Arora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/remove-premium-cap-include-nfsa-families-gehlot-to-modi/articleshow/80606052.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Weekends are for glamping now||CHENNAI: The sun, sand and sea…. having all the bounties of nature spread out before them is what made their vacation all the more memorable for R Sathyanarayanan and his family. Especially as they could enjoy it all from the comforts of their luxurious tent, far away from the other guests at the resort in Mamallapuram. "The tent is roomy, airy, and has all the facilities. My children could play outside and we had a nice porch covered with a mosquito net," says Bengaluru-based engineer Sathyanarayanan, who had come down to Chennai in December. "It was the first holiday we were taking since the pandemic and lockdown so being in the tent also made us feel safer as we were far away from other guests." Glamping or glamorous camping – which means not missing out on any of the luxuries even while enjoying the great outdoors – is gaining popularity among tourists. Though the trend has been in vogue for a while, it’s particularly appealing for people who, after having spent months cooped up at home, now want to travel but also adhere to safety protocols. And glamps are the perfect solution as they are located in scenic locations, offer a host of outdoor activities for the family and are a safer bet than hotel rooms to ensure social distancing. "We decided to have a glamping tent at Radisson Blu Resort Temple Bay, Mamallapuram, about six months ago but opened it out in November, when people began coming in," says Vikram Cotah, COO, GRT Hotels & Resorts, who has stayed in glamping tents in the Himalayas, Meghalaya and Kenya. "We knew people would be looking for exciting new alternate accommodation that is also Instagrammable." Glamping offers city dwellers the experience of being in touch with nature without missing out on the modern amenities they are used to. So the 450sqft tent, pitched on the Savannah lawn at Temple Bay, offers a stunning view, jacuzzi, four-poster bed, 55-inch TV, sofa and good WiFi. "Guests can order room service and we follow Covid-19 safety protocol," says Cotah. Moonstone Hammock in Maharashtra is also seeing a steady influx of domestic tourists. "Now we are getting couples and families from Gujarat and Maharashtra. Glamping has become more appealing as people have recognised the importance of connecting with nature, especially after having spent months indoors. And since many are still reluctant to fly, local glamping has become more appealing," says co-founder Megh Doshi, who is based in Mumbai and opened the facility in 2016 with four of his college mates. "We used to meet up and travel together once a year and after a trip to the hills when the camping season was on, we realised that the plains don’t offer too many facilities that allow you to connect with nature," he says. "After remaining glued to computers and phones, people want to sleep on the grass, dip their feet in a flowing river and recharge themselves." Moonstone Hammock has eight glamping tents in Karjat and three in Pawna. "We do have brick and mortar washrooms, but the glamping tents have twin sized mattresses, pillows, and charging points," says Doshi. After months of lockdown, many other facilities are just opening up. Nehamrit Farms in Maharashtra now accepts guests only from Friday to Sunday. "We take in only 18 guests for three days a week. Then we sanitise the property," says Neha Mishra, who runs the 20-acre farm along with her father. The facility, in the foothills of Malshej Ghat, has villas as well as five glamping tents. "Our guests are usually people who have a sense of adventure but are also used to a certain level of luxury and comfort," says Neha, adding that at present they are getting guests from Mumbai, Pune, Nasik, and Delhi as well as expats. "We don’t offer WiFi as the idea is to disconnect and our guests also enjoy the digital detox." The Himalayan Glamping Retreat in Munsiyari will open its doors only on February 1. "We closed during the pandemic and January is also cold, so we decided to open later," says manager Arjun Bisht, adding that a lot of enquiries and bookings was coming in. The seven glamping tents have beds, cupboards and attached bathrooms. "We don’t have TVs but all tents have an amazing view of the Himalayas," says Bisht. "With international tourism taking a hit, domestic tourism has picked up and people are flocking to the hills, especially on weekends and holidays." To ensure safety, each guest will be assigned their own table in the dining room for the entire duration of their stay. "Also, after one person checks out, we will sanitise the space and the next guest can check in only two days later," says Bisht. With glamping catching on, hotels and resorts are looking at offering similar experiences. "We have also set up a luxury container duplex (LCD) in the same area as our glamping tent," says Cotah. "As part of our eco-friendly initiatives, we have upcycled two 40ft containers to make a complete luxury suite with a living room, bedroom with a view of the Bay of Bengal, and a sit-out to enjoy the sea breeze." Cotah says they have been open for bookings since November. "It is proving to be popular among guests as it ensures they can maintain social distancing while being able to enjoy their natural surroundings," says Cotah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/weekends-are-for-glamping-now/articleshow/80606063.cms||Priya Menon
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||JMRC plans to extend Badi Chaupar corridor||JAIPUR: With an aim to decongest the entire Walled City, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) plans to extend the Jaipur Metro (east-west) corridor from Badi Chaupar to Transport Nagar). For the same, the corporation has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) of Phase-1C (Badi Chaupar to Transport Nagar) and sought public suggestions. As per the DPR, the estimated project cost will be Rs 856 crore, including cost of land and taxes, if the project is completed till March 2025. The total length of the project will be 2.85km. Out of this, 2.26 km will be underground and 0.59 km will be elevated. An official said, “Between Badi Chaupar and Transport Nagar, there will be two stations. The underground station is proposed at Ramganj Chaupar and elevated station will be at Transport Nagar.” Once constructed, the estimated ridership between the entire stretch, Mansarovar to Transport Nagar, will be over 1.38 lakh till 2031. An official source at JMRC said, “The state government is interested in developing this corridor as it would decongest the Walled City.” The JMRC also invited suggestions for Phase-II proposed between India Gate (Sitapura) and Ambabari. The cost of the project has been reduced to Rs 4,546 crore. The length of the corridor will be 23.51km, having 21 elevated stations. An official source at JMRC said, “The state government should take up Phase-II project as it would be more beneficial for the city in reducing congestion. The estimated ridership of Phase -II would be over 2 lakh by 2031.” The JMRC had earlier appointed Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to review the detailed project report (DPR) of Jaipur Metro Phase-II.  “After terminating the contract of French company EGIS Rail SA, the corporation appointed DMRC for reviewing a revised DPR and bringing down the cost. In the DPR, DMRC has mentioned an estimated cost of Rs 4,546 crore,” an official said. Officials said, in the DPR prepared in 2014, it was mentioned that the project required land worth Rs 875 crore and construction cost to the tune of Rs 9,500 crore. But a rigorous exercise was conducted to bring down the cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmrc-plans-to-extend-badi-chaupar-corridor/articleshow/80606062.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Revised health insurance scheme covers 66% of Rajasthan's population||JAIPUR: Plight of lakhs of patients covered under Ayushman Bharat–Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya BimaYojana 2021-2023 (AB-MGRSBY) has finally come to an end as the state government launched the new phase of the insurance scheme with more benefits to eligible families. The number of healthcare packages has been increased from 1,401 to 1,576. Earlier, Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojna (BSBY) was in effect since 2015 in the state but now the state government has merged BSBY and Centre’s Ayushman Bharat to launch AB-MGRSBY. Earlier, an eligible family was getting coverage of Rs 3.3 lakh per year, which has now been increased to Rs 5 lakh under AB-MGRSBY. “The number of health packages have been increased. Also, earlier, the patients were getting a cover of Rs 20,000 for general illness and Rs 3 lakh for serious ailments but that has also been increased to Rs 50,000 and 4.5 lakh lakh, respectively. Earlier, 98 lakh families were covered under the scheme, but now 1.1 crore families will be benefitted, which accounted for two third population of the state,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. The state government has also added another feature of reimbursing amount spent on OPD and tests before 5 days of admission to the hospital and 15 days after the discharge, said Sharma. Beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011 are covered under AB-MGRSBY. Those covered under NFSA were already benefiting from BSBY. Since Ayushman Bharat has been merged with it, those covered under AB-PMJAY (SECC 2011 families) have been included as beneficiary families of AB-MGRSBY. According to the health department, there are 60 lakh families who are listed in SECC 2011 in the state. Besides, there are 1crore families covered under NFSA. But, 80% of 60 lakh families listed in SECC 2011 are also covered under NFSA and they were already getting BSBY benefits. Now, the remaining 20% of the families listed in SECC, which is around 10lakh, who were not getting benefits of BSBY earlier, will now start getting the cashless insurance scheme (AB-MGRSBY). Under the scheme, annual risk cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per year will be given. This cover will be segmented into Rs 50,000 for secondary illnesses and Rs 4.5lakh for tertiary illness per family per annum on family floater basis covering in-patient care (IPD) and day care treatment of diseases and medical conditions pertaining to secondary and tertiary treatment through a network of Empanelled Health Care Providers (EHCP) for the AB-MGRSBY beneficiary family units validated by the Rajasthan State Health Assurance Agency (RSHAA). The treatment or any interventions covered under AB-MGRSBY will be provided in a complete cashless manner to the eligible beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-phase-of-health-insurance-scheme-covers-2/3rd-states-population/articleshow/80606059.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Amritsar||Join farmers' protest or pay fine: Punjab panchayats vow support||BATHINDA: More village panchayats in Punjab have called upon their residents to join the farm protests on the borders of Delhi or pay a fine instead. Panchayats of at least five villages in Malwa region of Punjab passed such resolutions, in which each houshold would have to send at least one male member for a week to the protest, in the last 24 hours. Though families which do not participate have been asked to pay a fine if they do not send a member, panchayats said these were just to motivate households to participate. Farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi since November 26, against three contentious laws passed by the Centre last year. The latest call for support has come in the wake of the protesters coming under criticism over isolated incidents of violence in Delhi during their tractor parade on Republic Day. Avtar Singh, sarpanch of Kararwala village in Bathinda district, said the entire village had given the call for support in a voice vote. Villagers, he said, decided that a household woukd gave to pay Rs 2,100 the panchay if none of its members goes to the protests. He said residents had been asked not to indulge in any kind of nuisance and not create trouble by drinking. He said if anyone would be found indulging in such acts, they would be fined for Rs 5,100. He said the first jatha of 26 persons from their village left for Delhi on Saturday. He said they would reman there for a week and then the next jatha will leave from village. Karnail Singh, sarpanch of Sivian village in Kotkapura block of Faridkot district, said villagers unanimously decided to send a member from every household in the protest and set a fine of Rs 500, which will be used for the protests. The panchayat of Thikriwal village in Barnala district, native village of freedom fighter Sewa Singh Thikriwalm too passed such a resolution. A 25-member jatha will leave the village regularly, said sarpanch Mohinder Singh. Likewise, the gram panchayats of Barey village in Budhlada block of Mansa and panchayat of Natheha village in Bathinda district too passed resolutions, asking residents to reach Delhi borders in support of protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/join-stir-or-pay-fine-pb-panchayats-vow-support/articleshow/80607178.cms||Neel Kamal
January 31, 2021||Amritsar||Day after clash, cops stop BKU faction on way to help Singhu activists||BATHINDA/PATIALA: A day after a mob pelted stones at, and clashed with, activists of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which has been blamed for the January 26 violence in Delhi, farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) — which had distanced itself from KMSC — on Saturday sent hundreds of its activists from Tikri border to Singhu to provide support to KMSC. Though police stopped them nearly 5km from Narela and did not allow them to proceed further, the activists took a longer route to reach Singhu. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann described this as an attempt by the police to provoke farmers again. He added the activists had to go through another route to reach Singhu. The move came on a day functionaries of the Bhartiya Kisan Union faction met in Punjab and decided to send 600-700 vehicles to the Tikri border of Delhi to bolster their agitation against the three contentious farm laws passed last year. Ekta Ugrahan — one of the largest farm groups in Punjab — and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — which is spearheading the farmers ongoing agitaon — had distanced themselves from KMSC after the latter was blamed for violence during the Republic Day tractor parade. Mann said they had taken the decision to help KMSC activists after they were attacked by over 150 persons on Friday. In Patiala, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Punjab general secretary S S Kokarikalan said farmers’ caravan comprising tractor-trolleys, cars, buses and other vehicles would march towards Delhi on Sunday. “We held a meeting on Saturday to give a call for farmers’ march towards Delhi borders. Farmers Delhi from Khanauri border in 600-700 vehicles. More than 10,000 farmers will reach Tikri. We will also take ration too. The gathering at Tikri is huge, but more farmers have been asked to mobilise and reach the protest site,” said Kokarikalan. He said a large section of farmers will be participating from Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Patiala and Moga districts. “This time, farmers may not move from Dabawali border,” he said. On Friday, announcements were made from several village gurdwaras to reach Delhi borders after reports of farmers being attacked reached them. A large number of farmers had already gone to Delhi on Friday and Saturday. Meanwhile, on the Delhi border, Ekta Ugrahan’s support for KMSC came as it not get help from activists in the SKM camp. The KMSC’s camp is located about 100 metres from SKM’s camp. It is divided by a small area barricaded by Delhi Police. “With the sole aim to support farmers sitting in KMSC camp and to make them shed fear, we decided to send our activists from Tikri to Singhu,” Mann said. He said though they were angry with KMSC over the way it flouted route set by Delhi Police for tractor parade and caused disturbances at the Red Fort, they decided not to call them traitors and felt the pain of the farmers sitting in its camp. He said they had reached the borders of Delhi with the sole aim to emerge victorious in the farm. “During this fight, if any other organisation needs our support, we will come to its rescue,” he added. Sanyukt Morcha Morcha, on January 27, had accused KMSC of beng hand in glove with the government and acting the way it did to defame the farmers’ protest. Meanwhile, farmer organisations’ state committee, in a meeting on Saturday, felt there was a need to unmask the conspiracy behind the Red Fort happenings on January 26, of how thousands of protesters succeeded in reaching there and were also able to hoist flags. The incident and the violence around it has led to Delhi Police registering an FIR against most farm leaders. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said the farm organisation respected every religion and their symbols, but never used these in the farm struggle. The organisation said every individual had the freedom to propagate their religious leanings despite being member of the organisation, but not in the name of farm organisation as it felt that religious leanings should not come in the way of farmers protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/day-after-clash-cops-stop-bku-faction-on-way-to-help-singhu-activists/articleshow/80607185.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 31, 2021||Surat||Vaccination to frontline workers in Surat to begin today||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is set to vaccinate its frontline workers from January 31. “We are planning to roll out the vaccination programme for frontline workers like police, SMC employees, revenue employees in the city from Sunday,” SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI. There 80 vaccination centres across the city which will be increased to 100, Pani said, adding that 100 people get the vaccine shot per day at each centre. According to SMC officials, the first phase of the vaccination of healthcare workers will be completed by the second week of February and then the second dose of vaccine will begin alongside the first round of vaccination to healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vaccination-to-frontline-workers-in-surat-to-begin-today/articleshow/80605397.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ludhiana||Day after clash, cops stop BKU faction on way to help Singhu activists||BATHINDA/PATIALA: A day after a mob pelted stones at, and clashed with, activists of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which has been blamed for the January 26 violence in Delhi, farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) — which had distanced itself from KMSC — on Saturday sent hundreds of its activists from Tikri border to Singhu to provide support to KMSC. Though police stopped them nearly 5km from Narela and did not allow them to proceed further, the activists took a longer route to reach Singhu. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann described this as an attempt by the police to provoke farmers again. He added the activists had to go through another route to reach Singhu. The move came on a day functionaries of the Bhartiya Kisan Union faction met in Punjab and decided to send 600-700 vehicles to the Tikri border of Delhi to bolster their agitation against the three contentious farm laws passed last year. Ekta Ugrahan — one of the largest farm groups in Punjab — and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — which is spearheading the farmers ongoing agitaon — had distanced themselves from KMSC after the latter was blamed for violence during the Republic Day tractor parade. Mann said they had taken the decision to help KMSC activists after they were attacked by over 150 persons on Friday. In Patiala, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Punjab general secretary S S Kokarikalan said farmers’ caravan comprising tractor-trolleys, cars, buses and other vehicles would march towards Delhi on Sunday. “We held a meeting on Saturday to give a call for farmers’ march towards Delhi borders. Farmers Delhi from Khanauri border in 600-700 vehicles. More than 10,000 farmers will reach Tikri. We will also take ration too. The gathering at Tikri is huge, but more farmers have been asked to mobilise and reach the protest site,” said Kokarikalan. He said a large section of farmers will be participating from Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Patiala and Moga districts. “This time, farmers may not move from Dabawali border,” he said. On Friday, announcements were made from several village gurdwaras to reach Delhi borders after reports of farmers being attacked reached them. A large number of farmers had already gone to Delhi on Friday and Saturday. Meanwhile, on the Delhi border, Ekta Ugrahan’s support for KMSC came as it not get help from activists in the SKM camp. The KMSC’s camp is located about 100 metres from SKM’s camp. It is divided by a small area barricaded by Delhi Police. “With the sole aim to support farmers sitting in KMSC camp and to make them shed fear, we decided to send our activists from Tikri to Singhu,” Mann said. He said though they were angry with KMSC over the way it flouted route set by Delhi Police for tractor parade and caused disturbances at the Red Fort, they decided not to call them traitors and felt the pain of the farmers sitting in its camp. He said they had reached the borders of Delhi with the sole aim to emerge victorious in the farm. “During this fight, if any other organisation needs our support, we will come to its rescue,” he added. Sanyukt Morcha Morcha, on January 27, had accused KMSC of beng hand in glove with the government and acting the way it did to defame the farmers’ protest. Meanwhile, farmer organisations’ state committee, in a meeting on Saturday, felt there was a need to unmask the conspiracy behind the Red Fort happenings on January 26, of how thousands of protesters succeeded in reaching there and were also able to hoist flags. The incident and the violence around it has led to Delhi Police registering an FIR against most farm leaders. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said the farm organisation respected every religion and their symbols, but never used these in the farm struggle. The organisation said every individual had the freedom to propagate their religious leanings despite being member of the organisation, but not in the name of farm organisation as it felt that religious leanings should not come in the way of farmers protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-clash-cops-stop-bku-faction-on-way-to-help-singhu-activists/articleshow/80608603.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||‘A thought must be opposed with a thought and not with violence or aggression’||Veteran Marathi poet, author and teacher Namdeo Kamble is the only one from Vidarbha who was bestowed with the prestigious Padma Shri. Kamble, known for his Sahitya Akademi Award-winning fiction ‘Raghav Vel’, has ventured into many forms of Marathi literature — from poetry, plays, short stories, lyrical essays and novels to critical and philosophical writing. A teacher for over three decades, Kamble has groomed two generations of Marathi readers. He has his own observations about the changing reading habits. In an interaction with TOI, Kamble spoke about what the award means to him, his experiments in Marathi literature, the present Marathi literary movement, his students and the recent controversy in the Vidarbha Sahitya Sangha. Excerpts from the interview... Q. How do you view your 40-year-old journey in the field of literature and education? A. Like most creative writers, I started by writing poems. Born and brought up in a small village in Washim, I was always interested in literature and teaching. After schooling in Washim district, I started studying science in Nagpur. I also got admission in Government Medical College for MBBS. But, within a year, I realized that medicine is not my field. I came back to my village, and again started writing poems. I completed my degree in education and joined a girls’ school in Washim as a teacher. I think my journey in literature progressed step by step. After poetry, I started writing short stories, lyrical essays and then moved on to novels. Finally, I started writing thought-provoking literature. This honour (Padma Shri) is for my entire literary career and every new experiment that I did in the last four decades. Moreover, it has been specifically mentioned in the Padma list that the award is not only for literature but also for education. Q. You have been a very popular teacher in Washim. A. I have always followed Mahatma Gandhi’s principle, that a teacher’s job is to reach out to his student. I believe that every student is different. Someone may understand the concept in one go, others may need repetition. I also followed the principle of ‘atma-klesha’ (mental afflictions) during my teaching career. Instead of punishing students, I used to punish myself considering their misbehaviour as my failure. Young minds are generally sensitive. They used to understand my pain. I always got positive results from my students. Q. Do you think the new generation has stopped reading literature? A. This is big misconception. The means of reading may have changed, but youngsters do read for sure. Books and their PDFs are in demand. The only thing is that the new generation wants to be precise. Thick books may not attract them, but smaller versions definitely catch their attention. My upcoming project is a collection of short stories on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s life. The publisher had asked me for all the 100 short stories which could have gone up to 800 pages. Now, they are planning to publish the collection in four or five volumes. This is enough to prove that the new generation has readers, who read smaller books. Q. You have been an integral part of the Marathi literary movement since years. What kind of changes have you noticed? A. The literary movement, our organizations and summits have played a very important role in institutionalizing literary activities. But, politics in literature should not be accepted. Recently, we stopped the elections and voting for the post of president of the annual literary summits. Instead, we select one eminent author for this post. This year, we selected Dr Jayant Naralikar as president. I appreciate and welcome this selection. Dr Naralikar is a scientist as well as a great writer. I’m looking forward to listening to his presidential speech in March. Q. Do you think discontinuing the election process has stopped political influence in the literary movement? A. Not entirely, but it’s a major step towards it. I regret the fact that today, politics and politicians have intruded every field. I have noticed that the tolerance level has drastically gone down in a state like Maharashtra which used to be known for its rich tradition of different thoughts living and growing together. A thought must be opposed with a thought and not with violence or aggression. Q. Your thoughts on Marathi literature divided into Dalit literature, women’s literature etc. A. I believe that literature has no caste, religion or gender. It must represent the pain and suffering of all sections of the society. My novel ‘Raghav WEL’, which got the Sahitya Akademi award, is a story of a Dalit woman’s struggle. This was the first such plot when I wrote it in the 1990s. Many used to write about Dalit literature, but no one had written about a Dalit woman. You may divide literature, but that will never ensure that a particular community or sect will get representation on the literary scene. You need sensitive minds. Q. Your take on veteran poet Yashwant Manohar refusing to receive the award in Nagpur because an idol of Goddess Saraswati was worshipped on stage. A. I was present at that award function organized by the Vidarbha Sahitya Sangha (VSS) as my book on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi was selected for one of the awards. I respect Dr Manohar and the principles that he follows. But, being a Nagpurian, he must be aware about the traditions of VSS where Goddess Saraswati is worshipped at every public event. The tradition is more than 90 years old. Manohar could have rejected the award right away when VSS proposed it. When the event was just a few hours away, Manohar claims that he contacted the organizers through his representatives and informed them about his obligations. But, this can’t be the way. Manohar gained nothing but media attention due to this controversy. Many like me, who used to have high regard for Manohar, have lost some of the faith in him for sure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-thought-must-be-opposed-with-a-thought-and-not-with-violence-or-aggression/articleshow/80605403.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||‘Fix high-risk points of electricity lines’||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya directed the managing directors of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Ajmer discoms to make safety arrangements on the electricity wires and poles installed at high risk locations.He also instructed to fix 2.5 lakh high-risk points at various places in the state in the next four months and to make strong safety arrangements there.Arya was holding discussions with officials of the department of energy at the Secretariat on the accidents involving high tension wires on Friday.The chief secretary directed all the discoms to take up the task of fixing the low-lying high voltage wires as a campaign. He instructed that all low tension (LT) road crossing wires should be replaced with cables and tree twigs are tightly cut around the wires. He also asked to close the open electrical boxes and shift the lines passing over schools or residences. He said discom officials would have to take strict safety steps to prevent serious accidents caused by high tension wires.Arya further said that drivers taking diversions through villages and narrow roads to avoid toll tax is a major reason for these kinds of accidents. He directed the officials of the transport department act against the overloaded buses. He also inquired in detail about the complaints coming in to the helpline of the electricity department and their disposal.Dinesh Kumar, principal secretary, energy department, presented data of road accidents due to high tension lines from April 1, 2019, to November 30, 2020. The chief secretary expressed concern over the death toll during this period. Dinesh Kumar gave information about the work currently being done by discoms. He said the provision for issuing leases under high tension lines should be discontinued.Principal secretary, home department, Abhay Kumar was also present in the meeting. In addition, the transport commissioner and the managing directors of the three discoms participated through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fix-high-risk-points-of-electricity-lines/articleshow/80606065.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Denim manufacturers grapple with rising material costs||AHMEDABAD: Even though work from home made you embrace denims as your cool, casual wear through the day, overall demand and sales of denim recovered at a snail’s pace after the lockdown, leaving denim fabric makers in the lurch. The recent rise in raw material prices added to their woes with burgeoning costs of production affecting revenues and margins. In December 2020, the prices of raw materials – mainly cotton and cotton yarn – surged by 20-30% as against March 2020, according to the Denim Manufacturers’ Association of India (DMAI). “When the industry was struggling to shake off the pandemic-induced decline in demand, rising raw material costs have put the mills under a lot of cost-pressure with most being forced to absorb the costs,” said an industry source. Touted as the denim capital of India, Gujarat has some 25 denim manufacturing mills with a cumulative installed capacity of producing 1 billion metre denim per annum. The state accounts for 60% of denim fabric produced in India. However, most of the manufacturers are operating only at 70% of their installed capacity, suggest industry estimates. “The costs of production have gone up by 30% with cotton and yarn prices going up. This has put much pressure on the industry, affecting its survival and profitability. To make matters worse, even the prices of coal and gas have increased, which also contribute to the rise in manufacturing costs,” said Aamir Akhtar, CEO, Lifestyle Fabrics – Denim, Arvind Limited. The impact is more severe for small and medium players. “Bigger players operate with a fully backward-integrated manufacturing set-up. Therefore, they can absorb rude price shocks. But with small and medium units, their operating costs will be affected, and the end-product will become expensive, if there is a surge in prices of raw materials and resources,” said Gaurav Davda, head, corporate finance and strategic initiatives, Jindal Worldwide Limited. Industry players are passing on part of the costs while absorbing the rest. The key reason behind the increase in cotton yarn prices is the exhaustion of pipeline stock around Diwali, driven by buoyant retail demand. Therefore, there was a sharp surge in demand for cotton yarn, causing prices to go up. All Gujarat Spinners’ Association (AGSA) states that cotton yarn prices rose from Rs 195 per kg in the first half of March 2020 to Rs 265 per kg. The surge in demand from export markets, however, has cushioned denim makers’ revenues and profits. “Export volumes of several denim makers went up, particularly, because the demand was robust in export markets. This is particularly true for markets in South East Asia, Egypt, South America and Bangladesh,” said Akhtar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/denim-manufacturers-grapple-with-rising-material-costs/articleshow/80606079.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 50 new stations to curb pollution in Yamuna||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will increase the number of monitoring stations from three to 53 to identify the major sources of pollution in the Yamuna. Officials said the monitoring stations would help in detection of minor drains, which discharge a heavy load of pollutants into the river. Polluted drains will later help in identification of industrial areas discharging effluents into the river, they added. National Green Tribunal had recently directed Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and DPCC to coordinate and increase the number of stations for monitoring water quality in the Yamuna. “A proposal of Rs 19 crore has been prepared for procurement of monitoring stations. We are getting the proposal vetted by CPCB,” said a senior DPCC official. At present, DPCC has three monitoring stations at Palla, Wazirabad and Okhla. A DPCC official said the new monitoring stations would come along the stretch of the river in Delhi and connecting major and minor drains. “We have started the process of identifying locations for stations. Once all these stations become operational, it will help in knowing the sources of pollution and assist in policy-making,” the official said further. According to the proposal, the procurement of stations will be done in two months while it will take additional two months for them to become operational. DPCC in a report submitted to NGT last month had stated that a total of 3,198 industries situated in non-conforming areas/residential areas were sealed by the concerned civic bodies from July to October in 2020 as most of them were discharging effluents causing air and water pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/50-new-stns-to-curb-pollution-in-yamuna/articleshow/80607181.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||R K Sharma takes over as chairman and MD of RVUN||Jaipur: R K Sharma has taken charge as the Chairman and Managing Director of Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. Prior to this appointment, he had been working as director (Projects) at RVUN. A bachelor’s in electrical engineering, Sharma joined erstwhile RSEB in January 1984. Sharma has a long stint of 37 years’ service in power generation and transmission sector in the state.Sharma has a long work experience in the fields of Operation, Electrical maintenance, Control, Instrumentation and Commercial Operations of Power Plants. He has been a member of various committees to investigate root causes of major electrical equipment failures including Generators and Generators Transformers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/r-k-sharma-takes-over-as-chairman-and-md-of-rvun/articleshow/80606069.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Madurai||Trichy MSMEs turn to rlys to produce components locally||Trichy:With a fall in work orders from Bhel Trichy, the ancillary MSME units that were relying on the company have started exploring other opportunities in the least explored sector to survive. A group of entrepreneurs involved in the fabrication and engineering sector have commenced preliminary discussions and field visits with southern railway to produce components for railway establishments in Trichy.With more than 100 ancillary units that were producing components for Bhel Trichy having closed down due to lack of work orders and mounting debts, Bhel Small Scale Industries Association (Bhelsia) said that they approached the Railway ministry for work orders. As an outcome of representation made with minister Piyush Goyal, representatives of Trichy MSMEs on Saturday visited the Golden Rock railway workshop to ascertain the type of components that can be locally manufactured. The workshop management presented the requirements. Bhelsia sources said that they can manufacture components for passenger coaches and good carriers. The components in the railway track system including posts can be manufactured here.Around 70 to 80 components in the first phase were identified as potential products for local production. “So far, the Golden Rock workshop was outsourcing its products to MSMEs that are located far away places. Since we have the potential to manufacture them locally, giving us the orders will be a win-win situation for us. We can deliver quality components in a short span of time,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president, Bhelsia said. As there are logistical and quality advantages, the MSMEs here said that stainless steel and carbon steel components can be produced in Trichy using the existing expertise of Bhelsia members. “As our MSMEs are experts in welding technology, we can produce components for the railways using the existing infrastructure,” Rajappa said. Around 50 MSMEs found the production of railway components viable and have planned to commence the production by April 2021 after availing required clearances. Each of the engineering MSMEs does a turnover between Rs 5 and Rs 15 crore per year and has prior experience in welding technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trichy-msmes-turn-to-rlys-to-produce-components-locally/articleshow/80607172.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 31, 2021||Amritsar||Meeting on legal aid to farmers today||BATHINDA: To provide legal assistance to those arrested on the Republic Day, the lawyers from Punjab and Delhi are joining hands and forming panels to fight cases in different courts. The lawyers will hold a meeting on Sunday evening at Gurdwara Rakabganj Sahib. A score of farmers have been taken into custody after being booked in cases at different police stations in Delhi on January 26. Those arrested include 12 from Moga district and seven from Bangi Nihal Singh village in Bathinda. The lawyers have compiled 22 FIRs. Lawyer Amareveer Singh Bhullar, hailing from Mandi Kalan village in Bathinda and practising at Dwarka Court, told TOI, “Many lawyers from various district courts are on the job to get details of the cases, number of persons booked, arrested in those cases. The police is not cooperating and cases are not being fully uploaded on website, we are getting details from various sources.” He said a meeting of lawyers has been fixed on Sunday evening where various details will be shared among them and a panel will be formed to provide assistance to farmers and to apply for bails of those arrested”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/meeting-on-legal-aid-to-farmers-today/articleshow/80607188.cms||Neel Kamal
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||FASTag: Rajasthan can make payments in a staggered way||JAIPUR: As the state government plans to introduce ‘FASTag facilities’ on the state highways, the Indian Highways Management Company Limited (IHMCL) has offered a relaxation to the state to make its payment for the remaining 50 per cent of the capital expenditure in a staggered manner. The IHMCL had agreed to bear 50 per cent of the total capital expenditure (maximum up to 20 lakh per toll plaza) for running the system. “They have made an offer to the state government that it can make its pay for the remaining 50 per cent of the capital expenditure in a staggered manner or over a longer period of time. The payment could be made monthly, bi-monthly, half-yearly or even yearly. It will be decided later. However, it is a long process,” said an official. “The PWD, RSRDC and RIDCOR have to take the policy decision in this regard after seeking permission from the finance department. These agencies will prepare a report on the financial burden each will face. The whole process may take a month’s time,” said the official. There are 184 toll plazas on state highways in Rajasthan. These toll plazas are managed by RIDCOR, RSRDC and PWD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fastag-state-can-make-payments-in-a-staggered-way/articleshow/80606076.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||The dogged healer is here||CHENNAI: Many times, after a traumatic experience, a means to cope with life is to find comfort in all its wrongs – but families are always broken; the market is always volatile; people in relationships are shallow. As a therapist, Shilpa Raghavan is trained to catch and yank out these red flags when she’s listening to a client. While for a client, transforming their emotional response to a traumatic situation may take several sessions, when Johnny reports for duty, he gets weary eyes gleaming back at him with a cheer they haven’t known in years -- all in but a few seconds. Rescuers and therapists are learning that some dogs rehabilitated from highly distressful circumstances are naturally gifted to turn support animals to help people going through a funk heal faster. For, in the still nascent discipline of animal-assisted therapy, the human being and the animal discover a calming, and often symbiotic connection rooted in mutual trust – a response that is instinctive and game-changing. Johnny, for instance, is a 10-year-old therapy dog with an endless love for “listening”. Of course, his sloppy kisses and warm head butts are crucial to his record trust-building abilities, but so is his warrior spirit. “Before I took him in, he was a street dog who showed up with new scars every day – from being stoned by kids, caned by the watchman or burnt from hot water flung at him at tea shops,” says Shilpa. “But not once did I see him retaliate with as much as a bark or a growl. The only impact his past left on him was make him meek – never violent.” After three years of constant care, bonding and training, Johnny began to get comfortable around strangers and relish the love he had missed. Today, his gentle personality, coupled with a curious mind, makes him a beloved confidante to people of all ages. He has worked with children who have been sexually abused and elderly struggling with depression. “He sits through long conversations, with his eyes fixed on the person who’s talking. We’re pretty sure he can feel their mood; once, just when a senior woman from an old age home was talking about how she could never trust people, he went straight up to her and rubbed his head on her,” says Shilpa. Each animal has a unique personality, and when you’re working with a therapy dog long enough, you gauge their sensitivity to moods and emotional changes in the room,” says city-based Anjana Thampy, an animal assisted therapist. “This helps also ensure that the animal doesn’t experience a burnout, enjoys what they do and goes on to lead a fulfilling life,” she says. Anjana met her senior service dog, Lily – a Labrador cross -- in 2017, after being referred to by a city veterinarian who believed the dog’s resilience over a traumatic past, coupled with her eagerness to socialize with people, made her a great candidate for therapy. “When they rescued her, her ribs were showing and her sexual organs were damaged. On enquiry, they found out that a man in the neighbourhood was abusing her every day,” says Anjana. “I had to keep that in mind as I worked with her, but I was amazed at how – after all that had happened - she always made her desire to be petted very clear with people and gave back as much love.” Among Lily’s clients are children with special needs. “For kids in the autism spectrum, one of the things we work on, is build eye contact. Because Lily responds only when looked at and spoken to, the kids make an effort to do this every day. And when they make progress, we have a little celebration,” says Anjana. Much of animal-assisted therapy is customised to the unique characteristics an animal brings into sessions. “But for the most part, it works on an animal’s powerful and inherent ability to forgive and trust over and over – something that often makes a strong case for people who are scarred,” says Shilpa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-dogged-healer-is-here/articleshow/80606068.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat eyes record 1 lakh Covid shots||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat will kickstart phase II of Covid-19 vaccination today, and the state health department has set a target of 1 lakh vaccinations on the very first day. Gujarat has so far covered 2.45 lakh healthcare workers between January 16 and 30. State health commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare said, “Personnel of various government arms will be vaccinated in phase II in accordance with the national policy,” Some of the departments to be covered on Sunday include home, urban development, revenue, panchayat and disaster management. On Sunday, district collector Sandip Sangle, city police commissioner Sanjay Shrivastav, and DDO Mahesh Babu will be vaccinated at 10 am at Civil Hospital. Senior IAS and IPS officers will be among the first to get vaccinated to set an example, said senior health department officials. State immunization officer Nayan Jani said there will be minimal number of healthcare workers on Sunday. “We have established over 1,300 vaccination centres so far. We will also be introducing Covaxin vaccine in various districts from Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-eyes-record-1-lakh-shots/articleshow/80606109.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Rahul tries hand at cooking in Karur, video goes viral||TRICHY: ‘Vengayam,’ announced the “guest cook” in blue T shirt and denim, throwing in sliced onion into a vessel, amidst the lungi-clad group whose “village cooking channel” is popular on YouTube. On Friday, the channel got an extra few lakh views as Rahul Gandhi joined the fun, making onion raita to go with mushroom biryani. “I do cooking,” said Rahul, stirring the mix, “I do quite a lot.” The former Congress president had been on a three-day political campaign in Karur district when, egged on by party MP Jothimani Sennimalai, he decided to take a break and join the cookery show presented by a Pudukottai-based family. The video shot on the outskirts of Aravakurichi in Karur on January 25, starts with the making of mushroom biryani before Rahul walks in much to the excitement of the members and chats with them. After tasting the raitha he mixed, Rahul sits down with the channel members to have the dish on banana leaf as Jothimani translates the conversation. Subramanian , one of the team members, says that many youths in his village go abroad to earn a living. Having achieved success in the food channel, they also aspired to go abroad for cooking. Rahul asks him where they wanted to visit. “USA, Thailand, China, Singapore, Malaysia and everywhere,” he says At this, the Congress leader tells them he has a good friend (Sam Pitroda) in Chicago. “Should I tell him if he can try and organise you people to cook there?,” Rahul Gandhi asks, and assured the team that he will put in a word with him.  “Romba nalla irukku” (it is really good), Rahul says after finishing the meal. “Next time when I come, you have to make me try the termite (eesal or winged termite).” Two years ago, the channel had released a video on preparing a dish with winged termites that went viral across India. He also encouraged the other members including M Periyathambi, V Murugesan, T Tamilselvan and D Muthumanickam to consider cooking dishes in other states. “We cannot believe that a leader like Rahul Gandhi was with us for about 35 minutes and had lunch,” says V Subramanian, cameraman of the channel which has six members, all belonging to one family of Chinna Veeramangalam village near Aranthangi town. “We were given the liberty to pick a dish of our choice for Rahul anna (elder brother). As we were not sure whether he will have non-veg food, we opted to cook mushroom biriyani,” he adds. The channel has over 150 cooking videos, all shot in about two years. The 14-minute video released on Friday night caught even local Congress functionaries by surprise as it garnered more than a million views in about two hours. Watch Watch: Rahul Gandhi tries his hand at cooking in Karur, Tamil Nadu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rahul-tries-hand-at-cooking-in-karur-video-goes-viral/articleshow/80607183.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Private hospital exceeds vaccine target; no wastage in 3 days||NAGPUR: Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) has emerged as a role model in Covid-19 vaccination programme by exceeding the vaccination target for healthcare workers and ensuring zero wastage of doses. In comparison, 812 doses have gone waste in 10 days in the district. Inoculation started at OCHRI, which is one of the eight private hospitals having vaccination centres in the city, on January 27. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had set target of 100 per day for this centre. On first day, OCHRI vaccinated 130 followed by 120 on January 28 and 70 on January 29. Thus, the centre registered an achievement of 106.67%. It is probably the only centre in Vidarbha to ensure zero wastage of doses for three consecutive days. Director of OCHRI Dr Anup Marar told TOI that many people are waiting for their turn to get vaccinated. “So, we chalked out a plan before commencement of vaccination,” he said. Dr Marar said 475 healthcare workers from OCHRI have registered for vaccination. “NMC scheduled inoculation of 100 on first day which saw 90 from our hospital turning up between 9am and 2pm. After a few hospitals from nearby areas started inquiring about their turn, we decided to inoculate their staff with due permission from NMC officials. We scheduled it in such a manner that vaccination ended up in round figure and we managed to use all doses from vials opened at the centre,” he said. The first day experience helped the hospital chalk out a plan to vaccinate staff scheduled by NMC by 2pm. “Then, we planned schedule for other staff to reach the round figure. On second day, we could administer 120 doses. On third day, only 70 could be covered due to technical problems in Co-WIN. Three more healthcare workers were in the waiting but we did not cover them for want of seven more beneficiaries. This ensured saving of seven doses on third day,” he said. Dr Noorul Ameen is in-charge of vaccination centre at OCHRI. NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar, zonal medical officer Dr Varsha Deosthale, Dr Vivekananda Mathapati and Kalpana Ikhar are overseeing the functioning. OCHRI team at the centre comprises of Kavita Bodile, Manju Maiye, Lata Kakde, Jessy Abraham, Priti Choudhary, Prashant Tichkule, Priya Sashi, Sawant Waghmare, Shiva Gondane, Sunil Sure and Dr Kavita Dhurve. The team at Alexis Hospital led by infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde also ensured vaccination of exact 100 staff on Day 1 on Saturday. “We will ensure no wastage of doses,” said Dr Shinde. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “We are ensuring wastage is not above permissible limit and will take all efforts to minimize it without affecting the vaccination programme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hosp-exceeds-vaccine-target-no-wastage-in-3-days/articleshow/80605425.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Family seeks help to rescue Nagpur woman trapped in Saudi||Nagpur: A 53-year-old woman, Kiran Manmothe, who had been frequently going to Dubai for various types of jobs since 2010, has been stuck in Saudi Arabia’s Al-Jouf province since 2016 and her employer has allegedly not been letting her go back to India, making her family members run pillar to post to get her rescued but in vain. The family members are not even allowed to talk to the woman, a resident of Christian Colony, Mecosabagh. Last time she spoke with her family members on December 25, 2020, on the occasion of Christmas, after 11 months. Kiran had gone to the Al-Jouf province in 2016 on a two-year contract with a monthly payment of Rs23,000 but her family back home got the payment for the initial three months only. Neither her payment came after that nor did she return home even after competition of the contract period, the family alleged. Kiran stayed in Dubai for two years in 2010 and in 2014 she had gone there for 45 days. “Both the times she did not face any problem and her job there was arranged by my Bhopal-based sister,” said Pradip, her husband. “We met commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar, who referred us to meet DCP Neelotpal. We were told to file a formal complaint with Jaripatka police seeking help to rescue Kiran from Saudi Arabia. We also met district guardian minister Nitin Raut, a local MLA, and state home minister Anil Deshmukh. But received no help so far,” said Pradip, who is a paralytic now. He further said his wife through a travel agent, Varsha Nagdive, got the job offer of a domestic help on a two-year contract and a monthly payment of Rs23,000. “When we did not get payment after the initial three months, we tried to contact her. She informed us that Nagdive had claimed a hefty amount from her employer. That’s why the employer is not allowing her to go home and seized her passport also,” her son Daniel told TOI. He further said the travel agent demanded Rs25,000 to get her back. “We paid the amount to Nagdive but now she is not picking up our calls,” Daniel said. DCP Neelotpal said Kiran had gone there on her own. City police are following the case, he said, adding that she herself was not interested in coming back. “When we last interacted with her, the police found nothing suspicious. Still, we will initiate correspondence with the embassy in Dubai and Saudi Arabia, and the Foreigner Regional Registration Office in Mumbai so that she could be brought back to India if at all she is exploited there,” the DCP said. The family, when did not get any substantial help from the administration, decided to resort to political help. AAP neta Prabhat Agrawal said his party will launch an agitation to bring Kiran back to home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/family-seeks-help-to-rescue-nagpur-woman-trapped-in-saudi/articleshow/80606105.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Surat startup develops virtual platform for AEPC||SURAT: Making a move that could help textile exporters exhibit their products for a global audience, a Surat-based startup has developed a virtual platform for the Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC). The AEPC is a statutory body under the Union ministry of textiles and works to promote the garment export industry in India, and helps international buyers, who source garments from India. With the Covid-19 induced lockdown and social distancing norms hampering promotional activities, the council thought of coming up with a platform that was safe and provided ample ways to connect exhibitors with their prospects. For this, the AEPC roped in Surat-based virtual reality company ShilpMIS Technologies Pvt Limited and created a virtual exhibition platform, which was recently inaugurated by vice-president of India Venkaiah Naidu in presence of Union minister of textiles Smriti Irani. Talking with TOI, Hardik Desai, founder and CEO of ShilpMIS said, “This was a big opportunity for us to create the virtual platform for AEPC. The platform gives a 360-degree view of the products and allows free communication between buyers and sellers through video calls and messaging applications.” Registered in 2017, the Surat headquartered startup serves clients in the real estate, automobile and gems and jewellery segment. It has presence in multiple cities and a foreign office in Abu Dhabi, UAE. According to Desai, exhibitors have the option of setting up passwords for their stalls, to restrict entry for only trusted buyers. Moreover, buyers have the option to sort products into a personal wish list and filter stalls based on their preferences. Recent data shows that over 300 exhibitors have registered on the platform and created their stalls, informed Desai, a civil engineering graduate from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) – Guwahati. “The idea behind building such a technology was to enable people to easily access content in Augmented Reality/ Virtual Reality (AR/ VR) formats. We always thought that a platform for holding virtual exhibitions will not just be cost-effective for event managers, but will also have the obvious advantage of dissolving geographical barriers,” said Desai, adding, “It was in 2018 when we conducted our first virtual exhibition. However, the demand grew manifold post pandemic. In 2020 alone, we held 12 virtual exhibitions.” This propelled the startup’s growth, which surged by 100% month-on-month for five months since the pandemic. Since then, the company has been clocking a healthy double-digit growth in its revenues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/surat-startup-develops-virtual-platform-for-aepc/articleshow/80606086.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
January 31, 2021||Ludhiana||Farmers, Civil Society observe 1-day hunger strike||Ludhiana: Farmers and Civil Society members observed a day-long hunger strike in support of the farmers’ agitation at various places in Ludhiana district on Saturday. Seeking to affirm the peaceful nature of the protests, the farmer leaders had said that hunger strike coincided with the death anniversary of the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi. The farmer leaders and Civil Society group members said that in Jagraon area, a protest sit-in-cum-hunger strike was held near Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk on Raikot Mullanpur road and on Barnala road in Raikot area, whereas similar functions were held at Railway Park in Jagraon and at toll plaza near Chowkiman. They added that such protest-cum-hunger strike was held at Rakba toll plaza. In Ludhiana city, farmers’ organisation and Civil Society group held a protest-cum-hunger strike near a popular mall on Ferozepur road and afterwards near a petrol pump on Dugri road. There were reports of protest at Samrala town, where protesters sat on a hunger strike on the road. They also sat on protest near a toll plaza on Ludhiana-Chandigarh road as well. Meanwhile, protesters sat on a hunger strike at Khanna railway station as well. Avtar Singh, a protester at Gulal toll plaza, said that even as the morale of protesters had been affected because of the happenings on Republic Day, but after that there was more enthusiasm among the farmers. He added that farmers wouldn’t rest till the Union government repeals the three farming laws passed by it. In a related development, even as the BJP youth wing was to take out Tiranga Rally in Ludhiana, they couldn’t do so as those supporting the farmers protested against the party members. The police had to face tough time as it tried to prevent the situation from turning ugly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-civil-society-observe-1-day-hunger-strike/articleshow/80607202.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mock 26/11 drill at CSMT by Nat’l Security Guard||Mumbai: The National Security Guard (NSG) conducted a mock drill at CSMT on January 29. A Central Railway spokesperson said, “NSG conducted the drill by creating a scenario where a train with passengers was hijacked.” Terrorists (an NSG team) conducted a ‘blast’ at the St George Hospital gate of CSMT, and held ‘passengers hostage’ inside a railway rake on platform 18. The hostages were rescued by other NSG operational teams. During the drill, RPF, RPF Quick Response, GRP, GRP commando, Mumbai police, ATS, Fire Brigade and Hospital staff were present. — Manthan K Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mock-26/11-drill-at-csmt-by-natl-security-guard/articleshow/80607240.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Come February 1, night curfew to begin at 11pm in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has decided to continue imposing night curfew in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot until February 15. However, the good news is that curfew will be in force from 11 pm to 6 am instead of 10 pm to 6 am. The state government on Saturday said that night curfew will continue in four cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot until February 15. Meanwhile, all other central guidelines issued on January 27 will be in force in the state from February 1 to February 28. The state home department has issued a notification to ensure effective implementation of SOPs, surveillance, and containment strategy to further reduce the impact of Covid-19. Additional chief secretary (home) Pankaj Kumar said, “The district officers will have to ensure that people cover their faces, wash their hands repeatedly, and practice social distancing at all times in public. The national directives for Covid-19 management will also be implemented across Gujarat.” Regarding surveillance and containment, he said that district officials and local administration will have to follow the guidelines issued by the state government. The notification stated that those who spit in public places or do not cover their face appropriately will be subject to penalty and punishment as prescribed by the government. District magistrates and police commissioners have been asked to issue necessary notifications in this regard for their respective areas. Violators of the rules will be penalized under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code 1860, the notification stated. The notification added that daily activities will resume in all areas except the ones in containment zones. However, SOPs for carrying out specific kinds of events or activities should be followed strictly, the notification stated. These include social events, educational events, sports, entertainment, religious and political events and other congregations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/come-feb-1-night-curfew-to-begin-at-11pm/articleshow/80606136.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' protest: Groups set off for Delhi border||FEROZEPUR: Responding to the emotional call given by farm leader Rakesh Takait following the attack on protesting farmers in Delhi, groups of farmers have started making their way back to their respective sit-in sites on Tuesday. About 200 tractors paraded against the farm laws in front of the deputy commissioner’s office. Narinder Pal Singh, district vice-president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) asked why the three agri laws are being “imposed” on farmers. “Farmers still protesting at Delhi borders are being threatened by the police. On getting an emergency call from them, they have started moving back to protest sites to join and support them,” he alleged. Condemning the attack on farmers agitating peacefully, he said, “We are again moving to Delhi and will come back only after the laws are repealed. Farmers from other places have also started marching towards Delhi.” Harminder Singh, a farmer moving towards Delhi on a tractor accused the Central government of conspiring to harass farmers. “False propaganda is being propagated that farmers are coming back. Rather, more are now joining them to continue with their protest against the three farm laws,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/groups-set-off-for-delhi-border/articleshow/80607201.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
January 31, 2021||Goa||Goa: In family-run hospitals, kith & kin turn ‘healthcare workers’ to get jab||PANAJI: Goa’s vaccination drive may have gathered pace with over 3,000 healthcare workers getting the jab till Saturday, but some private hospitals have vaccinated family members, relatives and friends who have nothing to do with healthcare. From musician and architect to dancer and teacher to housewives, many who have had links with these private hospitals have got the jab meant for healthcare workers. A small private hospital in Margao and another hospital in Panaji, both family-run, have not only administered the vaccine to non-healthcare workers but have also duplicated the names to avail the vaccine. All these names are uploaded on the Co-Win portal, a copy of which is with TOI. The private hospital in Margao, owned by a politically influential family, has listed several family members for vaccination, with at least 10 names being duplicated. They were part of the 100 names that were uploaded on the portal for vaccination on Saturday. The hospital in Panaji, too, had 100 names for vaccination on Friday, of which at least 32 names were repeated. Surprisingly, all the names and the duplication passed the Co-Win portal. A health department source said this implies there are no checks in place, and if there are, they aren’t effective to weed out the names of non-healthcare workers. A senior health official said that private hospitals submit names to the district collector’s office, and they upload it. When it comes to the government institutes, the names are sent by the directorate of health services. “As per the directives, hospitals can vaccinate healthcare workers whose names are uploaded on the portal by checking their documents such as Aadhaar card. We don’t verify names of beneficiaries of private hospitals,” the senior health official said on condition of anonymity. He was also not aware if the district collector’s office does any kind of verification before uploading the names received by them. On Friday, the state government appointed new collectors for North and South Goa districts. TOI reached out to North Goa collector Ajit Roy and asked him to spell out the mechanism in place to ensure only genuine healthcare workers receive the jab. “I am not in a position to comment on this right now,” Roy replied. The portal does have a column where the healthcare worker’s exact nature of work needs to be specified. But the health department source said there is much scope to include names of relatives, friends and close family members, who may not be healthcare workers. “Some are manipulating the system to vaccinate their family members and relatives under the guise of being healthcare workers. Since they are part of the hospital management, it is not difficult to add the names of a wife or brother or daughter as a healthcare worker,” the source said. As per the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, healthcare workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase, followed by frontline workers. Over the past two days, Goa had set a target to vaccinate 1,700 persons, of which 935 have been vaccinated. So far, 3,049 of the target 4,200 healthcare workers have been given the jab till Saturday, a success rate of 73%. On Thursday, health minister Vishwajit Rane, in a written reply in the assembly, said the state is following the policy of the central government. When an opposition MLA said that ministers must get vaccinated first to build confidence among people that the vaccine is safe, the House was told that they would love to, but as per the Centre’s guidelines, healthcare workers are vaccinated as a priority group. In Goa, over 18,000 healthcare workers have registered for vaccination, and the directorate of health services intends to complete their vaccination by mid-March. Goa is yet to receive vaccine stock for frontline workers, who are next in line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-family-run-hosps-kith-kin-turn-healthcare-workers-to-get-jab/articleshow/80607184.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 31, 2021||India||Govt may take over medical ed admissions||MUMBAI: The high-stress medical admissions, which involve frantic travel, emotional drama and last-minute financial deals, may be eased from next year. In what may promote transparency and weed out agents and deal-makers who auction medical seats, the ministry of health is contemplating taking over the entire admission process, from start to finish. With that, institutional seat-filling — which experts describe as a “seat-auctioning round” or the absolute last leg of the admission process requiring students to visit medical school campuses to pick unfilled seats — may be scrapped. Instead, all admissions may take place online. The Medical Counselling Committee handles admission for deemed universities across the country and after it closes online rounds, vacant seats are filled by respective institutes at their individual level. That is when, experts say, parents and students are put through immense “financial distress” as NRI seats, the ones that are five times higher than the regular seats, largely remain unfilled. “What happens is that when students visit colleges for the last round, they feel cornered as there are merely three days to close admissions and how much can they travel? Deemed universities make candidates wait till the last minute as they try to fetch the highest price for each seat. With the process going online, all this will be streamlined,” said a health ministry source. The ministry may have to move court to change the admission procedure. CD (cutting deals), CC (cash component), N2M (NRI-to-management conversion) are the terms every aspiring doctor is aware of. “So, when candidates visit these medical colleges in the last round, negotiations take place . The benchmark for admission is only one: the ability to pay the highest sum for a seat; that is the only merit,” said Sudha Shenoy, parents’ representative for medical aspirants. “Medical education is beyond the reach of the middle class. How can one expect medical graduates who spend crores on their education to give back to society?” asked Dr Vivek Korade, founder of Forum Against Commercialisation of Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-may-take-over-medical-ed-admissions/articleshow/80608143.cms||Hemali Chhapia
January 31, 2021||Goa||Four-day session a mockery of legislature: Goa minister||PANAJI: The recently concluded four-day legislative assembly session proved to be a farce where instead of discussing critical issues, the BJP-led government used delaying tactics and trampled on democratic principles, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said in the assembly. BJP has made a mockery of legislative norms by passing hastily drafted laws during the four-day session, Sardesai said during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address. “The way the bills have been passed, the mockery of the legislature that has been done, very clearly shows that the underlying principles of democracy, transparency, accountability, are all thrown to the winds. And all this because you have a manufactured majority,” he said. The last day of the winter session, which witnessed a five-hour debate on the three linear projects coming up in Mollem, saw the discussion on the motion of thanks push the proceedings well past the midnight mark and creep on till 2.22am. “We should have been discussing the burning issues that are plaguing the state unfortunately none of them find a mention in the governor’s speech. This is not a government of the people, by the people and for the people. It is a government of the 28,” Sardesai said. The opposition had slammed the government and criticised Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for speaking for a short while and for not speaking about coal transportation. Sardesai said that in hindsight, Koshyari’s move to table the speech instead of reading it makes sense. “Koshyari’s “hoshyari” was seen when he decided to table the speech instead of reading it out. His address is filled with so many lies that I think in his wisdom, he realised that he can’t speak so many untruths just because somebody has given them,” the Fatorda MLA said. While touching upon the various protests that have erupted across the state, Sardesai criticised the government for ignoring the objections to the three projects coming up in Mollem. “Why is it that the public sentiment that the government saw in Shel Melauli, it can’t see in Mollem? Why is it that the public sentiment is seen only in North Goa and not in South Goa,” he said. While speaking, Sardesai took potshots at power minister Nilesh Cabral who had earlier said that the speed of development needs to be increased. “This is a short-cut government and it has Cabral who wants to take the country forward with speed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vijai-4-day-session-a-mockery-of-legislature/articleshow/80607193.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: DGP, senior cops to take Covid jab today||AHMEDABAD: As frontline warriors, it is the turn of the cops to be vaccinated against the dreaded Covid-19 virus. On Sunday, DGP Ashish Bhatia and other senior police officers will take the shots at Gandhinagar Civil Hospital. During the coming week, members of the state police, home guard, and traffic road brigade will receive vaccination. DGP Bhatia said he has instructed all district police chiefs, range IGPs and police commissioners to coordinate with nodal officers and district collectors to facilitate the process. “Senior officers are taking the vaccine first to instill confidence in our subordinates,” said the DGP, adding, “Some new centres will be set up to accommodate the policemen coming here to get the vaccine.” He said, “Our force is 1-lakh strong and it will take at least 4-5 days to complete the process. We plan to get 25% of the force vaccinated daily so that the process can be finished fast.” Ahmedabad police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava and JCP Ajay Chowdhary will also take the vaccine at Civil hospital on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-senior-cops-to-take-covid-jab-today/articleshow/80606101.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Temperature to rise in Delhi next week||NEW DELHI: The minimum temperature on Saturday was 5.5 degrees Celsius — three notches below normal — while the maximum settled at 21.5 degrees — one degree below normal. The temperature, however, is expected to rise from February 3 as a western disturbance is likely to affect hills and plains, stated the Met department. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the department, the minimum and maximum temperature will remain around 4 and 22 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The minimum may hover around 5-6 degrees on Monday and Tuesday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, India Meteorological Department, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The western disturbance may provide slight relief by increase in temperatures. The minimum is likely to rise to 8 degrees and maximum to 24 degrees Celsius. Very light rain is expected on February 4 night and February 5.” According to IMD, there is a possibility of thundery development on February 2. Delhi’s air quality improved on Saturday and reached the lower-end of “very poor” category. The overall Air Quality Index was 309 on Saturday. Experts said the air quality may improve to “poor” due to expected increase in wind speed on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/temp-to-rise-in-city-next-week/articleshow/80607199.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||DMK sues state BJP president for defamation||Chennai: The DMK has filed a defamation suit against BJP state president L Murugan before the Egmore metropolitan magistrate for his ‘defamatory’ statements in vernacular media a month ago, about the title document to the land on which DMK’s mouthpiece — Murasoli — is located. A notice was sent earlier by DMK’s organisation secretary R S Bharathi to Murugan asking the latter to apologise for his comments and pay Rs 1 crore as damages. The notice cited the article which quoted Murugan as saying the DMK humiliated people belonging to the scheduled caste community. On Friday, Bharathi, along with a posse of advocates from the DMK legal wing, filed the defamation suit. In his interview, Murugan had made comments on the lines of DMK having no authority to talk about social justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-sues-state-bjp-president-for-defamation/articleshow/80606097.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||Officers will pay if govt lands are encroached: Goa CM||PANAJI: Delivering a stern warning to government departments, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that henceforth, government officers would be held accountable if any further encroachments are noticed in government land. While justifying the government’s decision to pursue the public-private partnership route while undertaking mega projects, Sawant also said that the government’s interests would be protected. “My office has given instructions: if any government land is encroached upon by someone, the concerned department’s executive engineer or officer will be held responsible,” said Sawant, making the concluding remarks during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the governor’s speech. The opposition had slammed the government for doing little to protect government land and for proposing to regularise illegal structures in government and comunidade land. The opposition had also raised an alarm over the government’s move to take up big-ticket projects such as the new airport at Mopa, the bus stands at Panaji, Margao and Mapusa and other projects through the PPP route. Sawant said that given the lack of funds and the need to create flagship projects, the PPP route is best suited for Goa. “Until we bring in PPP projects, we cannot have fast-paced development in the state. The government’s interests will be protected. The land will not be misused and we will not allow government land to be mortgaged,” said Sawant. Sawant also attempted to assuage concerns raised by minority-backed educational institutions regarding the New Education Policy. “The new education policy has come in after 45 years, and we are not here to do any injustice to anybody out of haste. There will be no differences between majority and minority, and nobody needs to be afraid of it,” said Sawant. Sawant also said that the Goa government is keen to make Goa self-sustainable through the Swayampurna Goa initiative. He said that aside from providing access to state and central schemes, the initiative also aims to encourage integrated farming in the state. “In my opinion, a farmer or agriculturists needs to make a profit of Rs 3 lakh per year, only then will people look at it as a good option, and for this, integrated farming is required. We will give all support to the farmers through Swayampurana Goa to encourage integrated farming,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/officers-will-pay-if-govt-lands-are-encroached-cm/articleshow/80607225.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Posting selfie is hard work: Study||AHMEDABAD: It takes only a second to like someone’s selfie, but what goes into posting the picture is a ‘rigorous process’ that may involve days of commitment, consultation, effort, and editing. This is what Ruchi Tewari, associate professor at MICA, and Reena Shah, assistant professor at Indus University, found out when they carried out a study involving 32 youths. “Responses from the focused group discussion highlighted that the pictures are seldom posted on impulse, and can take up to seven days if the ‘subject’ is not immediate,” said Prof Tewari. She gave an example of a wedding ceremony vis-a-vis having ice-cream at a cafe. “The wedding pictures might be up within an hour of clicking, but the cafe pictures might take longer. Likewise, pictures for family and close friends might be different and posted on different social media sites.” Persons in the selfie also matter, and so do the captions. One of the participants quipped that “200 likes and no comment would not be desirable, but 100 likes and 20 comments is a ‘good combination’”. Likewise, if previous pictures get a high number of likes, the user is conscious of keeping up the standard. Gender also plays a role, said Prof Tewari. “Boys are likely to have more individual selfies compared to girls. But, in group selfies, we often observe that in case of boys, the chances of all-boys pics are high,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/posting-selfie-is-hard-work-study/articleshow/80606118.cms||Parth Shastri
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No need to eat and run, restaurateurs upbeat||AHMEDABAD: The change in curfew timings has put a smile on food-loving Amdavadis as well as the hoteliers and restaurateurs in the city. While people are glad that they will no longer have to eat-and-scoot in the fear of breaking curfew timings, food entrepreneurs believe this decision will boost their business. “This will encourage more people to come to restaurants and hotels. However, the government needs to come up with a mechanism to allow takeaways after 11pm. This will provide a fillip to the restaurant industry as takeaways, especially at night, account for huge sums of revenue,” said Narendra Somani, president of Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (Gujarat). Over the past month, there has been significant improvement in footfalls at restaurants. “Takeaways provide a major cushion when it comes to revenue. Ever since the curfew pushed back to 10pm, footfalls at restaurants improved significantly, helping businesses recover,” said a restaurateur who operates a café on Anandnagar Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-need-to-eat-and-run-restaurateurs-upbeat/articleshow/80606100.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mother arrested for abducting child||Thane: A woman has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping her nine-year-old daughter in Kalwa, Thane, on Saturday. The woman had walked out of her marriage and had left her three children with her husband last year. On January 27, the child’s father lodged a complaint with the Thane crime branch, unit I, that his daughter was missing. The cops got leads in the case through the CCTVs in the area. “We checked the CCTV footage which led us to the child’s mother. The child has been reunited with her father,” said senior inspector Nitin Thackeray. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mother-arrested-for-abducting-child/articleshow/80607301.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: People unhappy with BJP-run corporations, says AAP||NEW DELHI: : AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak on Saturday said the party had completed 2,500 mohalla sabhas under its campaign, which was launched fortnight ago, to expose the corrupt practices of BJP in the municipal corporations. The meetings were attended by 2.5 lakh people, who were full of enthusiasm and most of them agreed that BJP had failed to run the civic bodies, he said. “After the discussions, 99% people agreed that BJP has failed in ensuring cleanliness, while 100% agreed that it has been involved in corruption,” Pathak said, adding that people want to vote AAP to lead the corporations. He added that despite promises made by BJP, the landfills sites in the city continue to see heavy load. “It will take 200 years for it to complete the task,” he claimed.  Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said people know that Delhi government has starved the corporations for funds. “They want to teach AAP a lesson in the municipal elections,” Kapoor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/people-unhappy-with-bjp-run-corpns-says-aap/articleshow/80607226.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Passengers at MGR Central railway station have few food options||CHENNAI: Passengers have very few options for buying food at MGR Central railway station and Egmore railway station as IRCTC’s attempt to start retail units including a food plaza is yet to take off. There were no takers for tenders floated four times for setting up a refreshment room in the space at Central where Jan Aahaar stood and steps are being taken to identify a firm to run a fast food unit and food plaza though they were shut during the Covid-19 shutdown. Similar is the scene at Egmore and Arakkonam stations even though the number of trains and patronage have started touching pre-Covid levels. Last month, IRCTC asked Southern Railway to allow them to hire contractors for the space used for selling food at Central and Arakkonam, nearly two months after they were closed due to losses during the lockdown. The railway-owned corporation is also facing a peculiar problem of contractors not bidding. “There seems to be no attempt to attract bidders. The terms should be market-driven. But too many rules and regulations may be restricting,” said a source. Instead of making it as easy as possible to bid, the corporation is asks contractors to pay for the huge kitchen equipment owned by IRCTC. According to the tender notice, the contractor will have to buy kitchen equipment used in Jan Aaahaar stall at Central like bratt pan and vegetable cutting machine though only a refreshment room is going to be set up in the space. These pieces of equipment cost more than Rs 1lakh each. An IRCTC official said steps were being taken to help contractors. “We have refunded 90% of the licence fee and there is a plan to give back a part of the security deposit too. The tender will be for five years and they need to start paying only after regular train services resume. Now, specials are being run.” He said advance deposit too has been scrapped. "Steps are being taken to ensure businesses take place. The kitchen equipment were bought by IRCTC when railways planned modernization. They will have to be bought. They can bring their equipment too," he added. Southern railway too hesitates to take over the space and run food outlets. Other zones have started taking over space given to IRCTC at some of the stations. Consumer activist T Sadagopan said, “Railways should come up with a temporary arrangement as it will be difficult to float a tender and find a contractor to open food outlets during the pandemic. They can tie up with the state government, SHGs and societies to set up the amenities. People pay more to travel by special trains as passenger services are not there. So it's the duty of the railways to offer the service at stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/passengers-at-central-have-few-food-options/articleshow/80606096.cms||V Ayyappan
January 31, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav leads MGB human chain in support of farmers’ agitation||PATNA: The Mahagatbandhan leaders and supporters on Saturday formed a human chain across the state in solidarity with the farmers protesting against the farm laws in Delhi. Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who joined the human chain near the Buddha Smriti Park in Patna, said their protest against the “black laws” will continue until they are rolled back. Tejashwi was accompanied by CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, CPM leader Awadhesh Kumar, CPI’s Ram Babu Kumar, Congress legislative party leader Ajit Sharma and RJD state president Jagdanand Singh as well as Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha. A large number of Mahagatbandhan workers also gathered at Fraser Road holding their party flags, including the Left’s red flags, dotting the entire Fraser Road locality. This chain was formed for thirty minutes starting 12.30 pm in different areas of the capital such as Phulwarisharif, Sadaqat Ashram and Samanpura as well as various pockets of Patna district such as Paliganj, Masaurhi and Bikram. January 30 was selected for this event to commemorate the Martyr’s Day on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. After the event, Tejashwi said, “I do not know why he is keeping silent. Nitish Kumar should say whether farmers’ protest is right or not.” He lashed out at the Bihar CM for abolishing the APMC in 2006 which worsened the farmers’ condition in Bihar. He also challenged the CM to have a debate on the consequences of the black laws and condition of farmers in Bihar. He then tweeted that a historic human chain in support of the farmers was formed till the panchayat level with the support of all alliance partners. CPI-ML leader Bhattacharya said the farmers’ protest was reaching new heights and the Narendra Modi government was trying to suppress this movement using a small incident of violence on January 26. “They had even started to suppress this moment on the Delhi border and UP, however, entire western UP stood against the Modi-Yogi dictatorship. Even in Bihar, the pitch in support of law for MSP is getting higher," Bhattacharya said. Several Congress leaders joined the human chain outside Sadaqat Ashram, the state Congress headquarters, with placards in their hand and raising slogans against the NDA government. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the chain was formed in all district headquarters by his party and it was a symbol to express their solidarity with farmers. “Congress has always stood with the farmers,” Mishra said, criticising the ruling NDA leaders for making fun of the human chain. “Those who are inhuman, cannot see humans anywhere. They (BJP leaders) cannot even see lakhs of farmers protesting on the Delhi borders. For them, those farmers are dalals,” Mishra responded to the ruling party leaders’ jibes calling this event a flop show without humans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-leads-mgb-human-chain-in-support-of-farmers-agitation/articleshow/80605694.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Metro floats tenders for lines linking west, south suburbs||CHENNAI: Three years from now it will take less than 90 minutes to reach the IT corridor on OMR from Madhavaram or Porur as CMRL has floated tenders to construct a 22km elevated corridor for metro lines connecting the southern and western suburbs, which otherwise have poor public transport, with the core city. This is part of the 118.9km phase-2 metro project. It includes construction of a 10.13km line from Sholinganallur to Siruseri SIPCOT and a 12km line from CMBT to Puzhuthivakkam. With this, the CMRL has floated a total of 13 tenders to construct the phase. The stretch between Porur and Poonamallee is likely to be taken up for construction first this year. The three-corridor phase is expected to be ready by 2026. On Saturday, CMRL invited bid for the construction of the line between Sholinganallur and Siruseri SIPCOT with nine elevated stations terminating inside SIPCOT linking a part of the IT hub at OMR. The contractor will have to build stabling lines at SIPCOT for parking metro trains after daily operations. The stretch, funded by Asian Development Bank, is part of the 45.8km corridor 3 from Madhavaram to SIPCOT. While CMRL has split corridor 3 into smaller stretches and floated seven separate tenders, but tenders for the line between Taramani Link Road and Sholinganallur are pending. Earlier, bids were invited for the line connecting CMBT with Puzhuthivakkam, which also included IT landmarks like DLF IT SEZ. The stretch, which includes 12 stations, also has three interchange stations at CMBT, Alandur and St Thomas Mount, where phase-2 stations will be linked with existing phase-1 stations. When both these stretches are ready, it will link several central localities either through a direct train service or through interchange stations. For instance, commuters at Navalur could take a direct train to localities like Adyar, Radhakrishnan Salai, Thousand Lights, Nungambakkam, Kellys and Perumbur. They may have to switch corridors at either Thousand Lights metro or KMC to proceed towards Central Metro or switch corridors at Thirumayilai to reach T Nagar in corridor-4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-floats-tenders-for-lines-linking-west-south-suburbs/articleshow/80606099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Bareilly||Youth arrested for offensive Facebook post in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 28-year-old youth was arrested on Saturday for allegedly posting an offensive message against a particular community in his Facebook account. After a verbal complaint was lodged, police apprehending breach of peace, called the youth to the station and arrested him. Atar Singh, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said the accused had been booked under provisions of the CrPC. Terming the post as “serious”, the complainant has sought action against three others for liking and reposting the message, Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-arrested-for-offensive-fb-post-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80604978.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 31, 2021||Patna||Opposition trying to instigate farmers: NDA||PATNA: Ruling NDA leaders on Saturday took a dig at the opposition parties for organising human chain in support of agitating farmers. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who had earlier organised human chain in the state thrice on different social issues, said the opposition has finally acknowledged his idea. “We had organised human chain in the state against liquor consumption, dowry and child marriage and to promote the government’s Jal-Jivan-Hariyali initiative. The opposition has now realised the importance of human chain,” Nitish told reporters outside Gandhi Ghat here. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said the human chain was a total failure. “The chain was not visible anywhere. Only some Mahagatbandhan leaders were seen on the roads. Farmers of Bihar are aware of the political stunt of Mahagatbadhan,” Prasad said. State health minister Mangal Pandey took to twitter to mock the opposition. “Tejashwi ji, there was dearth of humans in your human chain,” he tweeted. JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan accused the opposition of instigating the farmers and supporting those who had created ruckus at Red Fort on the Republic Day. “Parties like Congress and RJD have done nothing for farmers after independence. They had failed to stop farmers from committing suicide,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-opposition-trying-to-instigate-farmers/articleshow/80605701.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 31, 2021||Chennai||AAI to set up RT-PCR test lab at Chennai airport||CHENNAI: Airports Authority of India will set up a Covid-19 testing lab facility at Chennai airport in a couple of weeks as the government has given permission for the RT-PCR test. An airport official said that people who prefer to get tested can pay and give samples. Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad airports have already started a testing facility to offer passengers an option to get tested as the government has stopped testing international arrivals. "Though people arrive with a negative certificate, they can be told to take the test if there is a doubt or if they fail temperature screening," he added. The space and people to run the testing centre are ready and the authorities were waiting for the state government to approve the kind of test that will be conducted. "The results wil be known in four to five hours and there will be space like a lounge for passengers to wait. Once the the facility is ready testing may become compulsory for passengers from the UK and other countries," he said.  Now, international passengers can land with a negative RT-PCR test result to avoid quarantine and tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aai-to-set-up-rt-pcr-test-lab-at-airport/articleshow/80606114.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Ludhiana||Bains brothers begin march||Patiala: Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) legislators Simarjit Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains, both brothers, reached Fatehgarh Sahib on Saturday to start their march towards Delhi. Balwinder Singh Bains, along with party workers and supporters, marched towards Delhi borders to join the farmers’ agitation while Simarjit started his cycle march under the banner of “Punjabiyo Delhi challo, othe ja ke morche mallo.” “We will cover a distance of around 55 kms during our cycle march on Saturday. We will stay at the Gurdwara Sahib in Sahnewal, from where a large group of farmers along with my son, son-in-law and other relatives will march towards Delhi on tractor-trolleys, cars and other vehicles. To mobilise more people, we will take our cycle march further from Ludhiana to Phagwara on Sunday. From here, a caravan of farmers, along with my mother, brother’s wife and daughter will leave for Delhi. The next day, our caravan will leave for Delhi with my wife, daughter and sisters,” said Simarjit Bains, who will march towards Delhi from Amritsar on Wednesday. He also announced that he would give the gift of a shovel to farmer leader Rakesh Tikait for giving strength to the agitation. The elderly Mohinder Kaur gave the green signal to Bains brothers’ Delhi Chalo march. Mohinder Kaur had filed a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut for defaming her on social media using false propaganda and tagging her as a Shaheen Bagh protester available for Rs 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bains-brothers-begin-march/articleshow/80607322.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Bains brothers begin march||Patiala: Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) legislators Simarjit Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains, both brothers, reached Fatehgarh Sahib on Saturday to start their march towards Delhi. Balwinder Singh Bains, along with party workers and supporters, marched towards Delhi borders to join the farmers’ agitation while Simarjit started his cycle march under the banner of “Punjabiyo Delhi challo, othe ja ke morche mallo.” “We will cover a distance of around 55 kms during our cycle march on Saturday. We will stay at the Gurdwara Sahib in Sahnewal, from where a large group of farmers along with my son, son-in-law and other relatives will march towards Delhi on tractor-trolleys, cars and other vehicles. To mobilise more people, we will take our cycle march further from Ludhiana to Phagwara on Sunday. From here, a caravan of farmers, along with my mother, brother’s wife and daughter will leave for Delhi. The next day, our caravan will leave for Delhi with my wife, daughter and sisters,” said Simarjit Bains, who will march towards Delhi from Amritsar on Wednesday. He also announced that he would give the gift of a shovel to farmer leader Rakesh Tikait for giving strength to the agitation. The elderly Mohinder Kaur gave the green signal to Bains brothers’ Delhi Chalo march. Mohinder Kaur had filed a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut for defaming her on social media using false propaganda and tagging her as a Shaheen Bagh protester available for Rs 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bains-brothers-begin-march/articleshow/80607322.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: In these wards, women voters eclipse men||AHMEDABAD: It is not unusual to find tribal areas register more female voters than males. However, bucking this trend in Ahmedabad, women voters in Navrangpura and Paldi wards outnumber men. The city has a total of 46.25 lakh voters of which 24.14 lakh are males and 22.10 lakh are females. Going by this, the city has 915 females against 1,000 registered male voters. Interestingly, in 2019, the city’s sex ratio at birth was 891 female against 1,000 male children. Analysis of the voters list which has been finalized for the local body polls reveals that Paldi has 1,012 female registered voters against 1,000 males. Meanwhile, Navrangpura ward had 1,005 female voters against 1,000 male voters. Jamalpur ward in the walled city followed with 998 female voters against 1,000 males. Officials said that among the top five wards which had higher female-male ratio, four were from the western part of the city. The wards with the lowest ratio of female against male voters were from the eastern part of the city. Ramol-Hathijan ward had just 826 women against 1,000 men voters. Navrangpura councillor Vandana Shah said this phenomenon could be due to first-time female voters from Mithakhali and Navrangpura gam where the ratio of girls is more than boys. “Also, there are usually more women than men voters in slum areas. There are many slums in these two areas,” she said. Nandi Pandya, also a councillor from Navrangpura, said that these areas have a large number of NRI population. “It also has a large number of aged people. We need to carry out a macro-analysis of why there are more female voters in these areas,” she said. However, according to officials, there are fewer male voters than females in the eastern parts of the city as it has a large migrant population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-these-wards-women-voters-eclipse-men/articleshow/80606122.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Easing factory licence: South Delhi Municipal Corporation tries to make people aware||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is expecting encouraging feedback for its proposed policy to grant factory licence for all floors on industrial plots. Right now, only ground floors can get factory licences. The proposal has already been passed in the standing committee and even mentioned in the financial budget 2021-22. To promote and popularise the policy, SDMC has already started placing advertisements and hoardings at various places in its jurisdiction so that more and more people can take advantage in future. Due to non-sanctioning of building plans on other floors, corporation sources say that industrial premises are not being utilised. At the same time, there are many instances where the owners of the premises start utilising floors for industrial activities or trade illegally. Standing committee chairman Rajdutt Gahlot said the policy, once approved in the House and implemented, would increase job opportunities and enhance the productivity of available resources to optimum level. “This will also provide relief to legitimate industrial trades,” he said. “In plotted industrial areas like Mayapuri, Okhla, etc, some medium, light and service industries will be allowed on the first and second floor of the industrial units where the building plan is already available for ground floor as per existing norms,” he added. SDMC leader of House Narendra Chawla said there was no express provision debarring the corporation to issue factory licences for other floors. “Often, premises owners illegally start to utilise the first, second or all floors in plotted areas for industrial activities or supportive industrial trade. This violates the use of the premises beyond the existing norms,” he said. “The policy will help curb the violation and increase revenue collection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/easing-factory-licence-sdmc-tries-to-make-people-aware/articleshow/80607271.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pune: Deccan area residents’ body protests lane widening||PUNE: Scores of residents in the Deccan area - led by Deccan Gymkhana Colony Panchayat - have raised strong objections against the Pune Municipal Corporation’s plan to widen internal lanes in the neighbourhood. The Panchayat is an association of 250 bungalow and flat-owners. Residents living along the Good Luck cafe lane, which ends at a dead end (linking Gokhale Chowk to Suvarna Smruti marriage hall); the late Arvind Ranade Path (running parallel to the main road next to Deccan Gymkhana ground, on map); and Talim Path and DB Deodhar Path (both interlinking lanes between PYC and Deccan Gymkhana ground; have filed a separate as well a common objection letter, each of which seeks to know the "public purpose" behind the proposed widening of lanes. Shrikrishna Malshe and Mukul Ranade, the president and secretary of the Panchayat, have also issued a letter to local BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole saying "98% of the residents have signed the objection letter". The latter stated, "The rest could not sign it as some are out of station. But most of residents have communicated their opposition to the road widening by sending mails to us. Since you have assured that if a majority of residents object to the proposal the widening will not be forced on us, we request you to act on the promise made." On January 26, the PMC's additional municipal commissioner, Rubal Agarwal, had said the civic body would not forcibly widen roads of colonies if most property owners were opposed to the proposal. Shirole told TOI on Saturday, "While I'm not against the policy decision regarding the nine-metre widening plan for the city, I will press the point at the party forum that these lanes should not be included in the widening list as majority of the local residents are against it." Renowned builder Shashank Paranjape, who has also signed the objection letter, said he raised the objection as a resident and not in his capacity as a member of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai). "The plots here are not big enough. After the widening, a plot area will further reduce and may not have development potential. Also, most property owners want the old charm of these lanes preserved," he said. Kishor Godbole, the member of the Panchayat's managing committee, said as per their internal sub-lease clause, amalgamation of two plots is not allowed and so independent redevelopment of smaller plots, to construct a high-rise, will not be a viable option for many. Godbole said that visitors to certain restaurants and commercial establishments often park vehicles haphazardly on the roads. "The PMC, if it plans to decongest the lanes here, should ask these establishments to make their own parking arrangements."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-deccan-area-residents-body-protests-lane-widening/articleshow/80607330.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 31, 2021||Delhi||New Delhi Municipal Council short of supply to water roadside green belt||NEW DELHI: Scarce supply of water for irrigating the lavish green belt in New Delhi Municipal Council area is becoming a cause of concern for the horticulture department. NDMC horticulture director S Chellaiah informed that at least 100 tubewells, supplying water for irrigating 240 km of roadside green belt, have been shut down in the past month as per the National Green Tribunal’s 2019 order. “NGT had asked park-owning agencies to mandatorily use treated water at all parks located within five kilometre radius of sewage treatment plants (STPs). But we have a boosting station at Delhi Gate and within its five km radius is the Mandi House area. We can use the treated water to irrigate the green belt here, but for other places we have no choice except for using tankers, which can’t be a permanent solution in the long-term,” Chellaiah explained. The decision has worried the horticulture department, which is finding it difficult to irrigate huge patches with tankers. “We have written to the civil engineering department to make a plan for the cost incurred in laying pipelines from STPs or coordinate with other departments to implement the plan so that we have sufficient supply of water at all places before summer arrives. Since we have bulbous and exotic plants everywhere, regular supply of water becomes important to maintain the beauty of this place,” an NDMC official said. The civic agency currently needs around 40 MGD of water per day to irrigate 1,500 acres of green area. “As of now, however, we are getting around 17.7 MGD of treated water for supply at our parks, gardens, green belt, etc. This includes supply of 15 MGD from CPWD’s plant (which is erratic) and rest from the STPs installed at parks to fulfil the individual requirement, such as the plant of one lakh litre per day capacity at Rose Garden and Moti Bagh, five lakh litre capacity at Nehru Park, 500 kilolitre at Lodhi Garden, two lakh litre at Talkatora Garden, among others,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-short-of-supply-to-water-roadside-green-belt/articleshow/80607302.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 31, 2021||Pune||Large Deccan residents’ group objects to widening of lanes||Pune: Scores of residents in the Deccan area — led by Deccan Gymkhana Colony Panchayat — have raised strong objections against the Pune Municipal Corporation’s plan to widen internal lanes in the neighbourhood.The Panchayat is an association of 250 bungalow and flat-owners.Residents living along the Good Luck Cafe lane, which ends at a dead end (linking Gokhale Chowk to Suvarna Smruti marriage hall); the late Arvind Ranade Path (running parallel to the main road next to Deccan Gymkhana ground, on map); and Talim Path and DB Deodhar Path (both interlinking lanes between PYC and Deccan Gymkhana ground); have filed a separate as well a common objection letter, each of which seeks to know the "public purpose" behind the proposed widening of lanes. Shrikrishna Malshe and Mukul Ranade, the president and secretary of the Panchayat, have also issued a letter to local BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole saying "98% of the residents have signed the objection letter". The letter stated, "The rest could not sign it as some are out of station. But most of residents have communicated their opposition to the road widening by sending mails to us. Since you have assured that if a majority of residents object to the proposal the widening will not be forced on us, we request you to act on the promise made."On January 26, the PMC's additional municipal commissioner, Rubal Agarwal, had said the civic body would not forcibly widen roads of colonies if most property owners were opposed to the proposal.Shirole told TOI on Saturday, "While I'm not against the policy decision regarding the nine-metre widening plan for the city, I will press the point at the party forum that these lanes should not be included in the widening list as majority of the local residents are against it."Renowned builder Shashank Paranjape, who has also signed the objection letter, said he raised the objection as a resident and not in his capacity as a member of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai)."The plots here are not big enough. After the widening, a plot area will further reduce and may not have development potential. Also, most property owners want the old charm of these lanes preserved," he said.Kishor Godbole, the member of the Panchayat's managing committee, said as per their internal sub-lease clause, amalgamation of two plots is not allowed and so independent redevelopment of smaller plots, to construct a high-rise, will not be a viable option for many.Godbole said that visitors to certain restaurants and commercial establishments often park vehicles haphazardly on the roads. "The PMC, if it plans to decongest the lanes here, should ask these establishments to make their own parking arrangements."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/large-deccan-residents-group-objects-to-widening-of-lanes/articleshow/80607346.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 31, 2021||Goa||Goa BroadBand nearing end, govt may log into BharatNet||PANAJI: With the Goa BroadBand Network (GBBN) project nearing its end, the state government now plans to implement the Centre’s Bharat Broadband Network Limited (BharatNet) in Goa to connect the village panchayats and over 200 government offices. The state department of information technology has sought Rs 327.7 crore from the Centre’s Department of Telecommunications to create the nation-wide optical fibre network. With the tendering process for BharatNet expected to take around a year, the contract with United Telecoms Limited (UTL) has been extended till July 2021. UTL is the private agency that has tied up with the government to implement GBBN, which is a 10-year public private partnership project. The Department of Information and Technology has also decided to exit GBBN as all the equipment installed and deployed by UTL are at “end of life, end of warranty” and thus in need of complete replacement. “Department has submitted that they have submitted a detailed project report (DPR) for implementation of BharatNet project in Goa which is similar to GBBN. The department has submitted proposal for seeking funds amounting to Rs 327.7 Cr which include maintenance of seven years from Department of telecom,” said the department in a note. The department of IT is in the process of formulating RFP in line with BharatNet project which would include new electronic equipment and laying of new of new optical cable fibre and this entire process will take 1 year,” a department note said. The state government had appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to analyse the exit management of GBBN and to find way forward for GBBN project after completion of 10 years. PwC was appointed through Software Technology Parks of India. PWC offered four options. “The file was moved to the government. Minister IT has approved option D to exit out of the current agreement,” said the department note. The department of IT had also approached BSNL to setup a fibre network across the state to link 189 villages and 225 government offices. However, BSNL quoted a yearly cost of Rs 106.45 cr while UTL is currently charges Rs 22.86 cr per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-broadband-nearing-end-govt-may-log-into-bharatnet/articleshow/80607390.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||HC: Don’t identify rape survivor even indirectly||MUMBAI: Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has issued additional guidelines to restrain print and electronic media as well as people using social media such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and the internet from publishing information that could “directly or indirectly” disclose a rape survivor’s identity. HC has directed that in cases of rape registered under the Indian Penal Code and offences under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso), the media and those using the social media should “not publish” the names of the parents or relatives of the survivor or accused’s relation with him or her; the accused as well as the survivor’s residential, occupational or work address and the village at which they reside in. It has restrained publication of details of the occupation of the parents or other relations of the survivor, or any other relative in such a manner that the survivor can be identified. A bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar, listed the guidelines while disposing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the mother of a rape survivor. The bench said if the individual is a student, the name of the school or college or any other educational institution or private coaching class or classes which he or she has joined for pursuing her hobbies and the family background should not be mentioned in articles or posts. HC said it was passing these additional guidelines as despite Supreme Court’s December 11, 2018, directions in a petition by Nipun Saxena against even “remotely” identifying rape survivors as well as penal provisions under IPC Section 228 (A), the rules are flouted. HC also directed that police should avoid naming survivors under Pocso Act and refer to them as “X” in remand reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-dont-identify-rape-survivor-even-indirectly/articleshow/80608236.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: BJP may apply no-repeat filter on women councillors||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has reserved 50% of its total seats for women councillors. For the forthcoming polls, several women councillors are likely to be replaced; new faces may be given a chance. Sources in the city BJP said that the party has been instructed to adopt the no-repeat strategy, especially when it comes to women councillors. The party’s office-bearers said that replacing women councillors may not spur rebellions as would be the case with their male counterparts. However, the Congress may not make major changes. A Congress leader said: “The Congress has recently given weightage to women and appointed Kamla Chavda as the leader of the opposition after Dinesh Sharma resigned.” As for the BJP, sources in the party said that in several wards — including those in the Walled City and in the city’s west — several women councillors will be replaced. But those who have been office-bearers or have shown some promise during their tenures may not be subjected to the no-repeat exclusion. A BJP office-bearer said that in 18 wards in the western part of the city, many replacements are likely. But in the BJP bastions such as Khadia, Isanpur, Maninagar, and Vasna the current women councillors may not be replaced. These are the areas where the BJP, irrespective of the candidate, has been able to win. “In these wards, the party has changed women councillors in every election,” the officer-bearer said. The office-bearer said that this time too, in central and western parts of the city, the party may bring in new faces. “This will send the signal that the party is willing to change councillors whose performance is indifferent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-may-apply-no-repeat-filter-on-women-councillors/articleshow/80606139.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Word play: Mumbai teens enter quarter finals of global Scrabble contest||MUMBAI: Perhaps it's the constant dance of such mystifying words in his ten-year-old head that's keeping Delhi boy Madhav Kamath resolutely monosyllabic these days.  Standing for Polish coins and eared seals respectively, 'grosze' and 'otaries' are among the obscure terms that the soft-spoken Madhav had to defend as valid words at an ongoing virtual tournament whose finals might just see India and Pakistan indulging in an enriching war of words, if not a formal handshake. Welcome to the World Youth Scrabble Championship, an annual under-18 international tournament that is missing the trademark-Scrabble-tournament buzz of rattling tiles, stubborn poker faces and friendly coffee-housing (sledging) this year. Hosted online for the first time owing to the pandemic, the 2021 edition of the game is witnessing 96 players from 16 countries outsmart each other in virtual groups of six. Right now, India's six have cruised to the quarter finals. Among them are Mumbai's Devansh Malpani and Ayush Bhatia, tenth-graders who can neither see their opponents nor the invisible eye surveilling them through the webcam while playing. Though the duo wrote their prelims online under a similar remote gaze, this feels more unnerving, says Devansh. "During exams, you can see the invigilator," he explains. Five years ago, both of them opted for Scrabble during their 'hobby' period in school when their tryst with its nonsense lexicon began. "It's good to know the meanings of Scrabble words but it's not necessary," says Ayush, referring to obscurities such as 'Usquabae' and 'Zyzzyva', which also happens to be the name of the online database of Scrabble words. While knowing terms like 'onionier' is not bound to help academically, Harvinderjit Bhatia--honorary treasurer of Scrabble Association of India (SAI) and go-to "whipping boy" to his two Scrabble-head sons--says an international win gives players an edge while applying for higher studies abroad. Which is probably why Bhatia's Scrabble coaching academy saw the number of enquiries from school kids in non-metros shoot up during the lockdown. "Learning online eliminates the tedium and costs of travel," says Bhatia. The quick recent ascent of online chess in India has infused Scrabble with hope. Not only is SAI trying to persuade the company that manufactures Scrabble to tie up with Scrabble associations in various states to encourage the focus-promoting game but also coaxing the Sports ministry into giving it the status of a sport. Meanwhile, replete with live-streaming and running English and Urdu commentary of matches, the ambience at the ongoing World Youth Scrabble championship organised by Pakistan, is charged. And while Devansh and Ayush will miss reading the expressions of opponents for clues till 2022 as all global offline scrabble tournaments have been cancelled till then, there are things they are happy to outsource to a distant computer. "Once, at an offline tournament, I had lost because of a silly error," recalls Devansh. "I wrote down my score in the loser's column instead of the winner's column."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/word-play-city-teens-enter-quarter-finals-of-global-scrabble-contest/articleshow/80607359.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||On the run to whittle down waste||Nagpur: United by a motto to make Nagpur plastic-free, over 400 volunteers from ‘Nagpur Ploggers’ collected plastic and glass waste from five Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) zones during Ploggathon 2021, in association with the civic body on Saturday. Nagpur Ploggers was founded on December 12, 2020 by Amal Sutone and Kaustubh Farfad and comprises members of all ages. Alarmed by the amount of plastic waste being dumped everyday by citizens, the duo came up with the idea of this initiative, inspired by 'Pune Ploggers'. Plogging as a concept was first introduced in Sweden, and is a combination of two words — jogging and the Swedish word 'plocka upp', meaning 'to pick up'. It is an eco-friendly exercise in which people pick up trash while jogging or walking briskly to clean up an area and simultaneously take care of their health. Esha Gharpure, one of the group’s volunteers in Dharampeth zone, said it had been carrying out drives every Saturday and Sunday from 6.45am to 8am, but Ploggathon 2021 was a mega drive covering Dhantoli, Satranjipura, Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth and Hanuman Nagar zones. “Though our government has banned the use of plastic, it is still being used widely on a day-to-day basis. Not only does that pollute the environment, but it also affects animals and ultimately us by entering our ecosystem. Orderly disposal of non-biodegradable waste also ensures animals do not get harmed by it. We appeal to the citizens of Nagpur to apply the 3Rs principle of reduce, reuse, and recycle,” she added. Another volunteer Maitreyee Pingle said the group collected over 1,000kg plastic and 500kg glass waste on Saturday and handed it to the NMC. “We took all the precautions mandated by Covid guidelines,” she added. Co-founder Amal said the city’s plogging community was growing bigger with each passing day. “More than 1,100 people — students, lawyers, engineers, doctors, architects — have joined us from all across the city. Many first-timers joined us today.” He added, “The United Nations has come up with 17 sustainable development goals out of which proper management of plastic waste is one, and we are on it.” His partner Kaustubh chimed in, “We want to educate people so that they join the drives every weekend. Youth is the future of our country and has an important part in making this impossible possible."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-the-run-to-whittle-down-waste/articleshow/80606150.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
January 31, 2021||Pune||Access roads meant to be narrow: Ex-chief planner||Pune: P T Hardikar retired as the director of the state town planning department 30 years ago, but he still remembers the first lesson he taught the engineering students as a special lecturer: the basic method to determine the exact width of roads in a neighbourhood colony.Hardikar (90), living in a bungalow on Late Arvind Ranade Path since 1948, is among the 200 property owners from the Deccan Gymkhana area to have filed objection letters against the widening of lanes in the area to nine metres.“The access roads in colonies are deliberately kept small. Their maximum width is kept at 20 feet. The idea is to discourage the use of these access roads for outside traffic. These are meant for people staying along them. This is the basic principle of neighbourhood planning and is a part of the curriculum we teach for small cluster developments,” Hardikar said.He recalled that the first town planning scheme of Pune was finalised in 1925, which suggested widening of the Prabhat Road and Bhandarkar Road to 50 feet, and accordingly, these roads were widened. “But it was based on the traffic assessment in 1925. I shall support the civic body if it plans to widen these two main roads,” he said, adding that this was the right way to decongest the link roads and access roads in any neighbourhoods.Hardikar said the streets that link to two main roads could be widened after a traffic assessment. “Since link roads ‘collect’ the traffic for the main road, we call them ‘collector roads’ and their widening based on traffic assessment can be allowed, but that must be done only after widening the main roads,” he said.He said while he was heading the state town planning department, he and others had worked out a mandatory standard to be followed by the local self-government bodies while widening roads. “Common people are not aware that the width of a road also depends on its length, but the PMC surely knows it. The proposal to widen access roads in colonies is hence against the basic thumb rules of town planning,” Hardikar stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/access-roads-meant-to-be-narrow-ex-chief-planner/articleshow/80607353.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||NU to develop 6 colleges as role models under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan||NAGPUR: Nagpur University will develop its six colleges from four districts as role models under various parameters of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (SBA), an ambitious plan of the Centre started in 2014, and felicitate the best among them. “We will provide them with guidelines on promoting renewable energy like solar panels, water and waste management and green energy. It will also include e-waste management and promoting awareness on health and environment. All these colleges will be evaluated on various parameters till October 2 this year and the best one would be rewarded by the university as well as the central government,” pro-vice chancellor Sanjay Dudhe told TOI. Explaining further on the project, SBA coordinator Abhay Mudgal, also the director of NU’s Students Welfare, said the colleges will be monitored continuously for their cleanliness drive in and around their campus and their planning to involve other people, including teachers, non-teaching staff and nearby residents, into their drive. “The colleges will also be getting national rankings if they perform exceptionally. We’ve already dispatched letters to them and most of them have confirmed their participation. Once developed, we will promote these colleges as SBA ambassadors and other institutions would visit them to study and replicate their models. The students and staffers not only need to keep their campuses clean, but also prepare posters and banners for propagating messages in this regard and organise events and rallies for spreading awareness in society,” he told TOI. The pro-VC said that the NU had allocated 2% of its budget for implementing SBA in its colleges and these six institutions will also get financial help for the project. “We will also try to improve the NU’s rankings through this project and seek additional funds for the government for implementing SBA in other affiliated colleges. Moreover, the university will also give a message of clean and green surroundings to society,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-develop-6-colleges-as-role-models-under-swachh-bharat-abhiyan/articleshow/80606219.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pune: Bhavani Peth police colony clocks a century||PUNE: Flanked by a cemetery on one side and a slum on the other, one of the oldest police colonies in the city at Bhavani Peth turned 100 this January. The idea of having a police colony in the heart of the city was to provide easy connectivity with different police stations, said a senior police officer. The colony has 10 rows, like a longish barrack, and each row has 10 houses. Even today, the police colony provides shelter to 100 families. Each row sports a foundation stone plaque mentioning 1921, the year when the colony came into existence. Each quarter has a small front room and a rear room, which serves as kitchen or toilet/bathroom. The houses are constructed with stones, wood and Mangalorean tiles. “I was born here and grew up here. I became a policeman like my father and I still stay in the police colony,” said police constable Sanjay Kanse (52). “Earlier, there were common toilets in one corner of the colony. But the state Public Works Department constructed toilets for every house in the colony,” said police constable Datta Narale (50), who too was born at the police colony. There were common taps for potable water. Now, every house has a water tap connection. The police constables said that staying in the calm and tranquil colony in the heart of the city was pure bliss. “Every major police establishments like the police commissioner’s office, police headquarters, and old police stations are located close by. The location of the colony provides easy access to these police units in the city,” said Nitin Dhotre (52), a police constable. “Earlier, there were no personal vehicles or public transport system. The policemen used to commute from one office to another on feet or they used to hire tongas. The colony provided easy access to the policemen,” Kanse said. Growing up close to a cemetery, the policemen heard “weird stories of ghosts and skeletons” buried underneath their houses. In order to accommodate more families at the police colony, a three-storey building was constructed in 1958. But life is not hunky-dory for the residents here. “There is a problem of garbage disposal. The residents of neighbouring societies and those staying in Kasewadi slum pocket throw garbage near the colony entrance,” said a policeman. “Secondly, we receive water at very low pressure. Sometimes, many houses do not receive water at all. The corporation authorities must look into it,” a policeman said. Additional commissioner of police (administration) Jalindar Supekar said, “We are trying to maintain all the police colonies, including at Bhavani Peth. We are paying attention to cleanliness at police colonies. The water issue will be resolved soon,” he said. City historian, Mandar Lavate said, “It will be interesting to study history of the police colonies and police establishments in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhavani-peth-police-colony-clocks-a-century/articleshow/80607361.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Market Yard vandalism victimsstare at economic uncertainty||312 words Pune: The vandalism at Ambedkarnagar and Baiil Bazaar in Market Yard on the night intervening Wednesday and Thursday has pushed many residents of the two slum pockets to the brink of economic uncertainty. A group of young men, armed with sharp weapons and iron rods, went on the rampage in the Ambedkarnagar and Baiil Bazaar slum pockets of Market Yard, damaging 41 vehicles, assaulting a resident and robbing cash from two shops.Most of the damaged vehicles were three- and four-wheeler tempos and two-wheelers, on which the residents depended for their livelihood. Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI,“We have taken strong action against the seven suspects to deter them from committing such crimes in future. We will take action against three criminals on record involved in the vandalism under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act.” Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “As many as 49 cases of vandalism of vehicles were registered in 2020 across the city and 158 people were arrested. Most of such incidents have occurred in the slum areas. Stringent preventive action is taken against the repeat offenders, while the juvenile accused are counselled by the police.” Local resident Sikander Bagwan, whose two-wheeler was damaged in the attack, said, “I support my family by selling vada pav and moved around on my bike to purchase raw material. I now have to hire autorickshaws. I do not have money to get the bike repaired instantly.” He said, “Of the seven vandals, three are from the locality. Some are into small-time jobs, while others do nothing. They harass people for food and money and create ruckus at night.” Shop owner Prakash Rathod said,“The assailants damaged my high-end bike and eggs in my store. I depend on the bike for household work and business. Peace is back in the slums, but it will take time for business to pick up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/market-yard-vandalism-victimsstare-at-economic-uncertainty/articleshow/80607355.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 31, 2021||Delhi||St Stephen’s first Delhi University college to open hostel doors to all||NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College was the first to recently throw open its hostels for students even as other colleges were yet to take a decision on reopening their hostels. Over 150 students have already returned to the hostels at St Stephen’s. Many of them had either been battling poor internet connection at home, or are those who just cannot wait to start their college life. About 70% of those who have returned are first-year students. Since January 10, students have been coming in batches to the college. Renish Abraham, the bursar of the college, said, “Students of any year willing to come back have been allowed. They are coming in batches.” Out of the six residences, two have been turned into quarantine centres. While a 14-day quarantine was mandatory earlier, it has now been reduced to six days. Students’ movement outside the campus has been restricted. Instead of 66 students being accommodated earlier, a residence will now have only 42 students. All the rooms have been converted into single occupancy. An isolation centre has also been set up. One of the second-year students who has returned to the campus, said, “We were all made to quarantine in one block, one room assigned to each student. We weren’t allowed to go into each other’s rooms and honestly, that one week’s period was quite depressing. Pre-Covid, we used to go to the mess hall to have meals, but during the quarantine, we used to get food at our doorsteps.” She did not want to be named. “College is not the same like it used to be. But it is great to be back,” she added. Another third-year student had to come back as she could not deal with the poor internet connection back home. “During my last OBE, the poor internet connection snapped. I was worried that I might face a similar situation during the next exam also. As soon as I got an email from the college, I decided I have to go back,” she said. However, at the college too, students are facing internet woes due to an unstable network in the area. “We have raised this issue with the college and been told by the authorities that the university has been informed about it. Due to the restrictions in place, we are also worried whether we would be able to go out to appear for entrance exams. Only students are being confined while a lot of people in the administration have been coming and going to the college,” said another student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/st-stephens-1st-du-college-to-open-hostel-doors-to-all/articleshow/80607347.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||‘Lifestyle, genetic issues behind sudden cardiac arrests in youth’||Nagpur: A 26-year-old engineer died suddenly after an early morning fall in his bathroom. A 28-yr-old medical representative had a sudden cardiac arrest and died within minutes before reaching hospital. An eight-year-old ailing girl suffered cardiac arrest on-board flight and died immediately. These are a few incidents in the city in January that made the Vidarbha chapter Cardiological Society of India (CSI) Vidarbha chapter to ponder a detailed programme to create awareness about the sudden cardiac arrests especially among youths. “This year, the CSI Vidarbha Chapter will raise awareness among youths for prevention of heart attack and stroke. This will include camps to screen youths for the risk factors like hypertension, diabetes and cholesterol levels. We aim to encourage them to lead healthy lifestyle, regular exercise, balanced diet and quit smoking,” said society president Dr Satish Poshettiwar. “Online webinars in collaboration with schools and colleges will be conducted to guide them to lead a healthy lifestyle. We aim to guide and train our fellow general practitioners to be part of this programme and conduct this activity,” said society secretary Dr Parag Admane. Interventional cardiologist Dr Rhushikesh Umarlkar said that lifestyle issues as well as sometimes undiagnosed genetic issues are responsible for the sudden cardiac arrests. “90% of such cases in young people are outcomes of lifestyle-based problems while 10% are due to blood disorders and genetic problems. We must learn the basics of stress management right from the early age,” he said, adding that family members, especially siblings of such cases, should test themselves always to avoid any similar complication in family. Consultant cardiologist and electrophysiologist Dr Chetan Rathi said, “We must learn to identify the indications. Any symptoms pertaining to heart failures such as shortness of breath, persistent cough or wheezing, fatigue, weakness, chest pains, swelling in legs, ankles or feet, must not be ignored. Now, we have access to highly advanced and sophisticated technologies in India such as high-energy CRT-D. But, we must get a chance to avail the benefit of technology for which it’s must to pay attention to our heart health and imbibe healthy lifestyle,” he said. Cardiologist and joint Secretary of the CSI, Dr Amar Amale, said Covid-19 period has increased stress level of youngsters. “Earlier, we used to worry about 50-60 years of age group but 35-40 years is the new watch age which is 15 years younger than western population,” he said. Covid-19 has been the leading cause of anxiety and depression. European Society of Cardiology (ESC) has found youngsters who struggle with anxiety and depression could be at a 20% increased risk of heart attack when they reach middle age. “Whether you are in your 30s or 50s, warning signs should not be ignored. Since comorbidity is a concern with Covid, it is important to keep in touch with your doctors regularly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lifestyle-genetic-issues-behind-sudden-cardiac-arrests-in-youth/articleshow/80605504.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Man loses Rs 3 lakh in fake Bitcoin trading in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A social media user from Kondapur was duped of Rs 2.89 lakh by conmen posing as Bitcoin traders. Three persons whose antecedents are not known yet were booked. The victim came across an advertisement on Telegram, offering various financial investment schemes and fell for it. He was included in a Telegram group by the accused and made to believe that the persons who are facilitating the bitcoin trade are foreign nationals whose names went by Amanda William, Lucy Alton and Jeremy Williams. The trio has been booked under the IT Act. After collecting Rs 2.89 lakh, the accused blocked the person in the group and became inaccessible when he tried to reach them. The victim was under the belief that he was doing Bitcoin trading for two months. Following instructions, the victim created a profile on Trust wallet. The complainant sent money on different instalments hoping that he is going to get huge profits. “His first investment sent through the wallet was $200 and he thought he can earn $1,000. On a website created by the accused, the victim’s balance showed that he was getting the promised profits and the same was getting reflected. However, the money was not getting transferred to his wallet,’’ cyber crime sleuths said. It was then he approached Cyberabad police complaining that he had lost Rs 2.89 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-loses-rs-3lin-fake-bitcoin-trading/articleshow/80606154.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 31, 2021||Pune||More road trips from Maharashtra: MP tourism board||PUNE: The Madhya Pradesh Tourism Board (MPTB), at a virtual roadshow in Pune to attract tourists to the central Indian state, said the pandemic had changed tourism trends in MP — such as experiencing a rise in the number of tourists travelling by road from Maharashtra and Gujarat. Sheo Shekhar Shukla, Madhya Pradesh’s principal tourism secretary and managing director of MPTB, said huge demand by the end of the year had provided some clues regarding future tourism trends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mp-tourism-sees-travel-trends-change/articleshow/80607363.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Woman alleges sexual harassment in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 33-year-old woman, a Gandhinagar resident, lodged a complaint at the Women’s police station (west) against the head of a prominent Paldi institution on Friday, accusing him of sexually harassing her. The woman, originally from Bihar, was an employee of the institution. Police have registered an offence and are probing the details of the FIR. The woman has mentioned in the FIR that she is currently a PhD student at a Gandhinagar university. The institution’s head was not available for his comments on the FIR. As for the job at the institution, the woman told the cops she was told to deposit Rs 43,000 under the HR policy. But as she had no money, she submitted her original documents to the institution. She said she is yet to get her documents back. According to the FIR, in October 2020 she had applied for a job at the institution. “She has said in the FIR that the head of the institution interviewed her in the same month at the head office,” said a police official. “She was selected as a field and social work officer and began her job three days after the interview.” The woman has alleged in the FIR that early into the job, the head of the institution gave her extra tasks related to the HR department. She said she was reluctant to take those up. She said in time he began to use objectionable language to target her. “The woman has alleged that the man told her he needed a sex partner,” the police official said. “She said he also started sexually harassing her.” The woman has said in the FIR that when she protested against the behaviour, the man began harassing her over work-related matters. She quit the job in December last year. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-alleges-sexual-harassment/articleshow/80606210.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops’ prompt action stops Rs 11 lakh from going into fraudster’s account||MUMBAI: The cyber police at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) managed to save Rs 10.7 lakh of Rs 12.7 lakh that had been siphoned off from the account held by a city-based businessman at a nationalised bank, via an email spoof fraud on January 25. The scamster created a fake email ID under businessman Manoj Shah’s name, and used Shah’s letterhead on the email. He sent an email to the Bank of India asking the bank to transfer Rs 12.7 lakh to Shah’s ‘client’s’ bank accounts for a ‘business deal’. Without verifying the authenticity of the email, or cross-checking with Shah, the bank cleared the amount of money. Immediately after the transfer, the cyber police got in touch with the three private banks involved in the transaction, and froze the accounts. The scamster managed to clear Rs 2 lakh. Shah found out about the fraud when he received three transaction alerts on his phone. He called the bank, and filed a complaint with RAK Marg police. “Realising I needed to act fast, I got in touch with cyber police officials at BKC. They acted quickly. The team managed to track the three transactions—to Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh,” Shah told TOI. Shah was communicating with what he thought was official Bisleri, when in fact it was the scamster posing as Bisleri with a fake website. “It’s a case of email spoofing. The team is collecting information about the account holders to locate the fraudster,” said DCP (cyber) Rashmi Karandikar. In 2020, cyber police received 558 cases of credit/debit fraud and in 2019, 775. The cyber police managed to recover Rs 15 crore in 2020, after timely intervention by freezing accounts to which the money was being fraudulently transferred. Still, crores of rupees were lost after the Mumbai cyber police observed a new trend—fraudsters targeting victims banks close at 5pm, and during weekdays, when victims find it difficult to complain immediately. Cyber lawyer Dr Prashant Mali said a majority of targets are from the Small & Medium Enterprises (SME) segment, with a focus on importers and exporters. They are targeted because they often carry out mass business transactions via email, without speaking to each other. Cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said: “Users must pay attention to the sender’s email address, subject and content. One must learn to identify and verify the domain name in an email. Many emails are spoofed and many use cousin domain names. For example, mydomainname.com can be spelt as www.mydomainame.com, and the latter can be used for phishing... Government, banks and organisations that handle large amounts of citizen data should release advisories on a regular basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-prompt-action-stops-rs-11l-from-going-into-fraudsters-a/c/articleshow/80607374.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pune: Pargenagar to get new water pipeline||PUNE: A new water pipeline will be laid at Pargenagar in Kondhwa to bring relief to residents who have been battling water shortage for several years. Many areas in Kondhwa and NIBM Road still do not get municipal water supply. Though there is a water pipeline at Pargenagar, insufficient water is distributed to housing societies in the area, leaving residents to fend for themselves. The local corporator has now arranged funds to lay a new water pipeline, which will benefit housing societies such as Kumar Sublime, Kumar Sansar, Kumar Suraksha, DSK Garden Enclave, Yash Rhythm phase 1 and 2, Parge Vivaan, Parge Heights, among others. Avelino Naronha, secretary, Kumar Sublime, said, “The management has made relentless efforts to ensure that all homeowners pay property tax to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), but despite this we are facing severe water shortage problems. We receive only 5,000 litres of water daily from the PMC water pipeline. The supply meets just 5-7%% of our total requirement. On an average, we spend Rs2 lakh on purchase of water from tankers every month. We have to incur an additional cost of Rs 50,000-60,000 per month on water softeners. We hope the 24x7 water pipeline will solve our problems.” Sameer Khawaja, chairman, Kumar Sansar Cooperative housing society, said, “We have not had municipal water supply for almost 12 years. Though there is a water pipeline, we are at the dead end of it. We are also located uphill, so we get water only at 3am for half an hour after the PMC temporarily shuts off distribution to other societies in the area to increase the pressure, so that water reaches us. We have two borewells that give a good output of 50,000-60,000 litres daily, but we have to spend around Rs 40,000 per month on electricity charges to pump the water up.” Nanda Lonkar, local corporator, said the new pipeline will distribute an increased amount of water which will meet the requirements of the housing societies. “The residents of Pargenagar have been suffering for a very long time. The area came under my purview in 2017. Since then I have been trying to solve the problem. Now, a more efficient water pipeline will be installed by the end of February, but it will take three to four months for adequate water supply in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pargenagar-to-get-new-water-pipeline/articleshow/80607367.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pune: 9 get life term in Mulshi land dealer murder case||PUNE: Additional sessions judge Jayant Raje here on Saturday convicted and sentenced nine people to life imprisonment for the December 2014 murder of a 32-year-old land dealer at Bhukum in Mulshi taluka. Special public prosecutor Vikas Shah told TOI, “The court found all nine guilty of offences under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Apart from the life sentence, the court also imposed a Rs5,000 fine on each of them.” Shah said the convicts — part of a criminal gang — had been in jail ever since their arrests between December 3, 2014, and November 27, 2015. He said the murder was the fallout of a monetary dispute over land transactions, as well as an attempt to gain dominance in the region. “The deceased, Kudhale, was attacked with swords, sickles and other sharp weapons around 8.45am on December 1, 2014, near Rameshwar temple at Bhukum. His brother, Kashinath, who later lodged an FIR, was the sole witness to the attack,” said Shah. “The court has relied on the Kashinath’s deposition, besides the evidence on record — including the murder weapons seized by the Paud police from the accused, the postmortem and chemical analyser’s reports,” the prosecutor said. “In all, we examined 16 witnesses supporting our case,” Shah added. Shah said, “The main accused, who was looking after land deals in the absence of his brother [jailed in a criminal case], had a dispute with Kudhale over some land transactions in the Mulshi area. Kudhale was also among the accused in the 2010 murder of one of the members of the gang.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-9-get-life-term-for-mulshi-land-dealers-murder/articleshow/80607366.cms||Vishwas Kothari
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No civilian road is closed, says Cantonment board president||SECUNDERABAD: In what could cheer lakhs of commuters, deputy GOC and president of Cantonment Board Brigadier Abhijit Chandra said no civilian road is being closed by the army in Secunderabad Cantonment. The defence official said he will come out in a civilian dress, visit every road and check if the jawans are allowing commuters. Commuters and residents said the army had shut 21 out of 25 civilian roads in Cantonment and LMA had violated orders issued by the ministry of defence on reopening all the roads. Brigadier Chandra said the residential welfare associations and various civilian bodies can breathe easy on as no road is being closed. The road closure issue was raised by SCB vice-president J Maheshwar Reddy at the SCB board meeting held on Saturday as a non-agenda item. With the jawans insisting on ID proofs from every civilian passing through the civilian roads at Kowkur, Yapral, Lakdawala and adjoining areas, their problems multiplied. SCB members also alleged that the jawans were stopping their vehicles and checking them despite showing their identity proofs. Brigadier Chandra said: “The jawans insist on ID proofs from every civilian entering the Cantonment area. It is part of instructions received from army headquarters.” Later addressing the media, Maheshwar Reddy said Brigadier Chandra has clearly assured them that all the civilian roads have been opened and not a single road has been closed. Interestingly, the present board’s tenure will end on February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-civilian-road-is-closed-says-cantonment-board-prez/articleshow/80606191.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 31, 2021||Bareilly||Father-son duo among five booked for rioting, attempt to outrage modesty of 16-year-old girl||PILIBHIT: Five people, including a father-son duo, were booked for allegedly thrashing a 16-year-old girl and attempting to outrage her modesty following the chief judicial magistrate’s order in Pilibhit city. The girl’s mother approached the court after the SHO concerned allegedly refused to register a case in this connection. In her complaint, the mother stated that one of the accused Shyam Lal (58) of her locality in Pilibhit city was dismantling a speed-breaker outside her house around 9.30 on October 11, and when she objected, he called his 35-year-old son. Soon, his son came to the spot, along with three more people, and they started abusing her, she alleged. “They barged into my house and sabotaged it. Shyam Lal’s son tore my daughter’s clothes and attempted to outrage her modesty. They badly beat her up,” alleged the mother. “As neighbours rushed to help us hearing our screams, the assailants fled the scene after threatening to kill my entire family,” alleged the complainant. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Atar Singh said all the five accused were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 452 (house trespass), 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 354 (applying force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 427 (causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-son-duo-among-five-booked-for-rioting-attempt-to-outrage-modesty-of-16-year-old-girl/articleshow/80605071.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 31, 2021||India||MLA convicted of rioting now disqualified||CHANDIGARH: In a big setback to Congress, Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Saturday disqualified Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary, just two days after the legislator was convicted in a 2011 rioting case, reports Manvir Saini. Chaudhary along with 14 others was convicted on Thursday by the court of judicial magistrate in Nalagarh in Himachal’s Solan district for rioting. All of them were sentenced to three-year imprisonment and fined Rs 85,500 each. The assembly notified the vacancy in Kalka seat and with this the total number of MLAs decreased to 88 in the 90-member House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mla-convicted-of-rioting-now-disqualified/articleshow/80608238.cms||Manvir Saini
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||No change in TRS stand on farm laws: KK||Hyderabad: Asserting that agriculture is a state subject, TRS secretary general and Rajya Sabha MP K Keshava Rao said the Centre cannot make laws at national level which go against the federal spirit of the country. He claimed that the TRS has opposed the new farm laws and there has been no change in the party’s stand. “It is welcoming to note that the Centre has said it is still open to talks with the farmers’ unions. Our party has asked the Centre to send the agri bills to a select committee on disputed clauses, but the government did not agree,” Keshava Rao told mediapersons on Delhi on Saturday. He said the TRS was against boycotting the presidential address as it would mean nothing but supporting violence on January 26 in the national capital. “Violence on the Republic Day is condemnable, but at the same time, the Centre should not leave farmers’ issues and demands in the guise of violence incidents,” he said. TRS leader in Lok Sabha Nama Nageswara Rao said Telangana has become a role model for many states on various schemes. He said they would take up issues pertaining to the states like pending arrears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-change-in-trs-stand-on-farm-laws-kk/articleshow/80606229.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Demanding money a vague term, can’t be harassment to wife: Bombay HC||NAGPUR: Demanding money from wife is a “vague term” and can’t be a harassment as per IPC’s Section 498A, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has ruled while acquitting a man who was accused of abetting wife’s suicide nine years after their marriage. “The evidence is with regard to quarrel between husband and wife where he used to beat her for money. The demand of money is a vague term and in absence of other particulars to establish the link, the offence of harassment, as contemplated under Section 498-A of the IPC, isn’t made out,” justice Pushpa Ganediwala held, while allowing petitioner Prashant Jare’s appeal for acquittal. Relying on his conduct, Ganediwala inferred that he was more interested in wife’s company than her elimination. “From time to time, he brought her from her father’s place (after their fights) and also issued notices for restitution of conjugal rights. Moreover, he took her to hospital and refused to give her body to her father for the funeral. He himself performed it at his place,” she said. Ganediwala’s recent verdicts courted controversies with the Supreme Court staying one and also withdrawing recommendation to the Centre the proposal of making her a permanent judge. She ruled that groping breasts of minor without removing her clothes isn’t a sexual offence. She then held that opening pant’s zip, holding minor’s hands and asking her to sleep in bed with him also isn’t a sexual offence. In another case, she held that single man can’t rape a woman without scuffle. In all these cases, she acquitted the accused from Pocso charges. The marriage between the couple was solemnized in 1995. On November 12, 2004, she committed suicide. The deceased’s father lodged a complaint at Darwha police station alleging that his daughter was harassed for not bringing money by the husband and in-laws for a few years. The Yavatmal sessions court convicted Jare on April 2, 2008, under Sections 306 for abetment to wife’s suicide and Section 498A of IPC for cruelty to wife. He was awarded three years behind bars for first offence and one year for the second, which he challenged in HC. His family members were acquitted by the court. Justice Ganediwala pointed that their minor daughter deposed before the police that she was present in the house when the incident took place and Jare had beaten her mother and also forced her to consume poison. “However, the prosecution, surprisingly, registered the case as suicide,” she wrote in the judgement. “The general allegations of harassment aren’t sufficient to rope in the petitioner for offence of abetment to suicide. There is absolutely no material which could be pointed out by prosecution with regard to instigation by him to wife to commit suicide. Considering the conduct and nature of allegations against the petitioner and the fact that the similarly situated co-accused was acquitted of harassment charges under Section 498-A, in HC’s opinion, he also deserves to be acquitted,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demanding-money-a-vague-term-cant-be-harassment-to-wife-hc/articleshow/80606227.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||PWD seeks NMC, traffic police nod for Wanjari Nagar speed breaker||Nagpur: The state public works department (PWD) has approached the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur city traffic police for permission to legalize fibre-based speed breakers on the newly-constructed elevated road at Wanjari Nagar. TOI on January 24 had reported that state PWD division number 3, which constructed the elevated road, had installed fibre-based speed breakers that have been declared unauthorized by the high court. The PWD had also not obtained permission from the DCP (traffic) and Ajni traffic zone before installing the speed-breakers. No new speed breakers can be installed without the approval from the District Road Safety Committee. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had inaugurated the 523 metre elevated road from Wanjari Nagar overhead water tank and Ajni road on January 23. The road connects Umred Road with Wardha Road. The landing of the elevated road towards the railwaymen’s school side can cause traffic bottleneck on the Ajni road connecting Medical Chowk with Ajni area. To cover up the issue, PWD first erected fibre-based speed breakers without following due procedure and started the process to erect traffic signals to decongest and regulate traffic on Ajni road side. In a letter written to municipal commissioner and DCP (traffic), state PWD executive engineer Dilip Dawle has sought permission to erect a speed-breaker on the Ajni road side. Interestingly, the executive engineer has informed that the speed-breaker will be installed as per Indian Road Congress (IRC) norms. The PWD has also approached the NMC’s electric department to provide power supply to traffic signals. Traffic expert and vice-president of NGO Janakroash Ashok Karandikar pointed out the speed breakers have not been installed as per the recommendations of IRC. “According to IRC norms, speed breakers are hump type and rumble strips. These speed breakers when properly built provide visual and tactile stimuli which alerts the driver to slow down,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-seeks-nmc-traffic-police-nod-for-wanjari-nagar-speed-breaker/articleshow/80605510.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Murder accused granted narco-test||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court has permitted an Army jawan to undergo narco analysis to furnish evidence for his claim of innocence in a rioting and murder case, particularly to prove his alibi. Jitendrasingh Bhadoriya alias Chhotu is one of the accused persons in the murder of one Chandan on October 5, 2019 evening in the railway station jurisdiction. Posted at Rajouri in Srinagar district of Jammu & Kashmir as an army service corps, Bhadoriya was on leave during those days. He was arrested by the Railway police after his brother-in-law Ravi alias Lalla’s arrest. Bhadoriya has been in jail since then. Bhadoriya’s advocate Rajkumar Chaumal filed an application requesting the court to permit the accused to undergo the truth serum test. He argued that the investigating officer did not took into consideration the alibi that Bhadoriya had taken since the beginning and his call details establishing his location at the time of the offence. He claimed that Bhadoriya was 10 kilometres away from the scene of offence and was with his wife at a garba venue. After hearing the arguments, principal sessions judge Shubhada Baxi permitted Bhadoriya to undergo narco analysis, with appropriate directions to cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/murder-accused-granted-narco-test/articleshow/80606235.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Corporator accused of cheating||HYDERABAD: Ahead of mayoral election of Greater Hyderabad, scheduled on February 11, a TRS corporator who lost against AIMIM corporator accused the latter of cheating. This is the second case reported within a month. IK Pallavi who contested from Erragadda ward on TRS ticket said that Shaheen Begum should not be allowed to take oath. She alleged that Shaheen has three children . Under section 21 B of the GHMC Act, those with more than two children cannot contest the municipal elections. Pallavi filed a petition in civil court seeking that details submitted by AIMIM corporator should be declared null and void. Court ordered the next hearing on February 2. On January 14, J Ravindra, AIMIM candidate who lost the election against BJP’S Rakesh Jaiswal from Jambagh ward, filed a complaint with Abids police alleging that newly-elected BJP corporator submitted a false affidavit on oath, before the returning officer of ward-77 at Abids, saying that he has only two kids, when in reality, he has three children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-accused-of-cheating/articleshow/80606262.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Tourism min announces Tehri Lake fest from Feb 16||Dehradun: State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Saturday announced the Tehri Lake festival in the town’s Koti Colony from February 16. The aim is to provide an impetus to economic activities in the region and a distinct recognition to Tehri for its adventure tourism opportunities. Tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar told TOI, “The state government is constantly making efforts to revive tourism after the Covid pandemic. I am confident that we will again take Uttarakhand tourism to a new level. We hope the Tehri Lake festival will boost the inflow of tourists in the region." Poonam Chand, nodal officer of Tehri Festival, said that several adventure activities will be organised for tourists at the festival as per directions of the adventure wing of Uttarakhand Tourism Development Council. Water sports will include surfing, kayaking, canoeing and scuba diving. Other than that, there will be mountain terrain biking, ATV bikes, archery, paragliding in aero sports, paramotors and hot air balloons, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourism-min-announces-tehri-lake-fest-from-feb-16/articleshow/80605516.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana opens up hostel for cattle, six more on cards||HYDERABAD: A hostel for cattle? A first-of-its-kind facility — perhaps a first in the country — was set up at Ponnala village in Siddipet district, just 100 km from Hyderabad, providing villagers a five-acre premises where they can leave their cattle. Such cattle hostels are also being planned in six more places. The cattle hostel on the outskirts of Siddipet town is more than just accommodation for buffaloes owned by the villagers. “It is a common asset for the entire village that has been set up where fodder is provided, veterinary doctors are available and milk is collected with new techniques,” District Rural Development Organisation (DRDO) project director Ch Gopal Rao told TOI. The cattle hostel has space for 200 cattle. “The idea is to keep the village clean. If the villagers leave their cattle at the hostel where they are taken care of, there will be no movement of cattle in the village,” the official explained. The cattle hostel was inaugurated by finance minister T Harish Rao on January 9. The villagers who have understood the concept are slowly making use of the facility to keep their buffaloes there. While several NGOs donated Rs 90 lakh for the cattle hostel, Rs 1.10 crore was used from MGNREGS funds. The villagers have to pay a nominal amount for the upkeep of the hostel. Priority, as of now, is to show how best the cattle hostel can be used by them. In the next six months, officials said they will get an idea on how best the cattle hostel could be put to use. The villagers who have understood the concept are slowly making use of the facility to keep their buffaloes there. Several NGOs donated Rs 90 lakh for the cattle hostel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-opens-up-hostel-for-cattle-six-more-on-cards/articleshow/80606274.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Adani Gas raises CNG, PNG prices; GGL too hikes rates||AHMEDABAD: Adani Total Gas Limited has raised compressed natural gas (CNG) and domestic piped natural gas (PNG) prices across regions. The state-run Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL), too, has also decided to hike rates for PNG supplied to industrial customers. For Ahmedabad and Vadodara, ATGL has revised the CNG price to Rs 53.67 per kg. The price, according to sources, stood at Rs 52.36 per kg in November 2020. For Kheda, Surendranagar, Barwala and Navsari, CNG prices have been changed to Rs 53.51 per kg. The revised rates (including taxes) have come into effect from January 25, 2021. As far as residential consumers are concerned, the company has raised domestic PNG prices for Ahmedabad to Rs 729.09 per metric million British thermal units (MMBTU) from Rs 641.09/MMBTU. This rate — exclusive of taxes — is applicable for the bi-monthly consumption up to 2.29 MMBTU. For the consumption above 2.29 MMBTU, the price has been revised to Rs 874.91 per MMBTU from 769.31/MMBTU. For Vadodara, revised PNG price stands at Rs 729.09 per MMBTU. These new rates are effective from January 24, 2021. The company did not respond to an emailed query seeking reasons behind the hike and details about the comparative prices. Meanwhile, state-run Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL) has decided to increase retail PNG prices for industrial customers by Rs 4.96 per standard cubic meter (SCM) from February 1. The price for 3-month minimum guaranteed offtake (MGO) has been revised upward to Rs 33.07 per SCM in Morbi and Surendranagar, states letters written by the company to its customers in the ceramic cluster. For other areas, the rate has been hiked to Rs 34.87 per SCM. GGL cited the substantial increase in natural gas prices in international market for the increase in PNG tariff for industrial consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adani-gas-raises-cng-png-prices-ggl-too-hikes-rates/articleshow/80606312.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||2 held for brandishing firearms at trucker in snarl on E-way||Navi Mumbai: Khopoli police took suo motu cognisance and arrested an MUV driver and an occupant after registering an FIR under Arms Act as a video of them waving firearms at a trucker for making way in a snarl on the Mumbai-Pune expressway at Khopoli on Friday night went viral, The video was recorded by a motorist and shared on twitter by AIMIM’s Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jalil, who tagged the chief minister and home minister along with Maharashtra DGP, and told them to take note of “lawlessness”. As the MUV’s rear windscreen had a sticker of Shiv Sena, Jaleel tweeted, “The logo on the vehicle says it all! Shiv Sainiks brandishing revolvers while trying to make way for their vehicle on Friday night.” Senior inspector Dhanaji Kshirsagar said they traced the Mahindra Marazzo to Kolhapur. We seized a licensed pistol from Vikas Kamble (33), a resident of Malad, and a licensed revolver from Vijayprakash Mishra (48), a resident of Vakola. Both claimed they were not affiliated to Sena.” Sena MP and spokesperson Arvind Sawant said law will take its own course. Kamble, he said, was driving the vehicle, registered in his father’s name, and Mishra was seated behind. Both waved firearms at the trucker in the traffic snarl at Bhor ghat section around 2.30am, he added. Jaleel said, “Khopoli police station’s senior inspector asked me if I would register a complaint. I asked him why should I register it. Being a public representative and a responsible person, when I have tweeted something, it has credence. Somebody forwarded the video of an alleged criminal act with the hope that as an MP, I will take up the matter. If police deem it fit for investigation and if prima facie an offence has been committed, they should register a case.” Jaleel added, “If I am the complainant, Raigad police will call me to record my statement and summon me to court. Police wanted the statement of the person who recorded the incident. He is a businessman from Aurangabad and is terrified of legal matters. I cannot put a common man in a tight spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-held-for-brandishing-firearms-at-trucker-in-snarl-on-e-way/articleshow/80606485.cms||George Mendonca
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Delhi schools ready to resume two more classes, seek parents’ consent for kids||NEW DELHI: Schools have started sending consent forms to parents, asking them to send children to school, after Delhi government allowed classes IX and XI to go to schools from February 5. Principals are also working out a schedule to accommodate four classes on premises. Schools reopened for students of classes X and XII on January 18. On Friday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced that the schools can also call students of classes IX and XI for completing practicals and projects. The minister also said degree colleges, polytechnics and ITIs, too, could be reopened. The principal of Mount Abu Public School, Rohini said that accommodating students of the four classes together will not be a problem. Jyoti Arora said, “The entire school is empty so fitting in the classes on premises will not be an issue. We just have to work out a schedule for the labs where students can complete their practicals in batches of 10-15 .” Arora added that teachers will find coordination easier with the students at school. Principals of government schools are also working out a schedule to accommodate the students of all classes. At The Indian School, the principal believes that by the time Class XI students come in for practicals, Class XII students will have completed theirs. “Class XII practicals are almost over, so scheduling will be easy. Class XI students have been quite keen on coming for classes, so I am expecting a good attendance” said Tania Joshi, the principal. Another government school principal also said that it is expecting a large number Class IX students to come back to schools. On Friday, Sisodia said, “Schools and colleges are being reopened so that students can prepare better for their practicals and internal assessments. It is important to provide support and guidance to the students for them to prepare well for the exams.” When schools reopened for classes X and XII students on January 18, parents were unsure about sending their children to school, Sisodia said. “But now they have seen the schools’ preparedness and are convinced about their children’s safety, the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schools-ready-to-resume-two-more-classes-seek-parents-consent-for-kids/articleshow/80607368.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Cases down, ‘Long Covid’ still a bother||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 outbreak may be on the wane, but its residual effect continues to affect thousands of patients across the country. The effects can be physical, related to the heart brain or lungs, but it can also be something to do with the ability to think and reason, which may be very subtle. According to Dr Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, one of his patients who recovered from Covid-19 came to him with complaints of mood swings. “Another complained of memory loss and had to really note down the name of all his close friends and family members, because he couldn’t remember it,” he said, while addressing a webinar organised by the institute to discuss post-Covid complications recently. The AIIMS director added that many patients also suffer from depression or other mental health issues. “One person that I have been following for more than three months still continues to have panic attacks and needs to be monitored closely with psychiatric help,” he said. Post-Covid complications are categorised into three phases, depending on the persistence of symptoms. In acute Covid, symptoms can persist for up to four weeks. In symptomatic Covid, the symptoms can persist for four to 12 weeks. But there are also patients who continue to have symptoms or residual effects of the infection for over 12 weeks. This phenomenon is being described as Long Covid. Dr Pawan Tiwari, assistant professor, department of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine, said discharge from the hospital is just one part of managing Covid-19. “Long Covid is a patient-coined term. It was initially talked about by support groups started by patients, who described the constellation of symptoms that continued to affect the infected individual for weeks after the disease,” he said. Two other doctors from the institute presented case studies of patients, a 43-year-old doctor and a 54-year-old housewife, who continued to have symptoms of the disease even after three months necessitating medical attention. Post-Covid clinics need to be set up in all big hospitals to provide holistic care to persons suffering from Long Covid, say doctors. “Even those who have been asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic need to be followed up closely for any long-term sequel that might arise in such patients who have recovered completely. At the moment, one may feel asymptomatic but the actual effect may be apparent, say one year down the line,” Dr Neeraj Nischal, an associate professor in the department of medicine at AIIMS, stated. Dr Puneet Agarwal, director of neurology at Max Saket, said he came across patients who had stroke, most likely triggered by Covid-19, days after testing negative for the virus. The most common symptoms that persist post-recovery include body ache, fatigue, difficulty concentrating and breathlessness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cases-down-long-covid-still-a-bother/articleshow/80606299.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||50-year-old killed over land dispute; neighbour held||Jaipur: A minor spat over house construction took an ugly turn on Saturday when a youth stabbed a 50-year-old woman to death at Jawahar Nagar Kachchi Basti under Jawahar Nagar police station area. According to police, Durga Devi had recently started construction of her house at Jawahar Nagar Kachchi Basti at Teela No. 5. “Neighbours Kamal Singh and Ram Singh resisted to the construction saying their side of 3-feet had been encroached,” said a senior police officer. Thereafter, both the families got embroiled into a violent confrontation. “Suddenly, Kamal fished out a knife from the kitchen and stabbed Durga Devi. She was rushed to the hospital where she succumbed to injuries,” said an officer.A team of senior police officers rushed to the spot while members of both the families lodged an FIR against each other. Meanwhile, after the woman succumbed to injuries, the accused was arrested by police who was already present at the police station. “Durga Devi and her son were attacked with a knife. Our team went to the spot and arrested two accused including Kamal Singh and Ram Singh,” said Abhijeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east). Police said both the families had a dispute over for last some days. “As construction of stairs started at Durga’s house, neighbours Ram Singh and Kamal Singh resisted.” Durga Devi’s son Mukesh Nayak (28) and daughter Meenu (22) have also been injured in the violent clash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50-year-old-killed-over-land-dispute-neighbour-held/articleshow/80606332.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Coaching classes get good response from students for reopening||Nagpur: Coaching institutes owners in the city say they have received a strong response from students regardless of whether they have physically reopened or in the process of collecting consent forms. Many of the classes are reopening from February first week to give even outstation students enough time to make arrangements for accommodation. With big ticket competitive exams just around the corner, it is not surprising that students want to make the most of physical classroom teaching. Rajnikant Bondre, director of Sneha Classes, said that over 90% of his students have submitted consent forms. “We are starting from February first week and the response so far has been terrific. All arrangements have been made for ensuring sanitization of premises and preparation have been made to receive students who would be back after a long time,” said Bondre. Permission to reopen coaching institutes in city had come through on January 18. But many coaching institutes decided to defer the reopening date so that outstation students can make arrangements. Sameer Phale, director of Dr Phale Medical Entrance Institute, said that some outstation students are coming back, while others are still in the process of finalizing on accommodation. “We have decided to start our batches in a phased manner. Priority will be given to the batch that is appearing for exams in the coming months. After a few weeks we will start the other batches,” said Phale. Sarang Upganlawar, director of ICAD Institute, said there can’t be a replacement for physical mode of teaching. “Online teaching is at best assisting the physical mode of teaching. There is no way people can rely completely on that. I had recently spoken to a student who had downloaded a popular mobile coaching app. She said that app has not been operated for almost a month now. Children by default need physical mentoring and coaching,” said Upganlawar, who too is starting classes from second week of February. Meanwhile, Allen Career Institute (Nagpur) has resumed physical classes for students. Ashutosh Hisaria, centre head of the institute, said, “There was a great deal of excitement among students and parents when permission to start classroom coaching was issued after a long gap of 10 months. To ensure that not a single day’s study is lost, many students arrived for the classes on the very first day and classes were organized following Covid-19 safety rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coaching-classes-get-good-response-from-students-for-reopening/articleshow/80605526.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Most land in tony areas of Ahmedabad in private hands: Study||AHMEDABAD: A study of how much land is available to the public in some of the visibly busiest areas of the city — other than in the Walled City — was conducted recently by a joint effort of Ahmedabad Municpal Corporation (AMC) and faculty of planning of the Cept University. Nine areas, including Ashram Road, CG Road, Prahladnagar, SG Road, Bopal, Bodakdev, Gurukul, were chosen for the purpose. The study revealed that cumulatively some 45.6% of the total land in these areas is still private land, only 18% is under public realm and that some 35% of the total land area is constituted of buildings in these nine areas. The public domain is generally defined as those land areas that consists of public streets, public open spaces like parks and gardens — which are essential to improve quality of life in a city. The study points out how Rameshwar Park stands out against all other eight areas when it comes to utilization of land. “It is a low-income, low-rise, high-density neighbourhood. The the land under private open spaces is 18%,” claims the study. In stark contrast in the Ashram Road area, which is the central business district that came into existence in 1980, an excessive 57% of land is left in private open spaces, and buildings occupy only 25.6%. In fact, in the four major commercial areas of Ahmedabad --which are Ashram Road, Prahladnagar, CG Road, and SG Road — private open spaces account for as much as 54%, which is more than half of all the land. The average FSI of the nine areas combined, the study states, is 1.31. “Ahmedabad’s sprawl shows how land utilization is sub-optimal, with less land available under public domain and more land consumed as private open spaces, especially as margins and setbacks, leading to excessive fragmentation,” claims the study. It further adds, “Indian cities like Ahmedabad should rationalize their development regulations to improve land utilization outcomes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/most-land-in-tony-areas-of-city-in-private-hands-study/articleshow/80606350.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 183 fresh cases, nine deaths recorded in past 24 hours||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 183 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. The positivity rate, meanwhile, stood at 0.27%. A total of 68,967 tests were conducted the previous day, which included 31,093 RT-PCR tests and 27,362 via rapid antigen testing. The Covid infection tally in Delhi currently stands at 6.34 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 10,849 with eight new fatalities in the past 24 hours, authorities said. The active cases tally on Saturday reduced to 1,486 from 1,551 on Friday. The city had recorded 96 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the lowest in over 10 months. In view of the falling number of Covid cases in the capital, Delhi government has ordered resumptions of surgeries, OPDs and other medical services at its state-run hospitals. Data shared by the government showed there was no patient suffering from the viral infection in over 100 city hospitals, including AIIMS Jhajjar, Max East/West Block, VIMHANS and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/183-fresh-cases-9-deaths-recorded-in-past-24-hrs/articleshow/80606341.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Mahatma Gandhi statue vandalised in Warangal||WARANGAL: Mahatma Gandhi's statue located in the TV tower colony in the 47 division of Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) was vandalised, on Saturday. A local corporator who hails from the ruling party is allegedly behind the incident. However, police authorities stated that they did not receive any complaint. Even the district administration has not responded about the incident so far. Miscreants deliberately demolished the statue with earth movers, stating that it was in the middle of the road and was disturbing traffic flow. Congress leaders M Prakash, block Congress president Sampath protested at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-statue-vandalised-in-warangal/articleshow/80606344.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Proposal to set up panel for old grant bungalows deferred||Secunderabad: An argument broke out between elected members of SCB and president of cantonment board, Brigadier Abhijit Chandra over setting up a panel for inspection of old grant bungalows (OGB). A seven-member panel — one elected SCB member, a nominated member, five representatives each from the president of cantonment board, CEO-SCB, DEO-Telangana & AP circle, senior executive medical officer and Garrison engineer-south have to be appointed to carry out inspections in OGBs. SCB vice president, J Maheshwar Reddy, was opposed to the OGBs being maintained by the Defence Estate Office, Telangana and AP Circle. But former SCB vice president and BJP state executive member, J Rama Krishna demanded the PCB to go ahead with setting up the panel in order to know irregularities in OGBs. Abhijith said that there are 125 OGBs in the Cantonment and that the proposal for panel to be set up to do inspections in OGBs has come from MoD. However, board members were not convinced by the PCB’s clarification. As a result, the proposal was deferred. President of cantonment board said that there are 125 OGBs in the Cantonment and that the proposal for panel to be set up to do inspections in the OGBs has come from MoD||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/proposal-to-set-up-panel-for-old-grant-bungalows-deferred/articleshow/80606314.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Palghar may get own prison spread over 25 acres||Mumbai: The state prison department has identified around 25 acres to construct a jail in Palghar district. With a population of over 29 lakhs, the district was carved out in August 2014 but does not have a jail. Accused and convicts from the district are generally lodged in Thane central prison and Taloja central jail in Navi Mumbai. There are 23 police stations in the district. Another six in Mira-Bhayander may benefit with this new prison. The need for a prison in the district was felt when mass arrests were made after the lynching of two seers and their driver in Kasa village of Palghar in April last year, amid Covid-19. The accused were initially lodged in police stations in the district. So far, 251 tribals have been arrested in the case. They were later shifted to Thane and Taloja jails. Of them, 115 are now out on bail. Prison department officials recently identified land near Umroli village, around 6km from the district headquarters. “We will send a proposal to the office of additional director general (prisons),” said a senior prison department official. After it is sanctioned, it will be forwarded to the state home department. It may have a jail factory where convicts can work as per their skills or learn new skills while serving sentences. Jail factories are usually part of central jails. At Thane prison, convicts work in the bakery, carpentry and shoe-making sections. They get paid and the products are sold at exhibitions. Initially, the land will house jail and residential quarters for prison staff. Most jails have an in-house hospital. The land is close to Palghar court, collectorate and government hospital. While Palghar district police have 16 stations, the newly-formed Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar (MBVV) commissionerate has 13. Accused and convicts have to be transported nearly 130-150km to reach Thane and Taloja jails. In the wake of Covid-19, accused in Palghar district are quarantined at a temporary jail in Wada village of Palghar, before being moved to Thane or Taloja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/palghar-may-get-own-prison-spread-over-25-acres/articleshow/80606488.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Growing numbers: Delhi sees 82.7% turnout for jabs at 106 vaccine centres||NEW DELHI: The number of healthcare workers turning up at 106 vaccination centres for Covid shots further increased with 8,774 people being inoculated on Saturday. A total of 503 additional beneficiaries were inoculated as compared to the last vaccination session on Thursday, taking the overall percentage to 82.7% from 77.7%. The number of vaccination centres has been increased from 81 to 106 and each centre was asked to inoculate 100 healthcare workers. A government official said the increase was part of the upscaling plan and slowly the number of vaccination centres would increase to 176 and then further up. Only 10 adverse events were reported across 11 districts, highest in South, which reported four followed by Shahdara (two). Five districts did not report even a single adverse event, including West district that inoculated highest number of 1,260 healthcare workers. The number of adverse events is declining and the confidence among healthcare workers is fast growing. It has resulted into higher demands for the shots. Due to the rise in demands, the government increased the number of vaccination sites. Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital reported 110% turnout and a total of 43 hospitals reported 100% or above turnout. “The vaccinated healthcare workers are working as a great motivator. They have inspired their colleagues and others to get the shots. Many healthcare workers walk into the vaccination centres and request inoculation,” said an official. A health department official said most of the 25 new vaccination centres have come up in the same hospitals where the existing centres are located. “The additional centres have been created in hospitals where 100% or more turnout was being reported. Some of them reported huge rush while some of the hospitals also saw many people returning without getting the shot,” said the official. The turnout is showing a steady growth since vaccination began. The overall turnout was only 53% on the first day, 44% on the second day and 48% on the third day, while it was 73% last Thursday, 86% on Saturday, 91.5% on Monday and 80.8% on Wednesday. The turnout is increasing because hesitancy towards the vaccines is vanishing. “Initially there were a lot of speculation about the efficacy of the vaccines so there was certain amount of anxiety among some of the healthcare workers. It has now vanished to a large extent,” said an official. According to a report, 43 hospitals reported 100% turnout for vaccination, out of which 13 are Delhi government hospitals. Priyanka Saxena, a nursing assistant, who got vaccinated at a private hospital in East district, said. “I was infected with Covid in September. Since we are working in hospitals, we are more exposed to the coronavirus. Covid cases are coming down but the threat still exists. I walked into the hospital to get the shot,” said Saxena. Delhi government has taken a number of measures, including allowing walk-ins, counselling and mobilising health workers and promoting visible feedback of vaccinated individuals to promote vaccine acceptance among healthcare workers. The government has to vaccinate 2.5 lakh healthcare workers in the first phase after which frontline workers like police personnel are to be vaccinated. A source said that soon the government would allow frontline workers to get the shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/growing-numbers-capital-sees-82-7-turnout-for-jabs-at-106-vaccine-centres/articleshow/80606318.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Over 100 new peaks in 5 states, 42 in U'khand, 61 in J&K, open for climbers||Dehradun: In some good news for trekking and mountaineering enthusiasts, the Uttarakhand government will soon open 42 more mountain peaks for adventure activities, adding to the existing 83 peaks that are accessible to mountaineers and trekkers. Uttarakhand has a gamut of Himalayan peaks, both in Garhwal and Kumaon, which attract adventure enthusiasts from across the world. Among the popular peaks favoured by climbers are Satopanth in Uttarkashi district and Nanda Devi East in Pithoragarh. The peaks to be opened up include five peaks of Panchachuli mountain range (in pic) in PithoragarhVivek Singh Chauhan, joint director of Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB), told TOI that “the peaks to be opened up include five peaks of Panchachuli mountain (6,355 metres high) in Pithoragarh, Janhukut (6,806 metres) in Uttarkashi and Chirbas Parvat (6,529 metres) in Uttarkashi.” He said, “We are in touch with the forest department to co-ordinate for a single window system for approvals and permission for tourism activities on these peaks as most of these areas are under the forest department’s purview,” added Chauhan. According to sources, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) after reviewing the border situation across the country, recently allowed five different states to open 137 mountaineering peaks, of which 61 are in Jammu and Kashmir, 51 in Uttarakhand and 13 in Sikkim to name a few. “Among the 51 peaks in Uttarakhand, nine were already open for tourism activities and hence, clearance is being taken for 42 peaks,” Chauhan pointed out. Of the around 125 peaks in the Himalayan state, 12 are currently open for trekking while rest are for mountaineering activities. The state has 15 peaks above 7000 metres whereas the rest are between 5500 to 6,999 metres. Meanwhile, head of forest force Rajiv Bhartari told TOI that in order to provide clearance to the 42 peaks for tourism activities, the state forest department has formed a four-member committee headed by the chief wildlife warden. He added that “present norms of mountaineering and trekking in the areas where the peaks are located are quite stringent due to the sensitive location and threat to the biodiversity of these areas from poachers. The committee will look at ways to ease the norms to encourage adventure activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-100-new-peaks-in-5-states-42-in-ukhand-61-in-jk-open-for-climbers/articleshow/80605517.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||24 new units to stop human trafficking in state: Maharashtra government to Bombay high court||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government is setting up 24 anti-human trafficking units in the state. It told Bombay high court in an affidavit that the units will be in addition to the existing 12. There are 36 districts, it said. The submission was in a PIL filed by Rescue Foundation, an NGO, and others in 2017 to improve infrastructure and have specialized manpower to tackle the scourge of human trafficking. An HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni on January 27 also directed the Centre to inform it by February 17 if it has accepted the state’s proposal to notify assistant police commissioners (ACPs) and deputy superintendents of police (in non-metros) as trafficking police officers under a law meant to curb immoral trafficking. Section 13(4) of Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act, 1956, provides that the Centre shall appoint police officers as trafficking police to investigate sexual exploitation of persons and committed in more than one state, and give them special powers with jurisdiction across India. The state has to apprise HC by February 17 on the status of remaining 24 units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/24-new-units-to-stop-human-trafficking-in-state-govt-to-hc/articleshow/80607381.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Akhadas pick trees to be used for putting up flags during Kumbh Mela||All 13 akhadas will put up religious flags, according to their traditions, said Mahant Narendra Giri, president of ABAPHaridwar: Seers from all the 13 akhadas, on Saturday, reached the forest area of Chidderwala to identify the trees that would be chopped and used to put for religious flags during the Kumbh Mela. Each akhada finalised a tree for the purpose on the day. The officials of mela administration also were present during the exercise. Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, told TOI, “The installation of religious flags is an important ritual during the Kumbh Mela. Today (January 30), we went to the forest area to select the suitable trees. All 13 akhadas will put up religious flags, according to their traditions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhadas-pick-trees-to-be-used-for-putting-up-flags-during-kumbh-mela/articleshow/80605531.cms||MS Nawaz
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Sexual crimes against kids impact society, observes Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: At a time when a few controversial verdicts have been given in cases of sexual offences against children, Delhi High Court has set the record straight. Observing that sexual crimes against children shock the value system and have a serious impact on the society, the court on Friday cleared decks for trial of a man who sodomised a 7-year-old boy. Justice Subramonium Prasad highlighted that the POCSO Act was meant to “provide protection to children from sexual assault and harassment, and for safeguarding the interest and well-being of children.” The court was aghast to come across a joint plea by the father of the survivor and the accused saying they had reached a compromise, and that the FIR should be quashed. Tossing out the plea, the court noted, “The father of the child cannot be permitted to settle the dispute with the accused. He is not the victim, and the courts have to safeguard and protect the interest of children against onslaught by bad forces.” The bench added that it could not lose sight of the fact that the accused was being prosecuted for an offence that shook the value system of the society. “This is not a matter that can be permitted to be settled as a compoundable minor offence. Deterrence to others committing similar offences is a must, and they cannot get a signal that anything and everything can be compromised,” it observed. Justice Prasad said he was refraining from slapping costs on the parties for seeking to compromise such a heinous offence and observed, “The survivor is a child of seven years. The offence alleged against the petitioner is grave. The POCSO Act was enacted only because sexual offences against children were not being adequately addressed by the existing laws... permitting such offences to be compromised and quashing FIRs will not secure the interest of justice.” The court underlined that the child was subjected to penetrative sexual assault resulting in FIR under not just POCSO Act, but also IPC Section 377, which showed the “mental depravity of the offender, and cannot be said to be private in nature. It has serious impact on the society.” The court said it could not permit quashing of the FIR because the father of the child had decided to enter into a compromise with the accused. According to the complaint by the father, a mason, on November 11, 2019, he returned home after work at 8pm and found his son crying. When questioned, his son told him that after he left for work, the accused, who stays in the same building, came and sodomised him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sexual-crimes-against-kids-impact-society-observes-hc/articleshow/80607430.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Majority backs stir at Tikri meet||NEW DELHI: A mahapanchayat of three villages was organised at Tikri on Saturday during which the majority of local residents spoke in favour of the farmers’ protest at the border there, leading to a face-off with those demanding the clearance of the highway. The farmer leaders later spoke to the locals and assured them they would move their tractors to make the factories and workshops accessible for reopening. The mahapanchayat of Tikri Kalan, Hiran Kudna and Neelwal saw those supportive of the farmers’ agitation accusing their opponents of being hand in glove with the central government in opposing the protest. Naresh, who was in favour of the farmers, reported, “The villagers decided to stand with the farmers and we will go to the protest site to tell them we don’t have a problem with them occupying the road.” The agitation supporters alleged that those who had a run-in with the farmers claiming to be locals on Friday were outsiders brought in by “goons working for the Centre”. Vijay Pal remonstrated, “We are facing losses and we want the road to be vacated. After the mob violence on Republic Day, we do not want the farmers to sit here at the Tikri border. We supported them, but the disrespect they showed to the national flag cannot be tolerated.” Petrol pump owner Sanjay Chaudhary, who claimed losses of lakhs of rupees due to the road closure, told the mahapanchayat that he was paying the salaries of his workers from his pocket for two months. Chaudhary said he personally didn’t have a problem with the farmers’ protest, but the police barricade on a 500-metre stretch had disrupted business. “If we ask the farmers, they will cooperate. But the road closure doesn’t allow vehicles to access the petrol pump,” he said. The farmers, who have occupied the stretch for two months, however, agreed to move their trucks to some distance to allow shop owners to access their premises. Farm leaders said they would offer support so that local businesses were not affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/majority-backs-stir-at-tikri-meet/articleshow/80606358.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||AMTS driver loses control, 3 injured||AHMEDABAD: After technical snags discovered in the buses of Bus Rapid Transit System, it was the turn for the AMTS. At least three persons, including the driver, conductor and a passenger of an AMTS bus were injured when the steering of the bus jammed and the driver lost control. AMTS officials said that on Saturday a bus on route number 35 was heading toward Lal Darwaza when the incident happened and the bus hurtled into the BRTS railing. As the accident happened within the BRTS track, and there were no other vehicles, further mishaps didn’t occur, said AMTS officials. “If the accident had taken place in a mixed traffic lane, several people might have been injured as the bus would have hit other vehicles,” said an AMTS official. The injured persons, including the passenger and the staff were rushed to a nearby hospital from where they were discharged after treatment as outpatients. An inquiry is being made to find out how the steering got jammed — whether the equipment was at fault or the driver. In December a BRT bus had rammed into an underbridge, while in another incident and January, a BRT bus had hit a light pole inside the BRT lane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amts-driver-loses-control-3-injured/articleshow/80606395.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cabinet approves reopening of schools for Classes VI-XII from Feb 8||DEHRADUN: Dehradun: Uttarakhand cabinet, which convened on Saturday, approved the reopening of schools — both private and government — from Classes VI to XII from February 8. To recall, classes X and XII were allowed to open in November last year. Students of rest of the classes have been on online learning mode for the past few months. In another important decision, the cabinet — chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat — approved the proposal of giving an additional 50-days of guaranteed employment to those with MGNREGS job cards, who have completed 100 days of work. According to government spokesperson and cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, the move will put an additional burden of Rs 18.9 crore on the state exchequer. The additional cost will be fully borne by the state government. The cabinet also discussed the issue of single-use plastic, which is already banned in Uttarakhand. “Any type of single-use-plastic bags, having any size, thickness, pattern, colour, with handle or without handle will be banned in Uttarakhand,” said Kaushik. He added, “Thermocol material and disposable plates and cutlery made with plastic will be completely banned in the state. Anyone found manufacturing single-use plastic will be imposed with Rs 5 lakh fine, those found transporting it will be levied with Rs 2 lakh fine, and those found selling will have to pay Rs 1 lakh. The person buying single-use plastic items will have to pay Rs 100 fine.” The cabinet also amended the Uttarakhand Excise Policy. It gave the go-ahead to the proposal of licensing of liquor vends that will be alloted for two-years through e-tendering. The application fee was increased from Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000. In yet another decision, country-made liquor stores have been allowed to sell beer, and liquor shops allowed to remain open from 10 am to 10 pm while in city areas, the time limit will be 11 pm. The cabinet also gave its nod to introducing Cyber Crisis Management Plan (CCMP) for countering cyber attack and cyber terrorism activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-cabinet-approves-reopening-of-schools-for-classes-vi-xii-from-feb-8/articleshow/80605533.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 31, 2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over parties’ ‘roles’ in violence during Republic Day rally||NEW DELHI: Launching an attack on BJP over the Republic Day violence and the ongoing tension between local residents and the protesting farmers at Delhi’s borders, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj charged BJP leaders with being anti-nationals and said sedition cases should be filed against them alongside a National Investigation Agency probe. “After BJP came to power, students, Dalits, businessmen and lawyers have held protests. Now it’s the farmers. BJP calls such protesters anti-nationals and filed sedition cases against them,” Bharadwaj said, adding that BJP was trying to create a narrative painting the protesters as Khalistanis or terrorists. AAP alleged BJP had set up camps outside the barricades near the protest sites and the “camps were run by BJP agent Deep Sidhu”. “On Republic Day, Sidhu was allowed by Delhi Police to enter Delhi earlier than the farmers,” claimed Bharadwaj. “On the instructions of BJP, police allowed this person to reach and vandalise Red Fort and to hoist the Nishan Sahib there.” Alongside, Bharadwaj said, BJP had curtailed internet access so that the farmers were left with no way of communicating the truth to the people. He then alleged that BJP activists in the guise of local residents assaulted the protesters at Singhu and Tikri borders on Friday. He accused BJP of instructing police to allow the BJP people to enter the protest site and assault the farmers. On Saturday, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha also asked Punjab government to provide police security to the agitating farmers. “The BJP goons have been continuously intimidating the farmers to make them vacate the protest sites. There is, therefore, a clear safety and security threat to the farmers,” claimed Chadha, adding that Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh should deploy Punjab Police to protect the agitators instead of “trying to shield BJP whose men are attacking the farmers”. Delhi BJP functionary Harsh Malhotra said it was sad to see AAP denigrating police and local residents for protesting against the siege of the city’s border. “No BJP worker is involved in any violence or protest against the farmers,” Malhotra insisted. In turn, he accused AAP of involvement saying “many of its party workers were present in the tractor parade”. Watch BJP's hand in Republic Day violence, alleges AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-spar-over-parties-roles-in-violence-during-r-day-rally/articleshow/80606385.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Bypassing green concerns, IMS wheels set in motion||Nagpur: Overlooking all green concerns, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari is set to go ahead with plans to construct an Inter-Model Station (IMS) at Ajni. In Phase-I of the development plan, 7,000 age-old trees are to be axed. Overall, environmental lovers say more than 30,000 trees will be felled. Gadkari has called for a jumbo meeting of officials from 13 departments on Sunday. Invites for a press conference at 1.30pm were issued on Friday itself. On the agenda is handing over of 44-acre railway land by Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA) to the project proponent National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The magnitude of the green loss has hit the consciousness of people across the city and they have been rallying in Ajni to create awareness hoping for a change in plan. Former honorary wildlife warden of city Jaydeep Das says the total area for the project is 490 acres. For Phase-I, the NHAI’s project report says only 1,900 trees will be cut but when the NMC garden department conducted a survey the number turned out to be nearly 7,000. The IMS also requires 10.5 hectares of land belonging to Central Jail for free connectivity to Wardha Road and 0.75 hectares of Neeri land for which the organisation since two years has refused permission for a survey. “The project is being planned without taking an environment clearance (EC). As per environment impact assessment (EIA) notification 2006 amended from time to time, an area beyond 20,000 sq mt for any construction projects requires EC,” says environmental activist Anasuya Kale Chhabrani. In August last year, even the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had made it clear that even development of railway stations falls in the ambit of Environment Protection Act (EPA) 1986. Das said the conceptual plan for the project doesn’t mention an EC. It also committed flaws in the number of trees to be felled. Suggestions that the consultant should do EIA and hold a public hearing has not been done. Sunday’s meeting will be attended by railway and forest officials too. Central Railway officials said it has already handed over the land RLDA. However, greens are asking how the NHAI can start work when an SPV has not been formed between RLDA and MoRTH. There is also an ambiguity between the acreage of the MoU and the minister's speech which says 2,000 acres. The NHAI’s track record in taking up compensatory plantations in lieu of felled ones is dismal. TOI recently reported how 90% of the trees on Butibori-Yavatmal highway (NH-361) died. Forest officials said the 25,000 saplings in lieu of felled trees at Ajni will be done on zudpi jungle land in Shankarpur on Wardha Road. Rules state that compensatory plantation should be 5 times of trees felled, which should be more than 1.5 lakh saplings. “Can zudpi jungle be allotted for compensatory afforestation? As per the Regional Remote Sensing Report-2019, in the last 19 years the city’s green cover has come down by a mind-boggling 40sqkm — from 116sqm to present less than 76sqkm. It is more than double the area of city’s Gorewada reserve forest,” said Das. Saying that one human being consumes 740kg oxygen per year which is produced by 7-8 full-grown trees, green activist Sharad Paliwal said, “As per the Tree Census of 2011, there were only 9 trees per 10 persons.” Paliwal wanted the environmental valuation of complete IMS project in all respects to be calculated as per oxygen loss and the cost required to produce that much oxygen. “As per the Paris Agreement, the Central government are intending to spend crores of rupees to create urban forests and at the same time this project is hell bent on destroying the existing one,” said Wasudev Mishra, city environmentalist. Guardian minister Nitin Raut of the Congress said he is not aware of the details of the project. “But, if any such project has been proposed, I welcome it. There should be no opposition to developmental projects,” he said. However, Raut added that If trees are to be cut, “necessary compensatory plantation should be done. Care must be taken that there is no pollution in city”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bypassing-green-concerns-ims-wheels-set-in-motion/articleshow/80605553.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Revoke parking slots’ tenders, Congress tells Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Saturday demanded government of Telangana to cancel tenders called for parking spaces in the city. A delegation headed by Osman Bin Mohammed Alhajri, member of Congress party visited Gudimalkapur vegetable market and sought the tender process to be halted immediately. He said the collection of parking fees at Gudimalkapur was against the customers interests. “Public should not be forced to pay parking fees for gaining access inside the market,’’ said Osman Bin Mohammed Alhajri, leader of the Congress Party. He added that they met Gudimalkapur managing committee members when the tender call process was on and sought to know as to why it was undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revoke-parking-slots-tenders-cong-tells-t-govt/articleshow/80606352.cms||Omar bin Taher
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||BMC to rope in pvt hospitals for vaccination||MUMBAI: BMC plans to designate private hospitals as Covid-19 vaccination centres in the next phases of the programme. It has begun data collection from hospitals, and is conducting surveys to gauge infrastructure and staff they can provide. But officials said BMC will follow central and state government guidelines before designating them as vaccination centres. “We have asked hospitals to fill an online form, giving details about vaccine storage capacity, infrastructure and trained staff. Many expressed interest, but we have to check if they have proper storage facilities and trained staff. The data will be ready by February 15,” said additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani. Officials said hospitals need three rooms to become a centre. “They need a waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. They must also have storage facilities and trained staff. After we have data, we will train their staff. They will need a five-member team for each shift. Once private hospitals are roped in, vaccinations can be done faster across the city,” Kakani said. For phase 2 of vaccinations, BMC hopes to target 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh frontline workers. Now, it can vaccinate around 12,000 people a day, but for phase 2 it is looking at around 50,000. Vaccinations are only at civic and state-run hospitals and centres now. Kakani said frontline workers from police, BMC, BEST, MSRTC, fire brigade, security guards at hospitals, maintenance staff, catering and house-keeping staff at hospitals will be vaccinated. Officials said private hospitals may be roped in for phase 3, when senior citizens and those with co-morbidities are vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-rope-in-pvt-hosps-for-vaccination/articleshow/80606490.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||24 new anti-human trafficking units for Maharashtra, HC told||Mumbai: Maharashtra government is setting up 24 anti-human trafficking units in the state. It told Bombay high court in an affidavit that the units will be in addition to the existing 12. There are 36 districts, it said. The submission was in a PIL filed by Rescue Foundation, an NGO, and others in 2017 to improve infrastructure and have specialized manpower to tackle the scourge of human trafficking. An HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni on January 27 also directed the Centre to inform it by February 17 if it has accepted the state’s proposal to notify assistant police commissioners (ACPs) and deputy superintendents of police (in non-metros) as trafficking police officers under a law meant to curb immoral trafficking. Section 13(4) of Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act, 1956, provides that the Centre shall appoint police officers as trafficking police to investigate sexual exploitation of persons and committed in more than one state, and give them special powers with jurisdiction across India. The state has to apprise HC by February 17 on the status of remaining 24 units. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/24-new-anti-human-trafficking-units-for-maharashtra-hc-told/articleshow/80606499.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||6,544 persons abroad sought help from NRI’s office last year: Goa CM||PANAJI: A total of 6,544 persons from abroad, including NRIs, OCIs and other Goans stuck in foreign countries, contacted the NRI commissioner’s office during the Covid-19 pandemic. Most contacted the office seeking assistance for repatriation during the travel restrictions imposed by the Union government during the pandemic. Some of those stranded wanted the Goa government to arrange charter flights for repatriation. The office guided the people on the procedure to be followed and updated them on guidelines by the government of India and Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant stated in a reply in the legislative assembly. No new systems have been put in place by the commission to be in touch with Goans abroad, said Sawant who also holds the home portfolio, and added that there were no new initiatives or new projects taken up by the NRI commission since April 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/6544-persons-abroad-sought-help-from-nris-office-last-year-cm/articleshow/80607464.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Republic Day violence: 38 cases filed, 84 held by Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has so far received over 1,700 video clips and CCTV footage of the violence that followed the farmers’ rally on Republic Day. Police had asked the public and media professionals to share any video footage or pictures that could be used for investigation into the incident. So far, 38 cases have been registered and 84 people have been arrested for their role in the clashes between the farmers and the cops on Tuesday. Around 390 security personnel were injured during the rally and a farmer had died. “A team from the National Forensic Sciences University has been called to analyse the videos,” said Joint commissioner (Crime) BK Singh. Singh also said that Delhi Police were examining dump data of mobile calls from the areas where violence took place. This will help police identify the protesters where violent incidents were reported. He added that the registration numbers of tractors and other private vehicles that entered Delhi, particularly at Red Fort, have also been obtained to reach out to their owners for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/r-day-violence-38-cases-filed-84-held/articleshow/80606409.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand launches initiative to generate biofuel from used cooking oil during Kumbh||DEHRADUN: Green fuel biodiesel will be produced from cooking oil under solid waste management during the Kumbh. This initiative, the first of its kind, will start during the Haridwar Kumbh Mela, the officials said. According to them, the effort to generate biofuel from cooking oil will also reduce the related health hazards. Urban development minister Madan Kaushik has asked the officials to prepare a detailed action plan. RS Rawat, the designated officer for food safety during the mega fair, will be looking after the process of preparing biofuel. “Biodiesel or green fuel is a revolution towards enhancing health and wellbeing. Using the same cooking oil more than three times can prove to be dangerous for health. In order to avoid this, the biodiesel initiative has been launched,” said Kumbh’s food safety officer. A company authorised by the government, which also has a plant in Haryana’s Bhiwani, is working to collect reused cooking oil from hotels, restaurants and traders in Haridwar. The company will buy the used cooking oil at Rs 25 per kg. The oil will be recycled and used for industrial purposes. It is reported that on an average 8 to 10 litres of biofuel can be prepared from 10 litres of used cooking oil. Along with protecting the environment, the initiative will also prove beneficial for people's health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-launches-initiative-to-generate-biofuel-from-used-cooking-oil-during-kumbh/articleshow/80605542.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Private schools in Telangana to collect sanitation fee||HYDERABAD: After receiving no response from the state government, the private school managements have decided to collect sanitation fee from parents of class 9 and class 10. They said that they will be collecting Rs 100 per month from each student to take precautionary measures against Covid-19. “We have already informed parents that we will be collecting sanitation fee. Managements are not in a position to bear the fee due to financial constraints. Our request seeking government support fell on deaf ears. So, we have no option but to collect a nominal amount from parents,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, Telangana Recognized School Managements Association. In mid-January, schools had asked the state to help budget private schools by directing local bodies to take care of sanitation work. They asked the state to evaluate the cost per child and fix an amount as the sanitation fee, which either government or parents would bear. School managements said that as class 9 and class 10 students comprise of hardly 10% to 15% of the total strength, it is not feasible to bear the sanitation cost. This special fee is required to disinfect school premises, benches, switchboards, maintain social distancing and provide sanitizers. Parents, meanwhile, said that they have no option except to pay the fee that schools are demanding. “I cannot risk my child’s life. If I have to shell out money to keep her safe, I am fine with it,” said M Venkateshwarulu, whose daughter is studying in class 10 at a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-schools-in-t-to-collect-sanitation-fee/articleshow/80606425.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Water supply to be hit on February 2-3||MUMBAI: Water supply will be hit on February 2-3 and there will be low-pressure supply in K-West, K-East, H-West and H-East wards due to work on connecting two main waterways at Andheri (E) and valve replacement work at Chakala.  Areas affected will be parts of Bandra (west and east) and Andheri (west and east). There will be low-pressure supply from 6.30pm on February 2 to 6.30pm on February 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/water-supply-to-be-hit-on-feb-2-3/articleshow/80607426.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand HC orders management and ownership of school to maintain status quo||Dehradun: In some relief for Sherwood College’s incumbent principal Amandeep Sandhu, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Saturday issued an order to maintain status quo at the school. Sandhu had been suspended by the Agra diocese in October, and Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel had been appointed as the interim principal, but Sandhu maintained that the Lucknow diocese is responsible for the school’s management and that the Agra diocese has no authority over the school. In an order issued by the single bench of justice Lokpal Singh, the court said that “unless the parties get their rights decided by the civil court (pursuant to judgement and order dated March 19, 2014, which has attained finality), status quo shall be maintained by the parties with regard to the affairs of the school.” The court further maintained that all pending applications stand disposed of accordingly. It added that studies of students at the school were not to be disrupted. Notably, Emmanuel after being appointed interim principal had tried to take charge thrice but was turned away from the school’s gates. The Uttarakhand high court had granted police protection to him but the order was quashed by the Supreme Court, which said decisions regarding the school couldn’t be taken without hearing Sandhu and the Lucknow diocese, who had also applied to be party to the case in HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-orders-management-and-ownership-of-school-to-maintain-status-quo/articleshow/80605556.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||3,000 healthcare workers inoculated, 82 new Covid cases surface||DEHRADUN: The total number of coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand breached the 96,000-mark as 82 new infections were recorded from across the state on Saturday. Meanwhile, 2,973 healthcare staffers were inoculated for Covid-19 in the 43 vaccination sessions organised by the health department. According to the health bulletin, the maximum of 37 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 17 cases in Nainital, and 11 cases each in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts. “No new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the five districts of Uttarakhand. The case tally now stands at 96,068,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The toll of the virus shot up to 1,643 as one more coronavirus-related fatality was recorded in the last 24 hours. On Saturday, 167 people recovered from Covid-19. With this, the recoveries reached 91,880 in Uttarakhand. The recovery rate was recorded at 95.6% and the sample positivity rate was 4.5%. The death rate in Uttarakhand was 1.7% on Saturday. Meanwhile, Dr KK Tamta is set to retire from the post of the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) on Sunday. “Dr KC Pant will be the officiating CMS of the hospital until further orders,” said Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal GDMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3k-healthcare-workers-inoculated-82-new-covid-cases-surface/articleshow/80605538.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Schools to reopen tomorrow, Covid norms to make classrooms sparse||HYDERABAD: The stage is set for city schools to reopen their doors to students, on Monday — of class 9 and above — about 11 months after they were shut owing to the pandemic. When TOI visited some of the schools on Saturday, the managements said that have incorporated various measures like shorter hours and fewer students, in line with Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Telangana government, to ensure the safety of students and staff. Roughly 60% to 80% of parents have given their written consent to allow their children to attend physical classes. “Of the 800 students from class nine to 12, we are expecting approximately 400 to 500 students to attend physical classes from Monday. We have divided each class in batches and have also staggered their entry and exit timings. Classes will not be held as per regular timing as we have reduced the school hours,” said Amrita Chandra Raju, vice-principal of Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet. Teachers hope that the final footfall of students will increase in the next few weeks. “Many parents may want to evaluate the way physical classes are being held and then take a decision on sending their wards back to school. We are also expecting some students to turn up with the consent form directly on Monday,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, Telangana State United Teachers Federation. Since 70% of the syllabus in private schools has been covered through online classes, they will be focusing more on revisions. However, government schools have a major task at hand as many students could not follow lessons through the T-SAT classes. “Since lessons taught through T-SAT were completely in Telugu, many students could not follow them. Our focus will be entirely on class 10 students to prepare them for the board exams,” said Manju Lata Narra, headmistress of Government High School, Raj Bhavan road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-to-reopen-tomorrow-covid-norms-to-make-classrooms-sparse/articleshow/80606397.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man beaten at his office on SG Road||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old businessman, Jaydeep Thakkar, a resident of Virat Elegance on Science City Road in Sola, lodged a complaint at Anandnagar police station on Friday stating that three persons — Bhavesh Rabari, Vipul Rabari and Devu Rabari — came to his office in the Earth Arise building on SG Road on Friday evening. They were asking for his brother Pritesh, and then beat him up. Thakkar also alleged that the three persons threatened him with a knife, warning him not to lodge a police complaint. The complainant stated that when he was at his office on Friday, the three accused arrived and said they wanted to talk to him. “The complainant then took them outside the office. The three asked him the whereabouts of his brother, Pritesh. The complainant said he has no relationship with his brother and doesn’t know where he is. To this, the three abused him and beat him up. As the complainant called the police control room, the trio fled. They were identified from CCTV footage. We are searching for them,” said a Anandnagar police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-at-his-office-on-sg-road/articleshow/80606422.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Statement of neta recorded in ‘extortion case’||Mumbai: Mulund police on Saturday recorded the statement of Kirit Somaiya’s son Neil, a BJP corporator, in a case of alleged extortion that was filed by a private contractor in 2020. Neil was called after his name cropped in the one-year-old case, though his name was not mentioned in the FIR. Police said his statement was recorded in the case against some of his associates in January 2020 and arrests were made then. Neil is not an accused and was allowed to go after his statement was recorded. An FIR was registered for attempt to extort from a private contractor. “The complainant alleged that three persons, arrested for demanding Rs 1.5 lakh, extorted money at Neil’s office,” police said. DCP (zone VII) Prashant Kadam confirmed they have recorded his statement. Kirit Somaiya told TOI he did not come across any statement. He asked to forward what statement police had recorded from his son and then he would comment on it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/statement-of-neta-recorded-in-extortion-case/articleshow/80606503.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||A day after clash, farmers vow to stay on at Singhu border||NEW DELHI: A day after the clashes there, Singhu border was turned into a fortress on Saturday, with security visibly tightened at the biggest protest site of the agitating farmers. With a five-layer security in place, even the media had a hard time finding its way to the protest site. The crowd, however, has visibly swelled since the Republic Day mayhem. The protesters asserted that more farmers from Punjab and Haryana would be joining the protest soon. The entry to the farmers’ protest venue was closely guarded by police and paramilitary forces. GT Karnal Road leading to the protest site was blocked with five layers of concrete blocks that were manned by a large posse of police and paramilitary personnel. Several points on the stretch and on the roads connecting to the villages were also dug up to prevent movement of vehicles. An officer said that after the blast near the Israeli embassy on Friday, police could not take chances and so had increased the security cover at Singhu. He added that after the Republic Day rampage and the clashes with the local residents, the security at the protest sites would prevent any acts of violence. Protester Guneet Singh alleged, “These people who call themselves local residents aren’t known to anybody at the protest site. The actual people who live along the protest site have become like family members to us. They visit us every day and even though we have all the facilities at the border, they make sure that if there is anything we need, they will help us with that. The men who attacked us yesterday were not locals but a group of hooligans.” Meanwhile, exasperated by the internet ban but still willing to continue with their agitation against the three central farm laws, the farmers expressed their resolve to keep the movement going despite the pressure they were being put under. Jatinder Singh of Ludhiana said that even if their image was tarnished because of the misadventure of miscreants, they would do their best to regain the support they got from the people when the agitation began. Ramneek, a protestor from Bhatinda, said that after the violence on Republic Day, there were visibly fewer people at Singhu border, but more farmers had started arriving. This was evident on Saturday when the roads in the Singhu area appeared to be just as swamped with farmers as in the early days of the protest around two months ago. One of the farmer organisations, Samyukta Kisan Morcha, had given a call for a one-day fast to observe Sadbhavana Day (Harmony day) on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-day-after-clash-farmers-vow-to-stay-on-at-singhu/articleshow/80606437.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gang of thieves from Karnataka held in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch sleuths on Friday held a gang of five persons, including two minors, who used to steal valuables from cars, by convincing the car drivers that oil was leaking from their cars. The gang is from Karnataka, and when questioned they first talked in their vernacular, but later on confessed to knowing Hindi. “The gang is allegedly involved in 50 such crimes in Gujarat and other cities and towns like Belgaum, Tirunaveli, Tirumangalam, Maysore and Hosur in Tamil Nadu. Three members of the gang — Shankar Boi, 28, of Karnataka and two other minors were held from Ramol while the others were held later on. They include Ravi Boi, 30, and Shivaiya Boi, 48, also from Karnataka. They had come to the city about two months ago and stayed in a rented house near Vinzol Railway Crossing in Vatva,” said crime branch official. Crime branch officials said that they have recovered eight big needles used to puncture cars, a screwdriver and oil in a plastic bag. The gang is also involved in stealing valuables from angadia firm employees by spraying itching powder on them, said a crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gang-of-thieves-from-karnataka-held-in-city/articleshow/80606442.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Allahabad||Two cops injured in encounter with cattle smugglers in UP's Kaushambi district||PRAYAGRAJ: Two cops including a sub-inspector were injured during an encounter with cattle smugglers in Kaushambi district on Friday evening. A cattle smuggler received bullet injury in his leg in retaliatory firing by cops. Police arrested three cattle smugglers and rescued 27 cattle stuffed inside a container. According to reports, SHO Kokhraj, PK Rai acting on a tip-off tried to intercept a container carrying cattle to West Bengal near Nanmai village but the persons in the container tried to flee. Cops gave a chase and managed to overtake the container near Malak Bhayal village. However, the container driver hit police vehicle following which it rammed into the road divider. The persons in the container opened fire on cops resulting in bullet injuries to sub-inspector Siddarth Singh in his arm, while a constable was injured due to collision of a police vehicle with road divider, ASP Samar Bahadur said. One of the cattle smugglers, Sheetal Prasad of Agra was injured in the leg when cops opened fire in retaliation and were nabbed with two of his accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-cops-injured-in-encounter-with-cattle-smugglers/articleshow/80607413.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad: Illegal houses owned by Atiq Ahmad’s aide demolished||PRAYAGRAJ: Continuing with their drive against the history-sheeters and those who have constructed houses without the approval of the maps from Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), a team of PDA officials accompanied by heavy police force demolished houses of two close aides of jailed don and former MP Atiq Ahmad at Kasari Masari area on Saturday. Both aides of Atiq Ahmad have serious cases lodged against them in Prayagraj and Kaushambi districts, officials said. PDA Zonal Officer Alok Pandey said that the houses were constructed under Luqman and Sabu in 2,500 square feet area on 100 feet road at Kasari Masari. No map was sanctioned for the constructions and they were illegal. The demolition was carried out as per rules. Mohd Luqman and Sabu have many serious cases lodged against them and they are close associates of Atiq Ahmad, said the police. The action is part of crackdown taken against mafias, history sheeters and gangsters in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-houses-owned-by-atiqs-aide-demolished/articleshow/80607408.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat education department serves notice to man for spreading fake news||AHMEDABAD: The director of primary education has served a notice to a person for his alleged role in spreading fake news on social media regarding mass promotion for school students in the ongoing academic year. The state education department has given a week’s time for the person to reply, failing which the government might take strict action. “If the respondent does not reply within seven days, we will conclude that he does not have anything to say in his defence. As a result, we will look into the option of taking legal action against him,” said an official in the know of the matter. The person is question has in the past raised issues regarding fees taken by schools, said sources. Recently, a message in the social media was spread with misinformation about giving mass promotion from Class 1 to Class 8 students, the department said. After receiving several calls from parents, students and teachers for verification of the social media message, the department began inquiry about the origin of the message. “It was found after proper investigation that the messages were sent from a mobile number which belonged to the person alleged to be behind this. It seemed a deliberate attempt to create fake news and spread misinformation,” sources said. Schools and colleges partially reopened in January after being shut down for over nine months due to Covid-19 outbreak and consequent lockdown. The state government had given mass promotion to schoolchildren last year in the wake of the pandemic. The state education minister and other senior department officials have time and again reiterated that no such move is planned for the current academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/edu-dept-serves-notice-to-man-for-spreading-fake-news/articleshow/80606431.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Hoteliers expect tourism boost as state does away with mandatory registration for visitors||Dehradun: With the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), released late on Friday night, doing away with the need to register with the state government’s portal before coming to Uttarakhand, members of the state’s hospitality industry said that it was a much-needed relief. “This will be a big respite for tourists who visited the state without knowledge of its Covid guidelines and were then stopped at the border,” said Abhishek Ahluwalia, president of Uttarakhand Tour and Guide Association. In a similar vein, Dinesh Chandra Sah, president of Nainital Hotel Association, said, “Tourists who came without having registered on the state’s website were forced to do it on the borders. They would complain of the inconvenience on social media, which in turn discouraged other tourists from visiting. The government’s decision will now allow hassle-free trips.” The guidelines have stipulated that wearing masks, social distancing and downloading the “Arogya Setu” are measures that will be continued. The SOPs also mention that the government will shortly release a separate set of SOPs for Kumbh Mela. The SOPs issued on Friday mention that all areas outside containment zones will remain open. However, swimming pools, cinema and exhibition halls will operate as per revised guidelines issued by the Centre. Permissions for gatherings pertaining to social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational and cultural events will be subject to SOPs of the central government and the respective district administration. Also, opening of cinema halls and theatres will be done according to SOPs issued by the ministry of information & broadcasting in consultation with the ministry of home affairs (MHA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hoteliers-expect-tourism-boost-as-state-does-away-with-mandatory-registration-for-visitors/articleshow/80605560.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||No alternative site examined; Gadkari, Fadnavis wanted IMS at Ajni: RTI||Nagpur: Environment lovers, who are campaigning to save the thick tree cover in Ajni area, feel that the Inter Modal Station can be relocated to outside city limits, somewhere around Khapri where the environmental damage would be minimal and the same planned facilities can be provided. However, no alternative site has ever been considered. In an RTI reply, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), which is executing the project, has stated that alternative sites were not even “examined”. Under the details column, it is mentioned that “Union minister Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had finalized that the inter model station (IMS) will come up at Ajni”. The Save Ajni Van brigade also feel that the environment impact assessment done by Noida’s Aplinka Solutions & Technologies Pvt. Ltd is “flawed” as NHAI had initially said that 1,900 trees would be cut and now the numbers in the 1st phase itself is around 7,000. This number came up after the Nagpur Municipal Corporation conducted a tree survey in the area. “This would also mean that their compensatory plantation planning is based on wrong figures and that the project cost would increase many fold. A fresh environment impact should be done and it should not be a hasty job,” said Jaydeep Das who is a member of the Save Ajni Van team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-alternative-site-examined-gadkari-fadnavis-wanted-ims-at-ajni-rti/articleshow/80605561.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fertility clinic papers help widow get 50% share in relief for man’s death||MUMBAI: Medical documents from a fertility clinic that showed that she and her husband had been trying to conceive have helped a 29-year-old woman get Rs 36.8 lakh as compensation for her husband’s 2018 death in an accident on a ship he was working on. The in-laws of the woman, Sangita Yadav, had claimed she was never married to their son, Sanjay Yadav. The family got Rs 73.6 lakh as compensation, and Sangita’s mother-in-law Kismatidevi Yadav will get the other half of the relief. Ruling in Sangita’s favour, a labour court said on Friday, “It is seen that the applicant (Sangita) and her husband (Sanjay) were taking medical treatment to conceive a baby, and circumstantial evidence shows that there was no marital discord. This evidence is enough to conclude that the opponent No 2 (Kismatidevi) has suppressed material facts to deprive the applicant of her legal rights. The applicant is legally wedded wife of the deceased.” Sangita and Sanjay had been married for four years. Sangita and Sanjay (29) did not have a marriage certificate. She alleged that soon after his death, her in-laws threw her out of the house on December 6, 2018. She said that she did not file a police complaint fearing that relations would be spoiled. She filed an application in labour court in 2019 seeking a share in the compensation given by Sanjay’s company. Sangita said that Sanjay and she had “adopted” his niece and were raising her as their daughter, but after Sanjay’s death, his brother took custody of the child. Sanjay was employed as an ordinary seaman with the company. In November 2018, while he was performing his duty, he died due to inhalation of carbon monoxide because the ship was submerged. He was earning a monthly salary of Rs 50,000. The court pointed out that Sanjay’s next of kin declaration (NOK) submitted to his office before his death had Sangita’s name. Kismatidevi had referred to a declaration which had her name. The court said, “Manipulation in NOK declaration is seen with an ulterior motive to deprive the applicant (Sangita) because two NOK declaration forms are shown to have been filled on same day by the deceased.” It further relied on other documents, including his death certificate, passport copy and family register copy. “The certificate of death clearly shows that the deceased was married…,” the court said. A woman who claimed to be the “gram pradhan” of the family’s native village also deposed in their favour and said the deceased was never married. However, the court said that in her cross-examination, the woman admitted that she was not the gram pradhan. “She admits that there was no police complaint against applicant (Sangita) for her claim as wife of the deceased,” the court said. The court also referred to the evidence of the captain of Sanjay’s ship who visited their house and met her after his death. The captain said that during the visit, Sanjay’s mother and brother had introduced Sangita as his wife. During his cross-examination, the captain said the company does not do any verification in respect of next-of-kin declaration of the employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fertility-clinic-papers-help-widow-get-50-share-in-relief-for-mans-death/articleshow/80607926.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 31, 2021||Delhi||FIR: Protesters started trouble, attacked Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: The FIR on the clashes between local residents and protesting farmers on Friday claims that it was the farmers who started pelting stones at the locals who had arrived at Singhu border to open up the road. The FIR, a copy of which is with TOI, also says that the farmers also abused the cops and one of them used a sword. The FIR, registered on the complaint of inspector Pradeep Paliwal, SHO, Alipur, who was injured with a sword during the clashes, states that around 1.30pm on Friday, the locals came to the protest site at Singhu to tell the farmers about the inconveniences caused by the blocked highway. “The locals said they were having difficulty in commuting and their businesses were also shut. They wanted to request the farmers to vacate the road. On seeing the locals, the farmers got agitated and started calling them names. Later they started pelting stones at them,” the FIR says. In the FIR, Paliwal says, “One of the Sikh farmers took out his sword and came charging towards the locals. Fearing that he could kill people, I rushed to intercept him and asked him to stop, but he threatened to kill me and asked me to get out of the way. I kept standing in front of him so that he could not attack the people. The man then attacked me with his sword and hit me numerous times. I snatched his sword and the locals started thrashing him. I jumped in to save the farmer and took him into custody. My colleagues who tried to save me also sustained injuries.” The FIR names Satnam Singh Pannu, Sarwan Singh Pandher, Sukhwinder Singh and Jasbir Singh as office bearers of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee who were provoking the locals. Delhi Police said on Saturday that 200 villagers arrived around 1.30pm on Friday to meet the leaders of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee at the Alipur traffic junction. They demand that the farmers vacate the road and open the border. Police said the villagers claimed their livelihood was being affected by the road closure though they had provided all help to the protesters for two months. The cops maintained that the farmers rebuffed this request, and soon the stone pelting started. Palwal sustained grievous sword injuries and five other policemen were also injured. A case for attempt to murder, rioting with deadly weapon, obstructing a public servant in discharge of duties, among other charges, has been registered at Alipur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-protesters-started-trouble-attacked-police/articleshow/80606441.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Illegal construction found in 64 private schools in north Delhi||NEW DELHI: Out of 66 private schools constructed between 2014 and November 2020 in North Delhi Municipal Corporation areas, unauthorised constructions have been found in 64 schools. Widespread building norm violations in private schools have been revealed by the north corporation commissioner in response to a formal query by a municipal councillor. The civic body’s building department has already initiated action against such schools, according to the commissioner’s report. None of the schools, except two in Rohini Sector 15, which came up between 2014 and 2020, obtained the completion certificate that is a mandatory requirement according to unified building bylaws of the city. Out of the six administrative zones of the north civic body, maximum violations have been found in Rohini zone, followed by Civil Lines and Narela zones. Poonam, municipal councillor from Jahangirpuri in north Delhi, had earlier asked the corporation commissioner to provide details about private schools recognised by the government under the jurisdiction of the civic body that had been constructed after 2014. A total of 12 schools came up in Civil Lines zone in the last six years and all of them have unauthorised constructions. The properties have been booked. Similarly, all four such schools in City Sadarpharganj zone, seven in Karol Bagh zone, 25 in Rohini zone, eight in Keshavpuram zone and 10 in Narela zone have been booked for further action under Delhi Municipal Corporation Act. A senior corporation official claimed that “once a property gets booked, demolition action and penalty can be imposed on the owner. Deviation from unified building bylaws impacts the safety of the structure.” “The completion certificate is provided after checking whether all the safety guidelines have been followed. It is even more necessary for buildings like schools, which house a large number of people, to follow the norms. Only after getting the necessary certifications, building owners apply for other clearances from Delhi Fire Services department,” the civic body official explained further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/illegal-construction-found-in-64-pvt-schools-in-n-delhi/articleshow/80606447.cms||Paras Singh
January 31, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Fresh probe in case against Tomin Thachankary||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In what could be viewed as a move to clear his confidential records prior to the elevation as the state police chief when DGP Loknath Behera retires in June 2021, state government issued an extraordinary order for reinvestigating the disproportionate asset case against DGP Tomin Thachankary against whom vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) has submitted its chargesheet. With the next senior officer Rishi Raj Singh set to retire in July and Arunkumar Sinha –who is on central deputation – unlikely to return, the race for the top post will be between Thachankary and VACB director Sudesh Kumar. The officer, serving as the managing director of KFC, is believed to be close to the ruling LDF government. The pending chargesheet in vigilance court, Kottayam in a disproportionate asset case is likely to emerge as a hurdle against Thachankary and efforts were intensified to remove that before the tenure of the government is complete. On Thursday, additional chief secretary (home) TK Jose issued an order directing VACB director to constitute a special investigation team and conduct further investigation in the case based on a representation submitted by Thachankary to the government. The order was issued after advocate general submitted a legal opinion in support of the arguments raised by Thachankary, it is learnt. The vigilance case against Thachankary pertains to amassment of wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income between 2003 and 2007. Following the finding by VACB that the officer had amassed disproportionate assets, Centre had given permission to prosecute the officer. VACB team submitted chargesheet to Muvattupuzha vigilance court but, the case was later transferred to Kottayam vigilance court. Charges haven’t been framed against Thachankary as the officer had filed a discharge petition first at the vigilance court and then in the high court. Later, he withdrew the discharge petition in high court and filed a petition to the government seeking reinvestigation. "He has alleged that the investigating officer had refused to incorporate relevant documentary evidence which would have indicated the full extent of his known sources of income and elaborated valid and corroborative grounds to conclude that the agency had not calculated his income properly and discarded certain sources like, non-inclusion of his wife's income, non-consideration of gifts by his siblings and mother etc. Further it is stated that his assets at the beginning and at the end of check period were not computed properly and income from other sources such as sale of furniture, rental income etc… were not accounted," noted T K Jose in the new order. Government examined the representation in detail in consultation with advocate general and found that crux of the matter highlighted there in deserves merit. The report of the investigating officer was scrutinized by the government and concluded that the arguments made in the representation put in by Thachankary regarding the material evidences were ignored by the investigating officer, noted Jose in the new order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fresh-probe-in-case-against-thachankary/articleshow/80605571.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Meerut||ASI Meerut Circle to have 16 West UP districts and 5 sub-circles||Meerut: Six months after Union culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel’s announcement to set up two new circles of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in UP (Jhansi and Meerut), Meerut circle is now a reality with jurisdiction over 16 west UP districts. Meerut superintending archaeologist Dr Dibishada B Garnayak said, “So far, we have shortlisted 82 sites to be conserved in all 16 districts that can be categorized into 32 mounds, 22 Islamic monuments, eight forts, nine cemeteries, three wells and as many palaces. Since we are still in the nascent stage of establishment in the historically and archaeologically rich region, excavation will have to wait for now or else we will conduct trench excavations in Baghpat, Hastinapur, Bijnor, etc. in future. These regions have history which is 5,000-year-old embedded in its womb.”As of now, the immediate plan of the new Circle is to focus on Hastinapur development. “Hastinapur development will be our main focus at the moment. We have plans to turn it into a world renowned site with elaborate workplan to conserve the mounds, temples, erection of a museum, etc.”Notably, on January 13, ASI deputy director (admn) M Jena announced establishment of five sub circles within Meerut circle “with immediate effect”.These sub circles are being set up at Meerut, Hastinapur, Bijnor, Saharanpur and Ahichchatra. However, Garnayak feels the most challenging work would be to rid these protected sites of illegal encroachment. “Earlier, Agra Circle used to govern a large part of Uttar Pradesh and it was practically not possible owing to the acute staff shortage and large expanse. However, many of the 82 sites have been encroached upon by the locals. We will have to reclaim those sites for which we will need local district administrations’ help. For instance Meerut’s Shahpir’s Maqbara is encroached upon but we are committed to ensure that these sites remain intact and free of encroachments,” Garnayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/asi-meerut-circle-to-have-16-west-up-districts-and-5-sub-circles/articleshow/80605565.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 31, 2021||Business||ICICI Q3 profit jumps 19% to 4,940 crore||MUMBAI: ICICI Bank on Saturday reported a net profit of Rs 4,940 crore for the quarter ended December 2020 — an increase of 19% over Rs 4,146 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. A drop in the cost of funds helped the lender grow its net interest income to by 16% year-on-year to Rs 9,912 crore in Q3FY21 from Rs 8,545 crore in Q3FY20. Explaining the improved performance, despite the pandemic, Sandeep Batra, executive director, said that for the quarters ended March 2020 and June 2020, the bank had made provisions anticipating stress. However, the defaults were not as bad as expected and things were looking better. On December 31, 2020, the bank had set aside Rs 9,984 crore for Covid-19 related provision. This includes contingency provision for proforma NPAs amounting to Rs 3,509 crore for loans not classified as non-performing. The NPA's are described as proforma as the Supreme Court has asked banks not to classify any of the Covid default as an NPA until further orders. Total deposits increased by 22% year-on-year to Rs 874,348 crore at December 31, 2020, while domestic loans grew 13%. The retail loan portfolio grew by 15% year-on-year and 7% sequentially on December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-q3-profit-jumps-19-to-4940-crore/articleshow/80608259.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayasai raises SCS demand at PM meet||Vijayawada: YSRC parliamentary party leader V Vijayasai Reddy on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider granting special category status to Andhra Pradesh as it was a promise made to the state at the time of bifurcation. “Granting of SCS is a constitutional obligation of the central government as it was announced by the then PM in the Parliament,” Vijayasai said during the all-party meeting in New Delhi ahead of Monday’s Union budget. Stating that grant of SCS is important for the state at this point of time considering the pandemic and the “inherent disadvantaged position of AP in comparison to other states”, the Rajya Sabha MP also recalled that the 15th Finance Commission had left the “mandate to decide on SCS on the Union Government”. Requesting the prime minister to consider declaring inter-linking of all rivers as a national project, he suggested that distribution of river water between the states should be done on the basis of geographical area for better sharing. Vijayasai also informed the prime minster that the state has passed the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation & Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, based on which Kurnool has been proposed to become the judicial capital, and requested him to shift the Andhra Prdesh high court to Kurnool. Vijayasai also reminded the prime mnister to set up the South Coastal Railway (SCoR) with its headquarters in Visakhapatnam at the earliest, as promised in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2014. Among other issues, the Rajya Sabha MP also highlighted the series of temple desecration incidents in the state and told the prime minister that some members from opposition political parties were involved in the crime. Vijayasai also requested a separate slot for discussion on the issue in both houses of the Parliament during the ensuing budget session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijayasai-raises-scs-demand-at-pm-meet/articleshow/80605344.cms||Gopi Dara
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Surge seen in number of migratory birds||DEHRADUN: Experts and researchers from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) sighted a total of 4,497 birds — of 55 different species — during the bird counting session at Uttarakhand’s first Ramsar site , Asan Conservation Reserve on Saturday. A Ramsar site is a wetland site designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention.WII director Dhananjai Mohan and Doon-based ornithologists Sanjay Sondhi and Aanchal Sondhi were present during the exercise. Sanjay Sondhi said that “there was absolutely no impact of either Covid-19 or bird flu on the winged guests of Asan. Pradeep Saxena, a fores official deployed at the Asan Conservation Reserve, said, “In 2020, a total of 4,466 birds — of 50 species — were recorded. This year, as many as 899 Eurasian Coot birds were sighted, followed by 852 Ruddy Shelduck, 764 Red-Crested Pochard, 525 Eurasian Wigeon, and 200 Streak-throated Swallow.” In an encouraging development, the Pallas’s fish eagle (Haliaeetus leucoryphus) — which was not sighted last year — was witnessed by the bird watchers at the Asan wetlands. The bird is listed in the IUCN Red List in the 'endangered' category. It is only found in a few countries like India, Russia, and Tajikistan . The bird primarily thrives upon the large freshwater fishes and sometimes preys on birds, especially water birds. At their annual conference in 2020, WII experts had laid stress on the ‘need to do more research works’ on the migratory birds, especially the ones that frequent the Himalayas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/surge-in-overall-migratory-birds-at-asan-conservation-reserve-despite-bird-flu-covid-19-related-threats/articleshow/80605575.cms||Shivani Azad
January 31, 2021||Meerut||Bhim Army chief meets kin of Meerut youth beaten to death by neighbour||MEERUT: Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad met the aggrieved family members of Akash Pal, 18, who had sustained at least 19 fractures and later succumbed to it after he was brutally assaulted allegedly by his neighbours in Rithani area under Partapur police station jurisdiction. Azad assured the family members of a strict action against the three main accused who are still at large. “The police have been making false promises to the family. The deceased youth had sustained 56 fractures and eventually succumbed. The accused have patronage of the ruling government,” Azad told mediapersons. "I have promised the family that if the accused are not arrested by February 1, I will sit in protest at the district magistrate office till they are caught,” he added. Akash, a resident of city’s Rithani area, was allegedly assaulted with rods and sticks by Pradeep Sharma and his family members on the night of January 11. He was then rushed to a private hospital on January 12 with fatal injuries and multiple fractures. On a ventilator for 16 days, Akash succumbed to his injuries on January 28. An FIR under section 307 (attempt to murder) was registered against Pradeep Sharma, his wife and their son based on a complaint lodged by Akash’s family. The FIR was later updated to sections of murder after he breathed his last on January 28. Police have also announced a bounty of Rs 25,000 on all the absconding accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bhim-army-chief-meets-kin-of-meerut-youth-beaten-to-death-by-neighbour/articleshow/80605573.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Pugmarks of leopard found in Najafgarh, warning issued||NEW DELHI: Delhi forest department has issued an alert after the presence of an adult leopard was confirmed in Najafgarh. A video of the leopard was captured by a CCTV camera on Thursday and a forest team later found its pugmarks.  Officials have issued an advisory for people residing in Ghuman Hera and adjoining areas. On the request of the department, Wildlife SOS has placed a cage near Najafgarh drain. Deputy conservator of forests (West) Navneet Srivastava said, “A leopard has moved towards Najafgarh drain. Even though the big cat is not present in human habitation, we have sounded an alert in Ghuman Hera and adjoining villages. Apart from making an announcement to remain cautious, we have distributed and pasted pamphlets on dos and don’ts.” The villagers have been advised to move in groups, not to venture out in the night and not to leave children unattended. Senior forest officials said regular monitoring was being done to trap the animal. However, there is no plan of tranquilising the leopard, they added. “We are trying to procure one more cage. When we get some more information about the movement of the leopard, we may install camera traps in the area,” said an official. “After the leopard is trapped, a decision will be taken on shifting of the animal. It may be kept at National Zoological Park or Asola Wildlife Sanctuary or may be shifted to another state,” added the official. Dr Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said, “Najafgarh is part of an old floodplain of Sahibi river and has tall grasses, which provide hiding place to animals. The leopard may be coming out at night in search of prey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pugmarks-of-leopard-found-in-najafgarh-warning-issued/articleshow/80606459.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Mercury dips to 2.5 degrees in Mussoorie, lake freezes||MUSSOORIE: Although the town is yet to receive this year’s first snowfall, mercury was reported to have dipped significantly over the past few days resulting in the Municipal Garden Lake to freeze. On Saturday morning, a thick layer of ice was observed over the lake. “Not only was the lake frozen, there was also a thick white layer of frost on the nearby ground. This happens only when the night temperature is at sub-zero,” said a shopkeeper. Notably, the boat operators at the lake had to break the ice before boating could be resumed. Municipal Garden Welfare Association president SS Rana told TOI, “The layer of ice has appeared since the past two days which has hampered boating.” Meanwhile, few tourists who arrived at the Municipal Garden in the early morning hours said they found it fascinating to see the frozen lake. “We touched the ice on the lake and have never witnessed such a phenomenon ever,” said Surjeet Singh, a tourist. Notably, there has been no snowfall this winter season but the hill town is facing a severe cold wave for the past few days. As per the Met office, minimum temperature in Mussoorie was recorded at 2.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mercury-dips-to-2-5-degrees-in-mussoorie-lake-freezes/articleshow/80605579.cms||Anmol Jain
January 31, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Oommen Chandy for Nemom’ pitch triggers debate||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A suggestion made by KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran that former CM Oommen Chandy should lead the battle against BJP at the forefront by contesting in Nemom – which is the only sitting constituency of BJP – triggered a political storm on Saturday. Ramachandran’s suggestion, during a closed door meeting of senior leaders, had remained a party secret until a section of the visual media reported the same on Saturday morning. Chandy was quick to react with an appeal to immediately stop the discussions about his candidature as the party hasn’t even started the process of candidate selection. Puthuppally in Kottayam is the sitting constituency of Chandy and he has already completed 50 years as a legislator of Puthuppally. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran welcomed Chandy to Nemom. “Whether it is Chandy or Rahul Gandhi, we are sure that Nemom will remain as a bastion of BJP,” he told reporters in Konni. According to sources, Ramachandran suggested this during a meeting of Kerala leaders and high command observers two weeks ago when the leaders met in New Delhi. Sources said Ramachandran cited the experiments during 2019 Lok Sabha poll where K Muraleedharan and Adoor Prakash took on tough constituencies and staged impressive wins. If Chandy contests in Nemom it will be a clear and strong message to BJP and his presence may help win back Nemom. On Saturday, Ramachandran told reporters that Chandy will win from any constituency in Kerala. "He is not averse to taking risks. There is an argument that he may contest in Nemom. Chandy won’t be averse to take up that challenge," he said, adding that he personally felt that Chandy should contest from his sitting constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chandy-for-nemom-pitch-triggers-debate/articleshow/80605581.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman force-fed liquor, raped by husband, friends||VIJAYAWADA: A woman lodged a complaint with Guntur town police on Saturday stating that her husband and his friends had gangraped her after force-feeding her liquor. Guntur town police inspector Mallikarjuna Rao said that incident had taken place on January 17 but came to light only on Saturday when the woman filed the complaint. Police said the woman had been living separately from her husband for the past few years due to various family disputes. The husband, who resides in Bengaluru is said to have visited Guntur to hold discussions with her family members to resolve the disputes. However, after tempers flared between the two groups who are said to have ended up fighting. The man had then lodged a complaint with police against his wife’s family members, charging them with assault. The woman, in her complaint to the police, said that she had visited her husband to resolve their disputes and stay with him. The woman said that her husband was in an inebriated state along with his friends and that he had assaulted her. She claimed to have been force-fed liquor following which her husband and two of his friends allegedly took turns to rape her. Police said a case has been registered and the matter is being investigated. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-force-fed-liquor-raped-by-husband-friends/articleshow/80605271.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||‘Ministers, MLAs can’t use govt facilities for polls’||VIJAYAWADA: State election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has written to chief secretary Aditya Nath Das, asking him to not provide government vehicles to ministers and MLAs for tours in areas where local body elections will be taking place. “The model code of conduct stipulates that if a minister undertakes a tour of any area of a district where elections are taking place, such tour shall be deemed to be an election tour and no government servant, except those who are deployed for security purposes, shall accompany the minister,” the SEC said in his letter. The SEC said that no government vehicles or any other facility shall be made available for such tours. “No vehicles belonging to government or local bodies or public undertakings or cooperative institutions shall be provided to any minister, member of the Parliament or the legislative assembly or a candidate for canvassing in election in any manner from the date of notification of election to the date of announcement of the results,” SEC said. Ramesh Kumar further stated that ministers shall not combine official visits with election work and not make use of official machinery to further interests of any candidate. He also said that advisers to the government, who hold cabinet ranks shall also be forbidden to use government vehicles to go to party offices during the course of elections and shall not use government facilities, infrastructure, to hold press meets. Such press meets are considered a violation of the model code of conduct, he said. Meanwhile, the state government has issued orders declaring holidays in panchayat areas on their respective election days. The SEC said that advisers, who hold cabinet ranks shall also be forbidden to use government vehicles to go to party offices during the course of the election||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mins-mlas-cant-use-govt-facilities-for-polls/articleshow/80605302.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Madanapalle murders: Ex-students of couple hire lawyers for defence||Tirupati: A group of students taught by lecturer couple, Dr V Purushotham Naidu and his wife Padmaja who are accused in the murder of their daughters, have come forward to provide legal assistance to the couple. The students have hired the services of senior advocate PV Krishnamachari to defend the couple in the double murder case. The lawyer had previously represented the four accused in the rape and murder of a veterinary doctor near Hyderabad in December 2019. On January 24, the couple had allegedly killed their daughters, Alekhya and Divya, believing that they would be resurrected in the Satya Yug. The couple are still said to be in a state of trance with jail authorities referring them to a mental health hospital for psychiatric treatment. Advocate Rajini, who is part of Krishnamachari’s team, interacted with Dr Purushotham after obtaining special permission from jail authorities. She has now sought permission for an interaction with Padmaja. Speaking to reporters, Rajini said several old students approached Krishnamachari and requested him to represent the couple’s case. “The couple have trained and shaped many students, who are now working as doctors, advocates, engineers and in many other professions. How can the couple, who shaped the future of many youngsters throughout their careers, destroy the very future of their own daughters? It has to be probed as to how the entire family was driven into a state of trance and by whom,” said Rajini. Meanwhile, police ruled out financial gain motive behind the double murder. “Both Purushotham Naidu and Padmaja are wealthy and their net worth runs into several crores. With both their daughters dead and both parents behind the bars, who stands to benefit from their wealth now?”, Rajini sought to know. The post-mortem report of the deceased is yet to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/madanapalle-murders-ex-students-of-couple-hire-lawyers-for-defence/articleshow/80605241.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC notice to TDP for alleged MCC violation||Vijayawada: The state election commission (SEC) on Saturday issued a notice to TDP seeking an explanation on the panchayat election manifesto released by party chief N Chandrababu Naidu. The notice was served on the basis of a complaint filed by Lella Appi Reddy, state general secretary of YSRC. TDP’s manifesto, titled ‘Telugu Desam Party Panchayat Ennikaka Manifesto-2021’ carries the caption: Pallepragati-Pancha Sutralu. YSRC, in its complaint, said that the manifesto is about schemes and promises for the entire state and requests voters to vote for TDP sponsored candidates, thereby luring and inducing the public in violation of the model code of conduct (MCC). “The said publication was done after the release of the schedule and election notification. It is a violation as per the rules of MCC,” the complaint reads. The SEC directed the state general secretary of TDP to offer the party’s response to the complaint no later than February 2 and said that the commission would initiate action in case there was no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-notice-to-tdp-for-alleged-mcc-violation/articleshow/80605323.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Meerut||BKU president's proposal: 'Don't implement farm laws till the end of govt's tenure, take back FIRs'||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A day after announcing that the farmers' protest “will go on”, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Naresh Tikait on Saturday proposed that the government put on hold the controversial agri laws till the end of its tenure and take back the FIRs registered against the protesters. Speaking to TOI, Tikait said, “Principally, we want the three controversial farm laws to go. However, the government is adamant. We are ready for a compromise where neither wins or loses. As they have already suggested not to implement the laws for 18 months, they can extend it till 2024. They should also take back the FIRs registered against the protesters.” The farm leader also justified his appeal during Friday’s mahapanchayat to the farmers not to leave for Ghazipur protest site immediately. “It could have led to law and order problems at the border. We do not want any confrontation, but then the government should also realise its mistake." When asked about his brother and BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait's keenness not to end the farm protest at the Delhi-UP border, he said, "I will speak to him and the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders. It is part of a process. We will all discuss it. If the government agrees, then we can make farmers agree too." On his visit to the protest site, he said, "I will visit the Ghazipur border after attending a panchayat in Baghpat on Sunday. We are also trying to make the farmers understand that they should avoid any kind of confrontation. Certain anti-social elements are trying hard to create problems." Tikait also cautioned the government by comparing the contentious farm laws with fire. "It is like fire, better douse it. If this government withdraws the laws, nothing will happen. The government has committed a mistake and it must accept it." On Friday, tens of thousands of farmers had assembled in Muzaffarnagar hours after Rakesh Tikait's impassioned appeal at the Ghazipur border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bku-presidents-proposal-dont-implement-farm-laws-till-the-end-of-govts-tenure-take-back-firs/articleshow/80605572.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 31, 2021||Vadodara||‘Lost’ thief sends cops on wild goose chase||VADODARA: Cops at Manjalpur police station went into a tizzy on Saturday afternoon when a burglar arrested on Friday went missing from custody. Sources close to the development at the police station said that the accused Prakash Rajput had fled from when he was brought out of the lock-up for a while as he felt sick. Police officials, however, denied it stating that there was a confusion. “The accused had not fled but the police station officer (PSO) had a misunderstanding when he did not find the accused in the lock-up and alerted the staff. The burglar was taken out of the police station for reconstruction of crime,” said inspector K M Chhasiya of Gorwa police station. Sources, however, said that when the staff of police station started searching for him, they found him an hour later a few hundred metres away from the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lost-thief-sends-cops-on-wild-goose-chase/articleshow/80605356.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Residents fast in support of protesting farmers in Almora||ALMORA: A group of residents sat in hunger strike on Saturday at Gandhi Park in Almora city under the aegis of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, an organisation affiliated to the Uttarakhand Kisan Sabha, to support protesting farmers. Convenor Dinesh Pandey condemned lathi charge on agitating farmers and supported their demand of repealing all three agri reform laws. “The government is suppressing the farmers’ movement. The “annadata” will fight till the last breath. Framers have been on the streets for a long time. Being ignored all this time has fuelled their discontent,” Pandey said at the event. At the event, a silence of two minutes was observed for those that lost their lives in the movement. Meanwhile, tributes were paid to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-fast-in-support-of-protesting-farmers-in-almora/articleshow/80605586.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Schools violating fee norms, claim parents||HYDERABAD: Violating government norms on school fees for the academic year 2020-21, parents claim, several schools in the city are asking them to cough up the entire annual fee by the end of January. Parents, especially those of higher classes, said they have been receiving messages from schools asking them to clear fee dues immediately. “I got a message from my school asking me to clear fee dues before the school physically reopens in February,” said Satish M, a parent, whose son is studying at a private school in Banjara Hills. The members of Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) said that this is not an issue with just one school, but many in Telangana. “Schools are asking for the full fee. As the state announced that schools can reopen from February 1, many schools are trying to collect the full fee from parents citing reopening of schools,” said K Venkat Sainath, joint secretary, HSPA. A few even took to Twitter to raise the issue saying that schools are threatening to cancel the promotion of students if they fail to clear dues. “When we have been conducting online classes for students of all classes, so it is the responsibility of parents to pay full fee. Fee defaulters will not be promoted to the next academic year. Only those students who cleared online exams and paid the fee will be promoted ,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, Telangana Recognized School Managements Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-violating-fee-norms-claim-parents/articleshow/80606470.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||Assembly condoles De Lima’s death||Panaji: Goa legislative assembly paid tributes to Prof Edward De Lima, a Konkani writer, litterateur and a social worker, by maintaining silence for a minute on Friday. De Lima died on Monday. Deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes made the obituary reference. De Lima’s most recent book ‘Tales of Sucorro’ is his debut into fiction after his autobiographical story “Yesterday at Monte-Jogging down Memory Lane’ published in 2019. The House also paid tributes to tiatrist and musician Antonio Inacio Joao De Souza, who died recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assembly-condoles-de-limas-death/articleshow/80607520.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Meerut||Not used force to stop farmers heading to Delhi borders, but trying to dissuade them, says UP ADG||MEERUT: In the wake of hundreds of farmers from Uttar Pradesh heading to Delhi borders after an impassioned appeal by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border on Thursday night, UP ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI that police did not forcibly prevent anyone from going to the protest sites. Kumar added they are, however, using all means to dissuade such groups from joining protesters as the situation is volatile. “I think we have been quite successful that way in containing numbers at the border,” the top cop said on Saturday, denying any forcible clampdown on the farmers' movement in western UP districts. Ever since Tikait's appeal, there has been added pressure on UP Police to keep the numbers low at the border with Bijnor SP Dharam Veer Singh on Friday even calling the protest site at Ghazipur "illegal" and warned farmers against rejoining the stir. Heavy police deployment in anti-riot gear was witnessed in Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, among other places. "We did not forcibly stop anyone. We certainly tried to convince them not to leave. The situation at Ghazipur border is volatile. What if anti-social elements infiltrate the protest site leading to violence," Kumar asked. The ADG (law and order) also spoke about the youth who died during the Republic Day violence, calling it a "permanent loss to the family". "Who suffered the loss when the youth from Rampur died in Delhi protest?" However, despite the concerted effort by police, flow of farmers from western UP to Ghazipur border continued since Thursday night, though in much smaller groups. "Farmers are certainly leaving in smaller numbers and using different routes where police presence is less. Even [BKU president] Naresh Tikait had appealed at the mahapanchayat on Friday not to reach the border in large numbers, to avoid chaos. Our strategy is to maintain the flow," Jitender Huda, a farmer from Shamli, said. On the heavy deployment of police, Meerut zone ADG Rajeev Sabharwal said, "We are not stopping anyone. We did not stop mahapanchayat too. But, regulating traffic is our job. We cannot allow chaos on roads and highways causing inconvenience to others. And as far as asking names and taking down contact numbers are concerned, at least we can contact them in case of any need. Managing such a massive crowd at the border is also our responsibility."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/not-used-force-to-stop-farmers-heading-to-delhi-borders-but-trying-to-dissuade-them-says-up-adg/articleshow/80605580.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||More farmers from US Nagar reaching Ghazipur, our numbers have doubled: Farmer leaders||RUDRAPUR: More farmers from the Terai area of the Udham Singh Nagar district reached the protest site at Ghazipur border on Saturday. The number of Terai farmers at the protest site has now reached 10,000, say farmer leaders. Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, told TOI, “The total number of farmers crossed the 25,000-mark on Saturday. Among these, 10,000 farmers from the Terai region. We hope that more number of farmers from Uttarakhand will come forward to support the farmers' movement.” As the number of farmers continues to swell, internet services have also been suspended at the spot. Sardar Karm Singh Padda, state president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said, “Thousands of Terai farmers have been camping at the Ghazipur border to protest against the three farm laws. We are perpetually motivating more and more of them to reach the site.” In a similar vein, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of the Kisan Andolan Committee, Ghazipur, said, “The agitation is set to gain strength as a large number of farmers from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are moving towards the national capital to join the protest.” Meanwhile, Shilpi Arora, general secretary of Uttarakhand women Congress, while speaking to TOI from Ghazipur, alleged that BJP workers are fomenting trouble at various Delhi borders. “We will fight these BJP goons peacefully and will not resort to violence even as they are continuously trying to stir trouble here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/more-farmers-from-us-nagar-reaching-ghazipur-our-numbers-have-doubled-farmer-leaders/articleshow/80605584.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Court issues summons to Venugopal Dhoot, Chanda Kochhar||MUMBAI: A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on Saturday took cognisance of the enforcement directorate’s chargesheet submitted against former CEO of ICICI Bank, Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar and Videocon chairman Venugopal Dhoot in a money laundering case. While Deepak is in custody, the court has now issued summons to Chanda Kochhar and Venugopal Dhoot. They will have to appear before the court. Chanda Kochhar took charge of ICICI as its CEO in May 2009, after which she allegedly illegally sanctioned loans to Videocon group companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-issues-summons-to-dhoot-kochhar/articleshow/80607579.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Indian doctors campaign for right to bring elderly parents to live in Britain||London: Medical organisations representing Indian and other overseas-trained doctors are campaigning to change the adult dependant relative rules that make it virtually impossible for doctors who have settled in Britain to bring their elderly parents over to live with them. The British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO), together with the British Medical Association and other bodies representing settled migrant doctors, have penned a joint letter to UK home secretary Priti Patel calling on her to review the restrictive rules of the Immigration Act. The rules were changed in 2012 under former home secretary Theresa May so that settled overseas-trained doctors can only bring elderly parents over to live with them if they can demonstrate they need a level of long-term personal care which can only be provided for in the UK. Indian doctors complain the application process is burdensome and it is virtually impossible to “prove” the same level of care is not available in India, even if it isn’t. The letter urges Patel, herself of Ugandan Indian roots, to make the rules more flexible to allow elderly parents to be granted indefinite leave to remain, as they can do in other countries such as Australia and Canada. “This will give doctors working on the frontline the reassurance they need to stay working for the NHS whilst fulfilling their personal caring responsibilities to their elderly parents,” the letter states. Prior to the rule change, 2,325 applications were made a year to bring adult dependents over to the UK. This fell to just 162 applications in 2016, the majority of which were unsuccessful. Many Indian parents have died whilst their children are going through the application process. The letter warns of the potential loss to the NHS if these doctors, many of whom worked on the frontline during the pandemic, feel “forced out of the country”. India-born Dr Kamal Sidhu, a family doctor in Durham who is from Ludhiana, Punjab, and who trained at Dayanand Medical College, has been in the UK since 2003, raised a family in the UK, and is now a British citizen, but has been unsuccessful in bringing his parents, in their mid-60s, who live in Jagraon in Ludhiana, to Britain. “We feel like an incomplete family. Our parents invested all their lives into us and we want to be able to be there to make their lives more comfortable and to live with them and look after them,” he said. His mother has delayed an operation by nearly a year so that he can travel back to help with her post-operative care, but has been unable to owing to the lockdown. “Now she is in more pain and we are stuck so she may have to have it without us. Imagine the amount of guilt that comes with that. As her son, it is my filial obligation to be with her. These rules are not recognising the right to live and die with dignity. It’s a human right to be able to stay with your parents and it’s very inhumane that you cannot be there for them in hour of need." “The UK government asks for evidence you cannot find care in India, so you have to prove you employed carers and they didn’t turn up, how much you paid them and where else you tried, and what went wrong. They want so much detail,” he said. “We want them to be more flexible and realistic. They are asking us to prove something next to impossible to prove.” Barrister Usha Sood, who represents hundreds of Indian doctors in Britain, said many have had to fly out on emergencies to India as a parent had a fall or was found unconscious. This has a knock-on effect of operations and clinics being cancelled on the NHS in the UK. “One doctor’s mother collapsed and was not found for two days as the maid didn’t turn up. Another got a call from his dad, who is in his late 80s, saying his mum has fallen and that he needed to come and help”, Sood said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/indian-doctors-campaign-for-right-to-bring-elderly-parents-to-live-in-britain/articleshow/80606487.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Scheduled caste, women workers in Punjab, Haryana paid less than others’||CHANDIGARH: Unemployment among vocationally trained youth in Punjab and Haryana is high, largely due to skill gaps. What’s more, there is also significant wage discrimination against women and SC workers employed in the vocational labour market in both states, reports a study by the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda. The study ‘Employment and earning differentials among vocationally trained youth: Evidence from field studies in Punjab and Haryana in India’ was conducted at Ludhiana in Punjab and Hisar in Haryana, which have the highest number of industrial units. The study, which aimed at examining the employment pattern of vocationally trained youth in the two states and to measure earning inequality among them, took into account 85 vocational training institutions, with 37 in Ludhiana and 48 in Hisar. It was found that only 54.5% of the formally trained youth in both states got employment. In both states, 19.2% of ITI and polytechnic pass outs are unemployed. Out of the total sample size, 35.2% are working as wage employees in the private sector, while 12.7% are self-employed and 6.2% engaged in agriculture. Only 0.4% are in government jobs. The study also pointed out unequal wage-earning between trained male and female workforce in both private and government sectors. Male workforce is paid about 1.6 times more than female workers in Punjab, while male workers are paid 2.2 times higher than their female counterparts in Haryana. In Punjab, ITI pass out men earn Rs 11,720 on an average while women earn Rs 6,745. In Haryana, the gap is wider with the men earning Rs 10,665 a month on an average against Rs 4,546 earned by women. In government jobs, men who complete ITI course get an average monthly salary of Rs 25,500, while women get Rs 15,400. The study also noted a significant wage gap across social group categories. Workers belonging to the SC group earn less than both other backward classes (OBCs) and other higher caste workers on an average. In Punjab, workers belonging to the SC category earn Rs 8,688 a month on an average while OBCs and workers in other categories get Rs 14,737 and Rs 10,010, respectively on an average. In Haryana, SC workers take home Rs 7,306 while workers hailing from OBC and other categories get Rs 7,899 and Rs 10,280 respectively. The study, conducted by Central University of Punjab faculty members Satinder Singh and Jajati Parida, pointed out that private vocational training institutions are using old and outdated training instruments and a large number of these institutions in both the states neither have industrial collaborations for placements nor apprenticeship training arrangements. They said these were the key reasons for the high unemployment rate. Although government-run training institutes provide training, they pay little attention to job placements. The findings of the study, published in Millennial Asia, recommended urgent government intervention to reduce the existing skill gap and improve quality of jobs for vocationally trained youth to reduce the rising unemployment problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/scheduled-caste-women-workers-in-punjab-hry-paid-less-than-others/articleshow/80606482.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 31, 2021||India||It was a terror attack and we were on alert: Israeli envoy||NEW DELHI: The improvised explosive device (IED) blast outside the Israeli embassy on Friday was a terror attack and the embassy had been on heightened alert around the first anniversary of the killing of Iranian military strategist Qassem Soleimani, said Ron Malka, Israel ambassador to India. Speaking to the TOI, Malka said, “As far as we are concerned it was a terror attack that targeted the Israeli embassy. Nobody is hurt, everybody is safe now, the diplomats and their families.” Since this month is also the first anniversary of the killing of Iranian military leader Qassem Soleimani, the Israeli embassy has already been on extra high alert. Soleimani, killed in a targeted attack, was seen to be responsible for running terror networks in the Middle East. Iran had blamed Israel and the US when a US drone strike hit Soleimani outside the Baghdad airport on January 3, 2020. “We believe it’s not a coincidence that the attack happened on January 29, the anniversary of our full diplomatic relations,” Malka said. Asked whether he thought there was any connection between the February 13, 2012 attack on Israeli diplomat’s car and Friday’s attack, Malka said, “It’s a possible connection. We are exploring that possibility as well.” However, these are early days, he added, and investigators were going through all possible links, not only in India. Read AlsoNot surprised at 'evil attack' as we were on higher alert for few weeks: Israeli envoyA day after a blast outside its embassy in the national capital, Israel's ambassador to India Ron Malka said there are enough reasons to believe it was a terrorist attack but they are not surprised at the event as the alert level had been increased for past few weeks following intelligence inputs.“Our countries are working together and we will get to the bottom of this quickly,” he said. “It’s a joint effort between both our security authorities, gathering information and evidence and we will solve it. At a time like this, the warmth and friendship between Israel and India shows itself.” “Foreign minister S Jaishankar spoke to our foreign minister Gabi Ashkenazi, the NSA Ajit Doval spoke to our NSA and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla spoke to our DG Alon Ushpiz. They gave their assurances that they would do whatever it takes to protect Israeli representatives here in India and complete the investigation into the attack,” the envoy said. Asked whether he was aware that a group calling itself Jaish ul Hind had claimed responsibility, the Israeli ambassador said it was early days yet and the investigations were just beginning. The February 2012 attack on the car of the wife of the Israeli defence attache, Tal Yeshoshua Koren was believed to be a limpet-like bomb, which was attached to the car. The diplomat sustained moderate injuries, requiring surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/it-was-a-terror-attack-and-we-were-on-alert-israeli-envoy/articleshow/80608261.cms||Indrani Bagchi
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Soon, volleyball to be taught in Chakrata, Kalsi||Dehradun: The Dehradun district volleyball association is planning to promote volleyball in the tribal regions of Chakrata and Kalsi. “The tribal regions of Jaunsar have a lot of talent, especially when it comes to volleyball. We are planning to open more coaching clinics over there in order to develop the sport in the region,” said Sachin Semwal, secretary of Dehradun District Volleyball Association. Notably, the sporting talent of the tribal population in the state, especially the ones living in the Jaunsar region, hasn’t been tapped as yet by different sport associations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/soon-volleyball-to-be-taught-in-chakrata-kalsi/articleshow/80605157.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 31, 2021||Patna||Bihar allies miffed as BJP invites Chirag Paswan for NDA meeting||PATNA: BJP’s invitation to LJP chief Chirag Paswan to attend the NDA meeting to discuss the ruling bloc’s agenda for the budget session of parliament on Saturday has not gone down well with the NDA constituents in Bihar. Chirag, however, skipped the online meeting citing health reasons. “It will send the wrong message,” was former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi’s terse reaction to Paswan being invited to attend the meeting of NDA at the Centre. Manjhi, who joined NDA at the invitation of CM Nitish Kumar before the assembly polls, said he was deeply hurt by BJP’s decision. “The man who caused immense loss to the alliance by fielding candidates of his party against us in the assembly election shouldn't have been invited to the meeting of the NDA,” he further said, adding the party would discuss the development with its top functionaries. JD(U), which bore the brunt of LJP’s decision to filed candidates in the assembly polls, parried questions on the contentious issue. RCP Singh, the newly appointed president of JD(U), told reporters that he won't discuss the matter related to another party. The relations between JD(U) and LJP have soured ever since differences emerged over the seat-sharing formula before the assembly polls, which was further complicated by LJP fielding candidates mainly against JD(U). Moreover, Chirag continued his attacks on CM Nitish Kumar on one pretext or the other. Another senior leader of JD(U) KC Tyagi had gone on record to say at a meeting of the party held in Patna that they think LJP was no longer a part of the NDA at the Centre. But BJP leader Pralhad Joshi's invitation to Chirag to attend the NDA meeting indicated otherwise. LJP spokesperson Asraf Ansari said Chirag couldn't attend the meeting due to health reasons. He, however, confirmed that BJP leader Joshi had sent the invitation to Chirag on Friday. Chirag, who had declared himself as 'hanuman' of PM Narendra Modi during his election campaign last year, remained incommunicado on Saturday. LJP has six MPs in Lok Sabha. It was expected that Chirag would be inducted in the Narendra Modi cabinet following the death of his father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. However, the wait for Chirag’s ministerial berth continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-allies-miffed-as-bjp-invites-chirag-for-nda-meeting/articleshow/80606476.cms||Ramashankar
January 31, 2021||Goa||Goa: Mining firms paid lower fees for land used to dump waste||PANAJI: The state government lost Rs 31 crore in revenue as the North Goa collectorate failed to verify the actual land area used by mining companies to dump mining rejects in non-lease areas, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report found. A fee is levied on companies for using non-lease areas to dump mining rejects. “While accepting the conversion fee based on self-assessment basis, the office of the collector, North Goa did not verify the actual plot area covered under the respective survey number utilised for dumping. This resulted in short levy of conversion, including the fine, amounting to Rs 31.09 crore,” the CAG report states. The government, after observing that large areas of land outside mining leases were used to dump waste without any authorisation, decided to grant temporary conversion for using the land by charging a one-time fee from the mining companies. Accordingly, a conversion fee of Rs 100 per sqm was charged and a fine at the rate of Rs 20 per sqm was to be imposed for unauthorised use of land for dumping the mining waste. “It was observed during audit (October 2018) that conversion fees paid with 64 challans amounting to Rs 240.04 crore was received on self-assessment basis between October 2013 and March 2014. Out of these 64 payments, we test-checked seven cases related to three mine owners to ascertain the correctness of conversion fee paid by the mine owners,” the CAG report states. The auditors found that in six of the seven cases the area mentioned in the self-assessment reports were only for a part of the plot area and not the entire area, resulting in short payment of conversion fee and fine. “It is recommended that the conversion free levied/collected in the remaining 57 cases should be verified by the department in the interest of safeguarding government revenue,” the CAG report states. The mine owners are required to pay charges for the entire plot used for dumping the waste and not only for the specific area where the rejects are stacked, CAG reminded authorities of the rules set by the state government to levy the conversion fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-firms-paid-lower-fees-for-land-used-to-dump-waste/articleshow/80607593.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Woman kills husband with grinding stone, arrested||DEHRADUN: A 38-year-old man was murdered allegedly by his wife after a heated argument in Chamoli’s Joshimath on Friday night. The husband, identified as Ramu Rishidev, was hit by a grinding stone and sustained fatal injuries on his head. He was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Police said Ramu and his wife Sangeeta Devi had a heated argument on Friday night. "During the argument, Sangeeta on the spur of the moment picked up a grinding stone and hit Ramu on his head, which resulted in his death," said Satendra Singh Negi, station in-charge of Joshimath police station. Sangeeta was later arrested by the police and has been booked under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-kills-husband-with-grinding-stone-arrested/articleshow/80605150.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 31, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Kullu house fire leaves 30 homeless||MANALI: Thirty people of seven families from Jethani village in Himachal’s Kullu district were rendered homeless in the biting Himalayan winter after a fire broke in a three-and-ahalf-storeyed house on Saturday. According to police, the fire damaged the traditional wooden house made in kathkuni architecture. All articles, furniture, ration, documents, clothes and cash were reduced to ashes. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said 22-23 rooms of the house were destroyed in the fire. “All goods of families of Chande Ram, Nand Ram, Sher Singh and Sagar Singh were destroyed. Short-circuit is suspected to be the reason behind the fire. An investigation is on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/kullu-house-fire-leaves-7-families-homeless/articleshow/80606502.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||APTDC readies to promote Vanajangi as new tourist spot||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), in association with Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), is floating a new tourist spot — Vanajangi — in Visakhapatnam Agency, located 10 kilometres from ITDA headquarters in Paderu. One of the main features of this up and coming tourist spot will be the ropeway. Since Vanajangi is located 4,000 feet above sea level, tourists have to trek for nearly an hour to reach the summit of the hill. A ropeway will act as a facilitator, says DG Prasad Reddy, divisional manager of APTDC Visakhapatnam. If the ropeway plan takes off, it will only be the second such facility after the one at Kailasagiri Hills along the Bay of Bengal, Reddy said, while adding: “Everything is currently at the planning stage. We have formally brought these features to the notice of our higher-ups.” “There will be a meeting with top ITDA officials next week. Then, we will be able to get a clear picture. Overall, we have affirmed to develop Vanajangi as a tourist attraction as one of the best in the state after Araku Valley,” Reddy told STOI. ITDA sources said that Vanajangi came into the limelight as recently as last year for its unique features. Tourists visit the spot to enjot its natural beauty here, sources informed. “Over the last two months, the spot was crowded with visitors. The narrow road built of stones and clay was jammed with vehicles. There is a proposal to lay a road to this spot in the ITDA. We will see what kind of infrastructure is required to develop this project,” said an ITDA official. Located in the Eastern Ghats, Vanajangi is 100 kilometres from Vizag city and to the south of Araku, one of the most popular tourist destinations in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aptdc-readies-to-promote-vanajangi-as-new-tourist-spot/articleshow/80605144.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 31, 2021||Faridabad||Haryana: 1.9k more vaccinated, Nuh is Covid free again||CHANDIGARH: Nuh district has become Covid-free again while nine districts reported zero cases as Haryana reported 97 new cases and two deaths on Saturday. At the same time, 1,963 health workers were given the vaccine injection on 87 session sites in 13 districts across the state. Nine districts did not have immunisation on the account of regular immunisation programme. Now, Haryana has covered total 1,26,411 health workers so far. Gurgaon and Faridabad topped the table with two slots of daily jabs and overall jab. Gurgaon administered 581 vaccination jabs, where total has gone to 21,564, while Faridabad reported 481 inoculations and its total went up to 15,088. Lowest count of 22 jabs were reported from Palwal district. While only one case of adverse effect after immunisation was reported. The state’s overall Covid-19 tally has gone to 2,67,805 cases and 3,017 deaths. In addition, 153 recoveries during the day took the overall recoveries to 2,63,654 pushing the recovery rate to 98.45%. There are total 1,134 active cases, who include 41 critical patients who are on oxygen and ventilator support in Covid care centres across the state. Meanwhile, the positivity rate has come down to 5.19% and death rate has gone to 1.13%. One death each has been reported from Gurgaon and Palwal. Gurgaon reported highest 35 new cases, which took the district tally to 58,203 cases, 353 deaths and 396 active cases. Faridabad reported second highest 15 cases where tally has gone to 46,266 cases, 414 deaths and 153 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hry-1-9k-more-vaccinated-nuh-is-covid-free-again/articleshow/80608668.cms||Manvir Saini
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: 1.9k more vaccinated, Nuh is Covid free again||CHANDIGARH: Nuh district has become Covid-free again while nine districts reported zero cases as Haryana reported 97 new cases and two deaths on Saturday. At the same time, 1,963 health workers were given the vaccine injection on 87 session sites in 13 districts across the state. Nine districts did not have immunisation on the account of regular immunisation programme. Now, Haryana has covered total 1,26,411 health workers so far. Gurgaon and Faridabad topped the table with two slots of daily jabs and overall jab. Gurgaon administered 581 vaccination jabs, where total has gone to 21,564, while Faridabad reported 481 inoculations and its total went up to 15,088. Lowest count of 22 jabs were reported from Palwal district. While only one case of adverse effect after immunisation was reported. The state’s overall Covid-19 tally has gone to 2,67,805 cases and 3,017 deaths. In addition, 153 recoveries during the day took the overall recoveries to 2,63,654 pushing the recovery rate to 98.45%. There are total 1,134 active cases, who include 41 critical patients who are on oxygen and ventilator support in Covid care centres across the state. Meanwhile, the positivity rate has come down to 5.19% and death rate has gone to 1.13%. One death each has been reported from Gurgaon and Palwal. Gurgaon reported highest 35 new cases, which took the district tally to 58,203 cases, 353 deaths and 396 active cases. Faridabad reported second highest 15 cases where tally has gone to 46,266 cases, 414 deaths and 153 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-1-9k-more-vaccinated-nuh-is-covid-free-again/articleshow/80606517.cms||Manvir Saini
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC prepares for physical hearing||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court administration has set up three court rooms to start the physical hearing of cases. The rooms have been prepared considering Covid-19 protocol in mind. However, the HC administration has not received any application from any party for hearing matters in physical hearing mode in response to the January 26 notification issued by the HC administration for starting limited physical hearing in addition to the present system of hearing cases online. In its January 26 notification, the HC administration had explained the process for those willing to hear cases physically. At present, all benches in the HC are functioning through videoconference and around 1,500 cases are being listed for hearing every day. This includes cases of all categories, including pending cases in which a request is made due to urgency. Online mentioning was done away with in most of the categories of criminal cases and even where mentioning was still being done, almost all cases are being listed for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-prepares-for-physical-hearing/articleshow/80606510.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Palghar likely to get its own prison spread over 25 acres||MUMBAI: The state prison department has identified around 25 acres to construct a jail in Palghar district. With a population of over 29 lakhs, the district was carved out in August 2014 but does not have a jail. Accused and convicts from the district are generally lodged in Thane central prison and Taloja central jail in Navi Mumbai. There are 23 police stations in the district. Another six in Mira-Bhayander may benefit with this new prison. The need for a prison in the district was felt when mass arrests were made after the lynching of two seers and their driver in Kasa village of Palghar in April last year, amid Covid-19. The accused were initially lodged in police stations in the district. So far, 251 tribals have been arrested in the case. They were later shifted to Thane and Taloja jails. Of them, 115 are now out on bail. Prison department officials recently identified land near Umroli village, around 6km from the district headquarters. “We will send a proposal to the office of additional director general (prisons),” said a senior prison department official. After it is sanctioned, it will be forwarded to the state home department. It may have a jail factory where convicts can work as per their skills or learn new skills while serving sentences. Jail factories are usually part of central jails. At Thane prison, convicts work in the bakery, carpentry and shoe-making sections. They get paid and the products are sold at exhibitions. Initially, the land will house jail and residential quarters for prison staff. Most jails have an in-house hospital. The land is close to Palghar court, collectorate and government hospital. While Palghar district police have 16 stations, the newly-formed Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar (MBVV) commissionerate has 13. Accused and convicts have to be transported nearly 130-150km to reach Thane and Taloja jails. In the wake of Covid-19, accused in Palghar district are quarantined at a temporary jail in Wada village of Palghar, before being moved to Thane or Taloja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/palghar-may-get-own-prison-spread-over-25-acres/articleshow/80607600.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||IMD launches portal, allows public to share observations about weather||Visakhapatnam: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has now allowed the general public to share their observations about the weather on IMD’s official weather page. Until now, the department depended on government-run weather observatories, like the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) in Visakhapatnam, to get data about the weather. State IMD director S Stella said that IMD launched the facility this week and rolled it out across the state from Friday. “Soon after the launch, two people from Nidamarru in Guntur district sent information about dense fog at their village. They have even sent photographs of the fog.” According to Stella, the purpose of this project is to know the weather conditions at every corner of each village, region, state and country. “This is a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country,” Stella said. The feature can be accessed through the public observation section of the Mausam website of IMD. Users can report their feedback about the weather in the form of texts, photos and damage due to abnormal weather along with location and time of event. “This will give a clear picture to the IMD to further telecast an accurate picture of the weather of the country all over the world,” Stella said. “Further, until now, users were only allowed to send their messages in English. We will upgrade the system to include regional languages,” the state IMD director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/imd-launches-portal-allows-public-to-share-observations-about-weather/articleshow/80605158.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Edu dept mulls charging newly-appointed teachers for verifying docus||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department is planning to charge the newly-appointed teachers for the cost incurred during the verification of documents prior to their appointment. The department will implement this rule in all the appointments taking place from now onwards. The education department has planned to appoint nearly 3,100 candidates for the post of assistant teachers. The cost will be implemented on all candidates — general, SC or OBCs. It is estimated that the document verification process of each teacher costs up to Rs 1,000. Notably, the department is expected to verify documents of nearly 35,000 candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-mulls-charging-newly-appointed-teachers-for-verifying-docus/articleshow/80605166.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 31, 2021||Goa||Maharashtra govt declares myristica swamp in Dodamarg as biological heritage site||KERI: The Maharashtra government on Thursday declared myristica swamp vegetation in Bambarde village of Dodamarg taluka as a biodiversity heritage site. It is located a few kilometres away from Goa’s border.  It is the eighth site in Maharashtra and the first in Sindhudurg district to be given the heritage tag. Spread over an area of 2.6ha, it has been protected for centuries by the villagers of Hevale as a sacred grove. Malhar Indulkar, a wildlifer working on documenting otters in the Tillari, came across the myristica swamp in Maloli, in Sattari, Goa, after he participated in a ‘nature orientation camp’ organised by the Goa-based Vivekanand Environment Awareness Brigade, Keri. Amazed with the biodiversity of the myristica swamp, Indulkar informed the Maharashtra forest department about the site at Dodamarg. “For ages, the villagers of Hevale have protected this unique fresh water swamp at the foothills of the Western Ghats in the Tillari river basin. As this area has now been given a heritage tag, it will be possible to protect and conserve this unique ecosystem with its biodiversity for posterity,” deputy conservator of forests, Sawantwadi, Samadhan Chavan told TOI. Narayan Desai from Hevale said, “Our villagers have protected this area as a sacred grove of ‘Kanalachi rai’. This area is indeed a repository of unique biodiversity and gives a peak into remnants of the ancient landscape that once thrived in the region.” Sanket Naik, a wildlifer from Dodamarg, said that this tag has to light biological richness of the Tillari region. A few kilometers away, Nagargao village in Sattari has three myristica swamp sites. In South Goa, Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary has myristica swamp vegetation in Bhati and Netravalli villages. The Maharashtra forest department has decided to constitute a local management committee for protection of this swamp with a ten-year management plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/myristica-swamp-in-dodamarg-gets-biological-heritage-tag/articleshow/80607614.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||80.6% receive first dose, 1 adverse event reported in Himachal||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh recorded 80.6% coverage of Covid vaccination against a target of 5,974 persons on Saturday. A total of 4,816 persons were vaccinated in the state. The vaccination drive was conducted in government health facilities at 11 districts of the state. So far, 27,752 persons have been vaccinated here. The drive was not conducted on January 24, 25 and 26. On Saturday, adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) was reported in one person in Bilaspur district. All those administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine are under the supervision of health officials. In Bilaspur district, against the target of vaccinating 292 persons, 210 were vaccinated. In Chamba district, against the target of vaccinating 318 persons, 276 were vaccinated. In Hamirpur district, against the target of vaccinating 506 persons, 379 were vaccinated. In Kangra district, against the target of vaccinating 935 persons, 959 persons were vaccinated. In Kinnaur district, 147 persons were vaccinated against the target of 160. In Kullu district, 326 persons were vaccinated against a target of 385. In Mandi district, 873 persons were vaccinated against a target of 1,012 and in Shimla district, 552 persons were vaccinated against the target of 750. In Sirmaur district, 128 persons were vaccinated, 542 were vaccinated in Solan and in Una, 424 persons were vaccinated. Mission director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal said the Covid-19 vaccination programme in the state was reviewed on Friday by the National Health Mission with chief medical officers (CMOs) and in-charges of various medical colleges in the state. He said districts have been instructed to complete the drive for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine for health care workers in the state by February 9. He stated that the districts were instructed to increase coverage in days to come so that the target could be achieved well in time. Dr Jindal said the state would need to conduct around 650 sessions till February 9 to achieve the target, for which appropriate directions have been issued to authorities concerned. The state, he said, also received a consignment of 87,500 vaccine doses in addition to 93,000 doses received earlier. A total of 43,100 doses have additionally been assigned to districts for the first dose, while the second dose for vaccination of healthcare workers has been retained at the state vaccine store, Parimahal. On vaccine wastage, it was informed that the wastage percentage in the state is only 2.55% against the permissible limit of 10% specified by the Government of India. He also said AEFI has only been reported in 1.16% of vaccinated beneficiaries and that too are minor in nature. They were resolved after management as per standard protocol, Dr Jindal said. About 77,000 health workers will be vaccinated and each beneficiary will be given two doses. The second dose will be administered after 28 days. Vaccine Coverage Date | Target | Achievement January 16 | 2,499 | 1,536 January 18 | 5,061 | 3,299 January 19 | 383 | 232 January 20 | 48 | 45 January 21 | 1,129 | 696 January 22 | 5,940 | 3,819 January 23 | 5,720 | 3,935 January 27 | 649 | 510 January 28 | 6,420 | 4,794 January 29 | 5,091 | 4,070 January 30 | 5,974 | 4,816||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/80-6-receive-first-dose-1-adverse-event-reported-in-himachal/articleshow/80606523.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||‘Ensure Sonia Gandhi’s advice to CM Uddhav Thackeray is acted upon’||MUMBAI: AICC secretary H K Patil, in-charge of Maharashtra, on Saturday asked state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat to ensure that advice given by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on welfare of Dalits and tribals is implemented in letter and spirit. Gandhi had, on December 14, written a letter, the first after formation of MVA government to implement the common minimum programme and welfare plan for Dalits and tribals. At a high-level meeting attended by all Congress cabinet ministers in New Delhi, Patil reviewed the performance of ministers, road map for ensuing polls to civic bodies and zilla parishads and the proposal to replace Thorat. A senior cabinet member said Congress ministers brought it to Patil’s notice that there was massive cut in budgetary provision for departments of Congress cabinet members. “We are preparing for state budget. It is Thorat’s responsibility to take it up... and ensure adequate provision...,” he said. According to reports, when there was discussion on change in state leadership, Thorat himself said it was time Congress leadership takes a decision on his successor. “I have already offered to quit, but it was for AICC to decide on a successor,” Thorat told the meeting. Assembly speaker Nana Patole is a front-runner for the state Congress president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ensure-sonias-advice-to-cm-is-acted-upon/articleshow/80607608.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||4 arrested for illegal adoption, harassment||COIMBATORE: The city police on Saturday arrested four people, including two women, from Karumbukadai in connection with illegal adoption of two girl children and physical harassment of the youngest child. The office of district child protection officer rescued the children – aged seven years and four years – and accommodated them in a children’s home. “After separating from her husband, the biological mother of the children had started living with another man. Four months ago, she gave the children to a friend, who gave them to his two sisters. Within a month or so, the woman who was taking care of the four-year-old child, handed her over to another couple who was looking for adoption,” said an official. “The couple assaulted the child, causing scars on her body. Their neighbours alerted police.” Podanur police officers and child protection officials visited the house on Friday and rescued the child. “We shifted the kids to a children’s home. We might send the elder girl with the family upon submitting legal adoption documents as she was taken good care of. The youngest child will be subjected to medical examination,” the official said. Based on a complaint from the child protection officer, Podanur police have booked seven people, including the biological parents, under sections 324 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 75 and 80 of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection) Act 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-arrested-for-illegal-adoption-harassment/articleshow/80606522.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun cricket association to conduct U-19 & senior tournament||DEHRADUN: The District Cricket Association of Dehradun (DCAD) is all set to conduct a district league tournament for 2021-22 in the senior and Under-19 categories. The league will tentatively start from the second week of February 2021 and continue till April 2021. No other local tournaments will be conducted during the course of the district league as the association has requested all the players to make themselves available for the games. For the smooth functioning of the league, DCAD is also shortlisting umpires/scorers who will be part of this league. All the Umpires and scorers, willing to be part of this league, can email their resume at dcadehradun07@gmail.com. The last date for submission of resume is February 7, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-cricket-association-to-conduct-u-19-senior-tournament/articleshow/80605171.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Share of active cases in AP lowest among major states||Visakhapatnam: With only 0.15% active cases currently making up the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Andhra Pradesh now has the lowest caseload among all states and Union Territories that have recorded at least one lakh Covid-19 cases. In absolute numbers, there are currently around 1,300 active cases in AP against the cumulative caseload of nearly nine lakh cases. Kerala leads the national charts with 8% active cases of its cumulative caseload, followed by Maharashtra with 2.2%, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh — both with 1.4%. In AP, at least five to six districts have been recording single-digit case numbers on a daily basis for the last three to four weeks. Following the initial months of the pandemic, the health department switched from a detection-based strategy to containment intervention. The response and management plan was tweaked at regular intervals in accordance with the ever-changing dynamics of the pandemic which wore on over the months. Speaking to STOI, state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr K Rambabu said the health department’s strategy was primarily based on massive and targeted testing, contact tracing, and timely treatment. “The state stuck to scientific grounds from start, successfully plateauing the curve. The increasing herd immunity might also be the reason for the declining case numbers. During our sentinel surveillance and random testing, more immunity against Covid-19 was observed among slum populations,” he said. The pandemic had initially overwhelmed the state’s healthcare system between May and June last year and peaked to a daily average infection rate of close to 10,000 cases in the months of August and September. The death count too had spiralled to 90 fatalities per day during these months. However, mid-way into October, the situation began to witness a gradual turnaround. Daily infection numbers and death began to dip with case positivity rate in the state dipping to 0.4% in January. This is the lowest case positivity rate for a month since the pandemic broke out in the state. In March last year as the pandemic was breaking out, AP had recorded a positivity rate of 5%. This number rose to its highest in August as the state witnessed a case positivity rate of 16.6% but began to taper around October when the positivity rate came down to below 6% and has been declining ever since. Back in around February and March last year as the novel coronavirus began to spread across the world, the state had no testing labs. With no definitive treatment, insufficient contact-tracing apparatus or expertise and minimal health infrastructure to deal with the rising infections, the state had to start from scratch. A science-based approach in coordination with a private research university in the US has stood in good stead for AP. While the low positivity rate comes as good news, the state is treading cautiously in case of a second wave. State authorities have been strongly advocating compliance with all Covid-19 precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/share-of-active-cases-in-ap-lowest-among-major-states/articleshow/80605169.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 31, 2021||India||Eye on China, India woos Madagascar and Comoros||NEW DELHI:As China makes rapid inroads into the western Indian Ocean, India is hoping to shore up its own security and defence engagement with the strategically significant Madagascar and Comoros Islands in the region. Both countries have confirmed their participation in in the Indian Ocean Region meeting of defence ministers which India will host next week. While Madagascar delegation will be headed by its defence minister Richard Rakotonirina, Comoros will send a defence delegation under its foreign minister Dhoihir Dhoulkamal. This is the first time that a high-level defence delegation will visit India from the archipelago off the east coast of Africa. India will host the IOR defence ministers' conclave, themed Enhanced Peace, Security and Cooperation in the Indian Ocean, alongside Aero India 2021 in Bengaluru on February 4. As Indian officials have been quoted as saying, the conclave is an attempt to promote dialogue in an "institutional and cooperative environment that can foster peace, stability and prosperity in the Indian Ocean region". Recognising the geopolitical significance of Madagascar and Comoros, where China continues to ramp up its connectivity and security related activities, the foreign ministry had in 2019 included these countries in IOR division that also handles Mauritius, Seychelles Maldives and Sri Lanka. Madagascar though is still awaiting appointment of a defence attache despite an approval in principle by the government in 2019. The defence ministry is expected to clear the proposal soon. India had signed a defence MoU with Madagascar in 2018 under which they are said to be discussing several projects for capacity building and training of Madagascar’s defence personnel. China is also said to be considering appointing a defence attache in Madagascar to monitor security related issues. It has already replaced France as the main partner of Madagascar and Comoros in terms of trade, investment and aid. For both India and China, it's important to intensify bilateral engagements with the geo-strategic islands as they look to enhance their naval presence in the western Indian Ocean. In terms of security and defence, India has sought to catch up in the past few years, more so since the visit to Comoros by Vice President Venkaih Naidu in 2019. The 2 countries had then signed an agreement for defence cooperation with India also announcing a Line of Credit for $ 20 million for procurement of high speed interceptor boats by Comoros. While Naidu's visit was the first ever high-level visit to Comoros from India, as government sources said, Indian naval ships have been making "goodwill visit" to the archipelago in the strategic Mozambique Channel since 2008.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eye-on-china-india-woos-madagascar-and-comoros/articleshow/80608269.cms||Sachin Parashar
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Steady rise in thyroid cases worries doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: Though research is yet to establish any link between the Covid-19 pandemic and thyroid ailments, various kinds of thyroid-related diseases are increasingly being reported, say doctors. Thyroid is a large ductless gland in the neck which secretes hormones, regulating growth and development through the rate of metabolism. Goitre, hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism are the most common diseases of thyroid gland. Goitre can also cause thyroid cancer, which is treatable if diagnosed early. If not treated on time, diseases of the thyroid gland can lead to various health complications. Dr KAV Subrahmanyam, head of the department of endocrinology at King George Hospital, said there has been a 15 to 20 per cent increase in thyroid cases in the last few years. “Though genetic predisposition also plays a part, the main causes can be linked to micronutrient deficiency, pollution and viral infections. It’s too early to say if the pandemic has any role to play,” he said. Dr Sravani Tanna, consultant endocrinologist at Kims Icon Hospital, agreed that thyroid cases are steadily increasing. “There has been some awareness among public which prompts them to get tested for thyroid and that is one of the reasons for more cases being reported. But so far we have not seen any direct link between Covid and thyroid,” she said. “Hypothyroidism is an underactive thyroid gland that can be present at birth or it can develop later. Children born with congenital hypothyroidism can have severe cognitive, neurological and developmental abnormalities if the condition is not recognised and treated,” Dr Sravani added. “In hyperthyroidism, too much thyroid hormone is produced by an overactive thyroid gland. Some symptoms include nervousness, irritability, increased sweating, hand tremors, palpitations, frequent bowel movements, difficulty sleeping, losing weight despite good appetite, menstrual irregularities,” she explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/steady-rise-in-thyroid-cases-worries-docs/articleshow/80605175.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Power loom units’ output hit as yarn price rises||NAMAKKAL: Power loom units at Rasipuram here stopped operations on Friday citing rising yarn prices. Rasipuram and surrounding villages including Vennandur are known for towel production. More than 30,000 workers are engaged by 7,000-odd power loom units in the region. While 50kg yarn was sold for Rs 8,500 a few months ago, it is now sold for Rs 12,500, said Kumaran Kalaivanan, general secretary of the Salem Zonal Power Loom Workers Association. “The price hike has directly affected cost of production. Hike of Rs 4,500 per 50kg will push towel prices by Rs 15,” he told TOI. Power loom unit owners said that clients who had given orders weeks ago are hesitating to bear the additional cost. “A towel that was quoted for Rs 10 at the time of the order, now cost Rs 25 due to yarn price hike. Clients refuse to give the hiked price even after we showed yarn procurement bills,” Kalaivanan said. “Unit owners have been facing huge losses for the last three months.” The unit owners want the central and the state government to reduce the yarn price. “We will not open the units till our demand is not met. As many as 30,000 weavers and their families depend on this trade,” Kalaivanan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/power-loom-units-output-hit-as-yarn-price-rises/articleshow/80606525.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Rampant encroachments narrow down service lanes off busy bypass||Pune: Rampant encroachment is reducing carriage width and triggering traffic snarls on the service lanes of the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, particularly between Bhumkar and Vadgaon bridges and at Warje, Chandni Chowk and the Wakad section of the busy road.“It is difficult to drive on the service lanes, especially from Bhumkar bridge to Vadgaon bridge along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The vehicles moving on your left all of a sudden come to the right due to the irregular width of the service lane,” Dhayari resident Abhay Kamathe said. Senior police inspector (Traffic) Nandkishor Shelke said “It is a must to have proper service lanes, particularly for the local residents who mostly commute on two-wheelers. But the situation along the bypass section joining Bhumkar and Vadgaon bridges is different. There are many encroachments along the service lanes”.He said, “Shops, tea stalls and other commercial centres narrow down the 12 metre-wide service lanes to seven metres at some sections. Many motorists are forced to use the lanes off the bypass because of the traffic snarls on the service lanes. During our last field visit to the area, we had discussed the issue with National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials.” When contacted, a senior NHAI officer said, “We are in talks with the local authorities on the issues. The local governing bodies, such as the Pune Municipal Corporation or the gram panchayats, can reserve land for the service lane. The NHAI can widen the service lanes”.A Narhe gram panchayat member said “The local residents have started businesses on their properties along the bypass and service lanes. We have requested them to take back their compound walls or establishments premises, Now that the gram panchayat has been merged with PMC, the civic administration will take a call on the issue.”Santosh Mishra, a resident of Bavdhan, said the condition of the service road from Bavdhan to HEMRL is pathetic because of the potholes and illegal road digging. Amol Joshi, a resident of Baner, encroachment of the service road has added to the woes of the motorists. Assistant commissioner of police Pimpri Chinchwad (traffic) Shrikant Disale said, “We have started taking action against the illegal vendors to ensure smooth traffic on the service lanes. We have deployed a team for constant patrolling on the bypass from Ravet to Chandni Chowk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rampant-encroachments-narrow-down-service-lanes-off-busy-bypass/articleshow/80606516.cms||Gitesh Shelke
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Transport dept staff observe fast||: Transport department employees observed a fast in Coimbatore on Saturday, urging the state government to commence salary revision negotiations. The staff, owing allegiance to trade unions including Centre of Indian Trade Unions and All India Trade Union Congress, sat in front of depots and office of the department. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/transport-dept-staff-observe-fast/articleshow/80606528.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Erode||Leased cargo express train flagged off||COIMBATORE: The third leased parcel cargo express train of the Salem division was flagged off from Vanjipalayam in Tirupur on Saturday. The train, leased to Viskan Logistics Services Private Limited, has 15 wagons that can carry 353 tonnes of commodities. It will leave Vanjipalayam at 8.30pm every Saturday and reach New Guwahati station in Assam at 8pm on Tuesday. It will stop at Erode, Vijayawada Junction, Khurdha road, Sankrail Goods Terminal Yard (Howrah) and at New Jalpaiguri Jn for loading and unloading goods. The train will leave Guwahati at 8.30pm on every Thursday and reach Vanjipalayam at 12.30am on Monday. The other leased parcel cargo express trains began operation between Coimbatore North and Patel Nagar last August and between Coimbatore North and Rajkot on January 8. The trains have been leased for a period of six years, during which they will earn the division Rs 66 crore. Divisional railway manager Gautam Srinivas flagged off the cargo train along with senior divisional commercial manager E Harikrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/leased-cargo-express-train-flagged-off/articleshow/80611399.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Leased cargo express train flagged off||COIMBATORE: The third leased parcel cargo express train of the Salem division was flagged off from Vanjipalayam in Tirupur on Saturday. The train, leased to Viskan Logistics Services Private Limited, has 15 wagons that can carry 353 tonnes of commodities. It will leave Vanjipalayam at 8.30pm every Saturday and reach New Guwahati station in Assam at 8pm on Tuesday. It will stop at Erode, Vijayawada Junction, Khurdha road, Sankrail Goods Terminal Yard (Howrah) and at New Jalpaiguri Jn for loading and unloading goods. The train will leave Guwahati at 8.30pm on every Thursday and reach Vanjipalayam at 12.30am on Monday. The other leased parcel cargo express trains began operation between Coimbatore North and Patel Nagar last August and between Coimbatore North and Rajkot on January 8. The trains have been leased for a period of six years, during which they will earn the division Rs 66 crore. Divisional railway manager Gautam Srinivas flagged off the cargo train along with senior divisional commercial manager E Harikrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leased-cargo-express-train-flagged-off/articleshow/80606527.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Raisina Dialogue now 4th on global popularity chart: Think tank index||NEW DELHI: The Raisina Dialogue, MEA’s flagship foreign policy and international affairs conference, has climbed up the global popularity charts and is now ranked fourth in the world, overtaking the global event it set out to emulate five years ago. Observer Research Foundation (ORF) which collaborates with the foreign office to produce Raisina Dialogue has been ranked 20th among 174 top think tanks worldwide, and eighth among non-US bodies, says the annual ranking report. The 2020 Global Go To Think Tank Index Report, by the Think Tanks and Civil Societies Programme (TTCSP) of the Lauder Institute at the University of Pennsylvania is regarded as the definitive ranking system for think tanks globally, on a variety of metrics. When India began the Raisina Dialogue in 2016, the intention was to be “like” the Shangri-la Dialogue by the IISS held annually in Singapore, which is generally part of every strategic analyst’s calendar. By 2020, Raisina was playing host to around 103 countries with foreign and defence ministers, service chiefs and experts jostling for space and speaking slots. Shangri-La Dialogue is now at number 8, according to the latest ranking survey. This year, keeping Covid considerations in mind, Raisina Dialogue has been moved to April 13-15. The 2020 top conferences include Munich Security Conference (normally reserved for national security advisers/foreign ministers); China’s Boao Forum, another high octane event; and the Euro-Med Dialogue (Italy) by the Institute for International Political Studies (ISPI). Brookings Institution has been ranked consistently at the top of the charts, but Japan Institute of International Affairs topped the list of worldwide think tanks, followed by Belgium's Bruegel and Fudacao Geulio Varas (FGV) of Brazil. French Institute of International Relations (IFRI) and the UK''s Chatham House were ranked 5th and 6th on the list. Other Indian think tanks in the list include Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) at 41st rank (unchanged from last year) and Centre for Civil Society (CCS) at 83rd (unchanged). Indian Council for Research on International Economic Research (ICRIER) and The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) also retained their 110th and 111th position, respectively. Development Alternatives (DA) was ranked 138th and Delhi Policy Group 142th, according to the report. India has the third-largest number of think tanks at 612. The US has the highest number at 2,203, followed by China at 1,413. TTCSP conducts research on the role policy institutes play in governments and civil societies around the world, the report said. Often referred to as the “think tanks’ think tank,” TTCSP examines the evolving role and character of public policy research organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/raisina-dialogue-now-4th-on-global-popularity-chart-think-tank-index/articleshow/80608272.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: M K Stalin reiterates his promise to solve people’s woes in 100 days||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Friday reiterated his promise and pledge made earlier this week to address and solve people's grievances within 100 days of his party coming to power in Tamil Nadu. Stalin received the first batch of petitions, as part of his next leg of election campaign named 'Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin' (Stalin in your constituency) in Tiruvannamalai district. "I am Kalaingnar's (M Karunanidhi) son. He delivered what he had promised. As his son, I assure you, that I will do the same," Stalin said after people's grievances, submitted in forms printed by the party, were put in a box and sealed. Prior to that, he interacted with the people, who had come and registered their complaints at the specially created desks to receive such complaints. “The past ten years of rule of the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu has destroyed the state. They have neither taken care of the poor nor the youngsters with jobs. Their focus was only on increasing their own personal wealth, be it the chief minister or the ministers in his cabinet including those from your district (Tiruvannamalai),” Stalin said. "I undertook the pledge before the media on Monday, January 25, to solve people's grievances in 100 days once the DMK comes to power. This box will be opened in my presence one day after the swearing in and I assure you that every problem submitted here will be solved in 100 days," Stalin said. The first meeting under the 'Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin' at Tiruvannamalai involved people from four assembly segments including Tiruvannamalai, Kizhpennathur, Kalasapakkam and Chengam. Stalin plans to cover all 234 assembly segments across the state in 30 days. In the afternoon, he attended a meeting at Sevur panchayat on Vellore road to cover the rest of the assembly segments in Tiruvannamalai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-reiterates-his-promise-to-solve-peoples-woes-in-100-days/articleshow/80590831.cms||D Govardan
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pune: Undertrial who escaped from Sassoon General Hospital lands in net||PUNE: The Swargate police on Friday night arrested the undertrial in a murder case who had escaped from the Sassoon General Hospital during the day’s wee hours. A police team headed senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar spotted the escaped undertrial, Sameer Akram Shaikh (24), late on Friday night in Sahakarnagar while patrolling the area. “Shaikh was walking towards the Pune-Bengaluru Highway in a bid to flee the Pune city. He was nabbed and handed over to the Bund Garden police station for further action,” deputy commissioner of police (zone II) Sagar Patil said. Shaikh, who was lodged at the Kopargaon jail in Ahmednagar district in a murder case, had consumed bathroom cleaning liquid on January 27 in a bid to end his life. After receiving primary treatment at a hospital in Ahmednagar, Shaikh was shifted to the Sassoon hospital, police said. Shaikh managed to give a slip to the two guards deployed at the hospital to keep an eye on him, and fled the premises around 4.30am on Friday. A case was registered with the Bund Garden police station on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/undertrial-who-escaped-from-sassoon-lands-in-net/articleshow/80606520.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Leopard trapped in cage, released into STR forest||COIMBATORE: A leopard found trapped in a cage placed by the forest department at Gandhi Nagar in Madukkarai on Saturday was released into Thengumarahada forest in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. The leopard was first spotted in Madukkarai region in 2019. After it killed two goats of a farmer at Vinayagar Kovil Street in July 2020, forest department personnel placed a cage and two camera traps to track its movement. But the big cat, between five to six years of age, remained elusive. It returned to the area a month ago and was spotted at residential areas including Gandhi Nagar, Mavuthampathy, Tamilannai street, Mattapparai and Vinayagar Kovil street that are close to the reserved forest, a forest department official said. Residents urged the department to capture the leopard after it attacked four goats owned by a farmer at Gandhi Nagar and a pet dog at Mattapparai on January 20. “After obtaining permission from the chief wildlife warden to capture and translocate the animal, a committee was formed to monitor and capture it. On January 21, two cages were placed at Mattapparai and Gandhi Nagar,” the official said. “It attacked a calf at Mavuthampathy on December 27 and was sighted near Krishna Colony on January 8. The predator was caught on trap cameras several times in the last two weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-trapped-in-cage-released-into-str-forest/articleshow/80606534.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Leaking pipeline floods Nava India junction, repair work to take 24 hours||COIMBATORE: The Nava India junction on Avinashi Road has been inundated with drinking water after the main feeder pipeline from the Pillur Dam developed cracks. Pipeline leaks have become a regular affair at the junction, said N Prabhu, a commuter. “The pipeline was damaged twice in the last few months. It started leaking after patchwork was carried out on the Avinashi Road ahead of the visit of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. It is posing a danger to motorists, who fail to notice potholes. Many have fell off vehicles. Also, street lights are not functioning at the junction,” he said. As storm water drains on the stretch are clogged, water remains stagnant, said Somasundaram, another commuter. “Whenever it rains, corporation workers would manually empty standing water.” Water stagnation is causing traffic congestion on Avinashi Road and Nava India Road, Somasundaram said and urged the corporation to fix the leak. A corporation official said that the Avinashi Road belongs to the state highways department and it granted permission to do repair only on Saturday night. “Repair work is expected to be completed within 24 hours. The pipeline was laid decades ago and it develop cracks due to water pressure. We are planning to replace the pipes at the junction,” he said. Watch Coimbatore: Leaking pipeline floods Nava India junction, repair work to take 24 hours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leaking-pipeline-floods-nava-india-junction-repair-work-to-take-24-hrs/articleshow/80606532.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Indian artefacts to go up for sale in Mountbatten auction||An Indian diamond bracelet once owned by Queen Victoria and a pair of bejewelled elephants from 1946 Jaipur are among an assortment of 350 antiques belonging to the late Patricia Edwina Victoria Mountbatten daughter of Britain’s last Viceroy of India Louis Mountbatten that will be sold at Sotheby’s London on March 24. The collection from Newhouse Manor, the 16th century English home of Patricia and her husband John Knatchbull, includes curios that offer a peek into the Mountbatten family’s connections with 20th century India. Born in 1924, Patricia was known for her beguiling sense of humour”. At age 19, she entered the Women’s Royal Navy Service where she met and fell in love with John Knatchbull an encounter that sparked an almost 60-year marriage. John had worked for Louis Mountbatten in India as a captain in the armed forces before becoming an Academy Award-nominated film producer of movies such as ‘A Passage to India’, while John’s father Michael had stayed in India for four months in 1938 as its youngest Viceroy. John and Patricia had spent several months of their honeymoon in India. Among the centrepieces of the sale are an Indian diamond set and enamelled gold bracelet that includes a portrait of Queen Victoria’s husband, Albert, as a child. Another highlight is a pair of gold and enamel elephants from Jaipur, a gift from Lord Mountbatten to his wife Edwina commemorating their 24th wedding anniversary in 1946, the year before he became the last Viceroy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indian-artefacts-to-go-up-for-sale-in-mountbatten-auction/articleshow/80607627.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Man killed in elephant attack||COIMBATORE: A 60-year-old man was attacked and killed by an elephant at Lingapuram near Mettupalayam on the outskirts of the city on Saturday. The deceased was identified as L V Sampath Kumar, a dairy farmer. The elephant attacked him around 5pm when he was heading to his house on a motorcycle from his farm at Odanthurai. He died on the spot. When alerted, forest officials recovered the body, which was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. A 59-year-old man was killed in an elephant attack near Narashipuram on the city outskirts on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-killed-in-elephant-attack-added-to-digest/articleshow/80606531.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Positivity rate down to 0.3% in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 129 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,87,720. While 147 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state, the toll increased to 7,153 with the death of one more patient in West Godavari district. There are currently 1,289 active cases with 8,79,279 cumulative recoveries and 7,153 deaths. Krishna reported 26 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (17), Guntur (17), Kurnool (15), Chittoor (12), and East Godavari (12). The remaining seven districts recorded single-digit case numbers. Vizianagaram and Prakasam reported a case each. The state tested 41,003 samples to detected the 129 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.3%. AP has so far conducted 1.31 crore tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.8%. The state’s mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. As per official data released by the Union health ministry, 13,083 new cases were reported in the country in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/positivity-rate-down-to-0-3-in-state/articleshow/80605181.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Address issues of farmers on priority: Arundhati Roy at Elgar Parishad||PUNE: Author Arundhati Roy on Saturday said the central government should take a call on the withdrawal of the three farm laws. “The laws framed by the government are not in the interest of the farmers. Their issues need to be addressed on priority by the government,” Roy said at the day-long Elgar Parishad conclave, held in Pune after a gap of over three years amid tight security. The last Elgar Parishad was organised on December 31, 2017. The next day (January 1, 2018), there were violent caste clashes at the Koregoan Bhima memorial. She also demanded that all the 16 activists held in the Elgar Parishad case (being investigated by the National Investigation Agency) be released. Former IAS officer Kananan Gopinathan also spoke at the event. Justice B G Kolse-Patil (retired), one of the organisers of the event, said, “The Elgar Parishad aims at bringing a change in the functioning of the system.” He appealed to youths to ask the government tough questions as it would increase their level of confidence. “The new generation will feel that you have done something for them,” Kolse-Patil said. The Elgar Parishad conclave is organized as a part of the “Koregaon Bhima Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyaan” to commemorate the battle of Koregaon Bhima fought on January 1, 1818. The last Elgar Parishad event in 2017 had led to an FIR alleging provocative speeches. The Pune police later claimed that the conclave was a part of a larger conspiracy by the banned CPI-Maoist outfit to foment trouble and overthrow the government. On December 23 last year, the police had rejected the organisers’ plea for holding the conclave on the following day. The police gave permission to the conclave on Saturday following a fresh application from the organisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/address-issues-of-farmers-on-priority-roy-at-elgar-parishad/articleshow/80606519.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 31, 2021||Pune||State set to get website to track conveyance deed applications||Pune: Commissioner of cooperation and registrar of cooperative societies Anil Kawade has confirmed that a website is being planned to boost the process of acquiring the conveyance deed for registered societies in the state.“A common website that will help track the applications with the help of the registration, revenue and our own department can ease the process further. The registration department will provide stamp duty-related details, while the revenue department will ensure the name of the society on record of rights,” said Kawade.The website is expected to be ready within two months, he further added.With several webinars and meetings organized by the department and personal visits to nearly 13,000 societies in the city, he explained that the website will ensure easy tracking of applications. “The effort is to track the applications once it is put before the deputy district registrar and give societies an idea about where the location of their application as is done for a passport. This will streamline the entire system,” Kawade said.On January 1, the department initiated a special drive to help housing societies obtain conveyance deed or even move in for deemed conveyance. The conveyance (or sale) deed is required to be executed on non-judicial stamp paper. Once that is done it needs to be registered at the registrar’s office, and remittance of the registration fee. After the registration is done, the transfer of the property moves into the public domain. Stamp duty and registration fee is obtained by the government as revenue. When this happens, the process of conveyance deed is complete.The state has 1.15 lakh registered housing societies of which 85,013 need to complete the conveyance process, only 14,376 societies have obtained deemed conveyance. There are 70,637 societies that must carry out deemed conveyance and the department will help these societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-set-to-get-website-to-track-conveyance-deed-applications/articleshow/80606524.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Now, ‘hire’ a plot to grow your own veggies||VISAKHAPATNAM: Four-year-old Tanvi had never felt so happy as on Saturday morning when her parents took her to an agricultural farm on the outskirts of the city. For the first time in her life, Tanvi picked vegetables from the field, held freshly-plucked beetroot and carrots in her hand, and even tried her hand at sowing some leafy vegetables. With various organisations spreading awareness on the importance of growing and going green, the port city’s residents are taking an increasing interest in visiting agriculture farms to learn more about organic farming. Some innovative concepts have also come up in the city, where residents can ‘hire’ small plots by paying a few thousand rupees and get organic vegetables of daily use supplied to them within a couple of months. In addition, those who are interested in the concept also get to learn basic aspects of farming pesticide-free products. K Naga Vijaya, who procures vegetables from one such farm at Basavapalem, said one portion of the big farm is divided into small plots. “I hired one such plot measuring a few hundred square feet in November and am paying a quarterly rent of Rs 7,200. The farm owners gave us a list of 25 types of seasonal vegetables and we were told to choose 12 of these. All these were planted in our plot and raised organically. It took about six to eight weeks for the vegetables to grow. Now we get around eight kilos of vegetables delivered at our doorstep every week,” she said. Usha Gajapathi Raju, who initiated the eco farm concept in October, said around 50 families are now growing their own vegetables by hiring plots in the farm. “Many parents also come here with their children so that the kids can know and learn about the art of sowing and growing vegetables. Post the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a growing demand for chemical and fertilizer-free farm products. The farmers and consumers can also directly interact this way,” Usha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-hire-a-plot-to-grow-your-own-veggies/articleshow/80605186.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Major private hospitals to get Covid-19 vaccine vials today||COIMBATORE: Private hospitals in the district will be able to collect Covid-19 vaccine vials from the storage unit here on Sunday and begin administration on Monday. This comes after health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar announced on Friday that private hospitals with more than 150 health workers could administer the vaccine vials on their premises itself. Around 5pm on Saturday, the public health and medical services department got a written communication, asking it start handing over Covishield vials to the private hospitals with more than 150 health workers. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We have around 15 to 20 hospitals in that category in the district. We will be able to hand over the vaccines on Sunday afternoon based on the number of health workers they have registered.” It is to be noted that polio vaccination drive is scheduled for Sunday and officials would be busy with the same. Earlier, private hospitals had begun instructing their staff to get the vaccination from any government centre of their choice. “Each hospital was given a specific slot to get vaccinated at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. So, first we sent our doctors and then nurses and some administrative staff,” said an official with the Kovai Medical College Hospital. PSG Hospitals had instructed their staff to get vaccinated at a centre of their choice. The health department has, meanwhile, been instructed to start entering details of frontline workers, especially those with the revenue and police departments, onto the CoWIN app. “The state has instructed us to enter the data of frontline workers onto CoWin app and vaccinate them from Monday,” the deputy director of public health said. While the health minister had on Friday announced that the frontline government staff would be vaccinated from February 1, an official hinted that a lot would depend on the nod from the Union government. According to officials, the vaccine would be administered from two primary health centres in each of the five zones of the city corporation. They are, however, yet to narrow down on the 10 centres, which are expected to be finalized on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/major-private-hospitals-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-vials-today/articleshow/80606537.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
January 31, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Two arrested under Black Magic Act||PUNE: The Chakan police have arrested two men under Maharashtra’s anti-superstition law for allegedly performing a black magic ritual near a cemetery at Bhose village on Friday night. The police, alerted by local villagers, raided the spot and arrested Narendra Hanumant Gaikwad (52) of Pimpri and Ganesh Maruti Chavan (38) of Bhosari. A manhunt is on for two other men who fled the scene. A case has been registered under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act. Police said the two arrested men were farm workers and would allegedly perform black magic rituals in their free time. As per a statement recorded with the police, the businessman runs an auto finance firm and has been under financial distress over the past year. Police said he was looking for a remedy and reached out to a few men from Hyderabad, who put him in touch with the four suspects last October. Police said the four men went to Hyderabad and performed a small ritual. They then asked the businessman to visit Pune for another ritual. Over two months, police said the men took Rs5.13 lakh from the businessman. The businessman arrived in Pune on Friday. The four suspects took him to the spot in Bhose village. When local residents came to know about the ritual, they alerted the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-arrested-under-black-magic-act/articleshow/80606529.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||‘S Ramadoss to take call on alliance with AIADMK’||CHENNAI: PMK president G K Mani on Friday said his party founder S Ramadoss would decide on continuing the electoral alliance with the ruling AIADMK if it did not yield to their demand for internal reservation for vanniyars. The PMK’s general council had authorised Ramadoss to take a decision. Mani was speaking to reporters in Chennai on the sidelines of the protests organized by the party at district headquarters across Tamil Nadu. This is the sixth agitation so far to prevail upon the AIADMK government to extend internal quota for vanniyars within the MBC quota of 20%. “Vanniyars from other parties too joined the protests, rallying behind our leader,” Mani said. “Ramadoss will decide on whether to come out of the alliance or not. He has convened a meeting of the general council on January 31 and will take a call after eliciting views from members. The state government and the chief minister should announce quota without any further delay,” Mani said. There would be no impact to any community nor would there be any legal wrangles if the government extended the quota to vanniyars. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had invited the PMK leaders for talks after the party’s protests in December turned violent. In a move to appease the ally, the government set up justice Kulasekaran commission to collect quantifiable data on castes, communities and tribes, and set a six-month deadline for submitting a report to the government. Mani said a ministerial delegation called on Ramadoss and later a three-member PMK delegation led by him also visited CM and his deputy for an hour-long talk. “We explained our stand,” the PMK leader said. Another ministerial delegation visited Ramadoss and assured him they would resume talks after Pongal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ramadoss-to-take-call-on-alliance-with-aiadmk/articleshow/80590837.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Coimbatore||Bulls, tamers to fight it out at Alagumalai||TIRUPUR: Alagumalai is all set to host the first jallikattu in the region on Sunday. A large gallery to accommodate hundreds of spectators and double-barricaded jallikattu arena have been readied for the occasion. In addition to stringent measures to ensure compliance with various court orders and government rules, officials have put in place Covid-19 precautions too this year. Into its fourth consecutive year, Alagumalai jallikattu is touted as the biggest bull taming sports event in the region. Last year, more than 750 bulls and 600 tamers from across the state had participated in the event. Organisers said this time they were expecting more than 500 trained bulls from Sivaganga, Madurai, Dindigul, Salem, Namakkal and Karur. The bull of Alagumalai Murugan temple would be allowed into the arena in the morning, following which other bulls would be let in under the supervision of revenue, police and animal husbandry officials, and animal rights activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bulls-tamers-to-fight-it-out-at-alagumalai/articleshow/80606535.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Salem||Salem gets 102 CCTV cameras||SALEM: City police commissioner T Senthil Kumar inaugurated 102 CCTV cameras in Suramangalam area here on Saturday. With this, the total number of CCTV cameras in the city has gone up to 17,000. Pointing out that there were already 2,100 CCTV cameras in Suramangalam area, Kumar said the number has now increased by 102. He said they were able to solve nearly 40 cases with the support of CCTV footage. “Two of them were murder cases. We are able to keep an eye on every location round-the-clock with the help of CCTV cameras. Because of this, the crime rate too has come down.” The city top cop also appreciated assistant commissioner J Nagarajan for taking steps to install the cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-gets-102-cctv-cameras/articleshow/80606538.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||One dead in accident on ORR, cops suspect drunken driving||Hyderabad: One person died and five others were injured in a suspected case of drunken driving, on Outer Ring Road in Shamshabad, after their car hit the divider on Friday late night. RGI Airport police said that the six people involved in the accident started their journey from Tolichowki and were heading toward Shamshabad. The accident took place enroute at Rallagadda. Other motorists came to their rescue. They called the police and shifted the injured to hospital. Of the six involved, one Faizal Al Hussain (25) succumbed to his injuries. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-dead-in-accident-on-orr-cops-suspect-drunken-driving/articleshow/80606564.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Hostels in Hyderabad set to reopen today||HYDERABAD: Colleges and universities in the city are set to reopen hostels on Sunday, expecting return of students from various districts. Institutions have decided to commence classes only for final year students to begin with, from Monday. Some colleges have asked students to sign an undertaking stating that they don’t have any Covid-19 symptoms. Colleges are ensuring that not more than two students are accommodated in four-bedded rooms and only single students are accommodated in two-bedded rooms. Classes in junior colleges will be held in two shifts from Monday, as per guidelines issued by the Telangana government. “For the first 20 days, final year students will attend classes and subsequently students of other years will be called to college. The idea is to complete their practical and laboratory work and continue theory classes online,” said Manzoor Hussain, registrar, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hostels-in-city-set-to-reopen-today/articleshow/80606561.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Dehradun||When bureaucrats help you crack the civil services exam||DEHRADUN: In a bid to help civil services aspirants, especially those from weak financial background, senior bureaucrats serving in different parts of the country have come forward to share their study notes — which helped them secure top ranks — on social media platforms. The trend started with Akash Tomar, a 2013-batch IPS officer currently posted as SSP Etawah in Uttar Pradesh, sharing some of his study notes online. In no time, the gesture caught the attention of thousands of aspirants. Overwhelmed with the positive response from aspirants, the officer had to make a separate Google Drive link and share study notes on his personal profile and also on the official Facebook page of SSP Etawah. Like Tomar, IPS officer Suraj Singh Parihar, posted as SP in Chhattisgarh, has also been helping those preparing for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams. Parihar has started organising webinars and is sharing insights regarding the exam on his Instagram account. He has also created a pool of books, which are being given to students who cannot afford study material. Talking to TOI, Parihar said “I come from a rural background where the medium of education is mostly Hindi. While preparing for civil services, I realised many students, who hail from similar backgrounds, end up wasting their time due to lack of guidance and clarity. Thus, I started taking question-and-answer sessions with such students. Many aspirants fail to clear the examination as they do not have specific books to read from. In order to solve this problem, I have created a book bank for the aspirants and will soon be setting up a library for students from Gaurela Pendra Marwahi district in Chhattisgarh.” Meenal Karanwal, a 2019-batch IAS officer posted as Assistant Collector in Bhandara district of Maharashtra, is also taking similar initiatives. She said, “Soon after clearing the examination, I created a dedicated email ID for taking questions from civil services aspirants. Since then, I have been in touch with a lot of students who seek specific guidance. The information like booklist and choice of optional subject is easily available. I specifically focus on issues like writing notes, revising books properly, and writing essays. My focus is on helping out aspirants who have not been able to clear even the preliminary examination after repeated attempts.” Aspirants have — not surprisingly — welcomed these initiatives. Ranjeet Gangwar, a student from Bhojpur in Bihar, said, “The civil services examination is very dynamic in nature and requires much more than just books. I follow some of the serving IAS and IPS officers who take sessions for students like us. It's very encouraging and helps greatly in our preparation.” Another aspirant, Priyam Mathur from Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh, said, “During the coronavirus-induced lockdown, I attended the webinars organised by senior bureaucrats who not only answered our questions but also gave us advice to beat the pressure of failing. It was very motivating.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-new-trend-bureaucrats-share-study-notes-for-civil-services-aspirants-on-social-media/articleshow/80589773.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 31, 2021||Goa||Govt spent crores on dining guests at various events||Panaji: The government tried to live up to the ‘atithi devo bhava’ slogan at the cost of the taxpayer, by splurging on dinners and lunches for its guests, according to information tabled by minister for protocol Mauvin Godinho in the Assembly on Friday. The government paid Rs 2.3 crore to Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) towards “management and organization” of the 37th GST council meeting at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium and the Taleigao community centre on September 19 and 20, 2019. This included costs of the venue, two dinners and mementos, the government stated. There was no frugality involved when the state government organized a dinner for 500 people “for backdrop of Vibrant Goa summit on October 18, 2019, at Taj Holiday village resort and spa, at the cost of Rs 12 lakh. The state also hosted a dinner for over 600 guests of the 50th international film festival of India on November 28, 2019, at the GTDC multi-level car parking rooftop, costing the government Rs 14.2 lakh. Several IT-related events have also set the exchequer back by lakhs. On December 6 and 7, 2018, a total of Rs 18 lakh was spent for the Start-Up India global venture capital summit, at Cidade de Goa. The government stated that the summit focused on the “huge return-generating potential of India’s vast and diverse market monetised through cutting edge technologies and supported by investor-friendly regulations. The summit also aimed at understanding best practices of the venture capital industry, identify issues faced by them for investments in India, and evaluate ways to address them”. The reply submitted to the assembly also stated that another Rs 11.4 lakh was also spent on the summit in 2019 by the government of India, which the state government will reimburse. Another Rs 11.8 lakh was spent on the international blockchain congress on August 5, 2018, at Cidade de Goa, organized “with the aim of bringing together renowned speakers and thought leaders to deliberate on how we can make India the next blockchain capital of the world”. The inaugural of the startup policy 2017 and IT policy 2018 over four days at Cidade de Goa and Vivanta by Taj in April cost the government Rs 11.6 lakhs. In February 2018, the state government also organised a dinner for 400 people, including Nobel laureates and other state guests at Hotel Mandovi, at the cost of Rs 10.9 lakh. A “gala dinner on June 1, 2018, for delegates of the 12th world congress of regional science association international, hosted by the town and country planning department at Bay 15, cost Rs 6.99 lakh. Lunch for national games at the rooftop of GTDC’s multi level parking lot was held on January 31, 2020, for around 600 people at the cost of Rs 6.2 lakhs. The tourism department organized high teas and lunches between August 2018 and March 2019 for more than 150 persons each for meetings of the ‘Arbitral tribunal in the matter of arbitration between M/s Arihant shipbreakers Mumbai v/s State of Goa through the department of tourism”. These cost the government Rs 2.95 lakh. Arihant, the company engaged to remove the grounded vessel River Princess at a cost of Rs 99 crore, had sought compensation from the Goa government to the tune of Rs 250 crore. The tourism department had made a counterclaim of Rs 230 crore from the company towards environmental damages and direct damage caused due to delayed removal of the ship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-spent-crores-on-dining-guests-at-various-events/articleshow/80607657.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Drones, live-view cameras to keep eye on Kolkata before polls||KOLKATA: Kolkata Police has ordered surveillance and security equipment, including eight long-range drones with high resolution cameras, ahead of Assembly polls. The budget for buying the gadgets is Rs 72 lakh. Of the eight drones, four will have a range of over 3.5 km and the other four will be short-range ones. The drones will be connected to the control rooms at the zonal level and at headquarters, where live feed will be sent within four seconds of the devices being operational and have 10x zoom capability. Police said monitoring through drones and cameras would help officers make quick decisions and build strong evidence. “Technology is always a boon and drones over the years have proved to be one of the most effective surveillance tools. The special task force (STF) will be assigned to use the drones. The detective department, too, will play a crucial part in handling them,” he said. Additionally, 75 new metal detectors and eight backpack cameras, which can send live feed directly to Lalbazar control room from the ground in real time, have been ordered. While CCTV cameras are fixed at locations, live-view cameras can offer more accurate pictures to senior officers as cops will sport them and move around, capturing vital images. The bidding process has been opened. The new short-range drones will weigh under 4kg and endure 0°C-40°C temperature and wind speed of over 18 knots. They will have deployment time of less than 5 minutes and packing time of 10 minutes. In contrast, the four long-range drones will weigh less than 2kg. It will be able to endure wind speed up to 6 knots and will come with Autonomous Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL) facility. Lalbazar officers said the door-frame metal detectors would be used at VIP locations and at election meeting venues. The special branch will be in charge of the 75 new metal detectors. Backpack cameras will be used where ground presence is essential. “Drones cannot fly below a given height and are not very effective at night. It is not very dependable in crowded congregations either. With live-view cameras, we can direct our men to specific places, on which we want to keep an eye. These are effective tools even at a crime spot, where evidence can be captured and sent directly to senior officers through streaming,” explained an officer. Police said these cameras, along with drones, were now routinely used in all major political events. “It is a natural addition to the body cameras that sergeants now use,” said the police. Cops listed the recent use of backpack cameras over the past year. “The top brass reviewed them and agreed on the need to add more,” said an IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drones-live-view-cameras-to-keep-eye-on-city-before-polls/articleshow/80606612.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Slum kids can now study for free near former Grant Road burial ground||They stopped burying the dead here long ago. Even its former name—the Mohammedan Burial Ground—is dead. This maidan at Sonapur, a sprawling slum at Grant Road, is now called the Sunni Muslim Chhota Qabrastan. While those that used to be buried here are in divine custody, those living in the graveyard’s vicinity can now count on the Sunni Muslim Chhota Qabrastan Trust's charitable heart for support. This Republic Day, the trust created an open study centre on the periphery of the ground for children who live in crammed chawls and shanties in the slum pockets nearby. Soon, they will sit at this open, airy, freshly painted facility that has been erected at what used to be a shady den full of anti-social elements and drug peddlers. “It was a crying need of the area populated mainly by lower middle- and working-class people. We will soon issue identity cards to the students to ensure that druggies and other habitual offenders don’t misuse the benches and other facilities here,” said Maulana Syed Moin Ashraf Quadri aka Moin Mian, a trustee. Measuring 16000 sq metres, the premises include Eidgah maidan, 12 dargahs and two mosques. Not very long ago poorly-maintained drains flowed on the sides of the Maidan. “By building the study centre on the covered drainage system, we have killed two birds with one stone. The visitors are saved from the stink and poor children have a nice, quiet place to read,” explained Congress MLA Amin Patel who, as a corporator, had got lorries of rubbish cleared out of the ground. “A separate area for the girl students will be created soon. We will also provide biscuits and tea to the students. And, of course, clean toilets too,” added Moin Mian. Rehan Warsi who grew up in the locality is excited about the fact that his IAS aspirant niece will finally have a place to sit and study. “We were worried as security is a big issue. Now we have got a secured place next door,” said an enthused Warsi. However, not everybody is happy with the structural activity at the Maidan. Anjuman-I-Islam claims it is the government’s land leased to it. “Some anti-social elements are trying to grab the land under the guise of Wakf property. The matter is sub-judice and the concerned authorities have taken note of unauthorised structural activities,” said an Anjuman spokesperson. The trustees, however, refute Anjuman’s claims. “The Sunni Muslim Chhota Qabrastan is a free hold land according to the latest property card. The Wakf Board appointed us trustees on October 26, 2016 as per the change report. Anjuman challenged it in the tribunal but the High Court has stayed it. So, the change report is still valid,” said trustee Aslam Lakha. “The land doesn’t belong to the government and we have been appointed trustees by the Wakf Board.” While the two sides fight over the place’s ownership, children of the area can ignore the squabbles and concentrate on their studies calmly, away as they are from the cacophonous roads and crammed rooms so intertwined with their existence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/slum-kids-can-now-study-for-free-near-former-grant-road-burial-ground/articleshow/80607642.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Anna University loses 2 M Tech courses in Tamil Nadu’s quota war with Centre||CHENNAI: Admission to two centrally-sponsored M Tech courses at Anna University has been cancelled this year following the Centre’s insistence that the university follow only 49.5% reservation and not the state government’s 69% quota policy in admitting students. The Union government’s department of biotechnology-supported courses of M Tech Biotechnology and M Tech Computational Biology programmes offer Rs 12,000 and Rs 12,500 respectively as stipend to a total of 45 students. “As the central government rules of reservation were not acceptable to the government of Tamil Nadu, Anna University is unable to proceed with the admission to the DBT-supported MTech Biotechnology and MTech Computational Biology programmes for the academic year 2020–21,” the university announced on its website on Saturday. The decision has left many aspirants heartbroken as the demand for these courses increased following the Covid-19 pandemic. MTech Biotechnology course is being offered since 1985 at Anna University and MTech Computational Biology has been on from 2014-15. Students qualified in Tamil Nadu Common Entrance Test and Graduate Aptitude Test in Biotechnology (GAT-B) said they had found themselves stranded and might have to waste one academic year. “My daughter is within top 100 ranks in GAT-B exam. We are disappointed by the decision by the university. They should admit students even without any stipend, as there is huge demand for these courses,” a parent from Chennai said. K Muthukumaran, whose daughter was waiting for MTech biotechnology admission, said, “Tamil Nadu wanted 69% reservation whereas the Centre insisted on 49.5% reservation. Due to the conflict over quota policy, Anna University kept postponing admissions to these two courses for the last three months. Meanwhile, the admissions to MTech biotechnology in other institutions got over.” Till last year, the admissions for these two courses were conducted at all India level. Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi used to conduct Combined Entrance Exam for Biotechnology (JNU CEEB) for admitting students at MTech biotechnology while Pondicherry University used to conduct all India entrance test for computational biology course. This year, however, the Regional Centre for Biotechnology in Faridabad took over the responsibility of conducting both the entrance exams and the name of exam was also changed as Graduate Aptitude Test in Biotechnology (GAT-B). Instead of conducting both entrance test and admissions, the RCB announced that the admissions would be conducted by respective institutions. Since it is a central government-sponsored course, DBT followed 49.5% reservation in all India admissions till last year. Anna University sought clarification from state governments over the reservation policy to be followed in admissions to these two programmes. “The state government directed the university to follow 69% reservation, for which DBT, which is funding these programmes, did not agree. We have no other way but to cancel the admissions to the two popular courses,” an official from Anna University said. When asked whether the university could have followed 69% reservation by increasing the intake, the university official said the All India Council for Technical Education will not give permission to increase the intake in the middle of an academic year and the faculty members also will not be sufficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-loses-2-mtech-courses-in-states-quota-war-with-centre/articleshow/80606595.cms||A Ragu Raman
January 31, 2021||Goa||Public hearing for coastal plan on Mar 7||Panaji: The public hearing for the finalisation of the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) for Goa has been scheduled for March 7, from 10am to 7pm. In North Goa the hearing will be held at the Taleigao Community Hall while in the south, it will be held at Ravindra Bhavan, Margao. The National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) has submitted the CZMP to the state government. TOI was the first to report that the state would receive the draft CZMP which will then be kept for public hearing. The draft plan has been uploaded on the website of the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) for wide publicity. The district level maps are available at the office of both district collectors while the respective village level maps are available at the village panchayat offices. GCZMA member secretary Dasharath Redkar said that relevant maps are also available in the offices of corporations and municipalities at Panaji, Pernem, Mapusa, Shakali, Mormugao, Curchorem, Cuncolim and Canacona. “All stakeholders, including the public, institutions, departments, local communities and NGOs are requested to furnish suggestions and objections in writing, if any, to the GCZMA, respective collector or deputy collector, chief officers of respective municipalities or corporations, or secretary of the village panchayat, by post or by email to goacoastalzone@gmail.com so as to reach within 30 days from date of publication of the notification. Else, they can participate in the proceedings of the public hearing on the date and venue as specified by registering their names before 11am at the venue,” Redkar said. “The National Green Tribunal (NGT), had given us a deadline of January 31 to complete the plan, but we will prepare the final plan by February-end. It will be submitted to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) for final notification,” environment minister Nilesh Cabral had told TOI. He said that once the CZMP 2011 is notified, the state government will start work on preparing CZMP 2019. The state issued directions in terms of Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act calling upon all local bodies to prepare their own CZMP plan so that the same can be forwarded to NCSCM, Chennai. This was one of the requests of the local bodies, that they prepare their own draft CZMP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-hearing-for-coastal-plan-on-mar-7/articleshow/80606565.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||Pernem cops crack house theft case||MAPUSA: Pernem police on Friday arrested two accused for committing theft by breaking into a house at Palyem, Pernem. Hari Palyekar had complained on December 31, 2020 that some unknown persons had broken into his house and stole jewellery worth Rs two lakh and cash of Rs 22,000. Police inspector Jivba Dalvi said that investigations were initiated based on Palyekar’s complaint, and accordingly the police narrowed down on two suspects who confessed to the crime. The police also managed to recover all the stolen gold, which was found in its melted form after the accused had sold it to one jewellery shop at Mapusa. The accused have been identified as Ganesh Mhapsekar, 23, a resident of Nachinola, and Firoz Mirawaz, who is currently residing at Karaswada and is a native of Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-cops-crack-house-theft-case/articleshow/80606592.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops launch pilot project for elderly||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police, on Saturday, launched a pilot project ‘Old But Not Alone’ for the benefit of senior citizens in Raidurgam police station limits. As part of this, police will come to the door step of the senior citizens who want to lodge a police complaint, instead of the elderly going to the station. Police said that senior citizens can approach them on phone numbers 8331013199, 7901119619, or 100 to seek help and Raidurgam police would come to their residence to address their grievance. Depending on the success of the pilot project in Raidurgam, it will be extended to other police stations too. Online and manual registration of senior citizens station will be done and they will be issued an ID card. “This is being done to increase awareness among senior citizens about various services and facilities available to them, including crime prevention and victim assistance programs,” Cyberabad police said. Interested senior citizens will be roped in police to use their experience in solving local problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyberabad-cops-launch-pilot-project-for-elderly/articleshow/80606575.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||‘Sunburn’ club owner told to raze illegal structure||Panaji: In December 2020, the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) had asked the deputy collector to seal a two-storey structure named ‘Sunburn’ at Vagator. The structure had been found to be illegal prima facie and a show cause notice was slapped on the owner. Now, at a GCZMA meeting this month, the owner of the structure himself has agreed to demolish it. But while the owner sought four weeks’ time, the GCZMA asked the building to be brought down within a week’s time, also stating that a compliance report should be filed within seven days. In early December, Anjuna locals raised objections to the illegal structure and to the Ozran stretch of the Vagator coast being renamed ‘Sunburn’ beach by the owner of the hotel. Following this, the GCZMA expert members carried out an inspection and found the hotel to be in violation of CRZ norms. The structure was then sealed and the party involved was called for a hearing on January 14. At the GCZMA hearing, the owner of the structure sought four weeks’ time to demolish the illegal building. The GCZMA, however, said that the structure should not only be demolished but the CRZ area on which it stood should be restored to its original state. The construction was being utilised for commercial use as a club, it is believed. The GCZMA expert member had found that the construction to be within the no development zone of CRZ. It was a two-storey structure and of permanent nature. As per the GCZMA records, no records were found of any permissions having been issued for construction of such a structure in the survey number. The owner was asked to produce any documents available with him, which led him to go ahead with constructing such a structure in the no development zone of CRZ. But the owner failed to produce any valid documents. The GCZMA can also impose a penalty to recover the costs of restoration of the area to its natural state. The locals in the area began raising objections to the violation after some said they found the structure being advertised online as a club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sunburn-club-owner-told-to-raze-illegal-structure/articleshow/80606607.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Transport minister Anil Parab applies for learner's license, cracks whip on officials||MUMBAI: The Thane Regional Transport Office (RTO) had a surprise visitor on Friday. Transport minister Anil Parab applied to get a learner's driving license without informing officials that he was the minister.  Surprisingly, while Parab reached out to an agent and submitted his form, no one asked him for a bribe. However, many officials were missing from the office and Parab has now asked for a report on late comers from transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne. “I didn’t tell anyone. There are a lot of agents at all RTOs so I went to see first hand how the RTO was functioning. I filled up the form with my name and details and even stood in the line for a learner’s license. No one asked for a bribe but many officers were missing. So I have asked the TC to take action and submit a report on this,” Parab said. Thane RTO officials said that they were surprised to see the minister on Friday at a time when few of them were busy with the Road Safety month work. As for officers not being present at the time when Parab arrived at the RTO, an official from Thane RTO, who requested anonymity, said “These officers, whom the minister is pointing fingers at, had gone for a meeting to transport commissioner’s office near Flora Fountain in south Mumbai. They were officially called with a letter issued by the transport commissioner office.” He further said : “The officers were on the way to attend that meeting when they learnt the minister had come on a surprise visit. So they took a U-turn and came back to Thane and attended the meeting with the minister.” After some officials realised that it was Parab who was standing in the queue for a learner's license, there was a scramble and officers then took Parab to RTO’s office. Parab said that he would now start surprise visits at all RTOs across the state once in 15 days. “I will go to one RTO every fortnight and see if things are working properly or not. Most of the licenses are now online but still agents are around. I want to make sure that people can get their work done online on their own and should not need an agent. We will take serious action if any lapses are found during the surprise visits. Officials must come on time and be in their office during duty hours,” Parab said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/transport-min-applies-for-learners-license-cracks-whip-on-officials/articleshow/80607654.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 31, 2021||Goa||No plans to widen Parra roads, Lobo tells locals||Calangute/Saligao: There are no plans to widen any of the internal roads in Parra, minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo assured the villagers on Saturday. There had been widespread apprehensions amongst the Parra residents that there may be damage to houses and loss of personal properties due to road widening plans. “Some people have spread rumours that we are going to demolish people’s compound walls to widen the narrow roads. This is not true. No internal road will be widened in Parra. We will not demolish any compound walls,” he said, while launching work on a roadside gutter at Bokeachi Arradi in Parra, on Saturday. “People think just because we have widened the roads in Calangute we will also widen the roads here, but that is the main road with a lot of traffic and we did it with the co-operation of the people. We will never do anything that the people do not want,” Lobo said. The minister said that even in the touristy villages and small towns of Europe, the internal roads are very narrow and have been retained as is. “There are broader areas at intervals on those roads where cars can pass. Here also there are some open areas next to the road where cars can pass. Only the highways are wide in Europe,” said Lobo. Rather than demolishing, Lobo urged house owners to repair the walls if they are in a dilapidated condition and paint them, if required with the panchayat’s help, so as to maintain the scenic look of Goan villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-plans-to-widen-parra-roads-lobo-tells-locals/articleshow/80606621.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Aluva Covid facility to open on February 15||KOCHI: The tertiary care Covid facility at District Hospital, Aluva, will start admitting patients from February 15 and full-fledged functioning will start by February end. Currently, the setting up of a 100-bed ICU tertiary care facility is underway at a building on the hospital compound for the purpose. When the admission of Covid patients start, the number of non-Covid admissions will be restricted. The total bed capacity of the hospital is 227 and of this 100 are converted for Covid treatment. “Around 200 medical staff, including specialists, doctors, nurses and lab technicians, will be posted in the new facility. The additional staff posted in the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, will be moved to Aluva once the functioning starts and training of others are underway. Experienced staff from PVS Hospital, Kaloor, will also be moved to Aluva, where the work will be completed in 10 days. The Covid treatment facility at the medical college will be closed only when we are confident about the efficacy of the new facility,” said National Health Mission (NHM) district programme coordinator Dr Mathew Numpeli. The admission of Covid patients in the medical college has been brought down to less than 50 in the past few weeks. Once the Aluva facility starts functioning, separate entry and exit gates will be set up at the district hospital. “Ernakulam district panchayat is preparing an estimate for this. The new Covid facility will have separate labour room, ICU and emergency operation theatre,” said a health official at Aluva. Authorities are also identifying more Covid first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) and augmenting beds in hospitals. Nearly 100 Covid-positive patients, referred from government hospitals, are under treatment in private facilities under Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP). Dr Numpeli said though number of Covid cases is on the rise in Ernakulam, it has not reached the peak. “People should take utmost care while going out. They should avoid attending programmes unnecessarily. Restrictions were eased for the smooth conduct of necessary activities. Returning to the old normal will endanger the lives of people. We will hold a meeting soon to discuss the do’s and don’ts, said Dr Numpeli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aluva-covid-facility-to-open-on-feb-15/articleshow/80605714.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Had govt heard us, agitation could have been averted: Opposition||NEW DELHI: Congress Saturday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the agitation by the farmers would not have happened had the government undertaken consultations on the three farm bills, saying that it had warned the government in advance. At the all-party meeting chaired by the PM, the opposition parties including Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and Akali Dal raised the farmers’s issue. An all-party meeting to discuss the farm bills was also demanded. Ghulam Nabi Azad said there would have been no agitation like it was happening in north India had the government heeded the opposition demand to send the three bills to select committee for scrutiny. Importantly, the opposition parties condemned the violence in the capital on the Republic Day while arguing that it was the handiwork of some lumpen elements and it should be investigated. “The government instead of catching the real culprits, is trying to implicate the farmers’s leaders,” Azad alleged, cautioning that such action will provoke an “exponential growth” in the agitation which “the government will not be able to manage”. Azad called the abrogation of Article 370 and the downgrading of Jammu and Kashmir state into a UT as unfortunate and demanded immediate statehood for J&K. He said the situation in the UT was grave and its borders with Pakistan and China made it geographically sensitive. Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut urged that the Centre declare the Marathi-speaking area Belgaum in Karnataka as a UT, alleging that Karnataka government was committing atrocities on locals there. He also sought the Centre’s coordination with Maharashtra government in filing the affidavit in the Supreme Court on Maratha reservation issue, so that the stay on the quota could be vacated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/had-govt-heard-us-agitation-could-have-been-averted-opposition/articleshow/80608274.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nashik||Rs 190cr more sought for Nashik dist||Nashik: The district planning committee (DPC) — which already has got an approved outlay of Rs 732.7 crore for 2021-22 financial year — has decided to place an additional demand of Rs 190 crore with the state government. The DPC met at the district collectorate on Saturday. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal chaired the meeting in the presence of assembly vice-president Narhari Jirwal, agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, ZP president Balasaheb Kshirsagar, Collector Suraj Mandhare, CEO of Nashik ZP Leena Bansod and others. “The state government has sanctioned Rs 348.86 crore under the general district annual plan, Rs 283.85 crore under tribal sub-plan (TSP) and Rs 100 crore for the special component plan (SCP) amounting to Rs. 732.7 crore for 2021-22. I have asked the government agencies to collectively place an additional demand of Rs 190 crore with the government,” said Bhujbal who is also the minister of state for food, civil supplies and consumer protection. Bhujbal said that in the year 2019-20, the state government had made a budgetary allocation of Rs 791.2 crore. Of that amount, the government had released Rs 762.4 crore and agencies had spent Rs 736.2 crore (96.57%). In 2020-21, the government had released Rs 167.6 crore as against a budgetary allocation of Rs 824.1 crore and had assured that agencies were determined to spend the amount by the end of March 2021. Mandhare said during the pandemic, Rs 48.7 crore from the DPC was spent on strengthening the health system. Officials warned Meanwhile, Bhujbal has warned the officials against dereliction in duty. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, several developmental works had to take a back seat. “But now that the Covid-19 scare has reduced, the government officers should ensure that the issues discussed are carried out on time,” Bhujbal said. Dist’s 150th-anniversary On the 150th anniversary of the district’s inception, a Nashik-151 programme will be held this year to showcase the strengths of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-190cr-more-sought-for-nashik-dist/articleshow/80607652.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 31, 2021||Goa||Municipal elections should not be held on party lines: Goa BJP chief||PANAJI: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Saturday said the party has informed chief minister Pramod Sawant not to hold municipal elections scheduled in April on party lines. TOI was the first to report that the state government may not hold municipal elections along the party lines given fewer electors in wards and people casting votes at personal level. Speaking to mediapersons, Tanavade said, “If possible, the state government should not conduct municipal elections on party lines and party symbol. Final decision has to be taken by the government and it would be acceptable for the party.” “There will be party panel, but no symbol. We held zilla panchayat election on party lines because those were bigger constituencies,” he said. On January 18, the State Election Commission (SEC) postponed the upcoming election by three months due to the Covid vaccination drive. The election to 11 municipalities and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) is likely to be held alongside the ward byelections to village panchayats and ZPs. Speaking on the assembly session, Tanavade said that chief minister and others properly handled the various issues on the floor of the house. He also said that some MLAs want to show that they are extra smart and this is an opportunity to raise the issues. “There are no issues to speak in the assembly if they are genuine. But most of the time, opposition raises same issues again and again for publicity. Moreover, being an opposition, they have to do those things,” he said. Tanavade said that Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai and leader of opposition Digambar Kamat tried to attack the government. “They should not simply oppose for the sake of opposing, as they too were part of the government at one point of time.” “They should think while making allegations against the government as they were once part of it,” Tanavade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/municipal-elections-should-not-be-held-on-party-lines-state-bjp-chief/articleshow/80606650.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||Rs 52 crore revamp for Navy’s spares system||PANAJI: The Indian Navy has commissioned a Rs 52-crore automatic storage retrieval system for efficient handling of aircraft spares as part of a modernization drive. The Navy said that eight of the 17 storehouses in the state have been modernised and that the remaining will be completed by July. The move is significant as the Navy’s Material Organisation in Goa is the repository for all aircraft spares of the Indian Navy, including the multi-role MiG 29K fighterjet. The Navy has replaced the conventional diesel-driven material handling equipment with a made-in India electric powered equipment as a major step towards reducing its carbon footprint. “The project commenced in March 2019 and eight storehouses have been modernised till date in the first two phases. The project is expected to be completed by July 21 as planned, despite Covid-19 restrictions,” said the Navy in a release. The automatic storage and retrieval system was commissioned at the Navy’s Material Organisation by Flag Officer Naval Aviation and Flag Officer Commanding Goa Area Rear Admiral Philipose G Pynumootil. The Rs 52.1-crore modernisation project comprises material handling equipment (MHE), CCTV systems, automatic fire alarm system and modern storage solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-52-crore-revamp-for-navys-spares-system/articleshow/80606633.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Gunrunners from Bihar held, more raids continue||KOLKATA: The detective department on Saturday busted a gang, led by a woman, that supplied weapons from Bihar to criminals in the city and suburbs. The raids and arrests came within hours of Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma directing the force to confiscate illegal weapons in the city. The anti-rowdy section (ARS) of the detective department has recovered six pistols from the Strand Road area. “According to a tip-off, a big consignment of sophisticated firearms was to enter Kolkata from Bihar early on Saturday. The ARS stepped up its vigil on and around the Babughat bus stand on Strand Road. Around 6.30am, a youth, later identified as Shah Rukh Mistry (23) from Basirhat was detained and later, arrested. A woman, Yasmeen Begum (37) alias Roshni, has also been arrested,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. The police later learnt the woman, who carried several improvised weapons, had struck the interstate deals. “She was caught near the Eden Garden station ticket counter. After questioning the two accused, we recovered several arms and ammunition. We recovered four 9mm improvised pistols and eight rounds from Yasmeen. We also recovered two 9mm improvised pistol and four magazines from Mistry,” an officer said. Yasmin and Mistry had come from Bhagalpur in Bihar on a bus to deliver the consignment to Abdul Salim Gazi alias Bablu from Baruipur, who was later arrested. Further raids were conducted and the police arrested accused Arshad Hossain alias Murgi Arshad from near Bengal Chemical and another person, Md Aslam, from Tiljala. “Each police station has been asked to carry out execution of warrants at the earliest. The trigger was the Anandapur and Chitpore shootings, where illegal weapons were used,” claimed an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gunrunners-from-bihar-held-more-raids-continue/articleshow/80606652.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||Police patrolling gets QR code boost||Aurangabad: Aurangabad police commissionerate has become the latest unit in the state to opt for pasting QR code stickers to ensure effective patrolling within the city.Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has issued an order to paste the laminated A4 size sheets with printed Quick Response (QR) codes at over 1,000 spots. This has made the Aurangabad police one of the units with the highest number QR code spots in the state.Gupta said, “These QR code stickers are being pasted in areas with higher crime rate, sensitive locations, important offices, upscale localities, areas prone to body or property offences. The technology will make patrolling teams more accountable, apart from making patrolling more effective.” With the QR codes in place, it is mandatory for the beat marshals as well as the patrolling teams to download an application, which will operate only after credentials and passwords are punched in by the user. The policemen on duty will have to scan the QR code as a mark of his presence at the given spot at a given time.A specially designed software would record all the data and send it to the admin control, which will place the statistics and analytical table before the senior officers. Osmanabad was the first district to use the technology in the region by pasting 360 QR code stickers. In addition to this, 25 mobile phones were given to the beat marshals in 18 police stations. Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan, who is an IIT alumnus, told TOI, “Though all the police vehicles have GPS installed in them, we wanted to be doubly sure that the policemen stepped out of the vehicles at important locations. So, we decided to implement the technology only to find that the results are encouraging.”Similarly, Beed district, which has a high crime rate for body and property offences, has installed QR code at 472 spots. Its superintendent of police R Raja said, “The technology has helped us in better monitoring of our patrolling teams.” Authorities said that Jalna district police too is in the process of adopting QR technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-patrolling-gets-qr-code-boost/articleshow/80605213.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 31, 2021||Nashik||MLAs want road repairs, power infra||Nashik: Several elected representatives, cutting across party lines, on Saturday placed their demands for better road connectivity, power infrastructure and transport facilities in different parts of the district. The elected representatives, who are members of the district planning committee (DPC), attended the meeting chaired by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal. A major focus of the meeting was on power infrastructure with MLAs Hiraman Khoskar from Igatpuri and Trimbakeshwar constituency, Manik Kokate from Sinnar, Seema Hire from Nashik West and Dilip Bankar from Niphad highlighting the hardships faced by people because of erratic power supply. While Hire stressed on laying of underground power cables, Bankar drew attention to the quality of power supply. This demand was echoed by Kokate. Responding to the demand, Bhujbal called upon the MLAs as well as the farmers to clear the current power bill dues. The state has adopted Power Policy 2020 according to which, the farmers across the district have to pay collectively Rs 1,100 crore out of the outstanding of Rs 3,000 crore. “Of these, Rs 750 crore would be spent on strengthening electricity infrastructure in the gram panchayats and the district,” Bhujbal said. The MLAs from the rural areas drew the DPC’s attention to the bad road conditions. Bhujbal said that the state government has already undertaken road repair works. In response to the demand for city transport service, NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav said the civic body would start bus services in a phased manner in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mlas-want-road-repairs-power-infra/articleshow/80607661.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: TRS MLA’s flat burgled, 14-tola gold taken away||HYDERABAD: Malkajgiri TRS MLA Mynampally Hanumantha Rao’s flat at Hyderguda was burlged and 14 tolas of gold belonging to his friend was taken away. Narayanguda police said the burglary might have been committed between January 11 and 23 when the inmates of the flat had gone out of station. Police suspect the role of maid servants or someone in possession of a duplicate key to the flat in the offence. Interestingly, at the new apartment complex premises meant for MLAs, no CCTVs have been installed to locate movement of strangers or others at the flat on the third floor. Police said they received a complaint from Hanumantha Rao’s friend, who found the valuables kept in the almirah missing after he returned to the city on January 24. There were no signs of using force either in opening the main door or almirah. “We don’t know how the valuables were stolen. The door’s lock was intact and so was the almirah’s,’’ assistant commissioner of police (Abids) K Venkat Reddy told STOI. Police said though the flat was allocated to the MLA, it is being used mostly by his staff or known persons. Investigators have begun questioning some of the suspects, but there has been no breakthrough. A criminal case was registered. Central zone police officials went to the spot along with clues teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mlas-flat-burgled-14-tola-gold-taken-away/articleshow/80606683.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 12 arrested for siphoning off Rs 14.4 crore from Nanded-based cooperative bank||AURANGABAD: The special investigation team (SIT) of the Nanded police has nabbed 12 accused for their alleged role in electronically siphoning off Rs 14.4 crore from a Nanded-based cooperative bank in December 2020. The arrested accused include four foreign nationals — two each from Uganda and Kenya — and eight Indians (five women and three men). One of the arrested women is the principal of an English-medium school in Yavatmal. So far, the police have retrieved Rs 1.3 crore from bank accounts in different parts of the country. The probe has revealed that the accused had been running various rackets from secluded places in Goa and Dharwad (in Karnataka) as well as other places in north India. In this particular case, the money was transferred from the Shankar Nagari Sahkari bank’s common pool account, which it shared with the IDBI bank (its service provider), between December 17, 2020, and January 2, 2021. The probe revealed that before the bank got to know of the cheating, the money had been transferred to 279 different bank accounts in Vapi (Gujarat), Noida, Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Tripura and multiple accounts in Mira-Bhayandar. Considering the scale of the crime, an SIT, headed by sub-divisional police officer Vikrant Gaikwad, was formed. Gaikwad said the crime was committed in a very sophisticated manner by using loopholes in the system. “Even the cyber forensic team is finding it difficult to completely decode the modus operandi,” he said. Nanded superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale, while refusing to divulge specific details, said, “Our SIT has managed to retrieve Rs 1.3 crore by getting some of the bank accounts frozen.” So far the arrested accused have revealed that they had rented several bank accounts to receive the money. Soon after receiving the money, they used to withdraw their commission — ranging from 2 to 10% — before transferring the cash to other bank accounts as instructed by their handlers. The probe has revealed that bank accounts in Kolhapur, Mumbai and Yavatmal in Maharashtra had been taken on rent by the racketeers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/12-arrested-for-siphoning-off-rs-14-4cr-from-coop-bank/articleshow/80606651.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Economic Offence Wing nabs 2 for black marketing of lubricant oil||MUMBAI: The economic offence wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police arrested two men for allegedly black marketing petroleum black oil at BMK compound, Kranti Nagar, Kurla West on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, the police laid a trap and arrested Ramji Gautam and Ramdular Pasi and seized 14,500 litres of black lubricant oil along with other equipment that collectively amounted to Rs 11.4 lakh. Search is on for shopowners, Nazir Khan and Ramesh Soni. A case has been registered under the relevant sections of IPC, Essential Commodity Act and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eow-nabs-2-for-black-marketing-of-lubricant-oil/articleshow/80607667.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Over 100 shops in Dum Dum market gutted||KOLKATA: Over 100 shops were destroyed in a fire at a market adjacent to Dum Dum Cantonment station early on Saturday. No one was injured. Around 2.30am, locals first noticed the fire at a vegetable godown in Cantonment Subhasnagar Bazar near the under-construction Metro station and within minutes, it spread to the entire market. Initially, two fire engines arrived but as the blaze raged on, seven more joined in. But non-availability of water hindered the operations. It was almost 5am, when the flames could be doused. Shop owners alleged a delay in the arrival of fire engines. Fire officers said a preliminary probe indicated a short-circuit to be the cause of the blaze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/over-100-shops-in-dum-dum-market-gutted/articleshow/80606684.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
January 31, 2021||Bhopal||MP: Catch-up vaccination round from February 4, 1.5 lakh to get gift of jab in a week||BHOPAL: More than 1.5 lakh beneficiaries who were supposed to get the Covid-19 vaccine across the state during the two weeks of the vaccination drive, will now be vaccinated in the first week of February. “We are going to organise a catch up round of vaccination on February 3 and 4, wherein all those health workers who have been left behind will be vaccinated”, said state immunisation officer, Dr Santosh Shukla. Sources said, overall there has been around 60 per cent vaccination in the state. Of the total 4.17 lakh health workers who are to be vaccinated, a little less than 3.5 lakh were called for vaccination till January 29. And a whopping 1.66 lakh of those who were scheduled for vaccination could not be vaccinated due to various reasons. Some of them stayed away due to apprehensions regarding the vaccine, a few had issues like getting the message late, or were out of town. Now, all these health workers will be again scheduled for vaccination on February 3 and 4, said sources. The vaccination drive (barring this catch up round) of both the doses—after first dose, the second one will be given to the beneficiaries after 28 days—is likely to be over by February 28 across the state. Only those who are left behind will be given second dose later, otherwise all the 4.17 lakh health workers will be vaccinated completely by the end of February, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/catch-up-vac-round-from-feb-4-1-5l-to-get-gift-of-jab-in-a-week/articleshow/80606679.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 31, 2021||Goa||Approach govt or move court, Railway officials tell Chandor, Guirdolim locals||MARGAO: Officials of the Indian Railways on Saturday had to face the fury of villagers of Chandor and Guirdolim over a host of issues pertaining to the track doubling works under way in the twin villages. The two-and-a-half hour long meeting held between villagers, panchayat members and Railway officials, however, remained inconclusive with Railway officials expressing their inability to stop the track doubling work in the village as demanded by the villagers, and instead advising them to take up the demand with the state government or explore legal remedies. The bone of contention between the villagers and the Railways was the issue of alleged violation by the Railways of certain laws – Land Revenue Code, CRZ laws, Goa Irrigation Act, etc - pertaining to land acquisition, change of land use, hill-cutting and land-filling, diversion of course of water bodies, and other activities related to the track doubling works in the village. While the villagers insisted that the Railways produce the permissions obtained by them from various statutory bodies for the construction activities, the latter maintained that the Indian Railways Act exempted them from taking such permissions. “We have been permitted by the district collector to undertake the work. Calling off the work is beyond my capacity. If you think any of the works is in violation of the laws, you are free to take legal recourse,” John Shilshi, a senior official of the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) said. To a query, he said that the state government was the appropriate authority for the villagers to approach with their demand. RVNL general manager (Goa) Shashibhushan Sahoo was also present. Earlier, villagers as well as environmental activists fired a volley of questions at the Railway officials. Expressing their disapproval over the failure of the Railways in replying to a number of letters written by the local panchayat demanding that the Chandor railway station development and track expansion plans be shared with it, the villagers demanded that all work in the village be suspended until all the details are made available to the panchayat. Former Guirdolim sarpanch Agostine Antao led the charge against the Railways, along with activists Abhijit Prabhudessai, Olencio Simoes, Capt Viriato Fernandes, Zarina Da Cunha, and others. Prabhudessai expressed his disapproval over the Railways “blatantly violating the laws” instead of setting an example for people to abide by the laws. “The people will take a decision about the next course of action soon – whether to take to the streets, approach the courts, or resort to civil disobedience,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/approach-govt-or-move-court-railway-officials-tell-chandor-guirdolim-locals/articleshow/80606680.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||Goa: Active tally up at 759, 99 new Covid cases||PANAJI: Goa reported 99 new cases of Covid-19 and 76 recoveries on Saturday. No Covid related casualties were reported during the day. The active case tally rose to 759. With 1,882 swab tests done during the last 24 hours, the case positivity rate was at 5%. This entire month, the positivity rate ranged between 3 to 5%, while the recovery rate has been static at 97%, but occasionally dropped to 96%. The day saw 68 patients home isolated and 23 admitted to hospital. Most of the patients are either treated at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital or South Goa district hospital. The caseload of Panaji urban health centre marginally rose to 79, while that of Porvorim once again dropped below 50. Also, Margao urban health centre witnessed a drop and its case tally reached 95, while that of Ponda rose to 45. Centres at Shiroda and Canacona reported cases below 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-tally-up-at-759-99-new-cases/articleshow/80606664.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Record paddy procurement by Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: Amid farmers’ protest against the new agri laws and demand for guaranteed minimum support price (MSP), Chhattisgarh has procured 92 lakh metric tonnes of paddy under MSP during the current kharif year — the highest in the state’s 20-year history. A record number of 95.4% registered paddy farmers — 20.5 lakh of 21.5 lakh — have sold their crop under MSP, said officials. Procurement season will end on Sunday. During the 2018 assembly polls, Congress had promised paddy procurement at Rs 2,500 per quintal. It proved to be one of the catalysts in the party’s victory in the election. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said the state government made adequate arrangements for purchase of paddy despite adverse circumstances, like a severe shortage of gunnybags. It met the shortfall from alternate sources. The area under paddy farming in Chhattisgarh has grown to 27 lakh hectares in the last two years, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/record-paddy-procurement-by-chhattisgarh/articleshow/80608277.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||MP Jaleel tweets video of 2 men waving firearms on e-way||Aurangabad: Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel tweeted a video showing two men in a car waving firearms at a truck driver on the Mumbai-Pune expressway on Friday while trying to clear the way for their vehicle near Lonavla ghat.The video was recorded by a restaurant owner in Aurangabad city, who was returning from Mumbai. The 16-second video showed a car (MH-47-AN-7085) bearing Shiv Sena’s logo on its rear windshield.The driver can be seen waving a pistol at the truck driver while the person sitting on the rear can be seen waving a revolver-like weapon. In his tweet, Jaleel tagged home minister Anil Deshmukh, Maharashtra director general of police and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He tweeted: “This is on Pune Mumbai expressway in Maharashtra! The logo on the vehicle says it all! Shiv Sainiks brandishing revolvers while trying to make way for their vehicle on Friday night. Can HM/ DG take note of this lawlessness!”.He told TOI: “I want to remind the government that this is Maharashtra and not an unruly state like UP or Bihar. Though minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai has assured me of probe, I am less hopeful .” He said there is a possibility of the probe concluding the firearms were toys. Later, Jaleel asked, “Has power brought so much arrogance to Shiv Sena?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mp-jaleel-tweets-video-of-2-men-waving-firearms-on-e-way/articleshow/80605215.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 31, 2021||Kochi||Non-Covid service at medical college to resume in Feb||Kochi: The non-Covid treatment at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, will be resumed by the first week of February. The medical college authorities had partially restarted the outpatient (OP) treatment for non-Covid patients a fortnight ago. “We will be extending the OP timings as well by February first week. Cleaning of wards are being done,” an official with the medical college said. “As of now, all the 40 ICU beds are being occupied by Covid patients. When resuming the non-Covid IP, we will require ICU beds for such patients. Once the ICU facilities at the district hospital, Aluva, are ready, Covid patients requiring ICU beds can be shifted to Aluva,” the official said. At the same time, the efforts of Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) authorities to bring back the operations of the hospital to the medical college premises have hit a roadblock. The medical college authorities have asked the CCRC officials to wait until mid-March for shifting its operations. According to the medical college authorities, the risk is very high if the operations of the CCRC is shifted back to the medical college premises due to various factors which fuel rise in Covid-19 cases. The operations of CCRC had been shifted to Ernakulam General Hospital premises in March 2020 after the medical college was designated as a Covid hospital. The CCRC authorities had planned to shift the operations back to the building on the medical college premises from February 1. “Covid-19 cases continue to be high in Ernakulam district. Moreover, the students of medical college are coming back to the campus,” a senior official with the medical college said. “At this juncture the chances of Covid spreading are high. So, we have requested the CCRC authorities to wait till mid-March,” the official said. “It is a per the directives from the government as well as the agencies like MCI, Kuhas, etc. that we decided to bring the students back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/non-covid-service-at-medical-college-to-resume-in-feb/articleshow/80605720.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bhopal||52,000 get vaccine jab in a day in MP, turnout drops further to 53%||BHOPAL: A total of 52195 health workers were vaccinated across 1065 centres on the fifth day of the second week of Covid-19 vaccination in the state on Saturday. The vaccination turnout remained 53%. It has decreased further as for past two days it was 59%. State capital Bhopal remained in the bottom 5 districts where lowest vaccination percentage was reported as only 38% vaccination was reported in Bhopal. Overall in five days of vaccination in the state in the second week of Covid-19 vaccination, a total of 2,60,098 health workers were vaccinated. This is more than 50% of the total 4.17 lakh health workers that have to be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination in the state. On Friday total of 98694 health workers were scheduled for vaccination and out of it a total of 52195 workers were vaccinated this is 53% of the total target for vaccination. In the first week of Covid-19 vaccination in the state an average of 62% health workers were vaccinated. Highest vaccination turnout (100%) was reported from Mandla district. And lowest vaccination turnout was reported from Sehore and Guna districts where only 25% of the total health workers who were called for vaccination could be vaccinated on Saturday. In Bhopal it was 38% as out of 9717 health workers who were scheduled for vaccination, 3703 were vaccinated. Likewise in Jabalpur it was 56% as against 6029 health workers who were scheduled, 3354 were vaccinated, in Gwalior it was 54% as 1442 out of 2688 scheduled health workers were vaccinated. Vaccination was held at 1135 centres across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/52k-get-vac-jab-in-a-day-in-mp-turnout-drops-further-to-53/articleshow/80606707.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Duo takes to crime after losing jobs||KOLKATA: An assistant at a restaurant and a food delivery boy, who lost their jobs during the pandemic, turned to crime to earn a living. They reportedly joined a history-sheeters and used their bikes to snatch valuables from morning and evening walkers at Maidan, Rabindra Sarobar and Behala Parnasree. The three had even pasted ‘Defence’ and ‘Press’ stickers on their motorcycles to evade police checks at nakas. The three accused — Shadat Hussain (19), Surendra Chandra Naik (19) and Md Sujal alias Md Sohail (19), residents of Watgunge and Ekbalpore—were caught after a victim raised an alarm. “Abhijit Das (24) from Sukdevpur near Parnasree said he was walking near Parnasree Lake around 9.40pm on Thursday, when three on a bike snatched his mobile,” said an officer. A patrol van from the Parnasree police station chased the bike and caught two of the accused. The third person was arrested the next day. The accused told police they would target people who would seem distracted or were found speaking on phone. They would pull up behind the victim and snatch away the valuables, police said. Five mobiles were seized from the three, who admitted to have stolen them on Thursday from Maidan and Lake e area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/duo-takes-to-crime-after-losing-jobs/articleshow/80606712.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad MP threatens hunger stir against ‘Rs100-cr waqf land scam’||Aurangabad: City MP Imtiaz Jaleel has alleged that a prime waqf land situated on the busy Jalna road in Aurangabad city has been illegally developed and is being sold off in the open market. The parliamentarian said he has obtained documents from different departments to support his claim and added that there have been illegal transactions on the said land to the tune of over Rs 100 crore. “A portion was developed from originally 20-acre of waqf land in gat number 33. The land belonged to Dargah Hazrat Syed Dawood Sahab Lashkari,” he said. Jaleel said he would stage a hunger strike with thousands of his supporters if no action is initiated by February 26. When contacted, Nawab Malik, state minorty development, auqaf, skill development and entrepreneurship minister, said, “We are glad that the issue has been raised by Imtiaz Jaleel. Once a waqf, is always a waqf. We will seek a report in this regard and ensure appropriate legal action. It appears that many of these developments happened during the regime of the previous government.” Jaleel said that he has already lodged a complaint with the authorities concerned, including the PMO and the Union minorities development department, demanding a probe into the matter. The MP alleged that it is an organised crime being committed by some builders and land sharks in connivance with officials from the departments of Maharashtra State Board of Waqf, land record, Aurangabad civic body and department of registration and stamps. The MP cited the Supreme Court’s observation that once a waqf is always a waqf property and said that he has already requested state home minister Anil Deshmukh to get the matter investigated at least by Aurangabad city police. “In 1964, a firm, Kailash Motors, took one lakh square feet of land facing Jalna road on an 11-years lease. When the issue of giving land on long lease in violation of law cropped up in 1995, the waqf authorities and the then waqf board members and Mutawallis prepared a rent agrement in March 1996,” said Jaleel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-mp-threatens-hunger-stir-against-rs100-cr-waqf-land-scam/articleshow/80606681.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 31, 2021||Goa||Over 1,000 healthcare workers receive vaccination at GMC||PANAJI: With the first dose of vaccine administered to 121 healthcare workers on Saturday, Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital has crossed 1,000 vaccinations over seven sessions. The beneficiaries include department heads, consultants, resident doctors, medical and paramedical students, administrative and clerical staff, emergency responders and multi-tasking workers. “Nobody reported any serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). There were zero anaphylaxis reactions. Very few got mild AEFI. Only a handful of them has moderate AEFI. All improved in three days,” nodal officer for vaccination at GMC Dr Jagdish Cakodkar said. Dr Cakodkar, head of the department of preventive medicine, was the 1,000th healthcare worker in the institution to receive the first dose of the vaccine. The hospital that began with one session on its campus once a week has stepped up its vaccination drive and is looking at administering the first dose to all beneficiaries before the second dose begins in the second week of February. “We have 4,500-odd staff. We have covered 1,000 as rapidly as possible, initially holding vaccination sessions once a week then twice and now four days a week. We will continue vaccinating all healthcare workers and try to complete before February 12 after which we will start sessions for the second dose,” he said. The institution is targeting vaccinating at least 200 healthcare workers, with teams carrying out the vaccination simultaneously on a given day. “Initially there was vaccine hesitancy. Now healthcare workers are anxious to receive the vaccine. Those who didn’t enrol will be given an opportunity after the other healthcare workers are vaccinated. Those who showed vaccine hesitancy are also given another opportunity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-1000-healthcare-workers-get-first-dose-of-vaccine-at-gmc/articleshow/80606690.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bhopal||MP board time table 2021: Class 10 & 12 exams from April 30; 3-hr papers each||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education will conduct Class 10 and Class 12 exams from April 30. The Board has released the time table for the examinations on Saturday. As per MPBSE, the Class 10 examination will start on April 30 while the Class 12 exam will commence on May 1. The Board exam will conclude on May 18. The exam will be organized from 8 am to 11 am. The MP Board time table has been released on the Board’s website www.mpbse.nic.in. The school education minister will hold a review meeting on Monday for Class 6 and Class 8 examinations. Thereafter, the decision will be taken on the examinations of these classes. Students are required to appear at 7.30 am for the examination. They will be admitted to the center only till 7.45 am after which the students will not be allowed to appear in the examination. The time table for the previous session 2020 examination was released in December 2019. This year, the exam is being held late due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/class-10-12-mp-board-exams-from-apr-30-3-hr-papers-each/articleshow/80610034.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 2.5 lakh to appear for TET across 1,000 centres today||KOLKATA: Primary Teachers Eligibility Test (TET), which was last held in 2015, will be the first public examination to be conducted offline on Sunday. Only online exams are currently being conducted due to the pandemic. Around 2.5 lakh candidates are expected to appear for TET at 1,000-odd centres. There are over 16,500 vacancies that are to be filled up through the examination that will start at 1pm and continue for two-and-a-half hours. Candidates are, however, required to reach the examination centres by noon. The examinees will be marked out of 150 on child development and pedagogy, language, language II, mathematics and environmental studies. “Each section carries questions worth 30 marks,” said a senior official of West Bengal Board of Primary Education. There have been several complaints of candidates not being able to download the admit cards from the website. Some had pending fees reflecting against their names while others claimed that there was an error which prevented them from accessing the admit card. “Such numbers are only a handful,” assured the official. Board president Manik Bhattacharyya added that adequate precautions have been taken to conduct the exam. “It is mandatory to wear a mask. Thermal guns will be used to check the temperature at the entry points. Those who have a fever will be isolated. Not more than one student can sit on a bench. For reasons of security, mobile phones cannot be carried inside the examination centres even by the invigilators. The state government has assured that it will take all measures to ensure availability of adequate transport,” he said. In 2015, 23 lakh candidates had appeared for the examination across 5,000 centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-5-lakh-to-appear-for-tet-across-1000-centres-today/articleshow/80605723.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bhopal||Less than 3,000 Covid-19 active cases left in MP, but positivity above 1%||BHOPAL: Only 219 new covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Saturday taking the count of total positive cases in the state to 254886. Apart from the fresh cases 2 deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached . On Saturday new cases were reported only from 33 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported on Saturday include Vidisha, Morena, Neemuch, Shahdol, Khandwa, Sehore, Chhatarpur, Sidhi, Seoni, Guna, Bhind, Sheopur, Umaria, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Burhanpur, Niwari and Agar Malwa districts. On the brighter side, 283 people recovered from the disease taking the tally so far to 248319. Positivity rate for Saturday stood at 1.1%. As on January 30, there were 2760 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-3k-active-cases-left-in-mp-but-positivity-above-1/articleshow/80606721.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Campus calling: Varsities, colleges get ready to reopen hostel facilities in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Several universities and colleges in the city have either invited applications for hostel accommodation from first-semester students or started furnishing them indicating resumption of some sort of on-campus activity very soon. Some colleges have even processed the applications and allotted rooms as well but held back the list. They are waiting for a go-ahead from the state government on reopening of institutes for on-campus classes. Officials said applications for hostels were invited after receiving inputs from the higher education department that have instructed the universities and colleges to start preparing for on-campus classes at a very short notice. Students coming from outside the city will suffer once on-campus classes resume but they don’t have a place to stay as processing hostel applications takes at least two weeks. Students of various colleges have been demanding that hostels and on-campus classes must be resumed because it is hampering the studies of students staying in the districts. Jadavpur University has invited online applications from first-semester students of UG and PG courses. “The last date of form submission is February 15. The form is available online. The students need to fill up the form and attach scanned copies of the documents and mail to the university,” said Rajat Ray, dean of students at Jadavpur University. In Scottish Church College, the process of application got over earlier this month. “We have not published the final list because we do not know when the colleges will be allowed to reopen. As soon as the government allows on-campus classes, we will publish the list,” said an official of the college. At Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, authorities have started refurnishing the hostel with new furniture. “The hostel has been shut for over 10 months now and required refurnishing,” said an official. Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College has outsourced its hostel accommodation but the applications and undertakings are regulated by the college itself. “The students can avail the hostel facility as soon as the campuses are allowed to function again. The details and application forms are available on the website of the college,” said Atashi Karpha, principal of the college. Last week, officials of Maulana Azad College held a meeting to decide on inviting applications for hostels. “The hostel is being repaired. We will issue application forms soon. The entire process will be online,” said an official. Several hostels of Calcutta University are undergoing repairs and sanitisation. “The properties are very old, and they have been shut for over 10 months. We are carrying our repairs before we reopen them,” said a university official. “Students living in the city can start attending classes from the day we announce the reopening of colleges. But those from the districts do not have a place to stay. It takes 10-14 days to process hostel applications, which is why we have told the colleges to start the process,” said an official of the higher education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/campus-calling-varsities-colleges-get-ready-to-reopen-hostel-facilities/articleshow/80605721.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 31, 2021||Goa||Viceregal Palace at Mormugao Harbour yet to get heritage status||Panaji: The 300-year-old Viceregal Palace, which is one of the oldest non-religious structures standing today in Mormugao, is yet to be declared as an ancient monument and archaeological site. A question tabled by Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco to the minister for archives and archaeology, Chandrakant Kavlekar in the legislative assembly revealed that the directorate of archives and archaeology received a representation from Goa First in March 5, 2018 to declare the structure as a protected monument. Since the Viceregal Place, also known as the ‘Old Palace Hotel’ at the Mormugao Harbour is in the property of Mormugao Port Trust (MPT), the directorate of archives and archaeology requested the MPT for a joint site inspection on March 23, 2018. In the reply to the request of directorate of archives and archaeology, office of chief engineer, MPT rejected the request for site inspection stating that the area “has restrictions for the entry and exit of personnel for safety and security reasons.” Kavlekar said that appropriate action will be initiated based on the advice of the law department. “This matter will be put up for the advice of law department to take appropriate action.” he said. In a separate question tabled by MLA Glenn Ticlo on the Corjuem Fort, Kavlekar said that the government has prepared the technical sanction to restore the fort as a historical monument from a touristic point of view. “The estimate has been submitted to office of the Executive Engineer Work Div V (North-Bldgs) PWD for issuance of technical sanction. Work will be tendered through online mode after the technical sanction is obtained,” Kavlekar answered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/viceregal-palace-at-mormugao-harbour-yet-to-get-heritage-status/articleshow/80607764.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Kochi||SNC observes Martyrs’ Day with cleanup drives||Kochi: The Southern Naval Command (SNC) observed Martyrs’ Day on Saturday with special emphasis on ‘Swachhata Hi Seva’ (SHS), the nationwide cleanliness campaign. Coastal cleanup drives were organized at the Naval Base, Kochi, and sub-units of SNC — INA (Ezhimala), Lonavla (Maharashtra), Chilka (Odisha), Jamnagar (Gujarat), Goa, Coimbatore and Fort Kochi — to keep waterfront areas and beaches adjacent to naval establishment clean and litter-free. The event witnessed active voluntary participation from the naval community adhering to social distancing and Covid-19 safety protocols. At Kochi, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, SNC, Vice-Admiral A K Chawla along with Station Commander, Kochi Area, Commodore Anil Joseph led the Swachhata campaign. As part of the cleanup drive, participants cleaned the Venduruthy Channel and removed the non-biodegradable waste. A cleanup drive with emphasis on removal of plastic waste was also undertaken inside naval base and surrounding areas. Mayor M Anilkumar visited the naval base and was taken around the naval premises and apprised of the environmental initiatives taken up by the Navy in Kochi. He also witnessed the Venduruthy Channel rejuvenation undertaken by the SNC. “The mayor evinced keen interest in the environmental initiatives and said that he would use a similar model in enhancing the environmental protection and waste management awareness amongst the people of Kochi. The mayor also visited the waste management facility inside the naval residential area and said that such initiatives could mitigate the waste management issues of Kochi. The admiral and mayor interacted with the participants, appreciated them for their efforts and encouraged them to create and nurture a sustainable and healthy ecosystem for our future generations,” said a Navy statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/snc-observes-martyrs-day-with-cleanup-drives/articleshow/80605725.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Interactive expo highlights EKW’s value to Kolkata||KOLKATA: Entire sewage of the city pours into the East Kolkata Wetlands (EKW). One-third of the city’s vegetables and fish also come from there. Yet Kolkatans have a distinct disconnect with EKW. A two-day interactive exposition and series of multimedia symposiums that started on Saturday at Ghare Baire art gallery at the Old Currency Building aim to bridge this and familiarize common citizens with the fascinating and vast wetlands, which are crucial for the city. Curated by Disappearing Dialogues Collective, the exposition has a number of installations designed and developed by young students of myriad disciplines at Young Curators’ Lab. The exhibition titled ‘Jola Bhumir Katha o Kahini’ is a culmination of a month-long exercise that engages with various facets of the EKW environment. “We spent days at EKW, closely interacting with the original inhabitants, and saw how the sewage naturally transformed into potable water,” said Rishith Sinha, a student of economy at Young Curators’ Lab. Sinha and his colleagues have put up a map with the city with vast expanse of the wetland. “On the map, a visitor can trace the path of sewage from his or her home flowing to wetland through a network of drains and canals. They can also see how the solid waste goes to Dhapa. This is fascinating. They get more interested when we inform them that a sewage treatment plant would have cost the city Rs 400 crore to build and an additional Rs 100 crore every year for maintenance. But that, too, would not guarantee to be entirely effective,” Sinha said. EKW, even after massive encroachment, sustains the city. It is a repository of livelihood practices that have evolved to convert waste into an asset, making Kolkata ecologically subsidized. The programme also aims to share the stories and narratives with a larger audience to make them aware of the importance of the wetlands, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/interactive-expo-highlights-ekws-value-to-kolkata/articleshow/80605730.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 31, 2021||Kochi||Cochin University: 306 students get placement offers||KOCHI: The pandemic may have delayed it but the recruitment season is in full swing at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) with more than 300 students securing jobs in frontline companies. Even though the process, which began in August 2020, was decelerated slightly by the Covid-19 pandemic, already 35 companies have initiated campus recruitment and at the end of phase I, 306 students have received placement offers with an average salary of Rs 4.71 lakh per annum, and a few of the companies offering above Rs 15 lakh annual salary. CISCO, TCS, L&T, GAIL, Infosys, Vedanda, Tata Steel, etc. are a few of the companies presently active with the recruitment process. Every year around 60 recruiters visit Cusat for campus selection. “Several major companies and certain central government agencies recruiting students from Cusat for the first time, are scheduled to visit the university in the coming months which will certainly accelerate the process,” said Cusat chief placement officer Jacob Elias.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/306-students-get-placement-offers/articleshow/80605732.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Mother arrested for abducting child||THANE: A woman has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping her nine-year-old daughter in Kalwa, Thane, on Saturday. The woman had walked out of her marriage and had left her three children with her husband last year. On January 27, the child’s father lodged a complaint with the Thane crime branch, unit I, that his daughter was missing. The cops got leads in the case through the CCTVs in the area. “We checked the CCTV footage which led us to the child’s mother. The child has been reunited with her father,” said senior inspector Nitin Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mother-arrested-for-abducting-child/articleshow/80607740.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 8 booked for attempt to murder & rioting||Aurangabad: The city police have booked eight suspects on the charges of attempt to murder, unlawful assembly and rioting after they beat three men up in the Konkanwadi area of the city. The injured have been identified as Farooq Qureshi (30), Imad Khan (28) and Irfan Baig (32). Khan and Baig, who have been admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, are in a critical condition. Quershi also sustained injuries while trying to save his friends. The police have arrested one of the accused — identified as Akash Borde — while the key accused fled the scene, said police sub-inspector Pramod Devkate. Authorities said a timely alert by special branch inspector Pramod Khatane resulted in the police teams reaching the spot and preventing the situation from turning worse. Police confirmed that enraged by the attack, a large number of people had gathered in the Konkanwadi area. The locals alleged that the suspects, while fleeing, had even pelted stones to create further panic and chaos. Vedantnagar police said Qureshi lodged a complaint, following which, three identified and five unidentified suspects were booked. Police said one of the key suspects is a relative of a former MIM corporator. In his complaint, Qureshi said on Friday around 10 pm, he and two of his friends were standing outside his house in Konkanwadi, when the suspects came and started smoking there. On being asked not to smoke there, the suspects started arguing with Qureshi and his friends. After which, they used rods and metal pipes to hit Khan and Baig on their heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-8-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-rioting/articleshow/80605233.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||State archives to reopen tomorrow||KOLKATA: The Directorate of State Archives, which is the oldest repository of pre-colonial, colonial and post-colonial records, is reopening from February 1. The three reading rooms of the Historical Section will be opened for students, researchers and historians. They can visit the directorate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Only five people will be allowed at any given point of time. The main office of the directorate is located on Bhawani Dutta Lane off College Street while the functional building is on Shakespeare Sarani. “Several students, researchers and historians visit our reading rooms for reference for their projects and examinations. We received requests from many such individuals who said their projects were stuck and examinations were getting hampered. The decision to reopen reading rooms was taken keeping the interest of such individuals in mind,” said an official. Till 1962, all records of the state government were accommodated in the Secretariat Record Room at Writers’ Buildings. In 1959, a building was acquired on Bhawani Dutta Lane to preserve the documents and photos. In 1962, records up to 1900 were shifted from Writers’ to the new premises. In 1998, a new functional building at 43, Shakespeare Sarani was constructed to accommodate post-Independence and Intelligence Branch records. Besides documentation, the directorate has also digitised some valuable records and also houses a library. It also has a Police Archives Wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-archives-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/80605729.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Virtual meet for Anglo-Indian school heads||KOLKATA: Heads of Anglo-Indian schools from across the country will meet virtually on February 20 to discuss how teaching learning in these schools should work towards accepting change in a transformed world. This is the centenary year of the association and the national meeting would have been a big event had it not been for the pandemic that pushed it to being held online. The West Bengal chapter of the association, one of its most active chapters, will be present with its member school heads. The new president of the national chapter will be Richard Gasper, the head of St Augustine’s group of schools in the city. City school heads felt that the theme of the meet, “change”, is relevant given the paradigm shift that teaching-learning has gone through in recent times. “This is the most immediate of all the changes and has taught us how to adapt to a new situation, without breaking away from our roots,” said Terence John, president of the West Bengal chapter of the association. A chunk of the meeting’s discussions will be on the National Education Policy and how it will replace outlooks and methods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virtual-meet-for-anglo-indian-school-heads/articleshow/80605731.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bhopal||Shivraj Singh Chouhan transfers Rs 400 crore to 20 lakh farmers in MP||BHOPAL: Reiterating his commitment to make Madhya Pradesh prosperous and developed state, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that development has picked up again and several stalled projects have been started. Addressing a state-level programme organised for the transfer of benefits worth Rs 400 crore by a single click to 20 lakh farmers of the state under the Chief Minister Kisan Kalyan Yojana in Sagar on Saturday, Chouhan said more development plans would be chalked out as per need. Chouhan said that Rs 400 crore will be deposited in February and March in accounts of farmers. On this occasion, he also performed bhoomi-pujan and dedicated development works worth Rs430 crore. The chief minister said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had started the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and started work of depositing Rs6,000 each to farmers’ accounts. “The Congress government did not send the list of farmers to the Centre, but, soon after coming to power we sent a list of 78 lakh farmers. We also decided to provide an additional assistance of Rs4,000 per annum to the farmers in two installments. The government has not discriminated against any farmer in extending the benefit, whether small or marginal farmer all have benefitted”, Chouhan said. Stating that despite the tight fiscal condition of the state, a sum of Rs85,000 crore was deposited in the accounts of farmers and other beneficiaries under different schemes. Chouhan said that farmers should not worry. The government will repay the burden of interest on them during the loan waiver. Stating that Sambal Yojana is the strength of the poor, Chouhan said state government would also bear the fee for medical and engineering students under the scheme. Chouhan ly criticised the Kamal Nath government for discontinuing the scheme. Soon mass marriages under Mukhya Mantri Kanyadaan scheme will start again and about two crore Ayushman cards have been made in the state to cover for their medical emergencies, he said. Referring to the new farm laws, Chouhan said the Prime Minister has enacted them in the interest of farmers. “Rumours and speculations about shutting down mandis are baseless and on the contrary mandi fees have been slashed”, he said. On the occasion, Chouhan interacted virtually with farmers of Jabalpur, Guna and other districts and said procurement of wheat, gram and lentils on support price will start in the state from March 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-transfers-rs-400-cr-to-20-lakh-farmers-in-mp/articleshow/80606741.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||5 housing society panel members,auditor booked||Aurangabad: Five members of the working committee of a cooperative housing society in the city and a woman auditor with the cooperative society registrar’s office have been booked for allegedly selling off the society’s prime plot in a clandestine manner. A member of the society, has filed a complaint with documents showing that the said plot with a ready reckoner rate of Rs 39.81 lakh in 2013 was sold off for Rs 5.45 lakh, said the Cantonment police. The complainant has alleged that the plot at the time of being transferred had a market value of Rs 1.5 crore. Police sub-inspector Sachin Wayal said, “We have initiated the process of officially obtaining the documents, following which we will initiate further action in the case.” According to the complaint, the housing society was registered in 1999, following which 98 members obtained membership. It purchased about 10 acre land. After allotting plots to the member, the society was left with three plots measuring 1,235 square metre, 8,000 square feet and 2,600 square feet. The complaint states that these plots are owned by the society members and that it was mandatory for the working committee to take their consent before any deal. “The chairman of the society illegally transferred the plot measuring 1,235 square metres in the name of his elder brother and two of his close contacts. After an objection was raised to the transaction, the office bearers allegedly forged the minutes of the society meeting and the resolution of a meeting that was never held,” the complainant has alleged. As per the audit carried out by the cooperative society registrar’s office, the date of passing resolution by the working committee of the society does not match with the dates of the meetings held in 2013-14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-housing-society-panel-membersauditor-booked/articleshow/80605229.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Nod for 50% occupancy in Roman Catholic churches, confessions to start||KOLKATA: The number of worshippers during a service inside churches under the archdiocese of Kolkata of the Roman Catholic Church is being increased to 50% of seating capacity. A circular from the office of the archbishop Thomas D Souza has reached parish priests, asking them to follow the new protocols in the coming season of Lent, in the run-up to Easter. The changes include the rise in the number worshippers inside churches, though the use of masks and sanitization will have to be followed. Lent will start from Ash Wednesday on February 17. There will be a break in tradition this time as priests will not draw the cross on worshippers’ foreheads. Instead, they will sprinkle the ash and holy water on their heads. “A priest blesses the ashes and sprinkles the holy water without saying anything. He addresses the gathering only once referring to the Roman Missal. The prayer is applicable to all—‘remember that you are dust and unto dust you shall return’. Saying this he sprinkles the ashes on the heads of devotees without touching and stopping to pray each time,” said D Souza. The new circular says since Bible Sunday could not be celebrated on January 21, it was rescheduled to February 21. Also, after a break for a year, the archbishop has permitted confession sessions but said a room with open doors and windows and away from the church would have to be used. The priest and the person will sit six feet away. All priests would have to be available for confessions, the circular stated. The sacrament of anointing the non-Covid patients has been allowed at hospitals and homes too. “For nearly a year now, we depended mostly on the virtual world. Though we have stayed connected, worshippers yearned to be in church physically and to be able to come for confessions etc. Finally, we will be able to accommodate a few more people inside church,” said Father Orson Wells, parish priest of the Church of Our Lady of Velankani. “Ash Wednesday sets off 40 days of Lent. We were wondering whether we will be able to sprinkle the ashes or not. We are thankful for the instructions,” said Father Basil Mandi of Church of Christ the King.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nod-for-50-occupancy-in-roman-catholic-churches-confessions-to-start/articleshow/80606760.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 31, 2021||Surat||France to give €250 mn for Surat metro||Surat: France has pledged financial assistance worth 250 million to India for the Surat metro rail project.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) in this regard was signed on Saturday for providing the fund for the Rs 12,000 crore worth rail project between French Development Agency and the union finance ministry in presence of French ecological transition minister, Barbara Pomili, and union minister for housing Hardeep Singh Puri. Pompili, the second senior French minister to visit India amid the pandemic, is considered as number two in the French government.The phase-1 of the metro rail network consists of 21.61km from Sarthana to Dream City at Khajod and 18.74km from Bhesan to Saroli. There will be about 32 elevated and six underground metro stations with ramps for exit and entry. Majority of the walled city areas starting from Railway station to Kadar Shah ni Naal are affected due to the metro rail corridor. In a tweet, French ambassador to India, Emmanuel Lenain wrote: “In France’s consistent support to clean public transport in India, French Development Agency today signed an MoU with Ministry of Finance for providing funding for the Surat metro rail project.”Minister Pompili, who will reiterate France’s commitment to the Smart Cities Mission, including expertise from French firms and financing from AFD and the European Union, is also travelling to Surat for discussions on urban development projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/france-to-give-250-mn-for-surat-metro/articleshow/80605235.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||New Town app set to broadcast local shows||KOLKATA: From next week, residents of New Town will have a platform to showcase their talents and strengthen community connections via an app designed specifically to cater to local needs. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) will launch the app — ‘Radio New Town’ — on Monday, which will broadcast news and cultural events performed by locals daily from 7pm to 9pm. Earlier, NKDA had set up a state-of-the-art studio at Nazrul Tirtha for recording such programmes. There will be 15-minute slots for each programme. “For instance, in the first slot from 7pm to 7:15pm there will be ‘New Town News’. The next 15 minutes could be devoted to reading news from newspapers. Then there will be various shows performed by residents of the township. This will include audio drama, song, instrumental music, etc. Most of the programmes will be recorded, edited, compiled and then uploaded on the app,” an official said. NKDA will also plan live shows. Residents of New Town are eagerly waiting for the app to get launched. “It will be a good opportunity for locals. Almost all housing complexes and blocks have their own cultural groups that would be privileged to utilize this platform,” said Kingshuk Chakraborty, a local. In November last year, the authorities started the Radio New Town initiative as an ‘internet radio’ via Facebook where awareness messages concerning New Town were broadcast. NKDA is also working on plans to get its own community radio channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-app-set-to-broadcast-local-shows/articleshow/80605736.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Mercury to slide down today in Kolkata: Met||KOLKATA: The mercury rose a notch above the normal mark on Saturday, as the moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal pulled the minimum temperature up to 15.3°C. But the temperature is again set to dip by 3 degrees on Sunday, the weather office predicted. The Met office, which had predicted the rise in the temperature due to moisture incursion, pointed out that as the cloud cover moved away, the minimum temperature could slide down to around 12 degrees Celsius by Sunday. Moisture from the Bay had been leading to cloud formation, which in turn, pushed up the temperature. According to the weather office, this cloud formation was a localised phenomenon and that the cold and dry Northwesterly winds could continue to blow in. “The Northwesterly wind is still coming in uninterrupted and so, the mercury will decrease by Sunday. We can expect the cold spell to for at least three to four more days,” said a Met office source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mercury-to-slide-down-today-met/articleshow/80606794.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bareilly||Drunk man picks argument with family, sets six-year-old daughter ablaze in a fit of rage||BAREILLY: A drunk man in UP’s Sambhal allegedly set his six-year-old daughter ablaze after an argument with family members in Rajabhood village under Sadar kotwali in Sambhal district on Friday. According to the family, the accused is a “drunkard” and would often pick arguments with kin. On Friday night, following an argument with his family, the accused — Jogendra, alias, Bablu — took out petrol from a two-wheeler, poured it on his daughter and set her afire, said police. The girl was rushed to the Sambhal district hospital with burn injuries on her face and neck. She was, however, referred to a higher medical facility in Moradabad, while her father was arrested, said police. In a police complaint, the girl’s mother Nikki accused her husband of often picking arguments with family members under the influence of alcohol. “He wanted to set me on fire, but as he failed, he poured petrol on my daughter and set her afire,” alleged Nikki. Hearing the child and other family members screaming, neighbours rushed to the scene and rescued the girl, and rushed her to the hospital, said the mother. Dr Neeraj Gupta of burns ward at Sambhal district hospital said, “The girl suffered 20% burn injuries on her face, neck and both hands. We have referred her to a higher medical facility in Moradabad.” Speaking to TOI, Sadar kotwali SHO Vikas Saxena said, “The accused was booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We have arrested the accused and have been interrogating him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drunk-man-picks-argument-with-family-sets-six-year-old-daughter-ablaze-in-a-fit-of-rage/articleshow/80605240.cms||Maria Khan
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Poll-boycott call by Barasat farmers over dump site||KOLKATA: The farmers’ agitation in Delhi has inspired a section of farmers in North 24 Parganas to push for a change that they have been demanding for several years. Since January 10, 5,000-odd villagers from seven villages in and around Champadali, around 25km from Kolkata, have become more vocal in their protests against conversion of a farmland into a waste dump by Barasat Municipality. The villagers, many of them farmers, want immediate steps to relocate the dump site that has affected their lives and livelihood. They have threatened to boycott the forthcoming assembly election if their demand was not met. “The ever-growing municipal waste dump has become a socio-economic hazard for residents of Pirgachha, Kuberpur, Belghore, Halisahar, Chandigarh, Saraberia and Bamonmora villages. The leachate (liquid from the dump) that seeps into the soil is affecting crops in belt. People are suffering from skin diseases. The stench has become unbearable. The jackal population has also gone up, threatening the safety of children and livestock,” said local Rahim Mondal. North 24 Parganas DM Sumit Gupta said the administration held talks with farmers. “We are looking for an alternative site and also considering a solid waste treatment plant near the current site,” he said. With trucks and tractors ferrying garbage to the dump site through the village roads, the villagers were apprehensive of accidents as well. Others pointed to the air and noise pollution from the 250-odd daily trips that the heavy vehicles make. Kadambagachhi panchayat pradhan Goutam Pal acknowledged said the agitation at a time when Assembly elections are round the corner was proving to be a thorn. “We haven’t been able to address the issue yet. More time is needed, but the villagers are not willing to wait any longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poll-boycott-call-by-barasat-farmers-over-dump-site/articleshow/80605735.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 31, 2021||Nashik||Bombay HC: Remove 1 BJP member from civic panel||Nashik: In a major blow to the BJP in the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), the Bombay high court has ordered increasing one nominee from the Shiv Sena in the standing committee of the civic body. In an order dated January 28, Chief Justice Dipankar Gupta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the “Shiv Sena is entitled to one more seat in the standing committee.” The court has also ruled that the BJP’s strength in the panel be reduced by one. The court orders assume significance as because once implemented, the BJP will lose its majority in the standing committee, which has 16 members, and its strength will reduce from nine to eight. On the other hand, the strength of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), which forms the opposition in the NMC, will swell from seven to eight. Currently, the BJP has nine members in the civic panel, Sena has four and NCP, Congress and MNS have one each. Ajay Boraste — the senior Shiv Sena corporator who is also the leader of the opposition in the NMC — had moved the Bombay high court in February last year. It had sought for the court’s intervention in reducing the nominees of the BJP in the standing committee as the BJP’s total strength in the house reduced from 66 to 64. According to Boraste, since the strength of the party in the standing committee is decided on the basis of its total membership in the house, the BJP’s strength must be reduced by one in the panel. After the BJP’s total strength in the house reduced to 64, its relative strength reduced from 8.66 to 8.39 while Shiv Sena’s relative strength was 4.59. “The court order is a victory for us. I have written to mayor Satish Kulkarni, divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game and NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav to immediately act as per the orders of the court or else we will file a contempt plea in the high court,” said Boraste. When contacted, Kulkarni said that he would study the court order before taking a decision on the issue. Jagdish Patil, the BJP group leader in the NMC, said, “We will discuss the issue with our senior leaders and also explore if we can move the Supreme Court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bombay-hc-remove-1-bjp-member-from-civic-panel/articleshow/80607759.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 31, 2021||Surat||Surat businessman’s kidnapper wanted money for marriage||SURAT: Investigation into the kidnapping of businessman Komil Dudhwala revealed that the key accused in the case, 21-year-old Ajay Damla alias Bharwad, needed Rs 24 lakh to marry the love of his life, a divorcee from his village Kamiyala in Ahmedabad district. Damla, who is unemployed and has a criminal history, has a complicated love story too, said cops. Damla revealed that he had eloped with the woman, a few months ago and went to Rajasthan. However, their community members traced them and brought the duo back to the village. “Community members demanded Rs 24 lakh from him as per tradition to marry the woman. Sans any regular source of income, he picked up the opportunity to earn some quick money after he was tipped off by the other accused,” said a police officer. The accused finalised kidnapping Dudhwala going by the suggestions of one the accused Irshad alias Chhotu Multani (26). Multani had a debt of Rs 15 lakh for which he needed money. He sought help from his friends and they put him in touch with Damla. He took Damla to Dudhwala’s shop to show him the victim. Multani, who did retail business of travel and school bags, often visited Dudhwala’s shop on Raj Marg and knew that the victim’s family can pay a handsome ransom. As per plan, the accused brought country-made pistols from Rajasthan and did a recce of Dudhwala’s movements. At the time of the kidnap, Multani did not remain present at the spot to avoid identification by the victim and was travelling in another car with a separate team issuing instructions to kidnappers. “Damla planned the kidnapping and was to get the maximum share out of the Rs 1 crore ransom,” said police. Police have arrested Damla, Multani, Chirag Yadav, (20) Sonu Goswami (20) Faijankhan Usman (21) Arvind Vaghel alias Vadher (46) Istiyak Shaikh (33) and Santosh alias Sahid Patil (26). One accused Kano Bharwad is yet to get arrested. Police recovered Rs 99.14 lakh from the kidnappers out of the total ransom of Rs 1 crore paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-bizmans-kidnapper-wanted-money-for-marriage/articleshow/80605245.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Sikkim-Kolkata air link revival tomorrow||KOLKATA: The city’s air link with Sikkim will be revived on Monday when SpiceJet resumes flights from Kolkata to Pakyong airport after a 20-month hiatus. The airline will operate the Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft with a 78-passenger capacity on the sector six days a week. “The flight will take off from Kolkata at 9.45am and reach Pakyong at 11.05am. The return flight will take off at 11.25am and reach Kolkata at 12.45pm. The flight will operate on all days except Thursday,” an airline spokesperson said. SpiceJet had introduced the Kolkata-Pakyong flight in 2019, but services had to be suspended within months following low visibility due to poor weather conditions. “Flights were required to adhere to visual flight rules (VFR) earlier. To land with the VFR approach, a pilot needed to see the runway clearly from a distance of 5km. Given the topography and weather conditions at Pakyong, it was difficult to get many clear days when visibility could extend to 5km. Flights had to be suspended after May 23, 2019. Now, we have adopted performance-based navigation (PBN) where the visibility requirement is 2,400m. Flights have commenced operation between Delhi and Pakyong. From Monday, Kolkata will be relinked,” Pakyong airport director Ramtanu Saha said. PBN allows aircraft to fly on a specific path with two 3D-defined points in space to reach the airport. “The system will enable operations of aircraft with a high level of accuracy,” an ATC official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sikkim-kol-air-link-revival-tomorrow/articleshow/80605737.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||State to challenge HC’s skin-to-skin judgement: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||AURANGABAD: State home minister Anil Deshmukh has said the state government will challenge the order of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court’s order, which held that ‘skin-to-skin contact’ was a must to attract an offence of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Deshmukh was in the city to attend the meeting of a 21-member panel — comprising MLAs and MLCs from all parties — to discuss the proposals mentioned in the Shakti bill, which is on the lines of the Disha Act passed by Andhra Pradesh. In the draft bill, the Maharashtra cabinet has already given its consent to the proposal of stringent punishments — including the death penalty, life sentence and hefty fines — to be imposed on convicts of rape, child sexual abuse and acid attack. “We, in the capacity of the state government, have decided to reach out to the Supreme Court and challenge Nagpur high court’s order,” he said. Those privy to the development said that instructions have been issued to the law and judiciary department to make a move. Already taking cognizance of the observations, the Supreme Court has stayed the controversial order passed by the Nagpur HC, which earlier this week ruled that groping a minor’s breast without ‘skin-to-skin contact’ does not amount to a sexual offence under sections of Pocso Act. A trial court in Nagpur had sentenced a 39-year-old man to three-year imprisonment under section 8 of the Pocso Act and for outraging the modesty of the woman. The convict filed an appeal before the Nagpur HC. While overturning the three-year imprisonment to one-year of imprisonment as a punishment for the “minor offence”, Justice Pushpa Ganediwala observed that “no direct physical contact — skin to skin with sexual intent, without penetration” would not amount sexual assault under Pocso Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/deshmukh-state-to-challenge-hcs-skin-to-skin-judgement/articleshow/80605253.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 31, 2021||Bhopal||MP shamed after inhuman treatment meted out to elderly, says Cong||Bhopal: State Congress on Saturday came down heavily on the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, following the dumping of elderly and homeless persons outside the city limits of Indore, which led to the removal of deputy commissioner of Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC). PCC chief Kamal Nath tweeted, “The state has been shamed across the country because of the inhuman treatment meted out to the elderly by municipal corporation employees of Indore. Suspension proceedings on the guilty persons is insufficient. Strict and punitive action should be taken against those responsible so that such incidents do not recur in the future and action can become an example.” Senior Congress leader Ajay Singh said that in the land of Mahatma Gandhi, just a day before his death anniversary and right under the nose of the Chouhan government, the municipal corporation treated elderly persons like animals. “The elderly persons were loaded into garbage trucks and were dumped outside Indore city limits,” he said in a statement on Saturday. “The shameful incident has shaken the hearts of citizens. This is the humiliation of every elderly person. Chief minister Chouhan goes down on his knees to greet the people of the state,” Singh said. “If he has any sense of shame and sympathy, then he should go down on his knees and publicly apologise for the incident before the country. This is an example of the BJP government’s dictatorial habits,” the former LoP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-shamed-after-inhuman-treatment-meted-out-to-elderly-says-cong/articleshow/80606795.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||India Inc honchos, economists to be part of 3-day global meet from Feb 1||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would open on February 1 a high-profile three-day virtual global conclave —Kerala Looks Ahead (KLA)— that seeks to lay down the roadmap for Kerala’s long-term development by factoring in perspectives from top economists, industry leaders, administrators and planners amid a changed world order. Industry stalwarts like Ratan Tata, Kumar Mangalam Birla, Azim Premji and Anand Mahindra and Nobel laureate Amartya Sen are among the speakers addressing various sessions of the meet. Nobel laureate economist Professor Joseph Stiglitz and Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist with World Health Organisation (WHO), will address the inaugural session on February 1. Hosted by the Kerala state planning board, the conference & consultation will look at suggestions and the best practices to achieve a paradigm shift in the state’s progress, by building on historic achievements in welfare and invigorating growth and development through a long-term economic vision and infusion of technology into key sectors. The brochure and schedule of the event were released by planning board vice-chairperson V K Ramachandran and member secretary Venu V, IAS, here on Saturday. “We are looking at specific areas where technology and science can play a pivotal part. The conference will help us learn from best practices from national and international levels,” Ramachandran said. “About four months’ effort has gone into planning the meet and reaching out to participants from across the spectrum. We have been successful in getting together international organizations like WHO, ILO, UNWTO and the Nobel-winning World Food Programme,” Venu said. Nine themes of deliberations, to be covered by different sessions, are primary sectors (agriculture, fisheries and animal resources development), modern industrial possibilities, higher education (including international academic collaboration), skill development, tourism, information technology, e-governance, local governments, and federalism and development financing. “It is important that a conference of this dimension takes place when Kerala is set to initiate its 14th Five Year Plan (2022-27). The insights and suggestions from the meet could become valuable inputs for the plan,” said Ramachandran. On February 2, deliberations will take place on agriculture, federalism & development financing, IT, e-governance, etc. Special session on industry will be held on the final day, ahead of the valedictory session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/india-inc-honchos-economists-to-be-part-of-3-day-global-meet-from-feb-1/articleshow/80605734.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Citizens want Covid cess on rich, Central Vista to be put off||Nagpur: A recent survey conducted across several cities in the country reveals that an overwhelming majority of respondents want the government to impose a ‘Covid cess’ on the rich and also postpone the ambitions Central Vista project. With the Union budget on Monday, the survey by Fight Inequality Alliance (FIA) India reached out to people across 24 states to gauge their responses to deal with a tough financial situation. In its findings, the FIA claimed that 122 million people in the country have lost their jobs and million more are at the risk of ‘falling back into poverty’. “At the same time, the wealth of billionaires in India has continued to grow at a rapid pace. Given this context, FIA India sought to find what people want from the upcoming budget,” said Ankit Vyas, program coordinator — Inequality and Education with Oxfam India. According to Oxfam India Davos Supplement 2021, the increase in wealth of the top 11 billionaires of India during the pandemic could sustain the MGNREGS scheme for 10 years. “Many countries have introduced higher taxes on the richest individuals during the pandemic. Peru has proposed a temporary solidarity tax on the wealthy and super-rich Peruvians. Argentina’s senate has passed a one-off wealth tax that affects its richest 10,000 citizens and which aims to raise USD 3 billion for social spending for those impacted by the pandemic,” the statement from FIA added. About 78% respondents in the FIA survey said that a 2% Covid cess should be imposed on individuals earning more than Rs2 crore per annum. In addition a temporary tax be imposed on companies making extra profits during the pandemic. Around 77% of the respondents want cutbacks on spending for expensive projects such as the Central Vista and bullet train, at least till the pandemic is over. The need for cutback will help fund spending in public services, the respondents felt. “It is estimated that the gross tax revenue of the central government will reduce by 12.5% compared to last year. Despite this, it is crucial for government spending on key public services and social sectors to increase in order to provide a safety net to the most marginalized people at this difficult time. It is estimated that the cost incurred on Central Vista could fund 15 new AIIMS,” the report by FIA stated. The Fight Inequality Alliance (FIA) India is a group of leading international and national non-profit organizations, human rights campaigners, women’s rights groups, environmental groups, trade unions, social movements and other civil society organizations. SURVEY FINDINGS 78% | Covid cess to be imposed on the rich 77% | Cut spending for bullet train and Central Vista 95% | provision of minimum wage and insurance for all frontline health workers 87% | free Covid vaccine for all 95% | universal minimum social security to all unorganized workers 97% | additional funding for schools||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-want-covid-cess-on-rich-central-vista-to-be-put-off/articleshow/80606854.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 31, 2021||Kolhapur||Make Rankala a silent zone, citizens appeal to KMC||Kolhapur: Several associations from Kolhapur city have made suggestions to the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) asking them to make Rankala lake a silent zone, develop Mohalla clinics and install plastic bottle collection bins at important places/spots in the city. The suggestions were made after KMC administrator Kadambari Balkawade sought ideas from citizens, non-governmental organisations and associations regarding development of the city. The suggestions will be included in the budget 2021-22 and, accordingly, funds will be set aside to execute the ideas. President of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) Sanjay Shete said, “It is a good attempt by civic administration to pay heed to the citizens and include their ideas in the budget. We have suggested the civic body to install plastic collection bins at important places in the city as, at times, the tourists throw plastic bottles in the open due to lack of bins in public spaces. Our association is also ready to share financial needs required to execute the idea.” Several suggestions related to environmental protection have also been made. For instance, making Rankala lake a silent zone will help birds to thrive in the locality. There is a bird watching centre developed near Rankala lake, however, it remains shut as no visitors turn up due to less number of birds in the centre. “Several ideas are unique. The citizens can drop in their ideas by Sunday and we will incorporate feasible ideas in the budget which is to be presented next month,” Balkawade said. Kolhapur: Make Rankala lake a silent zone, install plastic bottle collection bins and develop Mohalla Clinics are some of the suggestions made by various associations to be included in the upcoming budget of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation. Administrator Kadambari Balkawade has sought ideas from common citizens, non-governmental organisations and associations regarding development of the city. The suggestions will be included in the budget 2021-22 and accordingly funds will be set aside to execute the ideas. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries said, “It is a good attempt by civic administration to heed the citizens and include their ideas in the budget. We have suggested to install plastic collection bins at the important places in the city since most of the times the tourists have to throw the plastic bottles in open which then chokes drains. Our association is also ready to share financial needs required to execute the idea.” Several suggestions related to environmental protection have been made. For instace, making Rankala lake a silent zone will help birds to thrive in the locality. There is a bird watching centre developed near Rankala lake, however it remains shut as no visitors turnout as there are no birds which were there once some years ago. IT Association of Kolhapur made the suggestion to give the proposed IT Park at Temblaiwadi place in the budget as for last seven years, the proposal has remained just in discussions and not come actual on papers which is the pre-requisite for any project to take off. Balkawade said, “Several ideas are unique. The citizens can drop their ideas by Sunday and we will incorporate feasible ideas in the budget to be presented next month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/make-rankala-a-silent-zone-citizens-appeal-to-kmc/articleshow/80606824.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Surat||NSIC to help diamantaires buy machines||Surat: To help small and medium diamantaires in Surat get easy access to high-end machinery for improving quality and increasing production of polished diamonds, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEC) has joined hands with the National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC). The maiden venture aims at providing state-of-the-art machineries to these diamantaires at discounted rates through NSIC scheme. It will also provide a platform to the MSMEs in the diamond sector to manufacture high quality products for the international markets. Colin Shah, Chairman, GJEPC said, “With the redefined MSME classification, 85% of the gem and jewellery industry consists of MSMEs. Our association with NSIC will benefit our sector and help MSMEs buy required machinery at a discounted rate through NSIC for enhancing business specifically in Machine Aggregation Services scheme.” Shah further said that this tie up will also help manufacturers to produce high quality products with finish suitable for the international market.About 90% of the diamond units in Surat falls under the category of MSME. Barring 150 big diamond units employing more than 500 workers, majority of the total 4,000 units fall under the MSME category. The GJEPC will provide a list of prospective buyers, machine importers etc to the NSIC and together explore all funding possibilities from Banks/FIIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nsic-to-help-diamantaires-buy-machines/articleshow/80605248.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Surat||Solid waste continues to be dumped at closed Bhatar site||Surat: An unpleasant smell greets you while driving past from the Kankra creek bridge on the Bamroli-Bhatar road. Mounds of garbage could be seen with the black smoke emanating from it. This is the Bhatar solid waste disposal site, which was closed by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) a few years ago. However, locals alleged that garbage vans of the civic body continue to dump waste at the site. Every day the door-to-door garbage van dumps tonnes of solid waste at the closed disposal site, without being noticed by the senior officials of the SMC, claim locals. The garbage collectors and the people from the nearby slums segregate iron and other material and burn the rest of the waste. EH Pathan, executive engineer (solid waste department) told TOI, “There is a nuisance of some people living near the site, who force the garbage vans to dump the waste for allowing their cattle to feed on the leftover food.” “We will be doing the bio-mining of the site as per the solid waste management rules. It is a matter of eight to nine months, we will cover the entire site and convert it into the sprawling green landmass.” Surat was ranked India’s second cleanest city after Indore in the fifth edition of Swachh Survekshan (country-wide sanitation survey) in August last year. Its ranking had jumped from 14 in 2019 to number 2 after capping of the Khajod landfill site, which has now been converted into sprawling green landmass.Environment activist, Ashish Vakil said, “When the disposal site is closed, why the SMC officials are allowing the dumping and burning of the garbage. Burning of garbage is illegal and action must be taken against those responsible for this kind of act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/solid-waste-continues-to-be-dumped-at-closed-bhatar-site/articleshow/80605260.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nashik||‘Proper incentives in Budget must to boost real estate’||Nashik: The Union Budget needs to have proper incentives for home buyers to buy properties, which would not only boost the economy but also the real estate sector, said Satish Magar, national president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai).Magar was speaking to the media on the sidelines of the two-day Leadership Conclave 2021 organised by Credai, Maharashtra unit, in Nashik. Over 100 city presidents of Credai from over 55 branches participated in the conclave. Retired IAS officer Mahesh Zagade also paid a visit and delivered a lecture on the role of the association to make the city economically vibrant and affordable.State Credai president Rajiv Parikh said the new rules related to real estate brought in transparency and the state government’s decision to reduce the stamp duty also benefited many home-buyers. He expressed satisfaction over the positive outlook of the state government to boost the real estate sector. Jitendra Thakkar, national advisor of Credai, said 90% of the work that Credai was doing was for home-buyers. “Developers work on a thin profit margin and when they fight against the taxes levied by the government, their fight is to provide affordable houses to home-buyers,” said ThakkarDistrict guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal ,who attended the valedictory session of the conclave, lauded Credai Nashik for setting up a grand Covid care centre (CCC) when the pandemic was at its peak and for providing masks and sanitisers in large quantities. He said the real estate sector gave stability to people and provided employment to many on account of which the government granted many facilities to the real estate sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/proper-incentives-in-budget-must-to-boost-real-estate/articleshow/80607762.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 31, 2021||Kolhapur||3 held for murdering 26-year-old in Ichalkaranji||Kolhapur: The Shahapur police in Ichalkaranji have arrested three people in connection with the murder of a 26-year-old which took place on Friday night. The victim has been identified as Shubham Deepak Kudalkar. The suspects were arrested within eleven hours of the crime. They have been identified as Suraj Shamrao Kumbhar (26), Sanket Umesh Mhetre (23) and Santosh Mahanatesh Badigir (22). All three are the residents of Ichalkaranji. Deputy superintendent of police Baburao Mahamuni and PI Prakash Mane said that the murder was the fall out of Shubham’s illicit relationship with a woman. During questioning, the suspects admitted to the crime, Mahamuni said. The trio was arrested from Rangoli village in Nipani taluka of Belgavi district in neighbouring Karnataka state. The suspects were hiding in a sugar cane field, but were caught with the help of residents. Shubham Deepak Kudalkar was killed with sharp weapons near Vishal College in Ichalkaranji on Friday night. Police had set up three teams to track down the suspects whose names surfaced during preliminary investigation. The incident was reported after a citizen noticed an unidentified body in the Shahapur area of the city and immediately alerted the police. Upon reaching the spot, police found the body with serious injuries on head, back, legs and face. A sickle was also found near the body. Kolhapur: Shahapur police in Ichalkaranji have arrested three persons in connection with murder of 26-year-old Shubham Deepak Kudalkar. Three were arrested within eleven hours after the murder, which took place on Friday night. Police identified arrested as Suraj Shamrao Kumbhar (26), Sanket Umesh Mhetre (23) and Santosh Mahanatesh Badigir (22). All three are the residents of Ichalkaranji. Deputy superintendent of police Baburao Mahamuni and PI Prakash Mane told media persons that murder was the fall out of Shubham’s illicit relationship with a woman. Three, during the questioning, have admitted to have murdered the crime, Mahamuni said. Three were arrested from Rangoli village in Nipani tehsil of Belgavi district in neighboring Karnataka. The suspects were hiding in a cane field but were caught with the help of residents. Shubham Deepak Kudalkar, was killed with sharp weapons near Vishal College in Ichalkaranji on Friday night. Police had set up three teams to track down the suspects, whose names were surfaced during the preliminary investigation. A citizen had noticed a body in Shahapur area and alerted the police. Police found the body had serious injuries on head, back, leg and face. A sickle was found near the body. Police could identify the deceased with the help of motorcycle, which was lying near the body. Shubham was working with an industrial unit and was married a month back. The incident took place when he was going for the work. This was the third murder in Ichalkaranji in the current month. On January 6, an unidentified person was murdered while a youth was murdered in Kabnur on January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-held-for-murdering-26-year-old-in-ichalkaranji/articleshow/80606839.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Despite rising towers, few old world bungalows still hold fort in Bandra||MUMBAI: Luxury residential towers on narrow plots in Bandra (west), which command some of the highest home prices in the city, replaced charming old bungalows built mostly at the turn of the last century. But some have survived the onslaught.  There remain old-world, pleasant pockets in Bandra like the bungalow properties on plots owned by the over-century old Salsette Catholic Society, especially those on St Leo Road and the parallel St Andrews Road. Or the heritage villas and cottages on Perry Road and Turner Road. Carter Road still has a few sprawling and well-maintained large homes with gardens. On Pali Hill, most large bungalows have now disappeared, replaced by plush high-rise buildings.  “All over the world, art and cultural artefacts are imperilled by the general populace’s complacency and the philistinism of those in power. Conservationists and the government are overlooking humble dwellings,” writes architect Savio Lobo, who has drawn sketches of Bandra’s old buildings in his book, ‘Bandra by hand’. “Most bungalows surrounded by paddy fields came up in the 1920s and ’30s and continued to be built till the ’50s. These properties resembled a simple lifestyle and were built, not by wealthy industrialists, but locals who were either agriculturists or seafarers,” said Lobo. Conservation architect Vikas Dilawari said when the town planning scheme was first introduced in Bandra in the early part of the last century, there were distinct building guidelines. “Setback areas, compound, open spaces around it and the height were well-defined,” he said. “Bungalows of that period used load-bearing walls, lime plaster with modest to elaborate designs of windows and doors. Most had woodwork. Roofs were mostly tiled with some plain terraces for services,” said Dilawari. By the 1970s, families expanded and wanted more space. Builders stepped in to redevelop properties into apartment blocks. From late ’90s, the jackhammers went on a rampage as the government started offering unheard of construction concessions to developers to build more in the form of transfer of development rights (TDR). “Bungalow owners were pressured to sell their properties to builders. There were many cases where they were threatened and coerced by the land mafia to move out,” said Lobo. “Some took the money and shifted while those who withstood the pressure, paid a heavy price,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-rising-towers-few-old-world-bungalows-still-hold-fort-in-bandra/articleshow/80604800.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||HC junks restaurateur’s FIR against chef as row settled||Mumbai: Bombay high court has quashed and set aside a criminal complaint filed by the co-owner of a Bandra restaurant against celebrity chef Kelvin Cheung after it was told they have amicably settled their dispute. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale, on January 22, 2021, also quashed a notice freezing the chef’s bank account in New Delhi and a lookout circular. Canadian citizen Cheung moved HC to quash the FIR lodged by Khar police station for cheating and criminal breach of trust on a complaint by Ranjitsingh Bindra of Bastian. The FIR said Cheung, while working at Bastian between 2015 and 2019, induced Bindra to invest in Jade Court restaurant to be started in Chicago by his father, Chi Ping Cheung, a famous chef, and for opening a branch of Bastian in Los Angeles. Bindra transferred around Rs 1.7 crore through a hospitality firm. Differences arose after Bindra sought accounts of the Chicago restaurant. In June 2019, Cheung told him that due to his father’s death the invested money “was lost in losses”. On July 31, 2019 Cheung left Bastian and flew to Canada. On learning that he had returned to India, the FIR was lodged on December 4, 2020. Cheung was arrested in Delhi on December 12 and brought to Mumbai. The judges were told that Rs 1 crore is payable to Bindra after reconciliation of accounts with the help of friends and well-wishers. Cheung’s advocate Subodh Desai said because of the FIR, his account was frozen, his passport seized and a lookout circular issued. The judges referred to Bindra’s reply which said the dispute is an outcome of a misunderstanding that arose after the death of Cheung’s father. Also, that he has unconditionally withdrawn all allegations and does not wish to proceed with the present case. Considering the settlement and his non-objection, the sessions court released Cheung on a bail on January 5, 2021. Bindra orally told HC judges he was voluntarily entering into a settlement and urged to quash the FIR subject to compliance of consent terms executed on January 14, 2021, by the parties. Bindra will be paid Rs 30 lakh initially and Rs 70 lakh in 14 instalments. In their order, the judges noted in view of the settlement, continuation of investigation “would be an exercise in futility”. They directed Cheung to deposit Rs 1 lakh in Juvenile Justice Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-junks-restaurateurs-fir-against-chef-as-row-settled/articleshow/80605795.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 31, 2021||Nashik||Koshyari to perform bhoomi puja for NAB’s research centre||Nashik: Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari will be performing the Bhoomi puja (ground breaking ceremony) of the research and training centre of the National Association for the Blind (NAB), Maharashtra unit, on Wednesday. The research and training building, which will be constructed in the premises of NAB in the Satpur industrial area in Nashik city, will facilitate blind students to perform research for competitive exams and PhDs. The NAB has always been putting efforts to provide training and education to blind students in various fields. Rameshwar Kalantri, president of NAB, Maharashtra, said, “A large number of students are taking education at the NAB complex and learning to read and write with the help of new technologies.” The bhoomi puja will be performed at 4.30pm. Koshyari will be felicitated by founder president of NAB Devkisan Sarda.The new research and training centre of NAB, which will entail an expenditure of Rs 3 lakh, will have a two-storey building constructed over 8,000 square feet. There will be 12 residential rooms and a facility to accommodate 60 students. The cost of the building will be borne from the donations NAB receives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/koshyari-to-perform-bhoomi-puja-for-nabs-research-centre/articleshow/80607767.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 31, 2021||Business||Billionaire Steve Cohen quits Twitter, citing threats in GameStop uproar||BOSTON: Billionaire investor Steve Cohen, seen by small investors as an enemy in the GameStop stock drama this week, deleted his Twitter account because of what he said were threats against him and his family, a spokeswoman said on Saturday. "I’m going to take a break for now," Cohen said on Twitter late on Friday, citing "personal threats." His account no longer appeared on Saturday, and a spokeswoman for Cohen's Point72 Asset Management confirmed it was closed. The small investors, connected on social media, mobilized to take on institutional short sellers of GameStop and other shares, sparking a short squeeze that sent those stock prices surging. The details of Cohen's holdings were not disclosed, so it was unclear if he was a short seller. However, Cohen's Point72 and Citadel LLC gave a capital infusion to Melvin Capital, a fund that held a large short position in GameStop, enabling it to close out that position with a large loss and survive. Cohen, who previously used Twitter largely to engage with fans of the New York Mets baseball team after he bought a majority stake last year, was among fund managers who received threats as the GameStop saga unfolded. On Thursday, Cohen got into a heated debate with blogger Dave Portnoy, who founded the sports and pop culture blog Barstool Sports. Cohen, worth roughly $14 billion, tweeted, "Hey Dave, What's your beef with me. I'm just trying to make a living just like you." Point72 lost between 10% and 15% in value since the start of the year to the middle of the week, people familiar with the numbers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/billionaire-steve-cohen-quits-twitter-citing-threats-in-gamestop-uproar/articleshow/80608289.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolhapur||Maha’s only swamp gets biodiversity heritage site tag||Kolhapur: The fragile ecosystem of the Myristica swamps in Bambarde village in Sindhudurg district has been declared a ‘biodiversity heritage site’ by the state government. It is the only swamp found in Maharashtra so far. The notification to preserve the 2.6 hectare of the swamps under the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, was recently issued by the revenue and forests department. Myristica (a myristica is a form of tree species) swamps in Bambarde was first found in 2018. Local residents have been taking care of one of the most fragile and ancient ecosystems and they want the government to protect it. It is believed that the Western Ghats, a large section of which is in Maharashtra, had many such swamps several thousand years ago. However, with declining rain, many vanished. “These are unique freshwater swamps of the Western Ghats. They are now notified for preservation as biodiversity heritage sites. It is a great feat in state’s annals of conservation” said Clement Ben, the chief conservator of forests, Kolhapur division. Ben said the site will get developed as an ecotourism site Currently, there are more such swamps in the Western Ghat sections in Goa, Karnataka and Kerala. The biodiversity heritage site tag helps in conservation and aids scientists in studying the ecosystem. Due to the tag, efforts will now be made by local committees to monitor the ecosystem, prevent construction activities nearby and ensure that freshwater streams feeding the swamp do not get polluted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mahas-only-swamp-gets-biodiversity-heritage-site-tag/articleshow/80606907.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Swasthya Sathi: Firhad Hakim for separate ward at private hospitals||KOLKATA: City private hospitals and nursing homes will be assisted to create separate wards for treatment of Swasthya Sathi card holders. This will help to ensure that no patient with a card is refused at private hospitals, said KMC Board of Administrators chairman Firhad Hakim at a meeting held between Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and representatives of city private hospitals and nursing homes at the civic body’s headquarters on Saturday. Hakim requested representatives of private hospitals to consider the proposal. Later Hakim said representatives from some private hospitals agreed to open dedicated facilities for Swasthya Sathi card holders. Over 100 representatives from different private hospitals and nursing homes participated in the meeting with the civic brass as the KMC has been appointed as the nodal agency for implementation of Swasthya Sathi scheme in Kolkata. During an hour-long meeting Hakim made it clear that under no circumstances a private hospital or nursing home can refuse a patient with a Swasthya Sathi card. “It was agreed upon that no private healthcare institutes will be allowed to refuse patients under the unique healthcare scheme. I have requested the representatives to open designated wards for Swasthya Sathi card holders to ensure a zero-refusal target,” Hakim said. But, a section of the senior officials representing superspeciality hospitals expressed their inability to treat a Swasthya Sathi card holder in a case of minor ailment or surgery. “In such a case it will be the duty of the management of a superspeciality hospital concerned to provide primary care to the patient and refer him/her to a different hospital or nursing home,” said a KMC official. But, all private hospital will need to display a board that will read: “Swasthya Sathi cards are accepted here,” the KMC brass made it clear. AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua said private hospitals were ready to follow government’s instructions. “As sought by Firhad Hakim, all hospitals should have the scheme and admit Swasthya Sathi patients so that the load is distributed across all facilities. We have agreed to treat all patients who are brought to us, even if we don’t have beds. They will be treated at the emergency, stabilized and accommodated in some other hospital,” said Barua, who is also the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI). He said AHEI also welcomed the minister’s proposal that private hospitals will be assisted to set up or add new buildings for Swasthya Sathi patients. “We have also been told that the government is working on our proposal to revise price structure of Swasthya Sathi,” Barua said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swasthya-sathi-hakim-for-separate-ward-at-pvt-hosps/articleshow/80605756.cms||Saikat Ray
January 31, 2021||Goa||Ramakrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar cautions govt over borrowing spree||PANAJI: MGP MLA Ramakrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar cautioned the government about the rising debt trap, particularly the tendency to borrow loans for payment of salaries and repay loans. Dhavalikar said that market loans should be taken for capital expenditure requirements and not to meet committed expenditure requirements. The Marcaim MLA and former PWD minister, using data provided by the government, pointed out that less than 45% of the budgeted capital expenditure is met. “I have no problem in borrowing money but does the money reach the projects for which they are meant for? More than half of the borrowings are going towards repayment of loans and paying salaries,” Dhavalikar said while speaking during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address. “Only 20% goes for capital works,” said the MGP MLA as he reeled off numbers on capital expenditure for each department. Dhavalikar blamed the government’s policies for the reduction in revenue and the dependence on market loans to meet regular expenditure. Referring to the one time settlement schemes and tax waiver schemes brought in by the government, Dhavalikar said that over the last few years, revenue income has been on a downward slide. “The government’s financial situation will continue reducing if the government keeps coming out with schemes to reduce revenue. At this rate, the government will have to keep borrowing to meet revenue needs,” Dhavalikar further said. He also questioned the BJP government’s seriousness in mining resumption, saying that the chief minister has made several assurances which never fructified. “Even if you take a look at the governor’s speech last year, not a single thing has been completed and now I expect the same from this governor’s address,” Dhavalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhavalikar-cautions-govt-over-borrowing-spree/articleshow/80607770.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kochi||Lab to detect bird flu at Thiruvalla||Kottayam: A laboratory to detect avian influenza virus was commissioned at Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. The lab has been established at the Avian Disease Diagnostic Lab of the state animal husbandry department, which is already functioning here. By establishing a biosafety level-two lab here, the serum test of birds through Elisa test can be done to find out the presence of the avian influenza virus. The new facility has come as a relief to all the districts in the state in the wake of the recent bird flu outbreak in Kottayam and Alappuzha. As many as 90 samples can be tested here at a time. The facility has been established at a cost of Rs 52.7 lakh. Kitco was in charge of construction of the lab. Now the lab results will also be available without any delay. The lab, which has been constructed as per international standards, allows entry for only three persons at a time. They can remain inside the lab only for a maximum of three hours. One has to go through three levels of disinfectant system while entering the lab. The atmospheric pressure inside the lab will be eight units less than that of outside. This is to prevent the virus from spreading outside. Animal husbandry minister K Raju, who inaugurated the lab, said that the need for such a lab arose after the bird flu became a concern across the globe. He also said the government has distributed around Rs 1.25 crore among farmers in Kottayam and Kuttanad, who suffered loss in the bird flu outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lab-to-detect-bird-flu-at-thiruvalla/articleshow/80605749.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Inline baggage scan for all flyers from February||KOLKATA: Passengers travelling by GoAir flights will soon be spared the hassle of first getting their checked-in baggage scanned at a standalone X-ray machine before depositing them at the airline check-in counter. Flyers travelling by all other carriers have been availing of inline baggage scan (ILBS) since February 17, 2020. The system allows passengers to deposit the luggage directly at the airline check-in counter and the scan is done automatically as bags travel down the conveyor belt. But with portal A where GoAir and AirAsia India counters were located not integrated into the system, passengers of these two airlines had to get their luggage scanned before depositing them. Later, AirAsia India flights were accommodated in portal B. But GoAir passengers still require to get their bags scanned. Not for long though. Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said the airline would also migrate to ILBS from mid-February with the integration of portal A into the system. “Baggage screening trials are currently underway by an agency authorised by Transport Security Administration (TSA),” said Bhattacharjee. TSA is an agency of the US department of Homeland Security that oversees the security of travelling public in the US and has been entrusted by the civil aviation authority in India to carry out checks on the ILBS system. It is only after a nod from the TSA agency that the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security authorises the use of the ILBS system at airports. The company executing ILBS had encountered a problem with integrating portal A as its baggage conveyor belt system had been supplied by Spanish firm ULMA while the system in the remaining portals — B to H — were by German company Siemens. Following this, a decision was taken to go ahead with the commissioning of ILBS at seven portals. Integration of portal A was to be taken up later. However, the pandemic that led to the grounding of all flights in March and lockdown thereafter delayed the work. The work was taken up earlier this month. Once the software issue was resolved, the portal was integrated to the ILBS system. It will now undergo tests for four-five days following which BCAS approval is required before the ILBS becomes operational. Once it is operational, AirAsia India flights could revert to portal A.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inline-baggage-scan-for-all-flyers-from-feb/articleshow/80605753.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolhapur||Doc arrested for taking bribe from husband of pregnant woman||Kolhapur: The Solapur anti-corruption bureau has arrested a medical officer who had demanded Rs 9,000 in cash from a man whose wife was undergoing labor pains in the government hospital. Action was taken when the husband approached the anti-corruption bureau stating that Dr Santosh Bibhishan Adgale (40), who works as a gynaecologist in a Kurduwadi hospital, had sought for Rs 10,000 from him. The complainant had stated that his wife was admitted to the Kurduwadi rural hospital after she went into labor. Dr Adgale allegedly told the complainant that the woman needs to undergo an operation for safe delivery of the baby. He asked for Rs 10,000, but later settled on Rs 9,000. ACB sleuths confirmed the complaint and laid a trap in the Kurduwadi hospital. Dr Adagale was caught red-handed in the hospital while accepting the cash. An offence has been registered against him with Kurduwadi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/doc-arrested-for-taking-bribe-from-husband-of-pregnant-woman/articleshow/80606882.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nashik||Hunger strike for farmers on Martyrs’ Day||Nashik: The citizens and organisations, gathered under the banner of the Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha, staged a day-long hunger strike in front of the Nashik district collectorate on Saturday as they observed the Martyrs’ Day — the day when Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated by Nathuram Godse. They said the strike was in support of the farmers who have been agitating outside New Delhi since November 2020 against the three agriculture laws and the proposed electricity bill 2020, which they said were going to ruin the lives of farmers and the common man. The citizens said there were some anti-social elements who played spoilsport during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, 2021, in Delhi. The said the miscreants were not genuine farmers. “We want to express our solidarity with the farmers in New Delhi. We are determined to stand with the farmers till the time the agitation achieves its ultimate goal — the rollback of the three acts and the government bringing minimum support price (MSP) clause in the laws meant for protection of farmers,” said Raju Desle, of All-India Centre of Trade Unions. The agitation at the collectorate also witnessed the participation of Sunil Malusare of the All-India Kisan Sabha, Congress city unit president Sharad Aher, former Congress minister Shobha Bacchav, city unit president of NCP Ranjan Thakre, Dr D L Karad of Centre of Indian Trade Unions and others of the Rashtra Seva Dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hunger-strike-for-farmers-on-martyrs-day/articleshow/80607769.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Surat||Won’t join active politics: Ahmed Patel’s son announces||Surat: Faisal Patel, son of late senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, announced on Saturday that he will not join active politics but continue to work on social initiatives, for the downtrodden and underprivileged. “Finally decided, I will not be joining active politics. I will continue to work on my existing social initiatives in healthcare, education and technology. Late Ahmed Patel ji’s true legacy was working for the downtrodden and underprivileged. I pledge to continue doing so” Faisal tweeted on Saturday. Faisal is an entrepreneur with a focus on big data, artificial intelligence, machine learning, Internet of Things and Blockchain. Ahmed Patel, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member of Parliament passed away on November 25, 2020 at the age of 71 years due to multiple organ failure at a private hospital in Gurugram, Haryana. Patel had tested positive of Covie-19 and was suffering from several complications. Sources close to the family said that Faisal (40), who is an alumnus of Harvard Business School is actively involved in the HMP Foundation set up by his late father. The HMP Foundation is working in the tribal areas including Dediapada and Netrang for the upliftment of tribal and providing healthcare and education. Sources said that after his father’s death, Faisal has dedicated himself towards the service of the humankind, especially the tribal in Bharuch district. He visits his father’s birth place Piraman village thrice in a week from New Delhi to oversee the activities done by the foundation. The Patel’s also run a school and B.Ed college along with ITI college at Panoli. In their hometown Piraman, they are running a modern healthcare centre with all the state-of-the-art facilities including ambulances etc. Ahmed Patel was also instrumental in setting up the Bharuch district’s first multi-speciality Sardar Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wont-join-active-politics-ahmed-patels-son-announces/articleshow/80605269.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly may go home in 48 hours||KOLKATA: BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, who is recuperating at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals after angioplasty on Thursday, will be released from hospital either on Sunday or Monday. “Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty on January 28, has been examined by Aftab Khan. He is doing well and all his vital parameters are stable,” read the medical bulletin issued by the hospital. Doctors said that Ganguly is under observation and if his condition remains stable, he will be discharged either on Sunday or Monday. In the procedure carried out on Thursday, two stents had been implanted to open up blocked arteries — left anterior descending artery and left circumflex artery. He was thereafter kept in the critical care unit before being shifted to a private room on Friday. This is the second time the 48-year-old former India cricket captain underwent angioplasty within a month. The first one was at Woodlands Multispecialty Hospital in the first week of January to remove a blockage in his right ventricular artery after he was diagnosed with triple-vessel disease. Apart from cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty and cardiologists Ashwin Mehta and Ajit Desai who flew in from Mumbai for the procedure at Apollo, cardiologists Aftab Khan, Saroj Mondal and Saptarshi Basu were part of the team that conducted the angioplasty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-may-go-home-in-48-hours/articleshow/80605754.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 31, 2021||Udaipur||Udaipur couple held for torturing 7-year-old girl||UDAIPUR: A couple from Rajsamand district was arrested for allegedly torturing a seven-year-old girl, who is a distant relative, for over two months. They allegedly ill-fed the child, forced her to do all household chores, severely punished her even for petty mistakes including tying her upside down and thrashing her, besides putting chilli powder on her private parts and branding her. The accused, residents of Peladol village, were produced before a local court on Saturday which remanded them to 14-day judicial custody. The Child Welfare Committee, meanwhile, sent the child to a shelter home. The abuse came to light on Friday after a neighbour shot a video of the torture which went viral on social media. The Childline was informed and the gram secretary, sarpanch and several others went to the house, rescued the girl and took her to the police station where a case under relevant sections of the IPC and Juvenile Justice Act was registered. “The girl’s father, a resident of Thaneta village, works in Gujarat. She is his child from his first wife who died some years ago. He subsequently remarried and had two kids with his second wife. Two-three months ago, the couple went to work in Gujarat and took the other kids with them but left the seven-year-old at their cousin’s place in Peladol,” Bhim SHO Gajendra Singh told TOI, adding that after leaving her here, the parents didn’t make any effort to know of her well-being. CWC chairman Bhavna Paliwal said when the girl was brought before the bench, she was in bad shape. “Her cheek and ear were bitten and a fingernail had been plucked off. The child told us she cleaned the house, fetched water daily and did all household chores but was never given enough food,” Paliwal told TOI. Even as the girl’s medical examination ruled out sexual assault or internal injuries, the seven-year-old claimed the couple put chilli powder on her private parts. Paliwal said they tried to contact her father but couldn’t reach him on phone. “The girl is in a state of shock. We will speak to her once she can narrate her plight clearly. We have informed the Child Commission too,” Paliwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-couple-held-for-torturing-7-year-old-girl/articleshow/80606908.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Surat||Trial run for rough diamond import from Surat SNZ done||SURAT: The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) carried out the first successful trial for import of the rough diamond consignment from mining giant Rio Tinto at the Surat International Diatrade Centre (SIDC)—India’s second Special Notified Zone (SNZ) for diamonds—on Saturday. Official sources said that all the procedures including the customs clearance, logistics, security system etc. were put in place for the trial run of the rough diamond consignment at the SNZ. The parcel will be re-exported to Rio Tinto in Australia after few days with all the procedural requirements. After that the SNZ will be thrown open for the auctions and the import of rough diamonds from the mining companies around the world. Dinesh Navadiya, regional chairman of GJEPC said, “This was a major success for officially throwing open the SNZ for rough diamond import. Soon the mining companies in the world will arrive at the SNZ for display and auction of the rough diamonds. The diamantaires will not have to visit Mumbai for purchasing diamonds any more.” Navadiya added, “The SNZ in Mumbai is running successfully from the last couple of years. We have been demanding that the government must allow the sale of rough diamonds by providing tax relief to the mining companies at par with other trading centres like Israel, Dubai and Antwerp.” Nanu Vanani of Gujarat Hira Bourse (GHB) said, “The mining companies from around the world will visit Surat to sell their rough diamonds. The Surat SNZ will largely benefit the small and medium diamantaires who visit Antwerp, Dubai and Israel to purchase diamonds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/trial-run-for-rough-diamond-import-from-surat-snz-done/articleshow/80605282.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jodhpur||With 61% vaccinations, Rajasthan at second spot after Lakshadweep||JAIPUR: Hesitancy towards Covid-19 vaccine seems to be waning in the state with the daily turnout not having just improved but placing Rajasthan among the leading states/UTs in Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country. While Lakshadweep leads the pack, Rajasthan has secured the second spot in the list of states/UTs reporting more than 50% turnout of beneficiaries in drive launched in the country on January 16. According to the figures available till Saturday morning, more than 61% of registered healthcare workers had already taken the jab. No other states or UT have achieved it except Lakshadweep. “We have already covered more than 61% health workers. We are best after Lakshadweep. Team work and proper planning helped us in achieving the success in vaccination drive,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The health department has efficiently upgraded its vaccination drive as it started with 167 vaccination sites on January 16 and by the end of the month now the number of sites have significantly gone up to 5,440 across the state. Apart from Lakshadweep and Rajasthan, seven other states/UTs have already managed to vaccinate more than 50% of the registered healthcare staff. Those include Tripura (58%), Madhya Pradesh (57%), Odisha (57%), Haryana (55%), A&N Islands (55%), Mizoram (55%) and Uttar Pradesh (51%). States/UTs such as Delhi, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim, Goa, Assam and Ladakh have not been able to achieve even 20% their target, as per the reports on Saturday morning. In terms of absolute numbers, UP is leading with highest number of vaccinations in the country, while in that category too, Rajasthan is at the second spot. On Saturday, despite the health department remaining busy with pulse polio campaign preparations for Sunday, it managed to hold vaccination sessions in 12 districts of the state. According to the health department report, with 4,638 health workers taking the jab on Saturday, the number of beneficiaries vaccinated in the state rose to 3,29,611.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/with-61-vaccinations-raj-at-2nd-spot-after-lakshadweep/articleshow/80611759.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Udaipur||With 61% vaccinations, Rajasthan at second spot after Lakshadweep||JAIPUR: Hesitancy towards Covid-19 vaccine seems to be waning in the state with the daily turnout not having just improved but placing Rajasthan among the leading states/UTs in Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country. While Lakshadweep leads the pack, Rajasthan has secured the second spot in the list of states/UTs reporting more than 50% turnout of beneficiaries in drive launched in the country on January 16. According to the figures available till Saturday morning, more than 61% of registered healthcare workers had already taken the jab. No other states or UT have achieved it except Lakshadweep. “We have already covered more than 61% health workers. We are best after Lakshadweep. Team work and proper planning helped us in achieving the success in vaccination drive,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The health department has efficiently upgraded its vaccination drive as it started with 167 vaccination sites on January 16 and by the end of the month now the number of sites have significantly gone up to 5,440 across the state. Apart from Lakshadweep and Rajasthan, seven other states/UTs have already managed to vaccinate more than 50% of the registered healthcare staff. Those include Tripura (58%), Madhya Pradesh (57%), Odisha (57%), Haryana (55%), A&N Islands (55%), Mizoram (55%) and Uttar Pradesh (51%). States/UTs such as Delhi, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim, Goa, Assam and Ladakh have not been able to achieve even 20% their target, as per the reports on Saturday morning. In terms of absolute numbers, UP is leading with highest number of vaccinations in the country, while in that category too, Rajasthan is at the second spot. On Saturday, despite the health department remaining busy with pulse polio campaign preparations for Sunday, it managed to hold vaccination sessions in 12 districts of the state. According to the health department report, with 4,638 health workers taking the jab on Saturday, the number of beneficiaries vaccinated in the state rose to 3,29,611.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/with-61-vaccinations-raj-at-2nd-spot-after-lakshadweep/articleshow/80611758.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ajmer||With 61% vaccinations, Rajasthan at second spot after Lakshadweep||JAIPUR: Hesitancy towards Covid-19 vaccine seems to be waning in the state with the daily turnout not having just improved but placing Rajasthan among the leading states/UTs in Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country. While Lakshadweep leads the pack, Rajasthan has secured the second spot in the list of states/UTs reporting more than 50% turnout of beneficiaries in drive launched in the country on January 16. According to the figures available till Saturday morning, more than 61% of registered healthcare workers had already taken the jab. No other states or UT have achieved it except Lakshadweep. “We have already covered more than 61% health workers. We are best after Lakshadweep. Team work and proper planning helped us in achieving the success in vaccination drive,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The health department has efficiently upgraded its vaccination drive as it started with 167 vaccination sites on January 16 and by the end of the month now the number of sites have significantly gone up to 5,440 across the state. Apart from Lakshadweep and Rajasthan, seven other states/UTs have already managed to vaccinate more than 50% of the registered healthcare staff. Those include Tripura (58%), Madhya Pradesh (57%), Odisha (57%), Haryana (55%), A&N Islands (55%), Mizoram (55%) and Uttar Pradesh (51%). States/UTs such as Delhi, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim, Goa, Assam and Ladakh have not been able to achieve even 20% their target, as per the reports on Saturday morning. In terms of absolute numbers, UP is leading with highest number of vaccinations in the country, while in that category too, Rajasthan is at the second spot. On Saturday, despite the health department remaining busy with pulse polio campaign preparations for Sunday, it managed to hold vaccination sessions in 12 districts of the state. According to the health department report, with 4,638 health workers taking the jab on Saturday, the number of beneficiaries vaccinated in the state rose to 3,29,611.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/with-61-vaccinations-raj-at-2nd-spot-after-lakshadweep/articleshow/80611760.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Goa||GFP vows before Bodgeshwar to never align with BJP||PANAJI: GFP president Vijai Sardesai, along with working president Kiran Kandolkar, and other GFP functionaries and MLAs took a solemn oath at the Bodgeshwar temple to never align with BJP under any circumstances in the future. “Our party has come to pray before the deity to bless them to strengthen the party in every nook and corner of the state. He asserted that the GFP will do everything possible to defeat BJP which has now become the Bhrashtachari Janata Party,” Kandolkar said. GFP MLAs Jayesh Salgaonkar, Vinod Palyekar, party vice president Durgadas Kamat and other party office bearers were present at the temple. Kandolkar said that BJP MLAs, who were part of the medium of instruction agitation in 2012 had sworn an oath before Bodgeshwar, had gone back on their word after forming the government. “GFP would never allow the BJP to come to power in any way, directly or indirectly, in 2022. He further said that he had begged forgiveness for past mistakes and that the battle now is between Team Goa and the BJP,” Sardesai said. The Fatorda MLA also appealed to all opposing the BJP to come together to defeat the corrupt and anti-Goa Bhrashtachari Janata Party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-vows-before-bodgeshwar-to-never-align-with-bjp/articleshow/80607786.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||With 61% vaccinations, Rajasthan at second spot after Lakshadweep||JAIPUR: Hesitancy towards Covid-19 vaccine seems to be waning in the state with the daily turnout not having just improved but placing Rajasthan among the leading states/UTs in Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country. While Lakshadweep leads the pack, Rajasthan has secured the second spot in the list of states/UTs reporting more than 50% turnout of beneficiaries in drive launched in the country on January 16. According to the figures available till Saturday morning, more than 61% of registered healthcare workers had already taken the jab. No other states or UT have achieved it except Lakshadweep. “We have already covered more than 61% health workers. We are best after Lakshadweep. Team work and proper planning helped us in achieving the success in vaccination drive,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The health department has efficiently upgraded its vaccination drive as it started with 167 vaccination sites on January 16 and by the end of the month now the number of sites have significantly gone up to 5,440 across the state. Apart from Lakshadweep and Rajasthan, seven other states/UTs have already managed to vaccinate more than 50% of the registered healthcare staff. Those include Tripura (58%), Madhya Pradesh (57%), Odisha (57%), Haryana (55%), A&N Islands (55%), Mizoram (55%) and Uttar Pradesh (51%). States/UTs such as Delhi, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim, Goa, Assam and Ladakh have not been able to achieve even 20% their target, as per the reports on Saturday morning. In terms of absolute numbers, UP is leading with highest number of vaccinations in the country, while in that category too, Rajasthan is at the second spot. On Saturday, despite the health department remaining busy with pulse polio campaign preparations for Sunday, it managed to hold vaccination sessions in 12 districts of the state. According to the health department report, with 4,638 health workers taking the jab on Saturday, the number of beneficiaries vaccinated in the state rose to 3,29,611.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-61-vaccinations-raj-at-2nd-spot-after-lakshadweep/articleshow/80606952.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Aurangabad||‘CBI must disclose findings in B’wood actor’s death case’||Aurangabad: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday raised the issue of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and demanded that the CBI disclose its findings in the case.“Mumbai police were impartially and professionally probing the case, but the central government handed it over to the CBI, he said while alleging that the case was raked up by BJP in view of the Bihar assembly elections. The minister asked why the case was put on the back burner soon after the Bihar elections were over. “In the capacity of Maharashtra’s home minister, I demand that the CBI disclose its findings in the case.”Deshmukh said that it has been over seven months since the transfer of probe to CBI, but the country’s premier investigation agency is not ready to say anything about the development in the case. “The CBI has failed to come out with its findings and revealing about detection of the case,” said the minister.The minister also said that the Mumbai police after carrying out an in-depth probe had found that it is a case of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cbi-must-disclose-findings-in-bwood-actors-death-case/articleshow/80605276.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Nashik||Truck driver mows down traffic cop||Nashik: A 50-year-old constable attached to the traffic branch of the Nashik rural police was run over by a truck on the Peth Gujarat highway and killed on the spot on Saturday afternoon. The deceased constable has been identified as Kumar Gaikwad, a resident of Adgaon in Nashik city. As part of his routine duty, Gaikwad had gone to Peth to crack down on motorists flouting traffic norms. A nakabandi had set up in the Peth area to check for suspicious vehicles. There were five to six other police personnel deployed there. While the others managed to get out of the way of the speeding truck, Gaikwad came under the wheels of the vehicle that was going towards Baroda in Gujarat from Nashik. Rameshwar Gade, the inspector of the Peth police station, said the truck driver has been arrested for causing death due to negligence. Dinesh Bardekar, the inspector at the traffic branch of the rural police, said Gaikwad had been serving the traffic branch for nearly four-and-a-half years. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. Gaikwad’s death during the course of duty, especially at a time when the road safefy campaign is underway in Nashik district, has shocked the police department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/truck-driver-mows-down-traffic-cop/articleshow/80607778.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Plans afoot to shift Ranthambore tigress to Sariska||JAIPUR: After witnessing constant territorial fights between tiger siblings Riddhi and Siddhi at Ranthambore National Park (RNP), the state forest department is planning to shift one of the big cats to Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR). The proposal was floated after tigress Riddhi was grievously injured in a fight and received 14 stitches on the tongue. A forest official said, “These tigresses are daughters of Arrowhead (T-84) and inhabitants of areas which fall in zones 3 and 4 of RTR. The two have been indulging in a fight over the territory for some time and in the last three months, more than five fights have been recorded over territory. It’s under consideration to shift the tigress to another territory. Sariska is the best suitable option.” The idea has, however, not gone well with the wildlife experts and enthusiasts as they believe shifting would give birth to several issues including inbreeding. It is claimed that suspected inbreeding has deterred the steady tiger population growth at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR). As per the records, nine tigers have been relocated from RNP till date. Out of these, five relocated big cats were females and four never delivered a cub at Sariska. The relocated tigress ST-3 is now around 14 years old and ST-5, which was poached in 2018, was also cubless. The tigresses named ST-7 and ST-8 could be facing the same fate as they are now over 8 years old and have not yet delivered any litters. Founder of Sariska Tiger Foundation and wildlife patron Dinesh Durrani said, “The state government should involve wildlife scientists to review the relocation programme before shifting more tigresses to STR. We believe that one of the potential causes could be inbreeding.” “Several states like Maharashtra and MP with high numbers of tiger population are willing to participate in the exchange of tigers in order to diversify the gene pool of the species which will directly result in improving the chances of survival and production of offsprings,” Durrani said. It was also suggested to shift the tigress to the Ramgarh Vishdhari wildlife sanctuary as the forest department is already deliberating on upgrading the sanctuary to tiger reserve. Tapeshwar Singh Bhati, president of Mukundra Hills Environment and Wildlife Society, Kota says, “For the past eight months, a male tiger is living in sanctuary after migrating from Ranthambore. The forest should also keep an option open to pair up the tigress with the male.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plans-afoot-to-shift-rbore-tigress-to-sariska/articleshow/80606974.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC to media: Can’t identify rape survivor even indirectly||MUMBAI: Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has issued additional guidelines to restrain print and electronic media as well as people using social media such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and the internet from publishing information that could “directly or indirectly” disclose a rape survivor’s identity. HC has directed that in cases of rape registered under the Indian Penal Code and offences under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso), the media and those using the social media should “not publish” the names of the parents or relatives of the survivor or the accused’s relation with him or her, or the accused as well as the survivor’s residential, occupational or work address and the village in which they reside in. It has restrained publication of details of the occupation of the parents or other relations of the survivor, or any other relative in such a manner that he or she can be identified. A bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar listed the guidelines while disposing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the mother of a rape survivor. The bench said if the individual is a student, the name of the school or college or any other educational institution or private coaching class or classes which he or she has joined for pursuing her hobbies such as “music, drawing, dance, stitching, cooking etc” and the family background should not be mentioned in articles or posts. HC said it was passing these additional guidelines as despite Supreme Court’s December 11, 2018, directions in a petition by Nipun Saxena against even “remotely” identifying rape survivors as well as penal provisions under IPC Section 228 (A), the rules are flouted. It noted a “news item” of a 2011 kidnap and rape case in local publications before it “clearly indicates that the identity of the victim is established... though the name of the accused and the name of the victim is not mentioned”. HC also passed directions to trial courts and police officers. It said, “It is noticed that while framing of charges, recording the evidence, recording the statement of the accused under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the name of the victim is disclosed.” It directed special trial courts under provisions of Pocso Act, 2012, therefore, to conceal the name of the survivor, by referring to him or her with some abbreviation or letters such as “X” while framing charges, recording statements or evidence. HC also directed that police should avoid naming survivors under Pocso Act and refer to them as “X” in remand reports. A D Ostwal, amicus curiae in the matter, had contended “the electronic media holds interviews of the victim or his/her relations”. He said though care is taken to blur the face, identity can be disclosed by the survivor’s voice. After hearing prosecutor S J Salgare, HC, in its January 19 judgement, said, “We hope that the electronic media will show restraint in holding interviews of the victims and/or their relatives and would take all precautions to avoid and prevent disclosure of the identity of the victim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-to-media-cant-identify-rape-survivor-even-indirectly/articleshow/80605792.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Kanhargaon, a stepping stone for tigers||Nagpur: Around 190km from Nagpur in the southeastern part of Vidarbha lies the last remaining dense reserve forest patch of little known Kanhargaon, which got its name from this obscure village. Endowed with rich flora and fauna, the 269sqkm area is now the 50th wildlife sanctuary in the state. After several flip-flops, finally on December 4, 2020 chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the state board (SWBL), formally declared the 269sqkm area as a sanctuary though its final notification is yet to be issued. With this, Maharashtra has the highest number of 55 protected areas (PAs) in the country. Kanhargaon is 35km away from Chandrapur on way to Allapalli (Gadchiroli). The Chandrapur district is already known for its water resources and mineral wealth and has been famous from ancient times as the capital of the Gond dynasty. The district is already known the world over for tigers, the late philanthropist Baba Amte’s ashram at Anandavan, India’s largest thermal power plant, coal mines, cement and paper factories, huge limestone, bauxite, iron and chromite deposits. The only last remaining dense forest patch, Kanhargaon maintains the sanctity of the north-south tiger corridor between Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in the north and Kawal Tiger Reserve in Telangana to the south. As per the latest estimation, Maharashtra has 312 tigers that are crying for space causing conflict with humans. The core-buffer zone of TATR is situated almost in the centre of Chandrapur so the source population of tiger breeding has spread over the whole forest in the district and is also spreading in the neighbouring districts. Hence, Kanhargaon holds the key to long-term conservation of tigers. Kanhargaon, a shooting block during the Raj era even after independence up to 1972, when the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA) was enacted, is still enchanting, despite heavy logging operations in the last 60 years by the state-owned Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), which generates around Rs30 crore annual revenue by selling timber. The pristine forest is not just a collection of trees but some of the dense plots speak volumes about the rich biodiversity and wildlife it houses and it future potential. The forest acclaims a strong ecosystem with a mix of bamboo clusters, teak plantations and other indigenous trees like ain, bija, shisam, moha, tendu, charoli, bibla, kadhai, dhawda, beheda, hirda etc. Despite suffering the onslaught for years together, Kanhargaon still looks generous to accommodate wildlife. “There are resident tigers and cattle kills in and around Kanhargaon is a regular feature, especially in the 10 territorial forest compartments which have now been included in the sanctuary area. In 2020, 11 cattle kills were recorded in these compartments. Less number of cattle kills also shows there is prey base in the area,” says Arvind Munde, deputy conservator (DyCF), Central Chanda. Even if what Munde says is true, many cattle kills occurring in forest areas may be going unreported. “As per the survey conducted in 2015 by NGO Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), there were 10 tigers and 23 leopards in Kanhargaon. Since then there has been no survey to estimate big carnivores. The phase IV estimation could not be conducted here due to Covid-19,” said Central Chanda divisional manager Aryasree T. A section of locals recalls several stories told by their forefathers about how the British officers used to trap wild animals and kill them for trophy hunting in this shooting block. “They used to tie the bait to a tree and hide behind a stonewall and shoot the animal when it approached the bait. Some Britishers also used to hunt with the help of elephants,” recalls Kishore Velade from Wamanpalli, a village on the edge. Velade says, “They kept hunted animal trophies and distributed the meat among the locals. These stonewalls can still be seen in Devai and other forest areas.” Conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar adds, “Late actor Shammi Kapoor too was fascinated by the Kanhargaon forests and had visited the shooting block in the seventies.” The area was first handed over to the Forest Development Board (FDB) in 1969 to convert non-teak forests into teak forests. There were only four divisions then – Nagpur, Bhandara, West Chanda, and Central Chanda. In 1974, FDB was replaced with FDCM, and seven more divisions were added to it. Of the 269 sqkm sanctuary area, 251sqkm belongs to FDCM (leased out by the state) while 18 sqkm is from Central Chanda territorial division. To make strong ground for sanctuary and drop the idea of conservation reserve as was being pushed by the authorities, all villages, including Kanhargaon, have been excluded. Now, the entire area of the sanctuary is a reserve forest where no activity is allowed unless permitted. Presently, the forest is being maintained with an eye on commercial operations and hence, wildlife management is not the top priority. It reflects when one moves on the rocky and bumpy roads which are meant for heavy vehicles to transport felled timber. A huge fire tower gives a glimpse of the entire Kanhargaon forest and ostensibly must have been built to send forest fire alerts. There was one check-dam in the dense thickets with sufficient water in Pachgaon with old tiger pugmarks indicating tiger movement in the area. There was no water source seen during the next 20km travel till Wamanpalli. Sightings of sambar and chitals in small groups near dilapidated ‘open jail’ were eye-soothing. Droppings of other herbivores were indirect proof of their presence. “The open jail and a jailer’s bungalow near Camp 3 on Wamanpalli road was built post-independence where prisoners were put and asked to do forestry works as punishment,” recalls Pandurang Kudmete, a tractor mechanic-turned van majoor. Even as there are still fragile attempts to oppose the sanctuary, Kanhargaon has huge potential to compete with Tadoba. “Three days after Kanhargaon was declared a sanctuary, parties are showing interest in buying land. Some agents approached me offering Rs3.5 lakh per acre for my farmland adjoining the forest,” says Velade. Kishor Rithe, who was on the panel to decide on Kanhargaon’s proposal, says, “To allay unwarranted fears of locals about displacement, we put all the villages out from the plan giving up 100sqkm crucial forest area. This area can be added to the sanctuary in the future when people realize tigers can bring money.” Rithe cited the example of villages in the Tadoba buffer who initially opposed the buffer zone but now the same villages want to be part of the buffer considering the huge benefits of ecotourism locals are reaping. State wildlife board member Bandu Dhotre said, “It will take some time for land prices to shoot up around Kanhargaon. But there is no doubt that it is the only vital patch for the long-term survival of dispersing tigers from TATR. It will be another Tadoba in the making and provide better survival conditions to wild animals.” “Kanhargaon is a tiger source for Gadchiroli and Telangana. The natural bamboo with mixed forest, Wainganga and Wardha rivers, and natural resources together will support as eco-socio means for locals. Declaring it a tiger reserve should be the next step,” said Bhamburkar. “WCT has been monitoring tigers in this landscape and Kanhargaon block is one of the few areas which are consistently supporting a resident breeding tiger population. This sanctuary will further enhance the tiger connectivity in the greater Tadoba landscape,” says wildlife biologist Aditya Joshi. STEPS TOWARDS THE SANCTUARY * In April 2013, the original proposal consisted of 370 sqkm. It included 58 sqkm area of Kothari range in Central Chanda and 312 sqkm area of FDCM * Amid opposition from locals and politicians, a curtailed proposal of 265 sqkm sent to government on June 21, 2014 * On December 5, 2018, ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis agrees to declare it a sanctuary but it never materialized due to opposition within * Uddhav Thackeray clears the 269sqkm proposal * TATR key link to Kanhargaon, Chaprala in Gadchiroli and Kawal in Telangana * A compact block, dispersing population from Tadoba not only makes the area rich in tigers but also a natural habitat for many animals * Apart from tigers, other wildlife includes leopards, jungle cat, jackal, fox, deer, sambar, barking deer, blue bull, wild boar, sloth bear, wild dogs & gaurs. * With more area, gene-pool proportion to rise and ill effects of inbreeding can be eliminated to ensure healthy population of wild animals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kanhargaon-a-stepping-stone-for-tigers/articleshow/80605765.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Demands met, most safai staff relent||NEW DELHI: More than 20 days after sanitation workers stopped clearing garbage from roadsides in north Delhi, residents and commuters may heave a sigh of relief on Sunday after some of the unions announced the end of their strike on Saturday. The announcement was made after a meeting with North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash. The civic body has accepted the demands of the agitating sanitation workers’ unions and assured they would be fulfilled in a time-bound manner. These demands include regularisation of contractual workers enrolled from 1998-2003 in 3-4 months, accommodating those enrolled on compassionate grounds from 2003-2006 and giving all benefits to sanitation workers after they are regularised. Meanwhile, paramedical and nurses’ unions also called off their strike after payment of salaries till December- end. “Issues raised by the workers will be resolved one by one in a time-bound manner. After the meeting, the unions assured they would start lifting garbage from Saturday evening. We expect to clear all the backlog in two days and sweep all roads by Monday,” said the mayor. In the office order issued on January 30, it was stated that a preamble would be moved in the next two days for approval through a standing committee for anticipatory approval and implementation of fundamental rule 17 for employees who have been regularised. “It includes providing all benefits to the contractual workers after they are regularised. However, the arrears will be paid when the financial condition of the corporation improves,” said Jai Prakash. Regarding the regularisation of left out cases (daily wagers) from 1996-1998, the matter will be taken with concerned zones and efforts will be made to regularise all after receiving documents from concerned zones in a month, said the mayor. “We will also initiate a process for incorporating substitute staff enrolled from 1998-2003. After compiling the data, a preamble will be placed before the corporation for starting the process, which will be completed in the next 3-4 months. Similar time will be taken for regularisation of contractual staff hired on compensation ground from 2003-2006,” the order stated. Sant Lal Chawaria, president of Akhil Bhartiya Shramik Sangh, said that union members had a detailed discussion with the mayor after which the strike was called off. “We immediately asked our colleagues to get back to work and start lifting garbage from roads. Situation will improve from Sunday,” he said. A P Khan, convener of Confederation of MCD employees union, however, said that employees from other departments would continue their protest. “We were neither invited for the meeting nor given any assurance,” said Deepak Sharma, executive member of the confederation. Delhi Nagar Nigam Shramik Sangh president J P Tank said their union would take a call on Monday. “We need to understand how serious the department is to meet the demands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/demands-met-most-safai-staff-relent/articleshow/80606977.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 31, 2021||Kolhapur||Prime suspect in major theft case killed||Kolhapur: The prime suspect in a major theft case in Warna Nanar — involving crores of rupees — was brutally murdered by unidentified people in Sangli on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Mainuddin alias Raja Abubakar Mulla (44). Witnesses told police that Mulla was chased by three to four people in the Ganesh Nagar area. Mulla cried out for help, but nobody opened the door for him. The attackers caught him on the first floor of a building and attacked him with sharp weapons. Mulla died on the spot. A sickle has been recovered from the crime scene. Police went to the spot when alerted. The dog squad could not provide any clue. Police believe the attackers fled in a vehicle and all district borders have been sealed. Mulla, who is a resident of Panhala in Kolhapur district, had been in Miraj for the past few days. He was arrested in a theft case in 2016, but was released on bail a few months ago. He was arrested when his lavish lifestyle made the police suspicious. On checking, the police found Rs 3 crore hidden in his mother-in-law’s house. Mulla, who used to work as a driver, had stolen the money from a developer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/prime-suspect-in-major-theft-case-killed/articleshow/80605287.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Surat||Bag containing Rs 25 lakh cash looted at knifepoint in Surat||SURAT: An unidentified man looted Rs 25 lakh cash from two employees of an oil trading firm at knifepoint in broad daylight in Rampura area of the city on Saturday. The entire incident was captured on CCTV camera. According to police, accountant Hamid and deliveryman Amin were going on a motorcycle to deposit the cash in an Angadia firm at around 5.30 pm when they stopped their motorcycle at Rampura crossroad due to heavy traffic. At the same time, a person in dark coloured clothes stopped his motorcycle near them. The man demanded the bag with cash and on refusal, he stabbed a knife in Hamid’s thigh, who was riding the bike. Amin sitting pillion got down from the motorcycle and tried to get away with the bag of cash. Hamid lost control and fell down with the motorcycle. The robber followed Amin and threatened to stab if he refused to hand over the bag. A terrified Amin handed the bag to the accused who later escaped on his motorcycle. The robber had not covered his face and police suspect that he knew about that the victims going to deposit the cash. “Only a couple of people knew of the movement of cash,” said a person associated with the oil trading firm. “We are working on various angles and teams are searching for the robber,” said a police officer. Watch Surat: Bag containing 25 lakh cash looted at knifepoint in broad daylight||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bag-containing-rs-25l-cash-looted-at-knifepoint/articleshow/80605295.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Cop whose efforts fetched Papla||Jaipur: While everyone in the police department is claiming credit for the arrest of notorious gangster Papla Gujjar, an RPS officer who visited 14 states and spent hardly two months at home in the last 18 months hasn’t said a word. Jaipur Range 1 ASP Siddhant Sharma, who was posted in SOG-Udaipur when Papla escaped, was assigned the task to collect information on the gangster. The whole operation was kept secret to an extent that the officer had used and changed more than 20 SIM cards to ensure his movements were not tracked by informers within police department and outsiders. He was in touch with his seniors especially IG Hawa Singh Ghumaria and was allowed to call at any hour to share inputs. TOI on Saturday spoke to the officer to know about the hard work and the pain he endured to track the gangster. “With my team, we used to visit various states. There was specific directions to ensure our movements were not tracked by our counterparts,” said Sharma. He had visited more than 14 states in past one-and-a-half years. “We used to stay in a city or a state for more than a month or even more to develop sources and we actually tried to know the psyche of Papla,” he added. Sharma’s family stays in Jaipur but he spent just a couple of month with them in the last 18 months. “During past one-and-a-half-year, I never kept my phone on silent mode. I had to use different SIM cards to ensure my movement was not tracked. I was only in touch with some of my senior officers like former IG of Jaipur range S Sengathir and present IG.” “I was excited when I got some leads and I shared with my senior officer Hawa Singh Ghumeria sir. We were determined that this time we will not let him slip from our hands,” he added. He attributed the success to every member of his team and seniors. “We had ups and downs but I am happy we could do it,” he added. Ghumaria said, “He first informed me about the leads he got about Kolhapur and that’s when we planned to keep everything secret until we got Papla.” There are more stories on his bravery. “Once a police team accompanied a forest department team after a panther was witnessed in the residential area of Bhiwadi in Alwar. While he had gone to the spot, the panther attacked a constable and he jumped on to the panther and saved the life of constable,” said a senior officer who was with Alwar police in 2017,” said a senior officer. Why he was fit for the job ? During his stint as Bhiwadi’s circle officer, Naranaul police had informed him about the fleeing of Papla from Haryana police custody in 2017. Thus, he developed sources in Haryana and also worked to facilitate Haryana police. After Papla escaped from Behror police station, senior officers knowing about his previous home work found him the suitable officer to chase the fugitive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-whose-efforts-fetched-papla/articleshow/80605773.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Papla sent to police remand for 13 days||Jaipur: The woman, who was arrested along with gangster Papla Gujjar, has claimed that she had no idea about the criminal antecedents of the gangster. Police, however, have found that she had facilitated Papla in getting bank accounts opened through fake IDs. Police will now get Papla confronted with the woman as the gangster was taken on a 13-day police custody on Saturday. Senior officers of Bhiwadi police and Jaipur Range maintained that Jia Ussehar Sigaligar (32), who was arrested from the house at Kolhapur in Maharashtra along with Papla, is changing her statements every now and then. “We are investigating her role of harbouring Papla and we have also found that she had facilitated the gangster in opening bank accounts through fake IDs. Thus, we have also added Section 420 of IPC against her,” said IG (Jaipur Range) Hawa Singh Ghumeria. Meanwhile, Papla underwent an identification parade after which police applied for his remand. “We have been granted a remand of 13 days. Now we need to know who else harboured and helped him financially and in getting accommodations during his stay. Where he spent the last 18 months while on the run?,” Ghumeria added. Police said to ascertain the claims made by the girl, police will put Papla and the woman on the same table for interrogation. “Their confrontation is necessary and we have to find when and how they met. What led the woman to facilitate the gangster? Is she actually innocent to an extent that she was clueless on the criminal antecedents of Papla? These things need to be find out through their interrogation,” Ghumeria added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/papla-sent-to-police-remand-for-13-days/articleshow/80605798.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Red Fort vandals will not be spared: Rajnath||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the vandalism at Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day was a shameful incident. “The Red Fort is a symbol of dignity and honour of the country. Those involved in the shameful incident will not be spared,” Singh said while speaking at a conclave organised by a TV channel. Asked about possibility of the involvement of Khalistan-supporting organisations, Singh said the issue is a matter of probe and it will not be pertinent for him to speak on the issue. “However, I must say that the entire Sikh community should not be defamed,” he added. Singh said there was an understanding with the farm union leaders that they will also celebrate the Republic Day by taking out a tractor rally which was allowed. “However, there was no compliance of the terms and conditions on which the rally was allowed,” he said. Asked about the blast in New Delhi near Israel embassy, Singh said it is too early to make any comment as investigations are on and culprits will be arrested soon. “We have strong bonding with Israel, which has expressed full faith in the Indian agencies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/red-fort-vandals-will-not-be-spared-rajnath/articleshow/80608280.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||No death in Nagpur city for second day in a row||Nagpur: For the second day in a row, no Covid-19 death was reported in Nagpur city on Saturday. However, 2 patients died in Nagpur rural and 2 patients who were referred from other states/divisions died in Nagpur on Saturday, which makes the official death toll of the day to 4. Overall, Vidarbha region reported 712 new cases, 730 recoveries and 10 deaths due to Covid-19 on January 30. Gondia district reported no new case of Covid-19 after almost 10 months and became the second district after Gadchiroli to record this feat this month. Amravati reported 147 new cases in a day, a three-figure increase after a long time. In all, 712 new cases include Nagpur (294), Amravati (149), Buldhana (76), Yavatmal (68), Wardha (43), Akola (33), Chandrapur (19), Washim (12), Bhandara (10), Gadchiroli (8), and Gondia (0). After two days, the number of patients recovered from the Covid-19 was more than the number of new cases, though, the difference was very less. Total 730 patients recovered in a day from Nagpur (347), Amravati (143), Yavatmal (77), Akola (34), Wardha (30), Washim (24), Chandrapur (22), Buldhana (18), Gondia (16), Bhandara (15), and Gadchiroli (4). Now, out of the total 2.72 lakh cases reported till date, 2.59 lakh have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 95.2% which is equal to the state average and less than the national average which is 97%. Ten deaths of the day were from Nagpur (4), Amravati (2), Buldhana (2), Bhandara (1), and Yavatmal (1). Vidarbha’s toll is now 6,960. The fatality rate is 2.55%. Akola: With more than 350 reports received in a day, 33 tested positive. Total 34 patients recovered. Now, total cases in the district are 11,566, including 10,547 recoveries and 335 deaths. Total 684 patients are under treatment, the highest in Vidarbha barring Nagpur. Buldhana: A 90-year-old man and a 62-year-old man – both patients of Covid-19 died during treatment on Saturday. This took the district’s toll to 169. More than 1200 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Out of them, 76 tested positive taking the total caseload of Buldhana to 13,928. With 18 patients recovering, 13,405 patients have recovered. Total 354 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 12 new cases and 24 recoveries, Washim district now has 7,122 Covid-19 cases, 6,815 recoveries and 153 patients under treatment. Gondia: For the first time in the last 10 months, Gondia reported no new case. Total 16 patients recovered in a day. While the number of cases is still 14,175, recoveries increased to 13,865. No death was reported on Saturday. The toll also remained unchanged at 181. Now, 128 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: With 10 new cases and 15 recoveries, total cases in Bhandara reached 13,214 and recoveries reached 12,713 on Saturday. The district also reported a death of Covid-19 patient on Saturday which took the toll to 321. Now, 180 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 8 new cases while 4 patients recovered on Saturday. No death was reported. Gadchiroli district now has 9,355 cases, 9,193 recoveries and 105 deaths. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is more than 98% which is the highest in Vidarbha. Total 57 patients, lowest in Vidarbha, are under treatment in Gadchiroli. Amravati: Two Covid deaths and 149 new cases on Saturday have once again underlined the fact that the coronavirus is not on the wane in district. The day also saw 143 recoveries, leaving 334 active cases. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death and 68 cases. Currently there are 468 active cases. 13,481 have recovered, including 77 on Saturday. Chandrapur: There were 22 cases, while 19 patients were discharged. No death was reported and the toll lingers at 391. The active patients now amount to 132. Wardha: 43 more tested positive and 30 were discharged on Saturday. 363 are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-death-in-nagpur-city-for-second-day-in-a-row/articleshow/80605816.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Defence budget and quest for ‘atamnirbhar’ modernisation||India is grappling with an aggressive Dragon in the north, with uneasy stalemate on LAC beginning to acquire LoC type character. Hence, expectations from defence budget are indeed very high. These are further fuelled by the stark reality that challenges have multiplied, with no resolution in sight on the western border. They are further exacerbated by China and Pakistan acting in collusive mode. Even internally, quest for conflict resolution in proxy war in J&K, simmering insurgency in NE and LWE affected areas has met with only incremental success. It is also fairly apparent that diplomacy and alliances, like Quad, have limitations. The only recourse in dealing with China is to follow West African proverb, quoted by former US President Theodore Roosevelt, “speak softly and carry a big stick”. The stick translates to two primary manifestations — defence modernisation and infrastructure in border areas. The current government, with its muscular approach was naturally expected to accelerate the process. There is discernible progress on connectivities, accompanied by fanfare, which has served to ruffle sensitivities across. It is axiomatic that infrastructure is matched with capabilities and modernisation, which entail long term planning and higher budgetary allocations. Much needed rebalancing of force has been ordered and other optimisation measures are under consideration. However, optimisation and modernisation are not zero-sum functions. The government in its first term opted for ‘bread-and-butter’ development issues with defence budget pegged below 1.5% of GDP. Defence modernisation barely found mention in budgetary speeches. Defence planning has remained largely an annual exercise, anchored to budget, peppered with knee jerk emergency procurements. The only achievement seems to be production of another 657 pages long manual, titled as Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP)-2020 with distinct ‘Atamnirbhar’ slant. There have been many versions of Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) since 2002, but unfortunately, in post Bofors and Rafael era, process and procedures have become an end in themselves. Long Term Integrated Perspective Plan (LTIPP) and Defence plans, spread over 15 and 5 years, respectively. These are essentially theoretical articulation of wish list, with no assurance on funding. The current Defence plan, promulgated in 2017 has an outlay of Rs 26.84 lakh crore. This would imply doubling of budgetary allocations with roll over budgeting and entailing non-lapsing capital fund. Both remain logical prerequisites, yet to find approval from financial czars. The obvious question is why such outlandish planning, especially when average decadal growth in defence outlay has been limited between 8 to 10%? The answer to this lies in successive governments asserting that there is no resource crunch for forces, primarily to pander to domestic constituency. This is further amplified by skilfully projecting each acceptance of necessity (AON) as acquisition. With dysfunctional procurement system, it only adds to burgeoning pile of such proposals, which even with assured funding can take 5-8 years to enter operational service. One such emphatic assertion was made in parliamentary standing committee on defence (SCoD), in response to my briefing on hollowness in the aftermath of leaked DO letter of COAS in 2011. It was again reiterated in July 18 by Raksha Mantri, “there is neither a shortage of funds nor ammunition”. This was after the Vice Chief had told SCoD that budgetary allocations for the Army at Rs 21,388 crore are insufficient even to cater to committed liabilities in 125 schemes of Rs 29,033 crore. He even flagged that equipment profile was 68% vintage, 24% current and only 8% state of art or modern. To inject objectivity in this debate, this dismal state has been reached due to inadequate funding by successive regimes. As per informed opinion, India has the lowest per capita expenditure on defence, amongst the top six club. It will be appropriate to compare gap between projections by Armed Forces, against actual budgetary allocations in last decade. Shortfall was Rs 23,104 crore in 2011-12, peaking in 2018-19 to Rs 1,12,137 crore, plateauing at Rs 1,03,535 crore in 2020-21. Large percentage of this gap, approximately 75% impacts modernisation, averaging Rs 75,000 to 80,000 crore. This resulted in another scathing report by SCoD in 2020. It also meant that in January 19, payment of Rs 20,000 crore to HAL had to be withheld to meet external contractual liabilities. Last defence budget (2020-21) reflected 1.82% increase over previous one with an outlay of Rs 3.37 lakh crore. In this, capital budget, catalyst for modernisation included meagre increase of 3%, amounting to Rs 3,400 crore, over the revised estimates (RE) of 2019-20. The Air Force engaged in major modernisation drive and was allocated Rs 43,281.91 crore, which was lower than RE of Rs 44,869.14 crore. Chinese aggression on LAC has resulted in emergency purchases of $2 billion since June 20, 2020 and exemption of Covid curbs on DMA, except DA pay outs. The biggest challenge in Covid-induced economic downturn is to find resources for modernisation. There has been buzz that in 2019, the government had finalised substantial defence modernisation plan with an outlay of $130 billion over seven years. Despite expectations, it is unlikely to be included in budgetary outlay and may be announced, as an intent to be funded later. At best, an increase of Rs 10,000 to 15,000 crore towards capital acquisitions is anticipated. While there is push for ‘atamnirbharata’ but it is appropriate to put on record the fact that CAG and other bodies have flagged disproportionately high costs of indigenous platforms. It may be worthwhile to look at targeted and smart self-reliance, coupled with strategic collaborative partnerships, to become the lead integrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/defence-budget-and-quest-for-atamnirbhar-modernisation/articleshow/80607004.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||CAS-2015 interviews held in RTU without govt nod||Kota: The Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) interviews in 2015 was allegedly done by the Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) in Kota without prior approval from the state government. Subsequent probes, recommendations of which still lay tangled in correspondence after five years, has eventually left a large number of young new teachers elusive from 5th and 6th Pay Scale CAS promotions as interviews for them have not been conducted since 2015 while as per AICTE gazette notification CAS interviews should be conducted every year regularly. RTU had promoted 35 teachers for 5th and 6th pay scale provisions. Subsequently, allegations of promotions to the favourable surfaced resulting into probe committees that confirmed various anomalies in the conduct of CAS-2015 and made recommendation for actions in respective categories. Leaving the plight of young teachers seeking promotions for last five years, the issue has now involved into fresh controversy with the RTU administration having written a fresh letter in October 2020 to state government’s technical education department (TED) claiming they have directions as per TED letter dated 25 September 2020 for conduct of 6th Pay Scale CAS from March 5, 2010 to February 28, 2019 as per AICTE Gazette notification, New Delhi, and as per UGC notification F 3.1/ 2009 dated June 30, 2010 for conduct of 5th Pay Scale up to 31 December 2008 and beyond that as per 6th Pay Scale CAS. The RTU administration wrote the letter seeking clarity after five years in October this year whereas it had already sought the applications in June 2015 for conduct of 5th Pay Scale CAS up to November 7, 2012 and 6th Pay Scale CAS from November 8, 2012 onwards deciding at its own. Recently, the enquiry committee constituted by state government to look into in CAS-2015 promotions also reported anomaly of dates decided by RTU. On delaying promotions to the young teachers, who are still deprived and on anomalies in the conduct of CAS-2015, RTU vice-chancellor Dr R A Gupta said the university administration under him is keen to give promotions under CAS to all the deserving teachers but they ‘want everything to be done after complete clarity’ of norms from TED and a letter for it has already been written and the response is awaited. However, he expressed ignorance on absence of government’s prior approval of CAS-15 and stressed they implemented one of the categories of promotions (associate professor to professor). On promotions to ineligible teachers under CAS–2015 and recommended withdrawal of the same, Gupta said they have written letter on it to state government mentioning that All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) permits the candidate, who has appeared at open interview, also to appear at CAS, it is now awaited what the government responds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cas-2015-interviews-held-in-rtu-without-govt-nod/articleshow/80605812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Nashik||13 CCCs closed in Nashik dist due to lack of patients||Nashik: The district health office (DHO), Nashik, has ordered for the closure of 13 Covid care centres (CCC) due to the lack of patients taking treatment at these facilities. “The number of active cases has come below 500 and many of the centres were lying vacant. However, we still have eight CCCs which will continue to function as fever clinics,” said district health officer Kapil Aher.  The fall in the active cases was a positive indicator, described Aher who said the additional manpower at the CCCs was being shifted to other places. “A few dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) are still functioning in all the talukas. Nowadays, most Covid-19 patients have no symptoms or very mild symptoms and prefer to take treatment at home rather than taking admission in any of the medical facilities,” said Aher. “One of the biggest facilities to be closed was a 400-bed facility at Dang Saundane in Baglan taluka. However, 90 beds in various CCCs and DCHCs have still been reserved for Covid-19 patients,” he said. A 200-bed facility was closed in Yeola taluka while in Niphad, a 210-bed facility was closed. In Sinnar, 190 beds were removed from medical centres resrved for Covid-19 treatment. “Yeola, Nandgaon, Niphad and Sinnnar talukas had been maximum cases. Though the situation in Yeola was better, Sinnar, Niphad and Nandgaon took a long time to bring the number of active cases below 100. The facilities were being closed in these talukas cautiously,” the DHO added. All the rural Hospitals still have Covid facilities and the doctors have been asked to ensure that the facilities are increased as and when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13-cccs-closed-in-nashik-dist-due-to-lack-of-patients/articleshow/80607788.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 31, 2021||Surat||Missing Patidars don’t blur Cong’s hopes for good tally||Surat: The Patidar reservation movement in April 2015 changed the fortunes of the Congress party in the Patidar-dominated areas during the civic elections in 2015. However, with the Patidar factor missing this time, it is going to be tough for the opposition party in the upcoming municipal elections. Out of the total 44 seats in municipal wards dominated by the Patidars, Congress had managed to win 23 in previous election. The Patidar factor may not have worked in favour of Congress in other urban areas of Gujarat during the civic body elections of 2015, but in the Diamond City it painted an alarming picture for the BJP. Congress, which had managed to win just 14 out of the total 114 seats in SMC in 2010, more than doubled its tally to 36 seats in 2015 and increased its vote share by 21.45%. In 2010, Congress’ vote share was 27.7% which rose to 49.15% after 2015 municipal election. This was mainly because of the 23 seats that they managed to win encashing on the Patidars agitating for reservation in jobs and seats in educational institutes.In 2015 elections, BJP could win just two wards of the seven that had more than 40% of the Patidar population from Saurashtra, mainly associated with the diamond industry. The party managed to win ward 13 of Umarwada and 14 of Karanj, but lost in ward 3 of Varachha, ward 2 of Mota Varachha, ward 4 of Kapodara, ward 5 of Ashwanikumar-Fulpada, ward 15 of Una East and ward 16 of Puna West. Senior Congress leader and councillor from Varachha ward, Ashok Jirawala said, “Agreed that there is no Patidar factor working in the upcoming municipal elections, but people in the Patidar-dominated areas know well how we helped them during the coronavirus pandemic. We will be increasing our seat tally to more than 30 this time.”Sources in the political circles said that the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) focus is mainly on the Patidar dominated areas. Gopal Italiya, Gujarat president of AAP hails from Surat. Italiya told TOI, “Our focus is not just Patidar-dominated areas, but the entire city. We are going to field candidates on all the 120 municipal seats in the civic election. We are least bothered with the agendas of BJP and the Congress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/missing-patidars-dont-blur-congs-hopes-for-good-tally/articleshow/80605301.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chandigarh||Take action against doctors, cops for delay in medical reports in criminal cases: Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: In an order with wide ramifications on criminal cases being registered on basis of medical reports of victims, the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the heads of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh health departments to ensure that medical opinion in criminal cases is given to police by concerned doctors without any delay. The DGPs of both the states and UT Chandigarh have also been directed to issue instructions to concerned investigating officers (IOs) to obtain copies of medical reports immediately and make such reports part of their investigation record immediately on receipt thereof. “Needless to say such instructions should also have the provision that in case of any undue, unreasonable and unexplained delay on the part of the concerned doctor or investigating officer appropriate departmental action shall be taken against them by the competent authorities,” the high court ordered. The HC has also ordered all sessions judges/additional sessions judges/ chief judicial magistrates/additional chief judicial magistrates/judicial magistrates first class in both the states and Chandigarh to ask for production of such reports if already prepared at the time of decision of bail application and before commencement of trial. A single bench headed by Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi passed the order while exercising its inherent powers during the hearing of a bail plea filed by Sunil Kumar and another resident of Mahendergarh district of Haryana. The petitioners were booked on April 17, 2020 for the offences under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt with deadly weapon) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at Kanina police station of Mahendergarh district. A day after their arrest, the accused were granted bail by the local court as the charges were mild in nature. However, five months after the incident, the medical report of the victim pointed towards serious injuries after which the police slapped serious charges under Section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) against the accused. The accused then approached the HC seeking bail on the ground that they had already been granted bail in the case and the liberty of bail should be continued as they had not misused the condition of bail. Considering the high number of such instances being received by the HC from both the states and UT Chandigarh reflecting unexplained delay in obtaining medical reports, the judge expanded the scope of the petition and passed the orders exercising inherent powers. The judge has also asked both the states of Punjab and Haryana and the Chandigarh administration to file replies on the issue by February 2 on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/take-action-against-doctors-cops-for-delay-in-medical-reports-in-criminal-cases-hc/articleshow/80607006.cms||Ajay Sura
January 31, 2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Two get 10 years in jail for opium smuggling||JAISALMER: Barmer headquarters special judge NDPS affairs Sushil Kumar Jain has sentenced two persons — Kailash Chandra Jat and Jamnalal Brahman — to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment each and the penalty of Rs 1 lakh each, under the NDPS Act, in a case of opium smuggling. Special public prosecutor Jaswant Bohra said that on April 12, 2017 around 6am, Dhorimanna police got information from an informer that Kesharam aka Kailash Chandra Jat was smuggling opium milk for quite some time. He was at Chittorgarh and was to return. Based on the information, the cops, taking action under section 42(1) of the NDPS Act, put up blockading and around 8am, a person was spotted who was identified as Kailash Chandra and police detained him and later arrested him. Also, 4kg opium milk was recovered from him. During investigation, it was found that the opium milk was purchased from Jamnalal, following which further probe took place and the challan was produced in the court. During the hearing, the complainant’s side presented 16 witnesses and 64 documents and 8 articles. Judge Jain considering both guilty of smuggling opium under section 8/18, 29 of the NDPS Act, sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment of 10 years each and penalty of Rs 1 lakh each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-get-10-yrs-in-jail-for-opium-smuggling/articleshow/80605820.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Surat||PAAS seeks permission to hold rally again on Feb 7||Surat: Breaking years of silence, Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti’s (PAAS) city unit has again become active. In a latest, the samiti has sought permission to hold Tiranga Yatra on February 7, which was earlier denied to them on January 26 on Varachha road.PAAS was to hold the rally against the Farm Bills and in support of protesting farmers at Delhi, to withdraw police cases against PAAS members registered during past protests and government college in Varachha. Cops had then arrested 93 persons while attempting to take out a rally without permission. Total four FIRs were registered against them in Varachha, Kapodra and Sarthana police stations. PAAS leaders have approached the Gujarat High Court challenging refusal for permission for letting them hold a rally. “We challenged the refusal in the court after which the local authorities have been served notices by the court to submit their reply. January 27 was the last date to submit reply when they requested the court for more time,” said Dharmik Malaviya, convener, PAAS. “It was argued verbally by police in court that it is a Republic Day and police are busy in various other events being held in the city. Following this the court asked us to suggest an alternate date after which we applied for a fresh date,” Malaviya added. PAAS wants to take out the rally from Sarthana to Mini Bazaar on Varachha road that covers the largest Patidar locality in the city. Majority of the seats won by Congress were from these areas during 2015 municipal election when Patidar Anamat Andolan was in its peak. “PAAS was active during the lockdown by providing food and other help to people. Our movement continued but due to Covid-19 we were not aggressive,” Malaviya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/paas-seeks-permission-to-hold-rally-again-on-feb-7/articleshow/80605313.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Flying Club to start from May 8: Govt to HC||NAGPUR: After over three and half years since it was forced shut, the Nagpur Flying Club is showing signs of revival as the Maharashtra government has assured that operations will be restarted from May 8. In a detailed affidavit by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, he informed that efforts are on to secure all the necessary permissions and renewals. This incudes the Director General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) office in Mumbai and Delhi, Aero-Club of India, Wireless and Telecommunication (Wireless Planning and Coordination) Authority in New Delhi and Mumbai, and Airport Authority of India (AAI) here. A division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor then recorded the time schedule submitted by Kumar to restart NFC and clarified that it would be part of the HC’s order. “We also take note of the commissioner’s statement that these steps are inter-connected and delay in one may affect the other. On whether any directives are required to be given to any other authority, he informed that he’s receiving good cooperation from the DGCA offices,” the judges said. The bench emphasized that all authorities will keep extending cooperation to the commissioner to re-start the NFC while adhering to time limit. Assistant government pleader (AGP) NR Patil informed that he will send the order copy to all concerned authorities so that the commissioner will be able to adhere to his commitment. The judges then adjourned the hearing till February 24 for reviewing the progress as assured by Kumar, who’s also NFC’s ex officio chairman. The affidavit was filed in a PIL (No13/2016) originally filed by Flt Lt Shridhar Ghatate through counsel Shriniwas Deshpande and now pursued by his wife Sumedha, after the British-era club stopped operating on account of the government’s apathy. In the last hearing, the judges had directed Kumar to place on record the time schedule for re-starting the club and for taking each of the steps and whether any directives to any authority is required. The commissioner in his affidavit has listed three major steps to be taken to restart NFC -- (A) Airworthiness review certificate renewal (B) recruitments of mandatory posts and (c) flying training organization renewal by the concerned authorities. “From the arguments, it’s clear that the government is not averse to restart NFC. AGP states that there are certain difficulties in restarting the functioning and it will take some time. Deshpande makes a grievance that this position has continued since 2016 and in spite of various orders passed by HC no concrete steps have been taken,” the judges noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-flying-club-to-start-from-may-8-govt-to-hc/articleshow/80605828.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 31, 2021||Shimla||Manav Bharti University of Himachal Pradesh sold 36000 fake degrees||An earlier version of this story erroneously mentioned 'Himachal Pradesh university' in the headline which was incorrect. We apologise for the error.SHIMLA: A special investigating team (SIT) probing a fake degree case has found that Manav Bharti University in Solan, run by the Manav Bharti Charitable Trust, had sold 36,000 fake degrees across 17 states in over 11 years. In fact, of the total 41,000 degrees issued by the university, only 5,000 have been found to be genuine so far. Police have now initiated the process to extradite trust chairman Raj Kumar Rana, his wife Ashoni Kanwar and daughter Aina Rana -- both trustees -- and son from Australia. The trust operates private universities in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), on Friday, had provisionally attached the land, houses and commercial buildings of the trust chairman and his family in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan as well as FDRs totalling Rs 194.17 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Addressing the media in Shimla, director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said this was the first money laundering case involving educational institutes in Himachal Pradesh. He said the investigation by the SIT, which comprises officials from police, ED and income-tax department, had revealed that Rana and his family had amassed property worth Rs 387 crore from the proceeds of the racket. He said four police teams had been formed to investigate a fake degree case and 55 hard discs were recovered, of which 14 had been examined. He said the entire scam had been run cash transaction and, so far, police have assessed property worth Rs 440 crore belonging to Rana and family. Kundu said police had revoked Rana’s passport. Manav Bharti University, Solan, was established under the Manav Bharti University (Establishment and Regulation) Act, 2009. The DGP said they will now register an FIR as to how the university was formed. He said Rana is a resident of Karnal, Haryana, and he started the fake degree racket in 2009. He said the Himachal Pradesh cabinet had rejected a letter of intent sent to the trust in 2008, but had issued one in February 2009. He said Rana had established Madhav University of Rajasthan in 2013 under the aegis of same trust from the proceeds of fake degrees scam of Solan university. Three criminal cases pertaining to the fake degree scam of Manav Bharti University have already been registered at Dharampur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/solan-varsity-sold-36k-fake-degrees-across-17-states/articleshow/80607009.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pune: Active caseload stays above 5,000 as infections exceed recoveries again||PUNE: Fewer Covid-19 recoveries and higher infections on multiple occasions in the last few days have again pushed the active case tally above 5,000 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). The active count in PMR climbed above 5,000 to 5,073 on January 28 and further to 5,263 on Sunday, which was the highest tally in the last 10 days. As many as 462 peoples tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Saturday as against 338 recoveries, which pushed the total infections and discharges above 3.78 lakh and 3.64 lakh, respectively. Seven people succumbed to the contagion in the region on Saturday, pushing its toll to 9,053. The number of active cases had slipped below 5,000 on January 21 and continued to stay in the range of 4,800 to 4,900 till January 27. Officials from the health department of PMC said some rise in daily testing, coupled with comparatively lesser recoveries, pushed up the active caseload. “The rise, however, is marginal and all the cases are being monitored,” a civic health official said. On Saturday, the health authorities conducted 9,609 tests in PMR. For last four days, the region has witnessed continuous increase in daily testing, the reports released by the district health office have revealed. The data also revealed that over 4,000 patients were discharged in the region in the last 10 days as against the addition of more than 4,700 new cases. “On Friday, as many as 4,152 samples were tested in the PMC limits. On January 25, daily testing was around 2,400. We are conducting contact tracing in every case. Daily positive cases have also been on the higher side, barring January 25 when the daily infection had dropped to 98,” the PMC official said. PMC assistant health chief Sanjeev Wavre said no major spurt in daily cases had been reported in the city. “The cases are coming up in a sporadic manner. The number of critical patients has been around 200 since last few days,” he said. Though the active cases have reported a marginal rise, the region’s daily positivity rate in the last week has remained below 10% and has been ranging between 5% to 9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-caseload-stays-above-5k-as-infections-exceed-recoveries-again/articleshow/80607014.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 31, 2021||Pune||Pune: From February, plans to up daily vaccinations at sites to 120%||PUNE: District authorities plan to scale up daily targeted beneficiaries at each site to 120-130% once frontline workers join the inoculation programme from the first week of February. Current daily average per site during the ongoing phase 1 — limited to healthcare workers — is about 70% of the targeted beneficiaries. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said additional personnel, including vaccinators and data entry operators, would be deployed at sites when the number of beneficiaries crosses 100 per session. “The existing number of sites in the district have a target of 100 beneficiaries per session. With help from additional vaccinators, we can ramp up vaccinations by targeting 200 beneficiaries per site — to accommodate frontline workers too. We expect a turnout of 120-130 beneficiaries,” he said. He said that additional session sites will be started in future. Officials said over 80,000 frontline workers from the district have signed up for shots on the CoWIN app so far. Frontline workers include members of the police units, disaster response teams and municipal bodies. Principal secretary, state health department, Pradeep Vyas said all preparations are in place for the increased number of beneficiaries. “We will start vaccinating frontline workers from February 1. We have adequate doses.” State immunization officer Dr DN Patil said, “Maharashtra has enough vaccines, with 18.2 lakh Covishield and 1.75 lakh Covaxin doses. All districts have been directed to begin vaccinating frontline workers, alongside healthcare workers, as per Centre’s directions.” Dr Deshmukh said Pune district currently has 2.2 lakh Covishield doses and 2,000 Covaxin doses, which would also be used for frontline workers until more doses arrive. “We had received these doses for the 1.1 lakh healthcare workers who had registered on CoWIN from the district. These doses are adequate for the registered number of healthcare workers, considering each beneficiary will need two doses. Administering of the second dose for healthcare workers will start from February 16. We expect more doses after February 15.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-feb-plans-to-up-daily-vaccinations-at-sites-to-120/articleshow/80607012.cms||Neha Madaan
January 31, 2021||Nashik||Dist court to resume normal operations from tomorrow||Nashik: After the Register General of the Bombay high court gave instructions to all the courts in the state to regularise normal functioning, the district court in Nashik is all to set to resume regular operations from MondayThe aim would be to dispose as many cases as possible, just like in pre-Covid times, without compromising on the safety protocols. The court has been santised and all the necessary infrastructure required for maintaining proper hygiene and cleanliness, as has been stipulated by the state government, have been put in place to prevent the spread of the infection. After the outbreak of Covid-19, the Bombay high court had instructed all the courts in the state to suspend regular functioning. During the lockdown, hearing of only specific criminal cases, like bail applications and anticipatory bail applications, were carried out. Virtual proceedings of the court increased a few months in to the lockdown. A pilot project of virtual court was also inaugurated in the Nashik court. However, things did not fall in place as expected and many lawyers had to face financial hardships. The decision of the Bombay high court of allowing courts in the state to function normally has relieved lawyers. Nitin Thakare, president of the Nashik Bar Association, said they were continuously putting requests to start the normal functioning of the court and their efforts have finally borne fruit. Avinash Bhide, president of the Maharashtra and Goa Bar Council, said everyone should follow the Covid-safety rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-court-to-resume-normal-operations-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80607791.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||Left parties’ stir against farm laws in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The Left parties, including CPI, CPI (M-L), CPM, Marxist Coordination Committee, and RJD organised a ‘sankalp sabha’ at Bapu Vatika in Morhabadi on Saturday to oppose the central farms laws. CPM’s Prakash Viplav said, “We will form a common platform for campaigning against Reliance and other corporates. We will hold a meeting on February 3 to give a statewide shape to the platform.” Similarly, the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti held an eight-hour fast at Rahe in Ranchi in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation at the Delhi border. Congress has planned a 80km tractor rally from Deoghar to Godda on Sunday in order to oppose the farm laws. Senior party leaders, including state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, are expected to take part in the rally. Meanwhile, Kendriya Sarna Samiti (KSS) took out a torchlight procession from Jaipal Singh stadium to Albert Ekka Chowk in the evening demanding a separate Sarna code for Adivasis. KSS president Phulchand Tirkey said, “The Centre should ensure a separate Sarna code for Adivasis before the census starts or else our community will be ruined.” In another development, members of the 14th Finance Commission (Panchayati Raj) Employee Sangh staged a dharna at Birsa Chowk for renewal of their service contract, which ended in December last year. Earlier, they had sat on a dharna blocking both the gates of Heavy Engineering Corporation for renewal of their contracts. The protesters vacated one of the two roads on Friday to allow the movement of people and vehicles following an assurance from rural development minister Alamgir Alam. On January 22, these protesters were lathicharged when they were headed towards chief minister Hemant Soren’s office to hand over a memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/left-parties-stir-against-farm-laws-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80605648.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||‘Dead’ Chatra woman found living at her parents’ house||Chatra: A 29-year-old married woman, who reportedly went missing mysteriously 28 days ago, was found dead at the house of her father at Barhi in neighbouring Hazaribag district. Mayurhund police said after the woman identified as Mamta Kumari went missing, her father Karu Ram filed an FIR against Kumari's husband and her in-laws, saying they had killed his daughter and hidden her body. Officer-in-charge of Mayurhund police station, Kaushal Kumar Singh, said, "We recovered the body from her father's house at Dulmaha village in Barhi of Hazaribag district after receiving a tip-off." According to the FIR filed by Karu Ram, his daughter was married to one Manstosh Kumar Ram of Shalyey locality of Mayurhund village in Chatra district on April 14, 2014. He said she went missing on December 31 last year and charged her husband and in-laws of killing her after harassing her for dowry. The FIR added that the harassment for dowry was taken up several times by the village panchayat. Singh said police will soon charge Kumari's father with her murder. "We will take an appropriate action in this case," he added. Another policeman said, “Kumari left her husband's home on her own and charged Ram and her and in-laws in the false dowry case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dead-chatra-woman-found-living-at-her-parents-house/articleshow/80605666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand seeks infra, jobs push, tax cut in Budget||RANCHI: Jharkhand is hoping for an increase in central shares to reboot rural and urban infrastructure projects in the state, enhance market liquidity to boost jobs, expand exemption limits in taxation for the salaried class and better connectivity of aerial and train routes to different destinations from the Union budget scheduled on Monday. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said he had already sent a formal letter to Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman with a host of demands and is hopeful that Jharkhand will not remain “neglected” in the upcoming budget. In his letter, Oraon stressed on an increase in central shares and timely transfer of dues to the states. “Usually, central shares get credited on the 20th of every month which should be modified to first of every month so that we don’t have to borrow to make up for deficits during this period,” Oraon said in his letter, adding that he has been demanding for timely payments of state’s shares under different components like goods and services taxes, mining royalties among others for long. For Ranchi, he had also demanded setting up of an IIT to boost higher education. “There are few districts like Khunti, Gumla which aren’t connected with trains. This needs to be addressed,” he wrote. Meanwhile, traders are looking at an enhanced ease of doing business and market liquidity to help trade and commerce overcome the slump due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Praveen Kumar Jain, president of the Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), said they have broadly stressed on a few key areas in their demands put up before the Centre. “First, the budget should be demand-oriented while the focus should be on spending on infrastructure to boost employment and social spending should be highly focused on health and education sectors. All these efforts would help in market liquidity and enhanced cash flow which will give pace to the lagging markets,” he said. Jain also said the government must provide more tax exemption to increase savings for the middle-class (salaried). “Cash in hand will be the key to achieve the projected growth rate of 11% nationally. Hence, we are looking for more exemptions under 80C, health insurance and mediclaim among others,” he said. Another member of FJCCI said its rail and civil aviation sub-committee batted for increased connectivity with key cities of Jharkhand with other parts of the country. “To begin with, the government must begin focusing on resuming all existing trains and flights from the state, which were shut because of the pandemic, to different parts of the country. In addition, there is a need to link Jharkhand to key tourism, religious, medical and education hotspots of the country through direct connectivity. This will enable easy movement of people and investors of these sectors, leading to more opportunities for more robust investments,” the FJCCI member, who is unwilling to be named, said. For homemakers, a popular budget would mean a dip in prices of essentials and items for daily use. “While jobs and earnings are diminishing, the rise in prices of daily essentials and food items are becoming constant and regular. The budget should lay the framework for price stability for household items,” said Savitri Sinha, a homemaker from Lalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-seeks-infra-jobs-push-tax-cut-in-budget/articleshow/80605676.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||JAC defers boards till May to give kids more time to prepare||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) on Saturday revised the Class X and XII examination schedule and now the offline exams will be held from May 4 to 21. “Examination of both the classes will begin simultaneously with two sessions in a day. The standard operating procedures for preventing the spread of Covid-19 among students will be followed,” JAC chairman Arvind Singh said after conducting a meeting in this regard. He added that the district-level committees will decide on the number of examination centres based on the number of examinees. Earlier, the matriculation and the intermediate exams were scheduled to be held from March 9 to 26. The schedule was revised to give the students more time to prepare. JAC has already reduced the syllabus by 40% and changed the question pattern for this year since regular classes could not be conducted properly in view of the pandemic. Had it not been for the pandemic, the exams would have begun from mid-February. Meanwhile, Singh said that JAC has not taken any decision on the date of publication of results yet. According to sources, publication of results under the current situation will take more time than usual. Meanwhile, Ranchi Zilla School principal Ashutosh Singh welcomed the JAC decision and said that students will get adequate time to prepare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jac-defers-boards-till-may-to-give-kids-more-time-to-prepare/articleshow/80613145.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand seeks infra, jobs push, tax cut in Budget||RANCHI: Jharkhand is hoping for an increase in central shares to reboot rural and urban infrastructure projects in the state, enhance market liquidity to boost jobs, expand exemption limits in taxation for the salaried class and better connectivity of aerial and train routes to different destinations from the Union budget scheduled on Monday. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said he had already sent a formal letter to Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman with a host of demands and is hopeful that Jharkhand will not remain “neglected” in the upcoming budget. In his letter, Oraon stressed on an increase in central shares and timely transfer of dues to the states. “Usually, central shares get credited on the 20th of every month which should be modified to first of every month so that we don’t have to borrow to make up for deficits during this period,” Oraon said in his letter, adding that he has been demanding for timely payments of state’s shares under different components like goods and services taxes, mining royalties among others for long. For Ranchi, he had also demanded setting up of an IIT to boost higher education. “There are few districts like Khunti, Gumla which aren’t connected with trains. This needs to be addressed,” he wrote. Meanwhile, traders are looking at an enhanced ease of doing business and market liquidity to help trade and commerce overcome the slump due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Praveen Kumar Jain, president of the Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), said they have broadly stressed on a few key areas in their demands put up before the Centre. “First, the budget should be demand-oriented while the focus should be on spending on infrastructure to boost employment and social spending should be highly focused on health and education sectors. All these efforts would help in market liquidity and enhanced cash flow which will give pace to the lagging markets,” he said. Jain also said the government must provide more tax exemption to increase savings for the middle-class (salaried). “Cash in hand will be the key to achieve the projected growth rate of 11% nationally. Hence, we are looking for more exemptions under 80C, health insurance and mediclaim among others,” he said. Another member of FJCCI said its rail and civil aviation sub-committee batted for increased connectivity with key cities of Jharkhand with other parts of the country. “To begin with, the government must begin focusing on resuming all existing trains and flights from the state, which were shut because of the pandemic, to different parts of the country. In addition, there is a need to link Jharkhand to key tourism, religious, medical and education hotspots of the country through direct connectivity. This will enable easy movement of people and investors of these sectors, leading to more opportunities for more robust investments,” the FJCCI member, who is unwilling to be named, said. For homemakers, a popular budget would mean a dip in prices of essentials and items for daily use. “While jobs and earnings are diminishing, the rise in prices of daily essentials and food items are becoming constant and regular. The budget should lay the framework for price stability for household items,” said Savitri Sinha, a homemaker from Lalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-seeks-infra-jobs-push-tax-cut-in-budget/articleshow/80611216.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||Outsiders bought tribal land without govt nod, says Oraon||Ranchi: State finance minister and Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee president Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday defended his statement over ‘Biharis’ and ‘Marwaris’ outnumbering tribals in Ranchi after it triggered a debate over “outsiders” in Jharkhand. While JMM, the ally of Congress in the ruling alliance, has refrained from making any comment on Oraon’s statement so far, at least one Congress MLA has openly disowned the minister’s views. Opposition BJP has, however, launched a campaign against Oraon and Congress on social media, demanding chief minister Hemant Soren to clear his views on the matter. During a programme in Ranch on Friday, Oraon had said the reason for tribals being marginalised and reduced to a minority in the state are because they lacked opportunities and are outnumbered by Biharis and Marwaris, who “snatched” their land and exposed them to different kinds of harassment. On Saturday, Oraon clarified the context of his statement and said, “My statements were misconstrued by certain sections of the media and never intended to defame Biharis or Marwaris. However, whatever I had said is an established fact and I don’t shy away from speaking the truth. There was a time when Ranchi was dominated by tribals and Manipur’s capital city, Imphal, was dominated by the local people. Now, the situation has changed. Moreover, several areas in Ranchi like Namkum, Karamtoli and Dangratoli among others were considered rich pockets of tribals (Mundas). Over the years, the population of adivasis in Ranchi got reduced drastically as Biharis and Marwari, who were well-off purchased their land. Imphal, on the other hand, still has seen an increase in tribal population.” Oraon stressed that the reason behind introducing CNT and SPT Acts (tenancy laws) is to safeguard the land of ST, SC and OBC. “However, due to connivance of officials, tribal land were sold or transferred in violation of the enshrined laws. For any sale and purchase of tribal land, the consent of the deputy commissioner concerned is a must. Do you think all those non-tribals who amassed land in Ranchi had procured permission? Well, this is a matter of serious research and probe,” said Oraon, charging opposition BJP of serious wrongdoings during its previous regimes in the “loot” of tribal land. He further said, “Of all previous regimes, BJP’s tenures saw the worst cases of abuse of tribal rights and their land. During Raghubar Das’s regime, they even tried, though unsuccessful, to amend the tenancy laws and I was among the vocal voices to stand against it and mobilize the tribals.” Reiterating that he doesn’t have any hard-feelings for any community, Oraon added, “I consider myself as a Bihari as I was born during the undivided Bihar, served as an IPS officer in the Bihar cadre.” Congress MLA from Mahagama, Deepika Singh, however, disowned the comments of her party president and tweeted, “The views expressed are that of an individual and can’t be attributed to the party. INC, the grand old party, believes in keeping everyone together and not divide and rule.” Kumar Gaurav, party’s youth wing president, seconded her. Opposition BJP, on the other hand, has launched a scathing attack on Congress and the coalition government. BJP spokesperson and former MLA of Bahragora Kunal Sarangi questioned chief minister Hemant Soren’s silence on the issue and demanded that he should explain his stand. “We want to know if the CM, too, is of the same view as that of his senior cabinet colleague. Does it mean that Biharis and Marwaris had no contribution in building this state at all?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/outsiders-bought-tribal-land-without-govt-nod-says-oraon/articleshow/80605700.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 31, 2021||Vadodara||Two schools asked to refund Rs 63L fees||Vadodara: The fee regulation committee (FRC) of Vadodara division has ordered two private schools in the city to refund excess fees charged by them in the years 2019 and 2020 to students. In all, these schools will have to refund Rs 63.15lakh to students or adjust them against the fees in future. The orders were issued by the FRC after it received complaints against the two schools. The schools were also asked to present their case before issuing the orders. In the first order a school in the city has been asked to refund fees to 516 students. The excess fees was charged during the year 2019-10. The total amounts to Rs 36.99lakh. In the case of another school, the committee ordered refund of Rs 26.16lakh charged in excess from 1,563 students there in 2020. The school will have to repay or adjust fees amounting to Rs 26.16lakh. Member of the committee Keyur Rokadia said that both the schools had also charged excess fees in previous years too. “But a decision in this regard can be taken only after the Supreme Court decides on the petition filed by the schools,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-schools-asked-to-refund-rs-63l-fees/articleshow/80605347.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||BKU chief’s proposal: Stay laws till 2024||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A day after announcing that the farmers’ protest “will go on”, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait on Saturday proposed that the government put on hold the controversial agri laws till the end of its tenure and take back the FIRs registered against the protesters, reports Mohd Dilshad. “Principally, we want the laws to go. However, the government is adamant. We are ready for a compromise where neither wins or loses. As they have already suggested not to implement the laws for 18 months, they can extend it till 2024. They should also take back the FIRs registered against the protesters,” Tikait told TOI. He also justified his appeal during Friday’s mahapanchayat to the farmers not to leave for the Ghazipur site immediately. “It could have led to law and order problems,” he said. On his brother Rakesh Tikait’s keenness not to end the stir at the Delhi-UP border, he said, “I’ll speak to him and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders. We’ll all discuss it. If the government agrees, then we can make farmers agree too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bku-chiefs-proposal-stay-laws-till-2024/articleshow/80608311.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Post-Covid, new world order to come up: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: At the NDA meeting on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said after the pandemic, a new world order is about to take shape and India has a big role to play in the emerging new world order. “This decade is a very important one, just like the decade after second world war,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi quoted the Prime Minister as having said. Joshi said, “The Prime Minister said unlike earlier, we are not going to be a mute spectator. We will rise to the occasion based on our traditions and ideals of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-covid-new-world-order-to-come-up-pm-modi/articleshow/80608323.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Lack of incubation centres hurts AP’s start-up ecosystem: Niti Aayog report||VIJAYAWADA: Despite ranking number one in ‘ease of doing business’, Andhra Pradesh stands third lowest in the country when it comes to the presence of start-ups, according to the latest Innovation Index 2020 report by the Niti Aayog. The report that was released earlier this month gave AP a score of 7.5 out of 100, a clear indicator of ‘underperforming’. Andhra Pradesh has an overall rank of 7 in the Innovation Index and has performed well in various aspects of business environment, knowledge workers and human capital, compared to 2019 when the state stood 10th in the Innovation Index report. But when it comes to innovation output, the state has an ‘underperforming’ score of 15.25 out of 100. One of the major reasons for the poor presence of start-ups is the lack of incubation centres in the state. The Innovation Index report gives the state its lowest score of 1.28 out of 100 under the ‘incubating centres’ category. Unsurprisingly, Telangana, which is home to one of India’s biggest incubating centres T-Hub in Hyderabad, has a 75% higher score in terms of start-up presence. Experts point out that Telugu entrepreneurs from the state who initiated popular start-ups such as RedBus and Swiggy are either based in Bengaluru or Hyderabad due to the presence of incubating centres. In fact, Andhra Pradesh also underperforms when it comes to new business registrations with a low score of 15.25 out of 100. An additional aspect responsible for the low presence of start-ups is the poor flow of investments into the state. The Innovation Index report gives AP only 4.10 out of 100 when it comes to investments. While expenditure by the government on research and development is ranked as ‘overperforming’, other categories such as expenditure on higher and technical education, FDI inflow, venture capital deals and expenditure on science, technology and environment remain major underperformers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lack-of-incubation-centres-hurts-aps-start-up-ecosystem-niti-aayog-report/articleshow/80605400.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 31, 2021||India||Delhi Police file FIR against 'The Caravan' for spreading fake news||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Police have registered an FIR against 'The Caravan' magazine for allegedly misleading and providing false information that a farmer died in police firing at the ITO intersection on January 26 after the proposed tractor rally by the protesting farmers rally turned violent in the national capital on Republic Day. The post-mortem report of the deceased person suggested the cause of death to be head injury after his tractor turned turtle. "As per the post-mortem report, the cause of death is shock and haemorrhage due to a head injury received after his tractor overturned," said a senior police officer. The case has been registered at the IP Estate police station. The FIR also names certain other persons who too tried to mislead the public. On 26 January, The Caravan had put out a tweet citing an eyewitness, saying the farmer was shot by the police. Earlier on Thursday, the Noida Police had booked Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, journalists Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Vinod K. Jose (The Caravan) and others for sedition on Thursday. An FIR lodged at the Sector 20 police station stated that they were booked for tweeting and spreading fake news pertaining to the death of a farmer during the tractor rally in Delhi on January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-police-file-fir-against-the-caravan-for-spreading-fake-news/articleshow/80608324.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||TDP Vizag office gets attachment notice||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has put up attachment notices on Greater Visakha TDP office in the city for allegedly not paying property tax. According to GVMC officials, despite repeated demand notices, the TDP party office has not responded till date. Sources say that the Greater Visakha TDP office has around Rs 27 lakh property tax pending. After repeated notices, the TDP office paid Rs 10 lakh. GVMC zonal commissioner Phaniram told TOI that the municipal corporation has earlier issued notices to the TDP office. “If they don’t pay their dues on time, we will have to attach notices to the office like any other office or institution that has property tax dues,” the GVMC zonal commissioner said.-Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-vizag-office-gets-attachment-notice/articleshow/80605408.cms||Siva G
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Couple dies by suicide in Nellore||Vijayawada: A couple of lovers committed suicides by hanging themselves to death at a private lodge at Padarupalli village in Nellore district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Harish and Lavanya, both employees of Mettu village secretariat under Chittumuru mandal. According to police sources, the incident came to light in the morning when lodge staff knocked on their door. Getting no response for a while, they broke open the door only to find the couple hanging from the fan on a single scarf. Police reached the spot and identified the deceased. Preliminary investigation revealed that Harish and Lavanya were in a romantic relationship for years. However, family members on both sides refused to acknowledge the relationship despite repeated appeals. Police said that Lavanya got married to another man around two months ago. Harish had married another woman last year. However, the couple was unable to accept that they were not with each other and decided to elope. “We have informed their parents about their demise. A case has been registered under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death),” a police official said. Police sent the bodies to Nellore government general hospital for post mortem. Further investigation is on. Preliminary probe revealed that Harish and Lavanya were in a romantic relationship for years. But, family members on both sides refused to acknowledge the relationship||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/couple-dies-by-suicide-in-nellore/articleshow/80605426.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Child deaths reduced in 2020, and lockdown was main reason||Nagpur: Watching the Covid-19 death toll rising every month had been one of the harsh realities of 2020, but the same year had some relief too. The number of deaths in children between 1 to 5 years of age has a 40% decrease in 2020 as compared to 2019, reveals data released by the divisional health office. Against 374 child deaths in 2019, Nagpur division has reported 234 deaths in 2020. Good mother-child care even at village level, free immunization to almost every child, increased awareness in people about child health, and of course, lockdown in 2020 are the main reasons, said experts while speaking to TOI. Dr Sudhakar Rathod, a paediatrician, who currently works in government hospital in Wardha said that leading causes of death in children under-5 years are under control due to government measures, and the reduction of deaths is a good outcome of the same. “Preterm birth complications, birth asphyxia or trauma, pneumonia, congenital anomalies, diarrhoea and malaria, and all such causes are being effectively prevented or treated these days. Simple and affordable interventions like immunization, safe water and food, and quality care by a trained health provider is available in villages too,” he said, mentioning contribution of Asha workers and Anganwadi workers for it. Paediatrician Dr Komal Thodge said the reduction in child deaths is a worldwide phenomenon. “Data from the Human Mortality Database suggests that Covid-19 did not reverse the years-long declines in child mortality, despite a mortality surge in the general population,” she said, adding that since 1990, the global under-5 mortality rate has dropped by 59%. “But, the same study also points out that other effects of the pandemic, such as lower vaccination rates and reduced prenatal care may increase childhood mortality rates going forward,” she added. Government authorities have made it clear that no compromise was made in children vaccination despite Covid-19. “Our immunization programme is one of the largest in the world and a major public health intervention in the country. Vaccination continued despite of Covid-19 threat throughout the year in 2020,” said a senior official from NHRM in Maharashtra. The polio vaccination is scheduled on January 31 across the country, and will run along with Covid-19 vaccination, he added. DEATHS OF CHILDREN BETWEEN 1-5 YRS OF AGE District - - - 2019 - - - 2020 Nagpur - - - 106 - - - 77 Bhandara - - - 51 - - - 27 Gondia - - - 43 - - - 26 Chandrapur - - - 79 - - - 46 Gadchiroli - - - 55 - - - 40 Wardha - - - 40 - - - 18 Total - - - 374 - - - 234 REASONS FOR LOWER CHILD MORTALITY IN 2020 - Lockdown: Lockdown and quarantine have prevented children from succumbing to deadly injuries and illnesses - Immunization: DPT vaccines, OPV boosters, measles etc are given free to kids between 16 to 24 months of age - Health care: Even in rural areas, ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers are trained in mother and child care now - Awareness: People were more aware of their children’s health this year, due to Covid-19 fear and parents were at home due to pandemic - Adequate nutrition: Knowledge about nutrition is increasing in recent years, home food was preferred during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/child-deaths-reduced-in-2020-and-lockdown-was-main-reason/articleshow/80606088.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Six-year-old boy sexually assaulted by 16-year-old in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A six-year-old boy was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 16-year-old boy at Gutlapalli village of Bollapalli mandal in Guntur district on Friday. The incident came to light after the child’s parents lodged a complaint at Bandlamottu police station. According to sub-inspector Anil Kumar, the incident happened at the residence of the accused on Friday afternoon. Cops said that the accused allegedly lured the young boy to his home in the guise of giving candy and tried to sodomise the boy and molested him. When the child began crying in pain, the 16-year-old accused let him go back home and threatened him to not reveal anything. Upon noticing the child’s gloomy behaviour, his family members probed further and found out that he was sexually assaulted. They then decided to inform the police. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Further investigation is on. The young child was sent to a local government hospital for a medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/six-year-old-boy-sexually-assaulted-by-16-year-old/articleshow/80605434.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Flock of six pigeons found dead, veterinary officials on alert||VIJAYAWADA: A flock of six pigeons was found dead at Ayyavaripalli village of Pamuru mandal in Prakasam district on Saturday leading to worries about a potential bird flu outbreak. Locals who found the bird carcasses informed local revenue officials who then alerted regional veterinary officials. As news spread in the village, speculation began that about potential incidence of bird flu. However, officials downplayed the incident claiming that the birds may have consumed pellets used to fertilise crops in the region resulting in the deaths. After collecting samples from the carcasses, officials buried the birds. This is the second such incident in Prakasam district. On January 11, a flock of five crows and three Indian Mynas were found dead under a neem tree in Pedaganjam village. At the time, regional veterinary assistant director Dr Basava Shankar said that there was no need to panic as far as chicken consumption is concerned. “Chicken is cooked at a temperature of 150–200°C in our country. Eating chicken does not spread diseases,” Basava Shankar had told the media. With bird flu cases being reported in neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu and Kerala, officials said that they are keeping a check on suspicious incidents and tests would be conducted to check for bird flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flock-of-six-pigeons-found-dead-vet-officials-on-alert/articleshow/80605437.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||2/3rd of India’s active cases in Kerala, Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: India recorded just over 13,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the second day running on Saturday, lower than the numbers reported last week, as the declining trend in infections continued in most parts of the country. The day’s death toll from the virus was 129. Active cases of the virus in India have fallen to 1.7 lakh. Of these, Kerala has 71,469 and Maharashtra 44,199. The two states together account for more than two-thirds of all active cases in India. The third highest count is in Karnataka (around 5,900), followed by UP and Bengal (both around 5,600). There were 13,100 new cases in the country over the past 24 hours, taking the total caseload to 1,07,47,101 on Saturday night. The daily case count on Friday was very similar at 13,078. The pandemic continues to rage in Kerala, where 6,282 new cases were detected on Saturday, accounting for 48% of all fresh cases in India. With cases continuing to see a sharp rise, Kerala has commenced a “back to basics” campaign. Maharashtra added 2,630 cases to its tally. The state reported 42 fatalities during the day, taking the total death toll in the state 51,042. India has so far recorded 1,54,314 deaths from the virus. As in the past few days, new cases did not touch four figures in any other state. Mumbai reported 429 positive cases during the day. Delhi’s count was 183||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2/3rd-of-indias-active-cases-in-kerala-maharashtra/articleshow/80608345.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Four racing bulls die in Andhra Pradesh's East Godavari, poisoning suspected||KAKINADA: Four racing bulls died under suspicious circumstances after frothing from the mouth at Samalkota in East Godavari district on Friday. Samalkota police have registered a case and are investigating. According to the Samalkota SI, a man named V Satyendra Kumar had three pairs of racing bulls. He took two pairs to a racing competition on Friday. His bulls won the competition and were resting in the shed at his home. On Saturday morning, the four bulls were found dead. Districr veterinary doctors team conducted post mortem of the bulls. Doctors suspect that the bulls may have been poisoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/four-racing-bulls-die-in-eg-poisoning-suspected/articleshow/80605443.cms||Samson Raj
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Don’t visit voter’s home, HCBA election panel tells contestants||Nagpur: In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the High Court Bar Association (HCBA) election committee has issued a series of directives to the contestants to ensure a safe and smooth election. The panel headed by Bhanudas Kulkarni has barred candidates from personally visiting voters’ home during campaigning. “They are also not permitted to assemble in a group of more than five persons within the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s premises. Even gathering inside or outside the premises for the purpose of canvassing is not permitted. Social distancing norms and masks and sanitization are to be respected,” the panel said in a communiqué. The panel, including former HCBA chief Arun Patil, Firdos Mirza, Prakash Meghe, and Sangram Sirpurkar, said that the candidates are to abide by the mandatory guidelines. As per the poll schedule, the provisional voting list would be published on February 10. The deadline for submissions of objections on the preliminary list is February 15 till 4.30pm. The hearing on objections would be held on the next day till 1.30pm. The final voters list would be published at 4.30pm. The issuance of nomination forms would begin on February 17 from 1.30am. Deadline for submitting forms is February 25 till 4.30pm. On the same day, the list of valid candidates would be published later in the evening. The contestants can withdraw by March 3 till 4.30pm and their final list would be published on the same day at 4.45pm. Membership fee payment date extended The HCBA poll panel extended the last date for payment of membership fees. The dues which were to be settled by December 11, 2020, can now be paid till February 6. The panel clarified that there would be no further extension since provisional voting list will be published on February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-visit-voters-home-hcba-election-panel-tells-contestants/articleshow/80606115.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 31, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 14-year-old girl raped, pregnant||VIJAYAWADA: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 20-year-old youngster under the pretext of marriage near KL Rao Nagar area. The minor girl is reportedly pregnant. Although the incident happened some time over the course of the last few months, it came to light on Saturday after the police arrested the accused. According to Two-Town police, the 14-year-old girl lives in the same locality as the accused. She met him for the first time around eight months ago through her cousin who happens to be friends with the accused. Police said that the accused used to visit the girl’s residence often and had sexually assaulted her when she was alone at home. Months later, the girl’s family realised she was pregnant and approached the police. A case was registered under Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/14-year-old-girl-raped-pregnant/articleshow/80605451.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Nagpur||Druglord with city links is a beautician for Bollywood stars||Nagpur: A woman druglord, based in Mumbai, is learnt to be a professional beautician too, catering exclusively to celebrity clients of Bollywood. The woman, having a sizeable network of peddlers in Vidarbha, including the city, has at least three offences registered against her in Nagpur for her alleged involvement in supplying MD (Mephedrone) narcotics powder. She engages in her drug peddling activities in the garb of a celebrity beautician, it’s learnt. City police’s crime branch has also alerted the state anti-terrorist squad (ATS) regarding the narcotics peddler, including the ones who had been supplying MD in the city from Mumbai. It’s learnt that the MD narcotics powder is available at Rs1,000-Rs 1,200 per gram in Mumbai. It is sold in the city for Rs3,000-Rs 3,500 per gram. State police and specialized agencies are also exploring the links of the narcotics peddlers, especially MD, opium and brown sugar, to cross-border terrorism for the purpose of sponsoring terror activities. Among the four top names of Mumbai, who supplies MD drugs in the city, the woman works closely with her live-in partner in supplying MD. Apart from the woman, her live-in partner too has a couple of cases of narcotics supply in the city. Another two, Amir and Shahbaz, from Mumbai too have a few cases against them in the city after their peddlers were caught here with the narcotics. The crime branch’s special squad comprising senior inspector Sarthak Nehete under the supervision of Gajanan Rajmane and Addl CP Sunil Phulari had arrested 38 peddlers last year, seizing MD powder worth more than Rs38 lakhs in 17 cases. It’s learnt that Shahbaz too was nabbed in the city in the past but he had managed to procure bail. After returning to Mumbai, Shahbaz is learnt to have once again resumed his activities, including supplying MD in the city. DCP Rajmane said relentlessly attempts are being made to break the chain from Mumbai and some arrests had been made too in the past. “Crime branch had managed to break the supply chain of the peddlers using tourist buses to send narcotics in parcels from Mumbai. We are working out various details and exchanging inputs with other units, including Mumbai police,” said Rajmane, whose regime has witnessed the highest crackdown against narcotics but is now facing a tricky challenge to break the backbone of the Mumbai-based druglords having a supply chain in different pockets of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/druglord-with-city-links-is-a-beautician-for-bollywood-stars/articleshow/80606132.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||North coastal Andhra Pradesh ready for panchayat polls||VISAKHAPATNAM: The five north coastal districts — Visakha, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, and the two Godavari districts — are all set for the panchayat elections, which would be held from February 9 in four phases. The region is considered a TDP stronghold, with the party’s supporters cornering maximum number of seats in the last panchayat elections held in 2013. This time, the ruling YSRC is hoping to reverse the trend. Vizag district, comprising 968 panchayats and 9,542 wards, has 17.84 lakh voters. The district administration are setting up 9,608 polling stations, out of which 640 have been identified as sensitive. Around 15,000 polling staff would be deployed for the elections. Around 6 lakh voters are set to exercise their franchise in the first phase of elections to be held in 3,286 wards in 344 panchayats of Anakapalli division. Authorities have arranged 3,342 polling stations. There are 1,072 panchayats in East Godavari, and 895 panchayats in West Godavari. Around 32.52 lakh voters would cast their votes. Elections would be held in 2,552 wards in 239 panchayats of Narsipatnam division in West Godavari in the first phase. The district has 24.17 lakh voters and around 50% of seats are reserved for women. In Srikakulam, 10,926 wards in 1,164 panchayats will go to polls in different phases, with elections to be held for 319 panchayats in the first phase. Elections to 959 panchayats in Vizianagaram would be held in two phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/north-coastal-ap-ready-for-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80605457.cms||Siva G
January 31, 2021||Hyderabad||Minor mauled to death by pack of strays in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A nine-year-old boy, Mohammed Ayaan, was mauled to death by a pack of street dogs near his house in Bahadurpura, on Saturday. According to police, the boy, son of an auto-driver, was playing with his friends in an open area close to his house when the incident happened. "A pack of four-five dogs attacked the group of children. While the rest of the children managed to escape from the spot, Ayaan couldn't. The dogs chased him around for a while before attacking him. The boy was severely injured and died on the spot," said A Narsimha Rao, sub-inspector, Bahadurpura police station. Body shifted to OGH for PMELocals of the area alerted the police who reached the spot and registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC. The body of the minor boy was later shifted to the Osmania General Hospital for post-mortem examination. In another case, a 71-year-old resident of B S Maqtha, Begumpet, registered a complaint with Begumpet PS about being attacked by a stray dog. According to the complaint, on January 28, the resident stepped out of his house at11.30pm when he was attacked by a dog. The senior citizen sustained injuries all over his face, ears and some parts of his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-mauled-to-death-by-pack-of-strays-in-hyderabad/articleshow/80608355.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Mysuru||Five doctors in Karnataka test positive days after first jab||MYSURU: Five doctors working at the Chamarajanagar district hospital have tested positive for Covid-19 after taking their first vaccine dose. These are the first known cases of mid-vaccination infection in Karnataka, but health officials say that people should not doubt the efficacy of the vaccines as they provide full protection after two doses. The five doctors, attached to the Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, took the Covid-19 test after experiencing mild symptoms. They are aged between 40 and 50, said an official. One is being treated at the hospital, while the other four are in home isolation. “These doctors received their jab a few days ago,” district health officer MC Ravi told STOI. Some received Covishield, while some Covaxin. Two colleagues of the doctors have also tested positive. They have not taken their first dose yet. “The vaccines give full protection after two doses. This incident has nothing to do with the efficacy of the vaccines; people need not worry,” explained Ravi. According to an official in the health department, the said doctors have been tending to Covid-19 patients. They were vaccinated on different days. “Generally, vaccines take some more time to produce antibodies. In the incubation period, there is a possibility of catching the infection. After the first shot, one should continue wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing,” said an expert. Health and family welfare minister K Sudhakar also said that both vaccines were safe. “Forty-five days after taking the first dose, we develop immunity to the infection. If any person comes in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient before this, there is a possibility of contracting the infection. The second dose is administered 28 days after the first one,” he said in a tweet. “The public can take these two vaccines without any hesitation. I appeal to the public not to believe unverified information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/five-doctors-in-karnataka-test-positive-days-after-first-jab/articleshow/80608359.cms||---
January 31, 2021||World||Blinken dials Pak FM Qureshi, seeks accountability in Daniel Pearl's murder case||WASHINGTON/ISLAMABAD: US Secretary of State Tony Blinken has spoken over phone with Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and discussed the accountability of convicted terrorists responsible for the brutal murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl, according to the State Department. Pearl, the 38-year-old South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal, was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story in 2002 on the links between the country's powerful spy agency ISI and al-Qaeda. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said on Friday that Blinken reinforced America's concern over Pakistan Supreme Court's ruling acquitting Pearl's killers. "Blinken and Qureshi discussed how to ensure accountability for convicted terrorist Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and others responsible for the kidnapping and murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl,” Price said in a readout of the call. In addition, Blinken and Qureshi discussed the importance of continued US-Pakistan cooperation on the Afghan peace process, support for regional stability, and the potential to expand our trade and commercial ties, Price said. The Pakistan Foreign Office said in a statement that the two leaders discussed “recent developments in the Daniel Pearl case” and Qureshi “underscored that it was important and in the mutual interest that justice is served through legal means.” Qureshi congratulated Secretary Blinken on assuming his office, underscoring Pakistan's commitment to forging a comprehensive partnership with the United States based on the convergence of interests on a whole range of issues, it said. Qureshi told Blinken that peace in Afghanistan through a negotiated political settlement was one of the fundamental convergences between the two countries. He said it was essential to have a reduction in violence leading to the ceasefire and to work towards securing an inclusive political solution in Afghanistan. Qureshi said Pakistan had facilitated the Afghan peace process and remained committed to working with the United States as a partner for peace, the Foreign Office said. Qureshi and Blinken also agreed to remain engaged and work together on advancing the two countries' bilateral agenda and promoting common interests in the region and beyond, it said. A day earlier, Blinken expressed concern over the Pakistan Supreme Court's decision of acquitting those involved in the sensational kidnapping and murder of Pearl and said that the judgement is an affront to terrorism victims everywhere. In a strongly-worded statement, Blinken urged Pakistan to explore all legal options to ensure that the killers of Pearl are brought to justice. “The United States is deeply concerned by the Pakistani Supreme Court's decision to acquit those involved in Daniel Pearl's kidnapping and murder and any proposed action to release them,” he said. Pakistan's Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed appeals against the acquittal of British-born al-Qaeda terrorist Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh in the kidnapping and murder case of Pearl and ordered his release, a judgement denounced by the American journalist's family as 'a complete travesty of justice.' Sheikh and his three aides - Fahad Naseem, Sheikh Adil and Salman Saqib - were convicted and sentenced in the abduction and murder case of Pearl in Karachi in 2002. Blinken said: “Ahmad Omar Saeed Sheikh was indicted in the United States in 2002 for hostage-taking and conspiracy to commit hostage-taking, resulting in the murder of Pearl, the South Asia Bureau Chief for the Wall Street Journal, as well as the 1994 kidnapping of another United States citizen in India”. The court's decision is an affront to terrorism victims everywhere, including in Pakistan, he said. “We expect the Pakistani government to expeditiously review its legal options to ensure justice is served. We take note of the Attorney General's statement that he intends to seek review and recall of the decision. We are also prepared to prosecute Sheikh in the United States for his horrific crimes against an American citizen,” Blinken said. The United States is committed to securing justice for Pearl's family and holding terrorists accountable, he said. Pearl's murder took place three years after Sheikh, along with Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar and Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar, was released by India in 1999 and given safe passage to Afghanistan in exchange for the nearly 150 passengers of hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814. He was serving a prison term in India for kidnappings of Western tourists in the country. A three-judge bench of Pakistan Supreme Court led by Justice Mushir Alam on Thursday dismissed the Sindh government's appeal against the Sindh High Court's (SHC) decision to overturn the conviction of Sheikh in the Pearl murder case. The beheading of the American journalist in 2002 had grabbed international headlines. The court ordered that three others, who had been sentenced to life in prison for their part in Pearl's kidnapping and death, also be freed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/blinken-dials-pak-fm-qureshi-seeks-accountability-in-daniel-pearls-murder-case/articleshow/80608363.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Ghaziabad||Farmers' protest: INLD leader Abhay Chautala backs Rakesh Tikait||GHAZIABAD: “I offer my whole-hearted support to Tikait-ji,” declared INLD leader Abhay Chautala, addressing farmers at the UP Gate protest site on the Ghazipur border. It was a significant moment in the agitation, which has seen a dramatic resurrection at UP Gate, and one that also indicated a change in tack. Gone is the reticence to host politicians at the site, a running theme since the agitation began two months ago at Delhi’s borders in a bid to keep the protest “apolitical”. In the last 48 hours, since thousands of farmers began pouring into UP Gate in response to BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s tearful call for support after the state government served an eviction notice to the protesters in the wake of the Republic Day violence in Delhi during the tractor rally, several frontline politicians have visited the agitation site – AAP’s Manish Sisodia and RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary on Friday and Chautala on Saturday. Chautala, the three-time MLA from Elenabad who recently resigned as legislator to demand the withdrawal of the new central laws the farmers are protesting against, told the gathering, “When Devi Lal was the chief minister of Haryana, he had close ties with Mahendra Singh Tikait. Our relationship goes back a long way and today I have come to cement it.” Rakesh Tikait is Mahendra Singh Tikait’s son while Abhay Chautala is Devi Lal’s grandson. As leader of INLD, a party which draws its support base from farmers, Chautala has positioned himself as the rightful heir of the legacy of his grandfather, one of Haryana’s tallest farmer leaders, a mantle that is also claimed by deputy CM and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala, Abhay’s nephew, who is now a partner in the BJP-headed coalition government in Haryana. Later in the day, the INLD leader told TOI, “I am following in the footsteps of my grandfather Chaudhary Devi Lal, who devoted his entire life to the welfare of farmers. Our party always stands against anyone working against the interest and welfare of farmers.” Chautala’s visit further buoyed the protest site at UP Gate where protesters have been pouring in since Friday morning as Tikait’s speech became a rallying point with khap panchayats in west UP and Haryana stepping in to mobilise support for the agitation. Emotions ran high as the slogan of ‘kisan ekta zindabad’ resonated around the protest site in a crescendo. BKU spokesperson Shamsher Rana said Tikait was presented with a special headgear by the Sikh community for salvaging the agitation. Commenting on politicians visiting the agitation site, Tikait told TOI, “There are some political parties which are ready to rain lathi blows on us, while there are some who are extending support to our agitation. What to do?” He added, “We were never averse to seeking their support. Our only condition was that they would not be allowed to use the issue for their own political goals. That is the reason we have not allowed any leader to share the stage. Our protest is apolitical.” Police and paramilitary presence has, meanwhile, substantially reduced at the protest site, compared to the deployment of January 29 when the eviction notice was served. “We have reserve forces on standby mode. There is no need as of now to deploy force because things are under control,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad’s district magistrate. (Additional reporting by Shahnawaz Alam in Gurugram)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/have-come-to-cement-our-ties-chautala-backs-tikait/articleshow/80606467.cms||Abhijay Jha
January 31, 2021||Vadodara||No vaccination certificates after row over poll code violation||Vadodara: After a complaint by the city unit of the Congress regarding pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi being carried on certificates given to those who received the Covid-19 vaccine, the electoral officer sent a missive in this regard the health officials on Saturday. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) had stopped giving the certificates since Friday itself when the issue came to light.President of the city unit of the Congress Prashant Patel had written to the election officer and district collector on Friday that the certificates were carrying the picture of the PM. This, he said, was in violation of the election code of conduct. “The complaint was forwarded to us along with the letter, but we have already stopped issuing the certificates on Friday,” said VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel.Dr Patel said that presently not issuing the certificates was the only way out. He said that the certificates were generated from a software that was being used nationally and local changes in this regard was not possible. The election officer as well as the state government has been intimated regarding the complaint by VMC officials. Dr Patel said that they will take further action based on the advice they receive. The city Congress chief added that to avoid inconvenience to people these certificates could be couriered to them after the polls. “Else, they can replace the picture with the picture of the national emblem or something similar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-vaccination-certificates-after-row-over-poll-code-violation/articleshow/80605338.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Police seek details of Iranian visitors to Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has asked the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO) to share details of all Iranians settled overseas who came to Delhi in the last one month in connection with Friday’s blast outside the embassy of Israel in central Delhi. Police are also gathering information of those who stayed at hotels and are questioning citizens of Iran and other West Asian countries staying in different parts of Delhi without a valid visa or with an expired one. Security at the Israeli envoy’s residence as well as other establishments has also been beefed up. Embassy blast: Unknown entity, Jaish-ul-Hind, claims responsibilityInvestigations so far have revealed that around 45,000 mobile numbers were active in the area when the blast occurred. A Special Cell team on Saturday again went to the blast site in an effort to recover evidence. Sources said it appeared that the letter recovered was written neatly and not in haste, indicating full-fledged planning. “The device was kept in a small dug up area. It was not a very sophisticated device and was assembled using primitive methods. A proper IED device, when it goes off, has a unidirectional impact. However, this one was multi directional,” said the source. An NSG team also inspected the blast site on Saturday. The police have also sent a dupatta recovered from the spot on Friday for forensic examination. An unknown entity, Jaish-ul-Hind, claimed responsibility for the blast. However, Indian intelligence agencies and Delhi Police's Special Cell are treating this as a red herring. The group took responsibility for the attack via its Telegram account on Saturday morning. This is not the only reason why cops think attempts are being made to mislead the investigation. On Friday, cops had also recovered an envelope from the spot with a note containing the names of an Iranian military leader and a scientist who were recently assassinated in different countries. An official said this was unusual in case of an attack by an established entity. Police have not officially confirmed whether ammonium nitrate or PETN was used in the IED. The special cell is waiting for the forensic analysis report. On Saturday, a cab driver led a team of cops probing the blast on a wild goose chase after he falsely tipped off the cops about two suspicious men having travelled in his vehicle. The Special Cell sleuths immediately brought the cabbie to their office and after hours of questioning and tracking his mobile phone location it emerged that the driver was drunk and his mobile location throughout the day was near the airport. He was later let off after a strict warning. A low intensity blast occurred barely 50 metres from the Israel embassy, although no one was injured in the incident but window panes of three vehicles parked nearby were shattered. The Telegram account of Jaish-ul-Hind posted a message on Saturday saying: "By the grace and help of almighty Allah, soldiers of the Jaish-ul-Hind were able to infiltrate a high security area in Delhi and carry out an IED attack. This Allah willing is the beginning of a series of attacks which would target major Indian cities and pay back in kind to the atrocities committed by the Indian state. Wait and we too are waiting,”. In the screenshot a picture of the blast site and the above messages was also posted. The cyber cell of the crime branch is investigating the account from which the screenshot went viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-seek-details-of-iranian-visitors-to-delhi/articleshow/80608358.cms||---
January 31, 2021||World||Myanmar army vows to abide by constitution amid coup fears||YANGON: Myanmar’s military on Saturday denied that controversial statements by its chief were meant as a threat to stage a coup, claiming the media had misinterpreted his words. Tension soared this past week after a spokesman for the military said a coup could not be ruled out if military complaints of widespread voting fraud in November’s election were ignored. The commander-in-chief, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, had said on Wednesday the constitution could be revoked if laws were not being enforced. “The Tatmadaw (military) is protecting the 2008 constitution and will act according to the law,” the military said. “Some organisations and media assumed what they want and wrote as Tatmadaw will abolish the constitution.” Aung San Suu Kyi’s ruling National League for Democracy party called the statement a “suitable explanation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/myanmar-army-vows-to-abide-by-constitution-amid-coup-fears/articleshow/80608344.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Institutional quarantine for UK flyers eased||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has suspended the rule for seven days of mandatory institutional quarantine for flyers coming from the UK and testing negative for Covid. The decision has been taken in the wake of low positivity rate among such individuals. All flyers testing negative for Covid will now be required to be in 14 days of home isolation. For UK returnees testing positive for Covid, treatment protocol according to their health condition is invoked. Rule changed due to low positivity rateThe protocol of seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine for people testing negative started in the first week of January when the new variant of coronavirus raged through the UK. In the middle of January, Delhi government had extended the rule for United Kingdom returnees till January 31. “The situation has now been reviewed and considering low positivity rate of UK returnees, it has been decided that the measure of compulsory institutional quarantine of travellers tested negative may not be required furthermore and the government may align with the standard operating procedure issued by the central government from time to time in this regard,” a Delhi Disaster Management Authority order stated. The central government’s SOP requires 14-day home quarantine for all UK returnees tested negative. All air passengers arriving from the UK are mandatorily subjected to self-paid RT-PCR tests on arrival at the airport. Passengers testing positive are isolated in an institutional facility. Their samples are sent for genome sequencing to determine whether they are infected with the new coronavirus variant and as per the severity of the case, treatment protocol follows. DDMA has ordered strict surveillance on persons who tested negative for Covid-19 at the airport and kept in home quarantine. The district authorities carry out tests on persons who develop Covid-like symptoms during the home isolation and in case a person tests positive, an extensive contact tracing also follows. Dozens of persons who returned from the UK between November 25 and December 22 (before the government banned all flights from the UK) tested Covid positive during house-to-house testing. They were admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital where a special isolation ward was created to keep the UK returnees suspected to have been infected with the new variant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-institutional-quarantine-for-uk-flyers-eased/articleshow/80608399.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||Indian artefacts to go up for sale in Mountbatten auction||An Indian diamond bracelet once owned by Queen Victoria and a pair of bejewelled elephants from 1946 Jaipur are among an assortment of 350 antiques belonging to the late Patricia Edwina Victoria Mountbatten — daughter of Britain’s last Viceroy of India Louis Mountbatten — that will be sold at Sotheby’s London on March 24. The collection from Newhouse Manor, the 16th-century English home of Patricia and her husband John Knatchbull, includes various curios that offer a peek into the family’s connections with 20th century India. Born in 1924, Patricia was known for her “unwavering perseverance and beguiling sense of humour”. At age 19, she entered the Women’s Royal Navy Service where she met and fell in love with John Knatchbull, 7th Lord Brabourne — an encounter that sparked an almost sixty-year marriage. John had worked for Louis in India as a captain in the armed forces before becoming an Academy-Award-nominated film producer . Other attractions include an Indian diamond set and enamelled gold bracelet that includes a portrait of Queen Victoria’s husband Albert as a child. Another highlight is a pair of jewelled gold and enamel elephants from Jaipur, a gift from Lord Mountbatten to his wife Edwina commemorating their 24th wedding anniversary in 1946. The elephants are engraved on the base with words ‘Edwina from Dickie’ in Louis’ handwriting. Other objects of interest include an Anglo-Indian inlaid bureau, a set of India-inspired Art Deco dress clips, earrings and a ring. The Imperial Order of the Crown of India, a rare Anglo-Indian order that could only be bestowed by the monarch to a female recipient. The last one — a diamond, pearl and turquoise-set decoration — would have been worn at state occasions by Patricia’s mother-in-law, Doreen. The only person who still wears this Order today is Queen Elizabeth II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-artefacts-to-go-up-for-sale-in-mountbatten-auction/articleshow/80608407.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
January 31, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh's active Covid-19 caseload now lowest in the country||VISAKHAPATNAM: With only 0.15% active cases currently making up the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Andhra Pradesh now had the lowest caseload among all states and Union Territories which have recorded at least one lakh Covid-19 cases. In absolute numbers, there are currently around 1,300 active cases in against the cumulative caseload of nearly nine lakh cases. Kerala leads the national charts with 8% active cases of its cumulative caseload, followed by Maharashtra with 2.2%, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh - both with 1.4%. In AP, at least five to six districts have been recording single-digit case numbers on a daily basis for the last three to four weeks. Speaking to TOI, state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr K Rambabu said the health department's strategy was primarily based on massive and targeted testing, contact tracing, and timely treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradeshs-active-covid-19-caseload-now-lowest-in-the-country/articleshow/80608572.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 31, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh's active Covid-19 caseload now lowest in the country||VISAKHAPATNAM: With only 0.15% active cases currently making up the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Andhra Pradesh now had the lowest caseload among all states and Union Territories which have recorded at least one lakh Covid-19 cases. In absolute numbers, there are currently around 1,300 active cases in against the cumulative caseload of nearly nine lakh cases. Kerala leads the national charts with 8% active cases of its cumulative caseload, followed by Maharashtra with 2.2%, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh - both with 1.4%. In AP, at least five to six districts have been recording single-digit case numbers on a daily basis for the last three to four weeks. Speaking to TOI, state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr K Rambabu said the health department's strategy was primarily based on massive and targeted testing, contact tracing, and timely treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-pradeshs-active-covid-19-caseload-now-lowest-in-the-country/articleshow/80608436.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 31, 2021||India||Embassy blast: Police seek details of Iranian visitors to city||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has asked the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO) to share details of all Iranians settled overseas who came to Delhi in the last one month in connection with Friday’s blast outside the embassy of Israel in central Delhi. Police are also gathering information of those who stayed at hotels and are questioning citizens of Iran and other West Asian countries staying in different parts of Delhi without a valid visa or with an expired one. Security at the Israeli envoy’s residence as well as other establishments has also been beefed up. Embassy blast: Unknown entity, Jaish-ul-Hind, claims responsibilityInvestigations so far have revealed that around 45,000 mobile numbers were active in the area when the blast occurred. A Special Cell team on Saturday again went to the blast site in an effort to recover evidence. Sources said it appeared that the letter recovered was written neatly and not in haste, indicating full-fledged planning. “The device was kept in a small dug up area. It was not a very sophisticated device and was assembled using primitive methods. A proper IED device, when it goes off, has a unidirectional impact. However, this one was multi directional,” said the source. An NSG team also inspected the blast site on Saturday. The police have also sent a dupatta recovered from the spot on Friday for forensic examination. An unknown entity, Jaish-ul-Hind, claimed responsibility for the blast. However, Indian intelligence agencies and Delhi Police's Special Cell are treating this as a red herring. The group took responsibility for the attack via its Telegram account on Saturday morning. This is not the only reason why cops think attempts are being made to mislead the investigation. On Friday, cops had also recovered an envelope from the spot with a note containing the names of an Iranian military leader and a scientist who were recently assassinated in different countries. An official said this was unusual in case of an attack by an established entity. Police have not officially confirmed whether ammonium nitrate or PETN was used in the IED. The special cell is waiting for the forensic analysis report. On Saturday, a cab driver led a team of cops probing the blast on a wild goose chase after he falsely tipped off the cops about two suspicious men having travelled in his vehicle. The Special Cell sleuths immediately brought the cabbie to their office and after hours of questioning and tracking his mobile phone location it emerged that the driver was drunk and his mobile location throughout the day was near the airport. He was later let off after a strict warning. A low intensity blast occurred barely 50 metres from the Israel embassy, although no one was injured in the incident but window panes of three vehicles parked nearby were shattered. The Telegram account of Jaish-ul-Hind posted a message on Saturday saying: "By the grace and help of almighty Allah, soldiers of the Jaish-ul-Hind were able to infiltrate a high security area in Delhi and carry out an IED attack. This Allah willing is the beginning of a series of attacks which would target major Indian cities and pay back in kind to the atrocities committed by the Indian state. Wait and we too are waiting,”. In the screenshot a picture of the blast site and the above messages was also posted. The cyber cell of the crime branch is investigating the account from which the screenshot went viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/embassy-blast-police-seek-details-of-iranian-visitors-to-city/articleshow/80608424.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: VK Sasikala likely to be discharged today||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK secretary VK Sasikala will be discharged from Victoria Hospital on Sunday, according to a health bulletin issued on Saturday evening. “Sasikala Natarajan completed 10 days of treatment today (Saturday); she has been asymptomatic and maintaining saturation without oxygen since three days. As per protocol, she can be discharged from hospital. The team of doctors attending to her decided she is fit and will be discharged on January 31 with advice of home quarantine,” the bulletin read. Sasikala tested positive for Covid-19 on January 20 when she was still in Central Prison. After completing four years of simple imprisonment, she was released on January 27 but was forced to stay at the hospital. He co-convict J Ilavarasi, who also tested positive, is still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sasikala-likely-to-be-discharged-today/articleshow/80605781.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Chennai||Bengaluru: VK Sasikala likely to be discharged today||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK secretary VK Sasikala will be discharged from Victoria Hospital on Sunday, according to a health bulletin issued on Saturday evening. “Sasikala Natarajan completed 10 days of treatment today (Saturday); she has been asymptomatic and maintaining saturation without oxygen since three days. As per protocol, she can be discharged from hospital. The team of doctors attending to her decided she is fit and will be discharged on January 31 with advice of home quarantine,” the bulletin read. Sasikala tested positive for Covid-19 on January 20 when she was still in Central Prison. After completing four years of simple imprisonment, she was released on January 27 but was forced to stay at the hospital. He co-convict J Ilavarasi, who also tested positive, is still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasikala-likely-to-be-discharged-today/articleshow/80608444.cms||---
January 31, 2021||India||U’khand makes norms easier for visitors||DEHRADUN: The Standard Operating Procedure pertaining to Unlock norms for Covid-19 which was released by state government on Friday has done away with the requirement of registering on government portal before coming to Uttarakhand. The norms said all areas outside containment zones will remain opened, reports Ishita Mishra. “Opening of pools will be subject to a revised SOP to be issued by the ministry of youth affairs & sports in consultation with MHA while exhibition halls will be subject to a revised SOP to be issued by the department of commerce in consultation with MHA,” the SOP said. The government said a separate SOP will be released for Kumbh Mela shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ukhand-makes-norms-easier-for-visitors/articleshow/80608453.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||DLSA, admin cover transgenders & sex workers under govt schemes||Ranchi: In a first, the district legal service authority (DLSA) and the Ranchi administration on Saturday brought several sex workers and transgenders in the ambit of government schemes through legal awareness cum empowerment camps held across several blocks of the district. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar said, “As many as 200 sex workers and 50 transgenders, who were not covered under government schemes, took part in the programme. We not only informed their about their rights and different government schemes, but also delivered the benefits on the spot.” One of the transgenders, unwilling to be named, said, “We are thankful to the DLSA for approaching our community. The coverage of welfare schemes must increase among us. Our community members should also shed their inhibitions and take part in the programmes.” The camps, held on the direction of executive chairman of Jharkhand State Legal Service Authority Justice H C Mishra, were attended by judges of Ranchi’s civil court. The DLSA, along with the district administration, distributed wheelchairs, tri-cycles, hearing aids, blind sticks, spectacles, school dresses and kits, Antodaya ration cards and MNREGA job cards among the beneficiaries, while many others were linked with the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna, maternity aid scheme, family pension, crop insurance scheme, soil health cards and Kisan Credit Cards. Various government departments, including labour, rural development, social welfare, health, skill development and social security, were involved in the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dlsa-admin-cover-transgenders-sex-workers-under-govt-schemes/articleshow/80605606.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||Tana Bhagats to get Rs 2k annually for khadi clothes: CM||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on Martyrs’ Day and honoured Tana Bhagats — a tribal community that follows Gandhiji in their lifestyle. Hemant also said members of the community will be given an annual allowance of Rs 2,000 for their attire like other government employees in uniform. The chief minister was speaking at the inauguration of a guest house dedicated to Tana Bhagats in Banhora. The guest house has 12 rooms and two halls, constructed by the department of revenue, registration and land reforms at a cost of Rs 2.73 crore. “This is for the first time that the state has dedicated something to the community and I am sure all the members will make best use of the facility,” Hemant said. Tana Bhagats wear unstitched khadi clothes like Gandhiji and are vegetarians. They follow the principles of non-violence and keep distance from any form of intoxication. Even after independence, Tana Bhagats continued to follow Gandhian customs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tana-bhagats-to-get-rs-2k-annually-for-khadi-clothes-cm/articleshow/80605633.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Didi likely to open Bengal’s longest river bridge ‘Joyee’||JALPAIGURI: Bengal’s longest river bridge ‘Joyee’ in Mekhliganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district is all set to be thrown open for public use. Built on the Teesta for Rs 415 crore, the 2.7km bridge connects Haldibari block of the district with Mekhliganj. Till now, Farakka bridge held the crown at 2.27km. CM Mamata Banerjee had laid the foundation stone on August 5, 2015, and named the bridge ‘Joyee’. The bridge stands on 78 pillars. The entire project has been funded by money the Centre had allocated for rehabilitation of people who came to India after the exchange of enclaves. The bridge, once open, will reduce the distance between Haldibari and Mekhliganj by 68km. Currently, people of these two towns travel 72km via Jalpaiguri and Maynaguri. The travel time will be cut short from 2 hours to barely 15 minutes. Banerjee is scheduled to visit Alipurduar on February 2 for a party meeting. She is likely to inaugurate Joyee virtually from there. “All my life I have seen my father go to Mekhliganj through Jalpaiguri-Maynaguri to collect his salary. He would have been a happy man to see this bridge open had he been alive today,” said Sajal Chakraborty of Haldibari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-likely-to-open-bengals-longest-river-bridge-joyee/articleshow/80607715.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Bolpur civic body stops VB boundary renovation||SANTINIKETAN: The Bolpur civic body has stopped Visva-Bharati from renovating the campus boundary apparently because the university failed to obtain a no-objection certificate. The varsity authorities were preparing to raise the height of the existing boundary wall near Bolpur fire brigade office when the civic body stepped in and halted the project. Civic official Sukanta Hazra said: “The university has neither sought our no-objection nor followed construction rules. We had sent notices that were not answered either. The way the university is constructing the wall causes trouble to roadside vendors and creates traffic snarls.” A VB official countered the allegations, saying that the wall project was not “new construction”, but renovation of the existing boundary to plug breaches that lead to encroachment. “The wall is several decades old and was constructed according to rules. We are only renovating it. Where does the question of rule violation arise?” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bolpur-civic-body-stops-vb-boundary-renovation/articleshow/80607656.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||6 BJP workers injured in Ghatal attack||GHATAL: At least six BJP workers were grievously injured in a political clash that broke out at Bhemua under Sabong police station here on Saturday night. Sources said party workers were attending a meeting at the residence of local leader Shibu Panda when they heard some people shouting slogans outside. As soon as they came out to protest, bombs were hurled at them. Six have been hospitalized. Antara Bhattacharya, Ghatal organizational district president of BJP, pointed fingers at Trinamool Congress supporters. “They attacked our workers without any provocation when the meeting was on. Our party workers are being attacked every day.” Trinamool block president Amal Panda said no TMC supporter was involved. “We are yet to get details from police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/6-bjp-workers-injured-in-ghatal-attack/articleshow/80607787.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||How ‘Didi Ke Bolo’ paved the way for 14 key Bengal programmes||KOLKATA: Bengal’s flagship grievance redress mechanism, ‘Didi Ke Bolo’, launched in July 2019, has led to around 14 key policy programmes being rolled out. These programmes — which cover the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations to ‘Duare Sarkar’ — were planned after analysing 28 lakh complaints and 80 lakh calls and email interactions and identifying clusters of complaints to find solutions. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee posted on Twitter, “I'm pleased at the completion of 500 days of my initiative ‘Didi Ke Bolo’. Over this course, 28 lakh people reached out to the helpline 91370 91370 with more than 80 lakh interactions taking place. I thank each one of you for your support and response.” She also wrote, “Through feedback received on @DidiKeBolo the Bengal government implemented the 6th Pay Commission, expanded Samajik Suraksha Yojana and started programmes like Pathashree, Duare Sarkar, Paray Samadhan, Jai Johar, Sneher Paras, Prochesta Prakalpa, Taposili Bandhu and many others.” Launched in phases from July 2019, the ‘Didi Ke Bolo’ programme aimed to collate and resolve people’s grievances. “The complaints were analysed and mapped to a particular issue or pattern. For example, a nature of grievance appeared to be around the pay disparities among state and central employees. The state has accepted the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations and implemented it from January 1, 2020,” an officer said. “Nearly 10-lakh odd complaints were local in nature, including road repairs, drainage, water issues, classrooms and even culverts. The ‘Paray Samadhan’ scheme gives financial powers to local administration to do the work, easing the red tape,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/how-didi-ke-bolo-paved-the-way-for-14-key-bengal-programmes/articleshow/80607635.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||BJP seniors rush to Thakurbari to pacify Matuas||BARASAT: BJP seniors Kailash Vijayvargiya and Mukul Roy rushed to the Matua headquarters at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas on Saturday to pacify the hundreds of Matua disciples who had gathered on the adjoining ground from Friday night to hear about their citizenship from none other than Union home minister Amit Shah. A section of Thakurbari disciples staged a dharna in front of Matua leader and Bongaon BJP MP Shantanu Thakur’s residence after getting to know in the morning that Shah had cancelled his visit at the last moment. Demanding unconditional citizenship, they continued with the dharna while Vijayvargiya and Roy held a meeting with Thakur for over 45 minutes. They also wanted the BJP MP to give it in writing that the Centre was going to grant them citizenship. “During the meeting, the Union home minister called Kailashji over phone and asked him not to dismantle the dais set up for his meeting. Shah also spoke to Thakur and told him to make preparations to hold a meeting in a 24-26-hour notice,” BJP national vice-president Roy said after the meeting. Thakur, who had told his supporters at a Matua Mahasangha meeting months ago that he would go to any extent to get citizenship for Matuas, said: “The Union home minister couldn’t come to Bengal in the aftermath of a blast in front of a foreign embassy in Delhi. He will be coming soon and I hope that the Centre will grant citizenship to Matuas.” The BJP MP, however, didn’t take exception to the demonstration in front of his house. “They are making an appeal. Granting of citizenship is our long-standing demand. I will tell the disciples what Shah told me over phone,” Thakur said. Former MP and Trinamool leader Mamata Bala Thakur was not ready to buy the BJP version. “These BJP leaders didn’t hesitate to hold meetings across the country after 40 soldiers were killed at Pulwama. They are now citing the blast in front of the Israel embassy because BJP has nothing to deliver to the Matuas,” she said. The delay over implementing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Bengal has come as a bother for refugees, particularly the Matuas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-seniors-rush-to-thakurbari-to-pacify-matuas/articleshow/80607550.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
January 31, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Man kills mom, ‘roasts chicken’ on her pyre; held||JAMSHEDPUR: A 35-year-old man killed his mother in West Singhbhum’s Jojogutu Namveer Tola area late on Friday night, lit her pyre in their courtyard, allegedly roasted a chicken on it and later ate it, said police on Saturday. After being informed, police arrested Pradhan Soy. According to reports, Soy threw the half-cremated body of Sumi Soy (60) on a stove on Saturday morning to burn the rest of the body parts when his sister Somvari saw him and alerted their neighbours. The neighbours stopped him from burning the body, tied him and informed police. Officer in-charge of Manoharpur police station Rahul Kumar said, “The accused killed his mother for scolding him upon returning home inebriated. He was an alcoholic and in a fit of rage hit her with a wooden stick which resulted in her death.” Kumar said the villagers claimed that the accused roasted a chicken on her pyre, but it is a matter of interrogation. The accused had also killed his father Gopal Soy four years back, but police couldn’t confirm if he was out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/man-kills-mom-roasts-chicken-on-her-pyre-held/articleshow/80605582.cms||---
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata schools change format of online exams to stop cheating||KOLKATA: Several schools in the city have taken a number of steps — including giving more importance to one-on-one viva voce — to ensure students cannot make use of unfair means while writing online exams. The steps, they said, were necessary after they found many students had resorted to cheating, sometimes even helped by parents, during their first foray in online examinations. Most schools in Kolkata are now designing their exams in such a way that each child goes through a one-on-one viva, which will have at least 50% weightage. Question patterns, too, are changing so that there will be several questions that will be “application-based”, where a pupil has to apply his/her understanding and logic to arrive at the answer. No two such answers would be the same, and how each pupil arrives at the answer will decide the score. Schools have also started counselling sessions for parents in the new session for partnering as invigilators, along with the teacher. They are being told about the importance of free and fair exams for the ultimate benefit of the child because he/she would otherwise go up to the next class with incomplete knowledge. Some schools are also bringing in proctored exams to ensure a 360-degree view of the pupil while the exam is on, till the end of answer-script submission. “We are bringing in elaborate one-on-one vivas that might have 50% weightage in the final exams this time. This will take a long time since each child will be assessed individually. We have scheduled these from February 8 to 23,” said Seema Sapru, principal, Heritage School. Authorities of DPS Ruby Park, too, conceded that cheating in online exams was the bane of the system. In order to counter this, an extensive viva, where each child faces two senior teachers, has been introduced. “The new system is such that kids will become aware of where they lag and teachers will be able to get an objective view. The results of the first term made it clear to us that the entire effort had been diluted,” said a senior teacher. The two La Martiniere schools have decided to counsel parents before the exams. From Friday, teachers will be back on the campuses, from where the online classes and exams would be conducted. “We are telling parents that they would be actually harming their kids if they don’t step in and prevent them from using unfair means in exams. We are asking them to supervise on our behalf in the virtual exam at their end, while the teachers are there on ours,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal, La Martiniere for Girls. A similar session is over at the Asian International School, which has introduced a “multiple-mode assessment”, where no direct answers to a large number of questions are available in text books that are taught in class, said principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar. Since there has been a paradigm shift in teaching-learning in the past 10 months, it is natural that an exam pattern rethink had become imperative, too, felt Fr Rodney Borneo, principal, Loyola High School. “We are bringing in exams where the questions will be creative. In each answer, individual thoughts and logic will have to be applied,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-schools-change-format-of-online-exams-to-stop-cheating/articleshow/80612338.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 31, 2021||Kolkata||Casual teachers to move court over pay peeve||KOLKATA: Casual teachers of Sishu Siksha Kendras in Bengal, who have been demanding salary and pension on a par with regular teachers of state-run schools, have decided to move court on Monday after police denied them permission to stage a dharna in front of Bikash Bhavan from February 3. The SSK sahayaks and sahayikas, under the banner of Sikshak Aikya Mukta Mancha, had launched a flash demonstration in front of the VIP gate of Bengal assembly and clashed with police on January 28. The protest outside the assembly came more than a fortnight after SSK teachers marched to Nabanna on January 11. “We had received an assurance from the CMO back then that our demands would be met. But, nothing has happened till now,” a Mancha representative said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/casual-teachers-to-move-court-over-pay-peeve/articleshow/80607772.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 31, 2021||Ranchi||BGH gets 12th vaccination centre of Bokaro district||BOKARO: A new Covid-19 vaccination centre was opened at Bokaro General Hospital (BHG) on Saturday to add to the existing 11 centres in different blocks of the district and the sadar hospital. Director in-charge of Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) Amarendu Prakash was present during the beginning of the vaccination drive to motivate the health workers. BGH also set up two selfie points for photographs after successful doses. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “Bokaro has responded well to the vaccination drive. Almost 80% beneficiaries at each centre are getting inoculated daily. The remaining 20% are those who either did not receiving any message on their mobile phones or have cold and cough. However, these people have assured that they will take the shots soon.” The approval to set up a vaccination centre at BGH was given by the health department as it was informed that there are 1,100 beneficiaries, including surgeons, doctors, nurses and other staff members of the hospital, whom the vaccine is to be administered. BGH executive director, medical services, Dr A K Singh said, “Among the 1,100, 200 are doctors, 275 nurses, 75 attendants, 60 home guards and the rest are cleaners, sweepers and other frontline health workers who will be inoculated at BGH. There is no hesitancy among them and on the first day, about 80 beneficiaries of the hospital had taken the vaccine. It is a good start.” Since the beginning of the drive, 2,980 people have taken the shots and a total of 11,543 people are to be inoculated in the first phase in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bgh-gets-12th-vaccination-centre-of-bokaro-district/articleshow/80605587.cms||---
