15-04-2021||Atall||Leading from the front||‘His inspiring career, towering personality and distinguished reputation have endowed him with a unique stature in society and have earned him the respect of the nation. Even till date, he actively associates himself with various welfare activities of the Air Force as a father figure of the service, which he nurtured from its fledgeling days.‘For his most outstanding and extraordinary service to the nation, the President of India is pleased to confer upon Air Chief Marshal Arjan Singh the rank of Marshal of the Indian Air Force,’ read the citation.The President acknowledged the salute of the veteran warrior. The cerulean and gold baton was brought up on a velvet cushion. The President handed the baton to Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh, who saluted him again. The President shook his hand.The lady of the day, Teji Arjan Singh, looked elegant in a russet organza sari. She has stood by her husband for all the eventful years with grace and charm that became legendary. Sitting next to her in a white embroidered outfit was their daughter, Asha. The National Anthem was played again and the President and his guests retired to the Banquet Hall.The ceremony had been as impressive as it was brief. During tea at the Banquet Hall, adjoining Ashoka Hall, the mood was informal. Life-size portraits of past Presidents seemed to look upon the historical event approvingly as many of his well-wishers greeted MIAF Arjan Singh. The President and others gracefully conceded the centre stage to the 83-year-old pilot, who proudly wore the Distinguished Flying Cross, Padma Vibhushan, and a host of other medals.A comment he had made soon after the announcement of the rank on January 26 that year is still fresh in my mind: ‘Roopinder, I will finally get rid of that ‘retired’!’ After leaving active service in IAF, he had a distinguished career in diplomacy and public service, but IAF was his life.Personal sacrifice demonstrates leadership. Two years later, he sold his farm near Delhi. With the support of the family, a corpus of Rs 2 crore was used to establish the Marshal of the Air Force & Mrs Arjan Singh Trust. It provides assistance to ex-Air Force personnel/their widows. After his death, his children gave Rs 25 lakh more for the trust.A Field Marshal never retires. MIAF Arjan Singh DFC was an extraordinary human and one who led by example. A salute to IAF’s only Field Marshal on his birth anniversary. He would have been 102 today. He continues to inspire us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/leading-from-the-front-239202
