04-05-2021||Mumbai||JEE Mains exam postponed: Students, parents raise concerns||Weeks after the National Testing Agency (NTA) postponed the third session of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains originally scheduled to take place in the last week for April, it has now indefinitely postponed the fourth and final session of the same exam on Tuesday. The news was not received well by affected students and parents, most of whom shared their displeasure on various social media platforms.“Instead of conducting online exams and putting students out of their misery, the Central and state governments are repeatedly delaying exams which is only making the situation worse for students, who consider this their most important year academically,” said Anupama Rai, mother of a JEE aspirant. She added that many JEE aspirants had not appeared for the February and March sessions of the exam because they wanted to focus on their Class 12 exam, and were waiting for the upcoming sessions to appear for their exam.This year, to give JEE aspirants a better chance at bettering their performance, the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry had announced that JEE Mains will be held in four sessions and students will get the choice to pick the highest score. As per information shared by NTA, 6.20 lakh and 5.56 lakh students appeared for the first two sessions held across India in the months of February and March. Rising Covid-19 cases, however, pushed NTA authorities to decide to postpone the April and now the May session indefinitely. “The rescheduling of April and May sessions of JEE Mains will be announced subsequently. Registrations for the May session will also be announced at a later date,” said the statement released by the NTA.Advait Parmar, 17, could not appear for the second session of JEE Mains in March as he was in quarantine after his father tested positive for Covid-19. “I re-registered for the April session of the exam and wanted to tick-off at least one exam of my list but now, the April, as well as the May sessions, have been postponed and I am unable to focus on studies anymore,” said Advait, who is also preparing for his Class 12 exam which remains postponed across school education boards in the country.Many also took to Twitter to share their concern with the state and Central government. “In the peak of the second wave of Covid, the government was busy holding election rallies and allowing religious festivals but are delaying exams which affect lives of lakhs of students across country. This is unacceptable,” said Ashutosh Singh, parent of another aspirant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jee-mains-exam-postponed-students-parents-raise-concerns-101620152958314.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents, RWAs pool resources to overcome shortage of beds, medicines, O2||Residents and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) in Gurugram are assembling resources to help Covid-19 patients amid an acute shortage of beds, medicines, and oxygen supply among others. As per the district administration data, the city recorded 63,720 fresh Covid-19 cases between April 1 and May 1 — more than what was recorded in 12 months of the pandemic put together.The first Covid-19 case in Gurugram was reported on March 17, 2020, and the city cumulatively recorded 63,313 cases till March 31 this year. The surge in the cases has been leading to an acute shortage of beds for Covid-positive patients since mid-April. Of the city’s 1,522 oxygen beds, 550 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, and 198 ventilator beds in 43 Covid-19 hospitals, there were no oxygen, ICU or ventilator beds as of Tuesday night, according to the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3) — a real-time portal managed by the district administration.Availability of vaporisers, oximeters, multivitamins, and selected cough and cold medicines have also taken a hit due to panic-bulk buying, and a general rise in demand. Shortage of oxygen has also been a major crisis, with at least 15 deaths due to non-availability of oxygen in the city last week, according to the private hospitals.Now, to mitigate the situation in Carlton Estate 1, a condominium in DLF 5, residents and the RWA have formed a Covid-19 medicine bank where medicines from recovered Covid-19 patients within the condominium are being collected and donated to other Covid-positive residents struggling to procure medicines. The RWA has also procured an oxygen concentrator for residents to be used during emergencies, which they said will be functional within a few days. “Our condominium has reported more than 70 Covid-19 cases since April, and a significant number of residents have recovered from the infection. At present, there are 42 apartments with active Covid-19 cases, and many patients reported difficulties in procuring the related medicines. So, to aid them, the RWA and residents came together and urged recovered Covid-19 patients to donate medicines that are being collected and stored within the condominium and are distributed among those in need,” said Pawan Tharwani, president, Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA).After struggling to secure a hospital bed and essential medicines for his Covid-19 positive father, Vishal Singh — a resident of Sahara Grace Condominium in Sector 28 — set up a temporary Covid-19 facility at a vacant space in the clubhouse last week. The facility has five beds, two nurses, amenities like 12 oxygen cylinders, oximeters, oxygen concentrators, and food supply for in-house residents. “My father had tested Covid positive in Allahabad last month, and being here, I could not do anything to help him to secure basic amenities like hospital beds and medicines. The anxiety kept my whole family awake for days, till his condition was stable. I realised I had to do something to help people in whatever possible ways, and I decided to approach my housing complex to start the five-bed oxygen supported Covid-19 care facility,” said Singh, adding that the housing society reported around 75 fresh Covid-19 cases during the second wave.Last week, the RWA of Fresco Apartments also procured an oxygen concentrator for its residents during emergencies. “On an average, the oxygen concentrator is used by two to three residents daily. It has helped them in breathing. Recently, a senior citizen in our housing society could not find a hospital bed for nearly two days, she used the device during the interim to control her dipping oxygen level. The device has proved to be lifesaver, especially for residents who have been waiting for ambulances or getting a bed in Covid-19 hospitals,” said Nilesh Tandon, president, Fresco Apartments RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-rwas-pool-resources-to-overcome-shortage-of-beds-medicines-o2-101620152058230.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals out of vaccines, delays in second jabs a concern||Timely inoculation of vaccine beneficiaries has become a challenge as private hospitals continued to shut their vaccination centres due to the unavailability of doses. While residents are concerned about getting their second vaccine dose, hospital managements said that vaccine manufacturers have put them on a long wait list and it may take around three to four months to get the required dosages.“Currently, hospitals are not getting any vaccine stock from manufacturers as they are obliged to provide doses to central and state governments. In all likelihood, vaccination for those between 18 to 44 years will be mostly carried out at government facilities. Private hospitals will come into the picture after three to four months. Besides, there has been no clarity on second dose inoculation of beneficiaries,” said Dr Nikhil Mishra, chief medical superintendent, Columbia Asia Hospital. A senior health official, requesting anonymity, said, “Clearly, people who require second shot have been facing problems as private hospitals have run out of vaccine stock and are facing difficulties in direct procurement of doses from manufacturers.”According to the district health department data, until May 3, over 178,219 people aged 45 to 59 years took their first dose, but only 13,843 of them have received the second shot. As many as 149,183 people above the age of 60 years have got their first shot, while 36,998 of them received the second shot.Due to the limited supply of vaccine, session sites have decreased to 59 from 89 in the district. Until the first week of April, vaccination took place at 37 government health centres and 52 private hospitals. As reported by HT on Monday, many big hospitals, including Artemis and W Pratiksha, shut their vaccination centres after failing to get a positive response from the manufacturers. Residents who visit the hospitals were directed to visit the government session sites to get their second doses.Dr Devlina Chakravarty, managing director, Artemis Hospital, said, “The hospital inoculated 500 to 900 people every day. But due to unavailability of stock, second dose beneficiaries who have been directly reaching hospital every day are asked to go back.” Earlier, private hospitals directly procured vaccines from the district health department, but with the start of inoculations for people aged 18 to 44, private facilities were directed to get the vaccines from manufacturers. Even the district health department has limited doses, with 13,000 doses currently in stock for second jab beneficiaries. Of these, nearly 4,110 doses were utilised on Tuesday at 30 government sites. Vaccine beneficiaries are worried about the delays in taking the second dose.Vineeta Mathur (60), a resident of Ridgewood Estate, said she has not been able to get the second shot of Covishield vaccine despite visiting many private and government health facilities over the last three days. “There are no slots available for the second shot at any private hospital in the city. Even after directly walking into a few big private hospitals, the staff clearly said they don’t have vaccine stock. At government facilities, only 100-150 tokens are being distributed in a day. The token distribution gets over before 9am.” She said that the government vaccination centre at the Sector 31 polyclinic and other Urban Primary Health Centres have long queues, with no social distancing norms being followed. “At a time when the pandemic is at its peak, the vaccination process could have been streamlined, especially for the elderly. Visiting hospitals or standing in queues for hours makes us vulnerable to contract the coronavirus infection,” said Mathur.Atul Gupta, a resident of Sector 43, who took the first dose of the vaccine along with his wife almost five weeks ago at W Pratiksha Hospital, is facing a similar dilemma. “The vaccination centre of the hospital was closed. We are not able to find any centre to get the second jab of Covaxin in Gurugram. Despite all efforts, there is no clarity on the vaccination process. Therefore, to avoid any further delay we have registered for a slot in one of the vaccination centres in South Delhi,” said Gupta. Residents also complained of issues with booking slots on the Co-WIN platform. Hemant Kumar, a citizen, tweeted: “As a senior citizen the second shot has been cancelled thrice by CoWin without assigning any reason.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-out-of-vaccines-delays-in-second-jabs-a-concern-101620151880077.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Daily spike nears 5,000, zero ICU beds available||The district on Tuesday reported 4,475 new Covid-19 cases, taking active case count to 37,708. The death toll stood at 522, at least 11 deaths on Tuesday. At present, Covid-19 cases have been doubling every 34 days, according to government data. “Cases will continue to spike, which directly impacts the doubling rate of cases. With increased testing, we are trying to identify new cases and control the surge,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. The rapid surge in Covid-19 is also overwhelming the health infrastructure, with no beds with oxygen support, ventilators and intensive care available, according to the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3) portal. At present, 2,447 people are undergoing treatment at 43 Covid-19 hospitals in the district. “The consequence of high testing numbers is that Gurugram’s positivity rate has been high, compared to other districts,” Yadav said. As per the health department data, the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of total samples tested, has also increased to 33%, compared to the 10% reported in the second week of April, when the daily case count began escalating. The positivity rate of the state remains at 7%. To augment the health infrastructure, private companies will set up 700 beds, as reported by HT earlier. A city-based firm, Mankind Pharma Limited, on Tuesday, set up a 70-bed temporary Covid isolation ward with oxygen support at Civil Lines. Besides hospitalised patients, at least 192 mild to moderately ill patients are in isolation at district Covid care centres, while 35, 069 are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-spike-nears-5-000-zero-icu-beds-available-101620151879423.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Govt health centres limit inoculations due to low vaccine availability||Even as private hospitals shut vaccination centres due to lack of vaccines, the government health centres are inoculating only a limited number of people due to the low availability of vaccines.At nearly 30 primary health centres (PHCs) in urban and rural areas, many people were asked to return on Tuesday and book fresh slots. The district administration also issued a statement that government health facilities will not conduct vaccinations at private workplaces or residential areas.“For the second dose inoculations, the department received 13,000 doses on Monday night. It will be distributed to 30 vaccination centres in the district,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Puneet Goyal, a resident of Sector 69, said that he had booked a vaccination slot at Mullahera PHC for Tuesday between 9am and 11am. “I reached the site at 8.45am and the centre was filled with residents by 9.30am. However, there was no sight of any PHC staff, not even a single person to ensure social distancing was being followed. The staff started arriving after 10.15am and announced they will vaccinate only 45 people who are due to get their second dose. It was a surprise for 99% of the people who had come for their first shot,” said Goyal. He said that more than 100 people returned without getting their jabs, including some who had to take their second dose. Another resident, Rajesh Kumar who waited for more than two hours, left the site without getting vaccinated. “The vaccine stock was over, and we were told to book an appointment for another day. We had to return without vaccination after wasting three hours and exposing ourselves to the Covid-19 risk. The state of PHC is not in a good state. The staff is not well trained and is short-tempered. No one was ready to provide the right information despite repeated attempts,” said Kumar. Many people who visited the Sector 31 polyclinic alleged similar concerns and said they returned due to large crowds and low vaccine availability. Currently, the health department is focussing on inoculating beneficiaries who have to take the second jab, with almost 12,000 vaccine doses in stock. At 30 sites, roughly about 100 inoculations each take place. Since many private hospitals ceased the vaccination drive due to the unavailability of vaccine dosages, people are turning up at government health centres to take their second dose. Gurpreet Singh, president, Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Ridgewood Estate, said, “Getting the prioritised population group, those above 45 years, vaccinated has become a challenge. Over 30 elderly people could manage to get their second dose at the nearby urban primary health centre. Earlier, many residents of the society received their first dose during a vaccination drive held within the condominium premises. Ideally, the drive for the second shot should have also been held within the society, especially when the coronavirus infection is widely spread. We have approached authorities to hold a vaccination camp but there has been no response.” Vaccination drives have been restricted by government PHCs at present. To hold such vaccination camps, RWAs and private companies will have to approach private hospitals, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-health-centres-limit-inoculations-due-to-low-vaccine-availability-101620151878866.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Ambulance operators threaten to shut services due to price cap||A day after the regional transport authority (RTA) imposed a cap on the private ambulance charges for ferrying Covid-19 patients and victims, ambulance operators in the city said they will not run their ambulances on Wednesday unless the cap is removed or at least increased. Operators also submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner in this regard on Tuesday.Rajesh Yadav, president, Private Ambulance Association (PAA), said that the price fixed by the transport department is inadequate to run their services. “We will not run our ambulances with the prices imposed on Monday. We are ready to donate these ambulances to the district administration as we will suffer huge losses and will not be able to make our ends meet. Our drivers are risking their lives and handling Covid-19 patients and their bodies. The fixed amount is the same as it was 20 years ago. There has been inflation on all products and services, but the transport department wants us to operate at the same charge,” Yadav said, adding that they are ready to sell their ambulances and the drivers will look for other jobs if the prices are not revised. He said that according to the new policy, they will hardly get ₹150 for a trip.As per the two-page memorandum sent by 10 members of the PAA to Dr Yash Garg, a copy of which was seen by HT, operators said they have been providing ambulances to the health department officials and other senior officers for free, but now, they are facing harassment. “Last year, we had provided ambulances to the civil surgeon for two months, seven ambulances to a subdivisional magistrate, and a bill of ₹13 lakh is still pending. We have been running from pillar to post to get our dues, but no one is responding. We want to help the authorities and continue our operations, but who will think of us, and how can we run the operations after suffering a huge loss?” the memorandum stated.However, RTA officials said that the operators are taking advantage of the situation and threatening to stop operations, and that the authority will not revise the prices.Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, said they are not aware of any strike, and the fare has been fixed considering the situation of the people, as the ambulance drivers and operators were fleecing them. “We have fixed the fare per kilometre to ensure that the people are not extorted, and the prices be transparent. They were charging ₹10,000 for five kilometres, and the people had no other option than to pay them. This was a much-needed step, and we will ensure that there is smooth functioning of ambulances across the city,” she said.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said the authority will look into the matter. “We will resolve this issue at the earliest,” Garg said.Salina Macknight, the vice-president, PAA, said that drivers are taking a huge risk as relatives of Covid-19 victims request the drivers to complete the formalities. “All the private ambulances were parked on Tuesday, and we are not taking any more bookings. Our drivers have tested Covid-positive, their treatment and hospital expenses are borne by us. We are paying for their food and lodging and are ensuring, after each patient is shifted, that the ambulances are cleaned and sanitised properly,” Macknight said.There are 39 private ambulance operators and nearly 250 ambulances in the city.Members of the PAA members said they invested more than ₹30 lakh to get advanced life support (ALS) ambulances and nearly ₹12 lakh for basic life support (BLS) ambulances, and are still paying the monthly instalments. Along with a minimum salary of ₹20,000 to each driver and incentives to transport patients and dead bodies, PAA members said they are facing a huge problem.On Monday, HT reported that ambulances were demanding ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to transport patients to private hospitals within a five-kilometre radius, while for outstation transport, the rates went up to ₹1.5 lakh. As per the caps imposed on Monday, an ALS ambulance can be hired at a maximum of ₹15 per kilometre, and a BLS ambulance for ₹7 per kilometre.Vipin Kumar, former president, PAA, said amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the drivers have been working for over 14 hours a day. “We have ferried hundreds of Covid-19 patients since April, keeping our fears of contagion aside. A 12-hour shift has turned into a 16-hour shift. Our men are continuously working for shifting bodies. With this amount, we can’t even fill petrol in the vehicles,” Kumar said.The PAA members also alleged that the fare imposed by the transport department was based on vehicles bought by the government, and for which maintenance and instalment costs are not considered.Private ambulance operators also alleged that they were buying oxygen cylinders in black as they were not being allowed to get them refilled at the designated stations for the past eight days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambulance-operators-threaten-to-shut-services-due-to-price-cap-101620151878292.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Free Covid vaccine for all in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday announced that vaccination against Covid-19 will be administered free of cost in city hospitals, including in the 18-44 age category.Announcing the same on Twitter, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah “for the notable decision of providing free vaccine to all including 18+ beneficiaries in Chandigarh”.However, officially there is no word on when Chandigarh will receive doses for the younger age group even when against the order of one lakh doses, the UT will get only 30,000 Covishield jabs in May.“We have ordered one lakh doses and are placing orders for a lakh more, but we have got a confirmation for only 30,000 jabs from the Serum Institute of India. We are requesting them to expedite the delivery,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Officials said that the vaccine doses for the 18-plus age group are expected to get delayed till May 10 even though the inoculation drive has started in the neighbouring cities of Mohali and Panchkula.The UT was unable to kick start the vaccination drive for the 18 and above age group due to the unavailability of doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-covid-vaccine-for-all-in-chandigarh-101620150618719.html
04-05-2021||Indore||6,000 vials of Remdesivir arrive in Madhya Pradesh's Indore||At least 6,000 vials of Remdesivir injections arrived here on Tuesday, of which a major portion was sent to divisional headquarters of Madhya Pradesh for further distribution amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior official said. Of the batch of 6,000 vials, 1,056 were reserved for Indore and 1,104 have been dispatched to Bhopal, the official said. At least 960 vials will be sent to Jabalpur, 576 to Sagar and 768 each to Gwalior, Ujjain and Rewa divisions of the state, he said. The state government has deployed its aircraft and helicopter for transporting Remdesivir injections to the divisional headquarters in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The injection, which is used in the treatment of Covid-19, is in high demand, leading to an increase in cases of black marketing. Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 12,236 COVID-19 cases and 98 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/6000-vials-of-remdesivir-arrive-in-madhya-pradesh-s-indore-101620147803326.html
04-05-2021||Other||One-third of total Covid deaths at PGIMS, Rohtak in April alone||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 death toll and a total of 264 persons have succumbed to the contagion at the institution in April only.As per data taken from the hospital officials, 768 deaths have been reported at PGIMS between May 1, 2020 and May 4, 2021. Of these, 264 deaths (34%) were reported last month alone.Last year, 10 persons lost their lives due to Covid at PGIMS in May, 25 in June, 36 in July, 41 in August, 84 in September, 45 in October, 127 in November and 52 in December.Similarly, 13 deaths were reported in January this year, two in February, three in March, 264 in April and 66 in May so far.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said that the death toll witnessed a sharp rise in April, 2021.“The reason was growing number of patients. We have 113 ICU beds and our doctors are making all efforts to save lives of every patient undergoing treatment here. Also, people had lowered their guard this year which resulted in rise in caseload and deaths,” she added.A senior doctor at PGIMS, requesting anonymity, said there is rise in Covid suspected deaths. “Hospitals are admitting patients who have RT-PCR positive reports and there are many patients with false negatives, whom hospitals are refusing admission. Such patients are also dying,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/onethird-of-total-covid-deaths-at-pgims-rohtak-in-april-alone-101620148281601.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Faridabad to have doctor-on-call service for Covid patients||Haryana’s Faridabad district will have a doctor-on-call service within two days, said additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal on Tuesday during a review meeting of the status and arrangements of Covid with Faridabad administration.The ACS asked the district administration to ensure enhanced testing and report submission within a day of testing, setting up of a call centre, providing kits of all essential medicines including oximeter, constantly monitoring oxygen supply, and curbing black marketing of oxygen and essential medicines.Kaushal said action will be taken against those who impede oxygen supply or supply of medicines or indulge in black marketing.He asked the police to ensure implementation of lockdown and take action against violators.He said the rate list for treatment should be affixed outside private hospitals. Each hospital should take the same fees from patients as prescribed. For this, the health department should keep constant watch and issue instructions to private hospitals, he said.He laid emphasis on maximum testing and said those who have symptoms of Covid-19 should get tested immediately and timely test reports should be made available to prevent spread of the virus.Municipal commissioner Garima Mittal has been appointed to carry out the doctor-on-call work and the service will be started for residents of Faridabad within two days so that they can be given consultation via telephone.He instructed health department officials to provide kits of all essential medicines, including oximeters to people in home isolation. The ACS asked doctors to follow up with every patient on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-faridabad-to-have-doctor-on-call-service-for-covid-patients-101620148218534.html
04-05-2021||Other||Five police SUVs to ferry Covid patients in Kaithal||The Kaithal district police have deputed five sport utility vehicles as ambulances for Covid patients in district.Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Lokender Singh said that the SUVs were provided to the district police and now will be run as ambulances to ferry Covid patients.He said the ambulances will provide free services to patients and relief to the infected persons as rent of ambulances have increased following surge in cases.According to the SP, Kaithal DSP Raj Singh has been appointed as nodal officer. People can take the help of these vehicles by dialing helpline 108. He added that these vehicles, however, do not have oxygen facilities for patients.OXYGEN PLANT STARTS IN KARNAL HOSPITALTo meet the rising demand of liquid oxygen, a dedicated pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plant was made operational at the Karnal civil hospital on Tuesday. The plant has a capacity to produce 200l oxygen per minute.Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said with starting of the unit, the demand for oxygen in the civil hospital will be easily fulfilled. He said the plant was approved by PM Modi and around ₹14 lakh have been spent to set up this plant.He added that this plant’s operations are free of cost. The oxygen will be generated from atmospheric air with the PSA technique and the hospital will have a direct supply of oxygen via pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-police-suvs-to-ferry-covid-patients-in-kaithal-101620148038654.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||₹50,000 fine if private ambulances overcharge patients in Haryana||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government has directed the regional transport authorities (RTAs) to slap “minimum ₹50,000 penalty” on private ambulance drivers or owners if found charging more than the fixed price.As per instructions, advance life support (ALS) ambulance can be hired at the rate of ₹15/km and basic life support (BLS) ambulances cannot charge more than ₹7/km for transporting patients in any kind of emergency, including accidents.The state health department on Monday sent a letter to the transport commissioner informing how private ambulances have been fleecing patients.The health department said that it has come to the notice of higher authorities in state that private ambulance drivers and service providers are “charging exorbitantly higher rates” than what’s prescribed by the department.“This practice is prevalent while transporting patients within as well as outside state,” the letter reads.The health department has directed the transport commissioner to issue necessary instructions to all secretaries of the RTA in this regard.In case private ambulance drivers or owners resort to charging “exorbitant rates”, the RTAs will be authorised to cancel driving license of the ambulance driver.The department has directed that the RTAs can also cancel registration certificate of the ambulance or impound the vehicle and impose a penalty starting from a minimum of ₹50,000 in case of non-compliance of instructions.As per the letter, also marked to all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons, because of this unethical practice, citizens are bearing additional financial burden during the current Covid-induced crisis.The direction to impose heavy penalty on private ambulances found fleecing patients coincides with Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij warning private hospitals of strict action if found overcharging for facilities and other medical assistance from Covid patients in state.“Strict action will be taken if any hospital is found charging more than the fixed rates from Covid patients,” Vij had said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rs-50-000-fine-if-private-ambulances-overcharge-patients-in-haryana-101620147858993.html
04-05-2021||Other||Vij accepts that there’s shortage of oxygen in Haryana||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij has finally accepted that there is a scarcity of oxygen in state.“Our teams are trying to arrange oxygen everywhere in state. There is scarcity because the supply from Odisha and elsewhere is taking time to reach here. But we are trying our best and getting the supply airlifted. The situation will improve soon,” Vij said on Tuesday.SITUATION IN HOME DISTRICTHis comment comes at a time when a private hospital in his home district has claimed on Tuesday that they have only two hours of liquid oxygen left.Park Healing Touch Hospital, a private facility on Chandigarh Road, treating Covid patients, flagged the SOS, where 30 critical Covid patients are admitted.Dr Jagmohan Oberoi, GM (operations), said, “Of total 90 patients, 50 are Covid patients including 30 on ventilator or BiPAP support. We were anxious so we met Vij who asked the DC to supply the gas at the earliest.”Dr Sukhpreet, district co-ordinator of oxygen supply, said a truck with one tonne oxygen was sent to the hospital, immediately.Sources in the health department said the Ambala civil hospital is overcrowded with critical patients. Also, MM University Mullana, one of the largest Covid facility in region, had given a similar panic alarm on Monday and oxygen was supplied accordingly.DC Ashok Kumar Sharma, while inspecting the oxygen plant in Saha said 100 spare cylinders will be sent to Mullana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vij-accepts-that-there-s-shortage-of-oxygen-in-haryana-101620147738464.html
04-05-2021||Other||Covid vaccination gains good response in Haryana||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, vaccination has gained momentum in Haryana. People are coming forward in large numbers to take the jab.As per figures of the Cowin portal, total 63,489 people were vaccinated at 1,022 vaccination centres in Haryana till 5pm on April 4. Over three lakh people in the age group of 18 to 44, including health and frontline workers have been vaccinated since the vaccine was rolled out for the above 18 age groups.On May 2, total 18,310 people were given the jab. On May 3, the number of vaccinated people rose to 56,999, and 8,557 of them got the second dose.“All 10 adult members of my family received the first jab soon after it was opened at the vaccination centre in my village on May 2. Now there are no dates available for the new registration,” said Harish Dhawan, a resident of Yamunanagar.As per doctors monitoring the vaccination process, surge in new cases is a major factor that encouraged people to get vaccinated. Now, the government’s move to vaccinate people above 18 years of age has increased these numbers manifold.“The response is good, especially in big cities as people are registering their entire families for the shots to protect themselves from the virus and this is after a surge in cases,” said a vaccination officer.Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma said, “The surge in cases and government’s decision to roll out vaccination for all above 18 people, have encouraged people for vaccination as cases are being reported in all age groups.”As per Cowin portal, the available vaccines at centres in Gurugram, Faridabad, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Hisar, Panchkula and Palwa. All vaccines at Max Hospital, Gurugram are booked till May 10.In Nuh, which has reported the minimum number of Covid patients in state after Charkhi Dadri so far, all available dates at 23 vaccination centres are booked till May 10.Kaithal civil hospital senior medical officer Dr Shailender Mamgain said people are coming in good numbers for vaccination in urban as well as rural areas.Most vaccination centres were booked soon after opening of the portal, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vaccination-gains-good-response-in-haryana-101620147630678.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||15,786 new Covid cases in Haryana, highest single-day surge so far||The Covid-19 claimed 153 more lives in 17 districts of Haryana on Tuesday as the state recorded 15,786 new cases - the highest single-day surge so far-- even as 11,525 people also recovered from the infection, as per the health bulletin.Tuesday’s 64% new cases were confined to 11 NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Rohtak and Sonepat.And 36% of the total fresh cases were detected in rest 11 districts of Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Panipat, Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula.Of the total fatalities, 16 each were in Gurugram and Panipat, 15 in Hisar, 14 in Jind, 13 in Ambala, 12 in Rohtak, 11 in Bhiwani, nine each in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Karnal, six in Panchkula, five in Kaithal, four in Kurukshetra, three each in Palwal and Mahendergarh, one in Nuh Of the new cases, Gurugram logged 4,475 cases, Faridabad 1,580, Sonepat 1,090, Hisar 1,248, Ambala 610, Karnal 547, Panipat 615, Rohtak 281, Rewari 317, Panchkula 584, Kurukshetra 142, Yamunanagar 471, Sirsa 718, Mahendergarh 651, Bhiwani 821, Jhajjar 451, Palwal 161, Fatehabad 347, Kaithal 63, Jind 359, Nuh 203, and Charkhi Dadri 52.In the last 24 hours, 58,404 samples were tested for Covid in state. The recovery rate stood at 79.10% while the positivity rate was 7.17%.The state also vaccinated 67,726 people during the day.MANDATORY TO CARRY ID CARDS DURING LOCKDOWN: VIJHaryana home and health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said that it will be mandatory to carry departmental identity cards or government-issued passes for traffic movement during lockdown in Haryana. Strict action should be taken against those commuting without these, Vij said during a meeting with senior cops. Vij said DCs have been asked to make online passes. He directed them to make roster for grocery stores, pharmacy shops and other essential items in state. All such shops should not be allowed to open every day but on rotation basis. “The rules issued by government should be adhered to. Hotels, gyms, clubs, restaurants, etc should be completely shut,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15786-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-highest-single-day-surge-so-far-101620147500926.html
04-05-2021||Bangalore||‘Greater tragedy likely to unfold’: Former Karnataka CM Kumaraswamy writes to PM Modi on oxygen crisis||Former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Tuesday sought urgent intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the shortage of oxygen in the state which could jeopardise the treatment of critical coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. In a letter to PM Modi, Kumaraswamy cited the Chamarajanagar tragedy where 24 people died due to an alleged shortage of oxygen at a government hospital in the Chamarajanagar district on Monday.“This morning, four more deaths were reported due to a similar shortage from a hospital in the Gulbarga district. The two districts are at opposite ends of the state. Deaths in both districts were preventable.” the Janata Dal (Secular) leader wrote.Kumaraswamy said there is panic enveloping other districts of Karnataka following these two incidents, adding that some hospitals in Bengaluru city have been ‘frantically’ messaging about the end of their oxygen supplies since Tuesday morning.Also Read| 24 dead in Karnataka hospital, kin allege oxygen shortageHospitals in several parts of Karnataka, including the capital city of Bengaluru, have raised concerns over the gaps in oxygen supply. Some hospitals in Kalaburagi and Belagavi are telling patients to bring their own oxygen cylinders, according to news agency PTI. An executive of the Chaitanya Medical Centre in Yelahanka, Bengaluru, told PTI that there was a crisis of the life-saving gas in the facility on Monday because of which patients had to be shifted to other hospitals.The former chief minister informed Prime Minister Modi that Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts require 70 tonnes of oxygen on a daily basis due to their volume of cases and severity of infections but have managed to only procure an average of 20 tonnes per day.Also Read| Covid-19: Karnataka reports 44,631 fresh infections, 292 deaths“The inputs I have been personally receiving from people across the state and more specifically from districts like Tumkur, Belgaum, Dharwad and Hassan are alarming and indicative of a crisis that is fast expanding,” Kumaraswamy wrote.He warned that a greater tragedy is likely to unfold in Karnataka if the state administration does not act briskly and does not receive support from the central government.Karnataka’s Covid-19 caseload is nearing the 1.7 million mark which includes 16,538 deaths, 1,210,013 recoveries and 464,363 active cases, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 44,631 cases were reported on Tuesday while 292 people succumbed to the disease and 24,714 were discharged, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/former-karnataka-cm-kumaraswamy-writes-to-pm-on-oxygen-crisis-in-state-101620147097420.html
04-05-2021||Other||Centre for World University Rankings has IISER in top six per cent globally||PUNE The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, has been ranked in the top six per cent of universities worldwide, by the Centre for World University Rankings. These rankings are based on information that CWUR gathers through databases and other sources, and not through university submissions. A total of 68 universities and institutes from India have been ranked in the CWUR Global 2000 list. The 2021-22 edition of CWUR’s Global 2000 list ranked IISER Pune 1,124 in the world, out of 19,788 universities. The list also ranks IISER Pune 22nd nationally, and at 330 in the regional (Asia) level. Among the performance indicators that CWUR employs, IISER Pune scored in the research performance category. CWUR is a consulting organisation providing policy advice and strategic insights to governments and universities to improve educational and research outcomes. CWUR sources data on these parameters through databases and global lists, and does not rely on surveys and data submission by universities. “We are very happy to be listed in the top 2000 Global list by the CWUR. IISER Pune’s score is largely because of our research performance, and I would like to commend our researchers for this. Such an indicator of institutional performance would certainly help boost the morale of our researchers in these difficult times. I am sure that our researchers will do even better in future.” said IISER Pune director Professor Jayant Udgaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-for-world-university-rankings-has-iiser-in-top-six-per-cent-globally-101620146297936.html
04-05-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka reports 44,631 fresh infections, 292 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 44,631 new Covid-19 cases and 292 deaths, taking the caseload and fatalities to 16,90,934 and 16,538 respectively, the health department said.According to the health bulletin, the state has 4,64,363 active cases whereas 12,10,013 people have been discharged so far including 24,714 people on Tuesday.Bengaluru urban district, which is the main contributor of daily spike in cases, now has 3,01,712 active cases. The city reported 20,870 infections and 132 deaths on Tuesday.Cumulatively, Bengaluru has 8,40,274 cases and 6,845 deaths.According to the health bulletin, 2,293 infections were reported in Mysuru, 2,278 in Hassan, 1636 in Tumakuru, 1,506 in Mandya, 1,280 in Kalaburagi and 1,162 in Kalaburagi,.Bagalkote, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Kodagu, Kolar, Koppal, Raichur, Shivamogga, Udupi and Uttara Kannada reported over 500 cases.Other than Bengaluru, fatalities have been reported in 26 districts including 27 deaths in Ballari, 15 in Shivamogga, 14 in Tumakuru, 10 in Mysuru, eight each in Bagalkote, Chamarajanagar and Uttara Kannada, six each in Mandya and Haveri.There were 1,53,707 tests done on Tuesday including 1,40,609 using the RT PCR and other methods taking the total tests done so far to 2.62 crore, the department added.A total of 99.36 lakh inoculations have been done in the state, comprising the first and second dose of vaccine, as of Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-reports-44-631-fresh-infections-292-deaths-101620145246456.html
04-05-2021||Pune||72-year-old farmer killed in hit-and-run||A 72-year-old farmer was killed in a hit-and-run on Sunday in Bivari village of Haveli. The man was identified as Jijaba Sonba Gote (72), a resident of Biwari area of Haveli. The incident happened at 3pm on Sunday when Gote was riding his motorbike to his farm from his house when the incident happened. Merely 100 feet away from his house, his motorbike was hit by a dumper truck which sped past the accident spot without stopping for help. A complaint in the matter was lodged by his son Sagar Gote (36). Assistant police inspector Suhas Patil of Lonikand police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 338 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 132(1)(c) and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/72yearold-farmer-killed-in-hitandrun-101620144557746.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Finance company allegedly dupes businessman of ₹32 lakh||A senior official of a finance company was booked by Pune police on Monday for cheating a Pune-based businessman of ₹32 lakh under the guise of giving him a loan of ₹16 crore. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the allegedly wronged businessman identified as Niles Upasni (48), a resident of Tingrenagar in Vishrantwadi, Pune. “This alleged finance company is located at Wagle Estate in Thane. We are not revealing the name as we are yet to find them,” said police sub inspector LR Satpute of Vishrantwadi police station who is investigating the case. Upasni is a businessman who had initiated a project of building a chemical plant in Mahad MIDC, according to the police. He was looking for funding of ₹16 crore for the chemical plant to be set-up. This company offered him the loan, but in form of mortgage investment of ₹32,38,200 against the loan. The amount was exacted from the complainant as well as his business partners, according to his complaint. However, when Upasni went to the local government office for registration of the project, the finance company representative failed to show up. Upon inquiring further, Upasni found that the finance company office shutters were down and the man who had posed as the company’s national head had switched his phone off, according to the police. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/finance-company-allegedly-dupes-businessman-of-rs-32-lakh-101620144437708.html
04-05-2021||Pune||PMC to pay ₹1 crore to Katraj dairy to acquire land for road widening||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay ₹1 crore to Katraj dairy to acquire 4,410 square metres of land for road widening to ease traffic congestion in the area. The proposal was cleared on Tuesday during the PMC standing committee meeting. The move, according to PMC officials, will help ease the traffic problem of Rajiv Gandhi Zoo chowk near the Katraj dairy corner. While there was no fund provision in the 2021-22 budget, the PMC standing committee gave approval to the proposal of the PMC administration to divert allocation ₹1 crore from 11 merged villages’ school repairs and maintenance and to construct compound wall of PMC open lands fund provision. In the 2017 development plan (DP), PMC had proposed a 24-meter proposed road which will pass through the Katraj dairy premises and connect Sarhad school stretch with road near Wonder city. The PMC has partially required land to widen the road, due to this road widening, three residential constructions are going to affect, and nine families will have to be shifted. The dairy has shown a positive response to hand over land to the PMC. The PMC has calculated land amount of ₹1.01 crore which will be given to Katraj dairy administration to rehabilitate nine families to other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-pay-1-crore-to-katraj-dairy-to-acquire-land-for-road-widening-101620144317789.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Theatre personality Ashok Kulkarni passes away||Ashok Kulkarni, the managing trustee of Sahitya Rangabhoomi Pratishthan, which has been a support for the theatre community all across India passed away at the age of 84, on Tuesday, his family members said. Kulkarni, fondly called Ashok Kaka, had recently undergone surgery though his health condition deteriorated later. He had been admitted to Prayag Hospital. Born in Belgaum, Kulkarni completed his school and college education in Belgaum. He held important posts in organisations such as the ‘Indian Demographic Research Institute’ in his career. During his stay in Mumbai, he befriended several experimental theatre and film practitioners. It was the period when stalwarts such as Satyadev Dubey, Vijay Tendulkar, Girish Karnad, Govind Nihalani were starting their careers. Later, Kulkarni retired from Walchand Industries after serving at an important post. After retirement he decided to spend his time once again in his beloved field of theatre. He stayed behind the scenes and made an invaluable contribution to theatre in the last twenty years.He started the Vinod Doshi fellowship to honour young and upcoming artists in the field of performing art. Later, these fellowships were awarded as the Tendulkar-Dubey Fellowship and the Madhu Ganu fellowship. Till date 72 artists have been felicitated with these fellowships.He ran the Vinod Doshi theatre festival and Saarang festival consistently for twelve years, from 2008 to 2020, and added great value to the city of Pune. Several books such as ‘Scenes We Made’ that traced the history of theatre, ‘Ajoon Tendulkar’ written by stalwarts about Vijay Tendulkar’s career in writing, theatre, and films, were published by Sahitya Rangabhoomi Pratishthan. Of these, the book ‘Prayogik Rangabhoomi - Teen Ank’ was recently awarded the Sahitya Akademi Puraskar. With his support, ‘Rangabhaan’ - a workshop for upcoming playwrights was run under the aegis of Sahitya Rangabhoomi Pratishthan for one and a half years. Even in the present Covid times, he was trying to uplift theatre practitioners, and was working towards supporting them to view theatre in a new manner. His demise has created an immense void in the art world. He is survived by his wife, son, daughter and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/theatre-personality-ashok-kulkarni-passes-away-101620144257764.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Care-taker-turned-thief had list of over 100 nursing homes, police find||Sandeep Bhagwan Hande, the caretaker arrested for locking up a couple in their bathroom had a list of 100-125 nursing homes from various areas, according to police. He had also led another group of men into committing a similar offence in December 2020. “He had a list of 100-125 nursing homes from various areas and he used to attach himself with one and tell them that he will try it out for a couple of days before providing his services. He used that opportunity to perform a complete reccee of the place and refuse the job. Weeks later, he would come and steal from there,” said Mahesh Bhosale, police sub inspector of Chaturshringi police station who is one of the officers investigating the case now. Hande is all of 25-years old and has a history of at least seven such known cases against him - one in Kothrud, three in Chaturshringi, one in Jalna, one each in Nigdi and Sangvi. He is now in custody of Pune police until May 10. When he was arrested by Kothrud police station officials, Hande was with Ajinkya Nursing Home. However, while working at the house in Sindh colony, he was attached with the Pune nursing bureau. “He even worked at that house for some time. We will check if Ajinkya agency employed him again. If that is true, they will be made accused too,” said PSI Bhosale. The case has drawn a sharp response from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member and activist Vijay Kumbhar who has questioned the police inaction in the case after he was granted bail in the Kothrud case. Kumbhar wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Dilip Valse-Patil. “When the Kothrud case was brought to light, a demand was for necessitating police verification for agencies that provide such services and their employees. However, it was ignored,” said Kumbhar in the letter. He further blamed the police for not taking appropriate action in such cases. “Even if these cases get registered, why is appropriate action not being taken against them? For how many more years will these gangs be given a free hand? What is the reason behind the lack of a permanent solution to this problem?” asked Kumbhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/caretakerturnedthief-had-list-of-over-100-nursing-homes-police-find-101620144137705.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Covid restrictions slow down Ring Road land acquisition process||The land acquisition process for the western part of the Ring Road project to be built by MSRDC has been allowed despite the Covid curbs being imposed in the state, however, it has slowed down the essential Joint Measurement Survey (JMS) procedure in the land acquisition process. Until April 28th, JMS in seven affected villages in western parts of the Ring Road has been completed. There are 38 affected villages on the western side of the Ring Road. With this speed MSRDC’s target to complete JMS procedure before monsoon starts is likely to be missed. The procedure of joint measurement survey started in the last week of March in western parts of the proposed ring road. “We had aimed to complete the JMS before Monsoon starts because it is not possible to do it in that season but now, there are certain problems we are facing as the Covid cases are increasing and curbs are in place,” said Sandeep Patil sub-divisional engineer Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). Patil elaborated the difficulties faced in the process. “Land measurement is done in the farms and the isolated areas, and it is happening smoothly but to get the consensus of a village a meeting with villagers has to be conducted according to the procedure. In these it is difficult to organise it. Also, we don’t want to turn to the hard methods such as doing the measurements in police protection. As per the orders it has to be done with maximum amount of cooperation and consensus,” Patil said. If the joint measurement survey is not completed before Monsoon, then it will resume after the season, but it surely delays the timeframe of the project. Without the completion of JMS, the monetary returns to the affected people cannot be issued. Pune district collector had also ordered the completion of land acquisition process of western part before April 30th. “This process has to be completed to evaluate the monetary returns to be given to the villagers but as they are not sure how much they will get; they are hesitant to let us complete this procedure. We are trying to get help from the people’s representatives from concerned areas to persuade the locals,” Patil said. Until now, MSRDC has completed JMS in seven villages which include Ghotavade,Materewadi, Ambadveth, Bhare, Kasar Amboli, Katvadi, Mordarwadi in an area of 101.0467 hectares. The Pune Ring Road is a proposed circular outer road for the Pune Metropolitan region. The state government has given nod to land acquisition for the 173.70-km ring road project. It is to be implemented by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The Ring Road project would require acquisition of almost 1,600 hectares of land. The total project cost of this road is ₹26,000 crore and ₹5,000 crore is estimated for land acquisition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-restrictions-slow-down-ring-road-land-acquisition-process-101620143537775.html
04-05-2021||Ranchi||Sahebgunj: Police station in-charge found hanging||Officer in-charge of the women’s police station in Sahebgunj district was found hanging inside her official quarters at police line on Monday night, police said on Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Rupa Tirkey (26). “We have begun investigation into the case from all possible angles, including murder, even though prima facie, it seems to be a case of suicide,” Sahebgunj superintendent of police (SP) Anuranjan Kispotta said.According to available information, sub-inspector Tirkey performed her duty as usual on Monday and returned home around 7pm. As per her roommate’s statement to the police, Tirkey was alone at home till 8.30pm. “When her roommate returned from duty around that time and knocked the door, it was locked from inside and Tirkey was not responding. Then, the door was broken and Tirkey was found hanging inside the room,” police said, quoting Tirkey’s roommate .Police were verifying the roommate’s statement, the SP said, adding that the body was sent for postmortem examination on Tuesday. “We can find out the exact cause of her death through postmortem examination report. Details about the case will be given only after investigation gets completed,” Kispotta said.Tirkey was a resident of Ratu in Ranchi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/sahebgunj-police-station-in-charge-found-hanging-101620142877688.html
04-05-2021||Ranchi||‘Sanjeevani’ vehicles to ensure 24x7 oxygen supply in Ranchi||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday flagged off three ‘Sanjeevni vehicles’ that will facilitate round-the-clock supply of oxygen cylinders to hospitals in capital city Ranchi. The service will soon start in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur also. “The government has introduced Sanjeevani vehicles to ensure availability of oxygen to hospitals in Ranchi district in the first phase. Soon, it will be started in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur too,” said Soren, while inaugurating the vehicle launched by Ranchi district administration. Sanjeevani vehicles will remain in operation mode round-the-clock with oxygen cylinders always available in the vehicles. The service will ensure immediate supply of oxygen to any hospital as per its requirement in Ranchi district. The vehicles also have a GPS tracking system.The CM said amid rising cases during the second wave of Covid-19, the demand for oxygen supported beds in hospitals is increasing and the government was constantly making efforts in that direction. “At present, oxygen and ventilators are the most needed equipment for treatmnet of infected patients.Keeping this in mind, free oxygen supported beds are being provided to patients of Ranchi and Jamshedpur through Covid-19 circuit,” he said. Besides, an oxygen refilling cell, which monitors supply of oxygen as per demand, was also activated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/sanjeevani-vehicles-to-ensure-24x7-oxygen-supply-in-ranchi-101620142817660.html
04-05-2021||Other||Education minister hails SC order on fee relief to pvt school students||PATNAFollowing the Supreme Court’s order to private schools, offering relief to students towards fee payments, the state education department is considering framing a policy to ensure that the parents received the benefits as stipulated in the order.The Supreme Court, in a case filed by private schools of Rajasthan, has ruled that the schools shall not be charging money for the unutilized campus facilities and that the students be allowed to avail at least 15% reduction in annual fee for the academic session 2020-21, the pandemic phase. It also said none of the students be held up for want of payment of fees. The judgment was made public by the apex court on Tuesday.Private schools had gone to the apex court against the Rajasthan government’s order to cut tuition fee of students enrolled in CBSE-affiliated schools by 30% and the state board by 40%, respectively.Bihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary said the judgment was in tune with the state government’s appeal to private schools to offer relief to the students who remained off the campuses due to Covid19 pandemic. “In the last assembly session, we urged private schools to rationalize fee structure and charge minimal from the students so that the schools also get the amount required for the sustenance of their staff,” said Chaudhary.Additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar said the department was waiting for full judgment of the apex court to frame suitable strategy to act and help the parents get fee reduction in accordance with the order.There are over 25,000 private schools in the state with a total of around 50 lakh students.“The school has been charging transportation fee, computer fee, science laboratory charge, etc, even though my son did not go for off-line studies,” said Namrata Kumari of Shashtri Nagar, whose son is in class 10 at a private school in the nearby locality.National president of Private Schools and Children Welfare Association Syed Shamael Ahmad hailed the judgment, saying it made clear that the state government could not regulate the fee structure of private schools. “So far as granting relief to the students, private schools would definitely honour the verdict by giving 15% concession on fees,” said Ahmad.He said all private schools should abide by the SC verdict. “However, the guardians are also requested to clear the dues to the schools so that they could pay salary to teaching and non-teaching staff, who are dependent on the school to sustain their families,” said Ahmad.He urged chief minister Nitish Kumar to clear the payment of government grants to private schools on account of enforcing the right to education (RTE) and taking admissions of poor students on 25% seats. “Payment of RTE grants, amounting in several crores of rupees, to the qualified schools has been held up for the past four-five years at the district level. The CM must look into the issues and penalize officers responsible for this,” Ahmad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-minister-hails-sc-order-on-fee-relief-to-pvt-school-students-101620142697708.html
04-05-2021||Other||Padma Shri decorated former scientist M B Verma passes away||Padma Shri decorated former DRDO scientist Dr Manas Bihari Verma (78) died of heart attack on Monday night in Darbhanga. According to sources close to Verma’s family, he breathed his last around 11.45 pm at his home in KM Tank locality of Laheriasarai, Darbhanga town.A close associate of former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, Verma played a key role in making the country’s first light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas. Verma set a stringent goal for integration of weapons and multi-mode radar (MMR), besides initial operation clearance for Tejas.Conferred with Padma Shri award in 2018, Verma’s journey, from being an eminent scientist for the nation’s premier defence research organisation to an educationist working in the rural region, is inspiring. After completing his schooling from village, Verma pursued his graduation from Bihar College of Engineering (presently known as NIT Patna.)During his 35-year service, he worked with aeronautical establishments in the country and went on to become programme director of Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA), Bangalore, from 2002 to 2005. He got a chance to work for a fair period of time with former President Kalam.After his retirement from ADA Bangalore, Verma chose to return to his native village Bour in Darbhanga and got actively involved in addressing issues of illiteracy. Later on, he extended support to Viksit Bharat Foundation, which was started by Dr Kalam in mid 90’s, to build scientific temperament among school students, especially in rural pockets through Mobile Science Laboratory (MSL).He was also associated as trustee of Maharaja Kameshwar Singh Kalyani Foundation.Meanwhile. chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed his condolences over M B Verma’s death. “Very sad with news of demise of Padma Shri decorated famous scientist Manas Bihari Verma ji. His death has caused irreparable damage to the science world. The nation will always remember his contribution. May his soul rest in peace”, the CM tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/padma-shri-decorated-former-scientist-m-b-verma-passes-away-101620142637631.html
04-05-2021||Other||We have all failed: HC on Covid crisis||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Tuesday once again made strong observations against the state government for its inept handling of the Covid crisis, but refrained from passing any order, which has been reserved for May 6, after it was informed by advocate general Lalit Kishore midway through the hearing that the state had announced a lockdown till May 15. “At least one order has been complied with,” the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah observed. As soon as the proceedings began at 11 am, the court was angry that not enough had been done and the court could not go on waiting, putting the lives of the people at risk. “We have all failed. All of us feel ashamed for what we have done. Don’t make a joke of the proceedings. We cannot wait. We cannot play with the lives of the people, you may. It is an observation on us also that we have failed. This has happened only because we depended on the state officials and false assurances given by the state officials,” bench observed. When the advocate general tried to defend the state government saying it had taken effective steps, sanctioned ₹50 lakh to the ESIC hospital on Monday along with manpower and took exception to the court’s remark that he should not make joke of the proceedings, the bench asked him to name the hospitals where beds had been increased. When the AG took the name of Rajedendra Nagar Hospital (150 beds), the bench said it was nothing. “You had said about 1,000 beds at the IGIMS and 500 beds at the ESIC hospital, but it could not start. PMCH is in a shambles, NMCH is struggling,” the bench said. “The orders we have passed from the first date when we first took the matter on April 15 speak for themselves. In our opinion, certain drastic measures need to be taken to tackle the situation in the state, which has already gone beyond control.” The court also questioned the functioning of dedicated Covid care centres, saying most beds were vacant since there were no facilities there. The court also asked additional solicitor general KN Singh to seek instructions in the light of today’s proceedings and AG to file a detailed affidavit on the progress made by the state’s health department in fighting the Covid crisis. “The court will pass appropriate orders on Thursday. The court will fail in its duty if necessary orders are not passed in the larger public interest to ensure right of life to the people in the state,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-have-all-failed-hc-on-covid-crisis-101620142577687.html
04-05-2021||Other||Bihar locks down till May 15||PATNAWith no signs of an arrest in surging Covid cases and continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds across the state, the Bihar government on Tuesday announced lockdown in the state from May 5 to May 15. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced the decision through a tweet Tuesday morning after holding a meeting with cabinet colleagues and senior government officials on Monday night.“The decision comes in the backdrop of positivity rate which is hovering over 10% for the last one week. Despite restrictions, the infection is increasing,” said chief secretary Tripurari Sharan. The state reported 14,794 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases to 110,430. The state capital continued to remain a hotspot, contributing 2,681 of the new Covid-19 infections during the last 24 hours. The state so far has recorded 2926 deaths, 105 of which were reported in last 24 hours. The state government, in the last week of April, had extended curfew timings from 9 pm to 6 pm and ordered closure of shops from 4 pm instead of 6 pm.The government had earlier restricted attendance of staff in offices and semi-government offices to only 25% while schools were closed till may 15. The universities and colleges have already closed down for summer vacation since May 1.During the lockdown, all offices, barring emergency and essential services, will remain closed, a notification issued by the state home department said. Air and rail travel have been allowed to continue and offices, banks, and other offices would function with minimal staff strength while religious places and places of worship will remain closed, the chief secretary said. All commercial and private establishments will be allowed to function normally, except shopping malls and restaurants/eateries, which will be allowed to offer only home delivery/takeaway services. Medical shops, grocery shops, and other essential services would remain open like the previous lockdown norms.The state government has banned plying of vehicles but allowed public transport to operate to 50% of capacity for carrying passengers travelling by rail or air. RJD attacks govt; Cong, BJP welcome lockdown The state government’s decision to enforce lockdown was criticized by the RJD. “The opposition has been demanding the lockdown for last 15 days. But the Bihar CM was awaiting orders from somewhere else. And when it has started affecting villages, the government has imposed the lockdown,” said leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.However, RJD’s ally Congress welcomed the decision. “We have requested CM for lockdown earlier and now it has been announced, although a bit late. Yet we welcome the decision,” said Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra.“The Bihar government is taking every decision in consultation from the group of experts and taking into account people’s opinion. We appreciate the decision on the lockdown,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-locks-down-till-may-15-101620142518320.html
04-05-2021||Other||Bihar places order for first batch of 15.92 lakh doses of vaccine||PATNABihar on Monday placed orders for supply of first batch of 11.80 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.12 lakh doses of Covaxin before it begins inoculating 5.50 crore target population of 18-44 years of age against coronavirus. Bihar is purchasing the vaccines directly from the firms — the Serum Institute of India, the manufacturers of Covishield, and the Bharat Biotech, manufacturers of Covaxin. The state’s purchase would be in addition to the Centre’s allotment in due course of time, said an official of the health department. “We made advance payment of ₹36.74 crore to the Serum Institute on Tuesday for the first lot of 11.80 lakh doses of Covishield. We have also placed purchase orders for supply of 4.12 lakh doses of Covaxin with the Bharat Biotech. We are in constant touch with the firm to raise the invoice so that we can make advance payment for the vaccines,” the official added. The Centre has fixed a purchase rate of ₹315 per dose for Covishield and ₹420 per dose for Covaxin for states and union territories. “We are pursuing with the Serum Institute for immediate dispatch of the vaccines and it has assured us that the shipment will move Wednesday,” the officer said. Bihar has been going slow on vaccination because of lack of availability of sufficient vaccines. “We have around 8 lakh doses of vaccines available with us and intend to utilise them up in the next four days. The Centre has assured to replenish the vaccines before we exhaust our stock,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, also the state’s nodal officer for vaccination. The lack of vaccines has forced Bihar to scale down its session sites from 2,800 almost a month back to 2,200 as on Monday. “We were faced with a shortage of vaccines a fortnight back when the number of inoculations dipped to around 70,000 a day against a peak of 3.75 lakh inoculations a day. We have picked up again and inoculated 1,16,805 lakh on May 3,” added Kumar. Bihar had so far inoculated 74,18,981 people against a target group of 2.30 crore people above 45 years of age. The state has decided to hold back the vaccination of 18 years and above population till it receives sufficient quantity of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-places-order-for-first-batch-of-15-92-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-101620142517755.html
04-05-2021||Other||7,928 fresh Covid cases and 53 deaths in Pune district on Tuesday||PUNE Pune district reported 7,928 fresh Covid cases and 53 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department.Pune district has a total of 8,80,545 Covid cases. Of this, 7,61,187 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 9,827 deaths in the district. At present, there are 1,09,531 active cases in Pune district. Of the 53 deaths were reported in the district on Tuesday, 28 were in Pune rural and 25 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 4,45,114 Covid cases and 5,695 deaths till Tuesday. Whereas PCMC has reported 2,13,913 cases so far and a total of 1,526 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 2,21,518 total cases so far and 2,549 deaths due to Covid. As per the state health department, 65,934 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 41,07,092. The recovery rate in the state is 85.16%.The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%.Currently, 39,36,323 people are in home quarantine and 30,355 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7928-fresh-covid-cases-and-53-deaths-in-pune-district-on-tuesday-101620142037634.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||CRRID founder Rashpal Malhotra dies of Covid||Rashpal Malhotra, 84, the founder of Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), passed away on Tuesday after battling Covid-19 for over a week. He breathed his last at the Fortis Hospital in Mohali. Malhotra is survived by his wife, son and daughter. Condoling the death, Punjab chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh said Malhotra was a distinguished academician, able administrator and a fine human being with qualities of head and heart. “He played a pivotal role in bringing socio-economic development in the northern region. The outstanding services rendered by Malhotra in the rural and industrial development of Punjab would be remembered by one and all,” said the CM. Malhotra, who started the CRRID in 1979 from the garage of a house in Sector 21, Chandigarh, remained its executive chairman and a member of the Board of Governors of Pushpa Gujral Science City and several other prestigious organisations. He was also a senate member of Punjabi University, Patiala, and Panjab University, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/crrid-founder-rashpal-malhotra-dies-of-covid-101620141138021.html
04-05-2021||Other||Sonowal or Sarma? Assam waits for the next chief minister||Two days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies returned to power for a second time, speculations continued to do the rounds on Tuesday across Assam on who will be the next chief minister of the state. There’s no clarity yet on whether incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal will continue to head the government or senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who played a crucial role in the party’s poll performance, will be given the post. “It is clear that either among the two, the incumbent CM or the finance minister (Sarma) would be the next CM. Whoever is given the responsibility will accept it. I appeal to all BJP MLAs and workers to remain calm till a decision is reached,” BJP state chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass told journalists on Tuesday. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who were scheduled to visit Guwahati on Tuesday, are now expected on Wednesday to meet the newly elected legislators and get their views on government formation and the CM’s post. “It is natural for the public and voters to speculate who will be the next CM. But the BJP is a disciplined party and the party’s parliamentary board will meet in Delhi in the next 2-3 days to take a call on this,” BJP MP from Silchar Rajdeep Roy said. In the meantime, newly elected MLAs and leaders of alliance partners Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) are meeting both Sonowal and Sarma in Guwahati. “If my name is being discussed and I am being questioned on it, what do you expect me to answer? Someone has to become the CM as the post won’t remain vacant. You should ask a third person about it. It is embarrassing to face such questions,” Sarma told the media on Tuesday. Most BJP MLAs are saying that a decision on the CM’s post would be taken by the party high command with the consultation of the legislators. A senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity that Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) could also have a say on who will take the top post. “It is sad to see that in the fight for the CM’s chair, people of Assam are getting affected. It is clear that there is a difference within the BJP on this issue. We are worried the fight between the two for the post could hurt the state,” said newly elected Congress MLA from Mariani, Rupjyoti Kurmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sonowal-or-sarma-assam-waits-for-the-next-chief-minister-101620140178370.html
04-05-2021||Other||It is harrowing to call Covid victims’ kin: PGIMS nurse||When 24-year-old Sheetal Choudhary joined as a staff nurse at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) four years ago, little did she know that three years down the line she would be single-handedly doing the unenviable job of arranging cremations for those succumbing to Covid through two waves of the pandemic.The energetic Covid warrior has been doing the job everybody shies away from — making the dreaded phone call to family members of the deceased, coordinating with the police, municipal corporation and PGIMS staff, sealing and sending bodies to the cremation ground — for the last year. Till May 1, she had arranged the last rites of at least 700 people claimed by the virus and has not taken a single leave in three months.On Sunday morning, Choudhary received a call from the father of an 11-month-old boy, who died of Covid on Saturday night. The father wanted to see his son’s face for the last time. Choudhary’s eyes brim with tears as she recalls the harrowing phone call. “I suffer a breakdown every day on seeing these deaths. It was very difficult for me to console the father and grandfather of the 11-month-old child who battled for his life for four days.”Choudhary, the nodal officer for Covid death management at PGIMS, says her morning starts with people begging her to arrange an ambulance so that they can take the body of their loved ones to the crematorium.“I sent 12 bodies to the cremation ground for last rites till Sunday afternoon and 14 on Saturday. Making the phone call to the family of patients and receiving them when they arrive for a final glimpse of their loved ones the next day,, however, is the hardest part of the job. I get at least 400 calls per day, most of which are by the family members of the deceased ringing up to ask when the body will be cremated and how many people are allowed to come,” she says.Choudhary says they use labels so that bodies of patients with the same name do not get mixed up. A team of 8 Class-4 employees seal the bodies.Unidentified body left at PGIMS“We have two ambulances and send bodies to two crematoriums in two shifts every day. Last month, I was only able to return home at 2.30am after making a cremation list for the next morning because over 30 patients had died in a single day. The bodies were lined up and our staff struggled to pack the body. A senior police official’s sister had succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Gurugram and the staff had left the body at PGIMS without informing us. We struggled to identify the body,” she says.On the challenges faced by the staff, Choudhary says a few Covid patients’ family members had refused to appear for the cremation and asked them to perform the last rites.“Many people would demand that they be allowed to take the body to their native town or village. A few influential would demand that their relative’s body be cremated at the earliest, but I have always given bodies as per sequence,” she said.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya Choudhary is doing work, which other employees are refusing to do. “Her job is high risk, and she has been doing it for the last year. She is single-handedly doing the work of six-seven staff members,” Dahiya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/it-is-harrowing-to-call-covid-victims-kin-pgims-nurse-101620139637958.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid positivity rate on decline, says health minister after state reports fall in new cases||Amid a decline in Maharashtra’s daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases from the past two days, health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said that the positivity rate in the worst-hit state has come down from 27 per cent to 22 per cent. Speaking to news agency ANI, Tope said Maharashtra is conducting tests on 280,000 samples on a daily basis and there has been no shortage in testing.“From 63,000, the tally of Covid-19 patients has come down to 61,000. At 84.07 per cent, our recovery rate is the highest in the country,” the health minister added.On Monday, the daily Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra dipped below the 50,000-mark for the first time in almost a month after 48,621 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 4,771,022, according to the state health department’s bulletin. On Sunday, the state had reported 56,647 new cases.However, the decrease in cases may be attributed to the lower number of tests done during the weekend. As many as 211,668 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday, 45,802 less than those tested on Sunday. While on Saturday, nearly 289,000 tests were conducted.The state capital Mumbai also saw a dip in daily cases on Monday at 2,624, the lowest single-day figure since March 17. The city’s caseload has now climbed to 658,621. On April 30, the daily cases went below the 4,000-mark in Mumbai and have not increased since then.As Hindustan Times had reported earlier, Maharashtra has managed to control the surge in cases from the last two weeks. The active cases as of Monday stood at 656,870 which were earlier projected to go over 1 million. The lockdown-like restrictions, which have been extended till May 15, helped the state in controlling the spread of Covid-19.The Union health ministry, meanwhile, on Monday said that Maharashtra along with states such as Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, is showing early signs of plateauing or decrease in daily infections. The peak of 65,000 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has come down to around 62,000, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said during a press briefing, urging Maharashtra and other states to continue with their containment efforts to ensure the number of cases can come down further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-positivity-rate-on-decline-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope-101620136676137.html
04-05-2021||Other||Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara under stricter lockdown as cases increase||PUNE In view of the increasing number of Covid cases and the subsequent strain on the health infrastructure, three districts in Western Maharashtra - Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara - will go under a stricter lockdown from May 5. Under this lockdown, only milk and vegetable supply will be allowed. In Pune district, the local administration announced additional curbs from Tuesday in Baramati tehsil, where many villages have become hotspots.Kolhapur has so far seen 70,844 total cases of which 9,592 are active patients as on May 3, while total fatalities stood at 2,363. In Sangli, 79,911 people contracted virus since last year, of which 13,861 are active patients, while 2,388 have succumbed to the virus. In Satara, progressive positive count for Covid cases reached 1.98 lakh, of which 23,100 are active, with 2,384 fatalitiesIn Kolhapur, while the number of cases reduced in the past two days, there is a shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir, which prompted guardian minister Satej Patil to announce the lockdown from May 5. Patil said “If the cases rise in the coming days, more oxygen will be needed. Strict lockdown will be imposed in the district from 11 am to break the chain of infection.” Besides Kolhapur, guardian minister of Sangli, Jayant Patil, also announced a complete lockdown in the district for eight days, starting Wednesday. “At this point, lives are more important than livelihood. Therefore, I urge everyone to follow lockdown norms and not step out,” said Patil. In Satara, fresh restrictions came into being from Tuesday, as cases spiked. Except for milk, and home delivery of food and medical services, everything will be closed. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that while cases are on the decline in many cities, including Mumbai and Pune, some districts are showing a surge. “To make sure Covid doesn’t spread further, the local administration has decided to impose a stricter lockdown in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. There will be additional restrictions in these places,” said Tope, speaking to reporters in Mumbai. The state is already under curbs, which according to the order, will last till May 15. Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte has written to the Union cabinet secretary to enhance liquid oxygen allocation to Maharashtra, as 16 districts in the state are seeing a continuous growth in Covid cases. Kunte in his letter mentioned that the state continues to face the onslaught of the second wave of the Covid pandemic, with a current active caseload of 6,63,758, of which 78,884 cases admitted are on medical oxygen, including 24,787 in ICUs. The letter further stated that 17 Maharashtra districts -- Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara, Nandurbar, Beed, Parbhani, Hingoli, Amravati, Buldhana, Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur -- are showing a continuous growth of active Covid cases, because of which the oxygen requirement is also increasing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kolhapur-sangli-and-satara-under-stricter-lockdown-as-cases-increase-101620138437452.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Private hospitals in Pune await guidelines on procuring Covid-19 vaccine doses||Several private hospitals in Pune are awaiting clear guidelines from the government over procurement of vaccine doses and conducting the vaccination drive which remains suspended due to unavailability of doses. Some private hospitals told PTI that they have been receiving requests from corporates for vaccinating employees and their kin since the government opened the vaccination program from May 1 for the 18-44 age group. "After the government allowed vaccination of people from the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 1, we have been receiving on-site vaccination requests from large corporates. They requested us to organize a vaccination drive for their employees," said Dr S K Raut, one of the directors at the Noble Hospital.Besides corporates, the hospital has been receiving requests from housing societies, and the hotel and hospitality industries, he said.Dr Raut said the Serum Institute of India (SII) told them that 50 per cent of the available doses will be given to the Centre, while 25 per cent doses will be given to state governments and the rest 25 per cent to private hospitals.The SII has not given any timeline on the next availability of vaccines."While the hospital is awaiting guidelines, we are also exploring the possibilities of procuring Sputnik-5 vaccine from Dr. Reddy's," he added.Dr Rupali Suryawanshi, head, Hospital Infection Control, Ruby Hall Clinic, is also awaiting the government's guidelines on the procurement of vaccines by private hospitals. "The government should tell us from where should we purchase the vaccine. We were also talking to the SII but it seems they too don't have clear guidelines as far private hospitals are concerned," she said.She recalled that the government had issued a clear notification on various aspects of vaccination, including costing, when the drive was rolled out for healthcare workers and other categories in the past. "Till these things get cleared, the ground level work for vaccination cannot start as the number of beneficiaries in the age group of 18 and 44 is very big," Dr Suryawanshi said, adding the hospital has been receiving many requests for tie-ups with companies which want their employees and their kin vaccinated. Authorities at Jehangir Hospital said they are also awaiting notification from the government. "There is no clarity as of today and we are hopeful that the picture will become clear about various aspects like the supply-chain logistics, pricing etc in the next couple of days," said Arti Irani, Head, Communications, Jehangir Hospital.Medical authorities at Sancheti Hospital said they are also receiving inquiries from various organizations about vaccination sessions. "We have applied to become a vaccination centre as we have been receiving inquiries from individuals and organizations for vaccination. However, since there is no clarity on how private hospitals should go about the vaccination, we are not giving any assurance to those who are approaching us," said Parag Sancheti, orthopaedic surgeon and chairman of the hospital.Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharti Hospital, said vaccination is currently halted at private hospitals. "It seems vaccination at private hospitals is unlikely to start anytime soon," he said.Dr Oswal observed that less than 10 per cent of population has received the first dose of the vaccine while only 2 per cent people have received the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospitals-in-pune-await-guidelines-on-procuring-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101620137219463.html
04-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan readies for peak of 2nd Covid-19 wave amid tightening of curbs||Rajasthan government claims that the recovery rate from Covid-19 increased by 61% in the state over the past one week on the back of increased testing, new containment zones and strict enforcement of Covid-containment measures. The state’s overall recovery rate has reached 69.43%.Government data shows that from 7,426 on April 27, the number of recoveries in the state shot up to 11,949 on Monday, when 17, 296 new Covid cases were reported taking the tally of active cases to 194,371. However, the overall recovery rate has seen a continuous decline since last year since new cases on most days in the second wave have continuously been higher than the recoveries recorded on the same day.Dr Ajit Singh of SMS hospital says the lower recovery rate in the second wave is also due to patients taking longer to recover as most cases admitted to the hospitals are of severe nature, requiring oxygen support, which is not adequate at the moment.He says many experts believe the number of cases were likely to peak with the second wave around May 15. “We will witness a steep surge and hopefully a drastic decline following the peak,” Singh said. He is hopeful that more people getting vaccinated in the coming days will also bring down daily active cases.However, the district administrations across the state are currently getting ready to deal with the impending peak of the disease. “The estimated peak could be very serious, but since vigilance has been increased across Rajasthan, the number of people stepping out on roads has sharply declined,” said an official.Rajasthan police says they have challaned 17 lakh people for violation of Covid-containment guidelines. Out of these, 4 lakh have been fined for not wearing masks.Jaipur police said that they are under instruction to send violators to institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-readies-for-peak-of-2nd-covid-19-wave-amid-tightening-of-curbs-101620137837941.html
04-05-2021||Other||₹25 lakh for revision of disaster mgmt plan to include pandemic||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to include the Covid-19 pandemic in the latest iteration of its disaster management plan for the city. The PMC’s financial committee, on Monday, sanctioned ₹25 lakh to revise the disaster management plan in six-month period.Ganesh Sonune, head of the disaster management cell of the PMC, said, “We have a disaster management plan which includes heavy rainfall, flood-like situations, buildings collapsing, fire incidents, and earthquakes. We have standard operating procedures (SOP) to tackle these calamities. Over the last few years, we observed that the city experienced cloud bursts and now the Covid-19 pandemic. These are the new disasters which we haven’t considered earlier.”“We will include all these calamities in the updated plan. We will take the help of experts from different top government and semi-government institutes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-25-lakh-for-revision-of-disaster-mgmt-plan-to-include-pandemic-101620137718406.html
04-05-2021||Other||PMC’s women officials demand security after alleged misbehaviour by corporators||PUNE A series of incidents involving public representatives arguing with woman officials at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prompted women officials to now demand security. Earlier last week, BJP corporator Dhanraj Ghogre alleged that he was first mistreated by assistant medical officer Dr Vaishali Jadhav, who is also in charge of the vaccination drive. Ghogre later created a ruckus in the cabin of the civic health chief and allegedly humiliated Jadhav. In another incident, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) corporator and party leader in the PMC, Vasant More, allegedly insulted assistant medical officer Dr Manisha Naik. Dr Jadhav said, “I have written a letter to the commissioner to provide us security after these incidents. I am also planning to write another letter to the police commissioner and state women’s commission. It is not a matter of one individual, but all women officials who are working in a pandemic situation are under tremendous pressure.” Neelam Gorhe, deputy chairman of the Maharashtra Legislative Council and MLA has also written a letter to minister Eknath Shinde and PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar to form a committee to conduct inquiry. She said, “I have received complaints regarding both incidents which happened on April 28 and 29. I have written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and urban development minister Eknath Shinde to look into the matter to avoid such incidents. PMC should provide security to Dr Vaishali Jadhav and Dr Manisha Naik, and the corporation must take strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-women-officials-demand-security-after-alleged-misbehaviour-by-corporators-101620137057262.html
04-05-2021||Other||Goa villages announce self-imposed lockdowns, CM warns against curbs on essentials||With several villages and towns in Goa announcing their own ‘mini-lockdowns’ in Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday urged village panchayats and municipalities in the state to not ‘create panic’ by forcibly locking out even essential services. HT has learnt.“If you stop essential services you will create a panic-like situation and we will end up in more trouble. People should understand that essential services need to remain open and the movement of people who are involved in essential work should not be curtailed,” Sawant said. More than two dozen towns and villages in Goa have imposed their own ‘lockdowns’ asking all non-essential shops to remain shut and restricting the timings of essential shops. While imposing their own lockdowns with varying durations, the local bodies have also restricted the timings of stores selling essentials with most lockdowns allowing the essential shops to only remain open during the morning hours. Sawant also announced that non-essential shops, which were allowed to remain open between 7 am and 7 pm as part of the restrictions, would now also have to shut shop. Restaurants, too, that were previously allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity, will now not be allowed to host patrons within the premises and can remain open only for takeaways. “Additional Restrictions are being imposed on shops selling non-essential items till May 10 2021. Restaurants will cease to function, except their kitchens for home delivery of food items,” Sawant said. Goa is facing an acute shortage of oxygen beds as well as liquid medical oxygen. The Goa Medical College and Hospital, the state’s premier medical facility, has converted its examination blocks into covid facilities. State health minister Vishwajit Rane has admitted that Goa is facing a shortage of oxygen to the tune of 8,000-10000 litres per day. Goa is reporting between two to three thousand fresh Covid-19 cases and between 40-50 deaths each day. The state’s positivity rate is among the highest in the country and has crossed 50% last week before settling to around 45% over the last few days. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-villages-announce-self-imposed-lockdowns-cm-warns-against-curbs-on-essentials-101620136817821.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab CM seeks uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen from Centre||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought immediate intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for ensuring uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to the state.He sought an additional allocation of 50 metric tonne of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from a nearby source and 20 additional tankers (preferably conducive to rail travel) for timely evacuation of the life-saving gas from Bokaro.The CM sent out separate letters to the Prime Minister and the Home Minister as the number of Covid-19 patients on varying levels of oxygen support in the state went up to 10,000.Punjab is among the worst-affected states in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, it had registered 157 deaths and 9,798 new infections.Expressing deep concern over the "imminent loss of lives due to oxygen shortage" across the state, the CM said with mounting caseload, he was unable to increase level 2 and level 3 beds due to oxygen availability constraints.The state was facing the prospect of shortage of oxygen beds, he said in an official statement here.He pointed out that the government of India had expressed its inability to even allow Punjab's local industry to undertake commercial import of LMO from Pakistan through the Wagah-Attari border, which is geographically proximate.Further, despite assurance that “adequate supply would be ensured to us from alternate sources, I regret to point out that this has not happened", said Singh.The total allocation of LMO from outside the state is currently 195 metric tonne, of which 90 metric tonne is from Bokaro in eastern India.The balance 105 metric tonne comes from LMO facilities in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.However, Punjab is not getting its daily allocated quota, said Singh.The existing backlog for Punjab from these LMO facilities is 5.6 metric tonne from Panipat (Haryana), 100 metric tonne from Selaqui, Dehradun (Uttarakhand) and 10 metric tonne from Roorkee, he added.He pointed out that Punjab had now been given to understand by the Centre that there would be likely disruption of LMO supply from Tuesday from Panipat and Barotiwala.The CM said this would cause great stress on the already limited oxygen availability in the state, thus causing a medical emergency, including risk of loss of life for the large number of patients who are in critical condition and on regular oxygen support.The disruption should be avoided, he said, adding that, if necessary, the state must be compensated immediately from a nearby additional source.Referring to the "shortage of tankers", the CM said the state was airlifting two empty tankers daily to Ranchi, with the filled tankers returning by road from Bokaro on a 48-50 hour journey.He said that the state government had already requested the government of India to allocate 20 additional tankers (conducive to rail travel) to allow for regular evacuation of 90 metric tonne LMO from Bokaro on a daily basis, but had been told that only two would be provided, and even those were yet to come.He urged the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to step in immediately to help resolve the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-punjab-cm-seeks-uninterrupted-supply-of-medical-oxygen-from-centre-101620135400081.html
04-05-2021||Other||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Rajasthan demands share from international supplies||The Rajasthan government has urged the government of India to give priority to Rajasthan and provide the state with 5,000 oxygen concentrators, HT has learnt. In a letter to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the state health department mentioned that various international agencies, including the Redcross, are assisting with the management of the Covid-19 pandemic in India in form of oxygen generation plants and concentrators, medical equipment and other medical consumables.Rajasthan is among the top five states with a high caseload of Covid-19 patients in the country. More than 16,000 Covid-19 patients are currently on oxygen, including ventilators, and the number is expected to grow rapidly in the coming weeks, the state informed the Centre. In its letter, the state said it is making all efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and for the provision of oxygen. Looking at the present trend, the oxygen demand is likely to shoot up. The state also demanded pulse oximeters, N95 masks, and PPE kits, among other essentials required to fight the virus. A senior official of health department said Rajasthan requires around 530 MT of oxygen daily, looking at the daily number of active cases, which is on constant rise, but what is available is around 265 metric tons. “The state has urged GoI to provide 5000 oxygen concentrators,” he added.The Union health ministry has approved the allocation of 6,853 Remedesivir injections vials to Rajasthan which was received in donation from the USAID, the official informed. Meanwhile, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed swift preparation of plans for setting up an oxygen plant in Rajasthan and the purchase of essential equipment such as oxygen concentrators. After the review meeting on Monday night, the CM directed the departments of health and medical education, industry, urban development, autonomous government and district administration to make coordinated efforts for setting up or setting up new oxygen plants and purchase of oxygen concentrators. The CM said that oxygen concentrators can prove useful in catering to the need for oxygen for Covid-19 patients in hospitals. They should be procured as soon as possible and co-operation of Indian embassies abroad should be taken for the import. It should also be ensured that there is no delay in reaching them due to shipping and other reasons. Gehlot directed officers to keep constant coordination with the officials of the companies concerned to get the supply of oxygen coming from Jamnagar and Bhiwadi to the hospitals as soon as possible. He said that on Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah assured the state to provide additional tankers for the lifting of liquid medical oxygen. State urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal said the possibilities of setting up oxygen plants are being explored in big cities of the state. At some places, land has also been identified for the purpose. In the coming days, work orders will be issued for setting up the plant in coordination with the concerned departments. Additional chief secretary, industries, Subodh Agrawal, informed that the process of importing the concentrator from China and Russia is being finalised. Discussions are also being held for procurement from some firms from Dubai and Mumbai. He informed that by the end of May, about 25,000 concentrators will be available in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-covid-19-crisis-rajasthan-demands-share-from-international-supplies-101620135377827.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||‘Like an ostrich’: Delhi high court’s contempt notice to Centre on oxygen supply||The Delhi high court on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to the Central government over the “non-compliance” of its order from last Saturday to provide 700 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen for the treatment of patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi. The high court directed the presence of Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra, additional secretaries in the ministries of home affairs and industrial promotion, respectively, before it on Wednesday to answer the notice.Also Read | 'You may be blind, but we are not': HC slams Centre over deaths due to scant oxygen supply in DelhiThe notice, it said, was also over the “non-compliance” of the Supreme Court’s order from May 2, directing the Centre to rectify the issue of shortage of medical oxygen in the Capital’s hospitals, on or before the midnight of May 3.Also Read | Supreme Court asks Centre to rectify Delhi oxygen issue by Monday night"You can put your head in sand like ostrich, we will not," the high court remarked. on Tuesday.“During the course of the hearing, it has been brought to our notice that Delhi has still not received 700 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen even though the Supreme Court had directed compliance by the Union of India by midnight on May 3,” the court said during the hearing, also noting that the Centre has submitted that it will file a compliance affidavit in the apex court on Wednesday.Also Read | SC tells Centre to raise Delhi’s oxygen quota; SOS calls persist“We fail to understand what good compliance affidavit would do when 700 MTs oxygen is not being delivered to Delhi. Even 590 MTs per day has not been delivered for a single day,” the bench further said. It also noted that though the Centre has submitted that the apex court has not directed supply of 700 MTs, a “complete reading” of the order shows that the Union government was directed to supply medical oxygen in the said quantity.The persual of the Supreme Court order, the bench said, shows that it has recorded the Delhi government’s statement that against the demand of 700 MTs, the manufacturers have been able to supply only 445 MTs of oxygen.Also Read | Delhi HC seeks info of patients admitted, discharged at hospitals since April 1 to review 'malpractice' allegations“Supreme Court also took note of the allocation in favour of Delhi which was 490 MTs, which is sufficient to show that it directed that the Delhi government should be given 700 MTs,” the high court said. Pointing to the Supreme Court taking note of the “heart rendering” situation in Delhi and assurance given by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to meet the Delhi government’s demands, it rejected statements that “Delhi is not entitled to receive 700 MTs.”“It pains us that the aspect of supply of oxygen for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi should be viewed from the way it has been done by the Central government,” the court said.Several hospitals in Delhi have, in recent days, approached the Delhi high court complaining of shortage of medical oxygen; there have also been instances of patients losing their lives due to its shortage. According to a health department bulletin on May 3, the city-state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 1,212,989, after 18,043 more people tested positive on the day. The tally includes 1,105,983 recoveries, 89,592 active cases and 17,414 related fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/like-an-ostrich-delhi-high-court-s-contempt-notice-to-centre-on-oxygen-supply-101620134390033.html
04-05-2021||Other||Covid duty by MBBS interns to be treated as compulsory rotating internship: NMC||The National Medical Commission (NMC) has stated that Covid-19 duties performed by MBBS students will be treated as compulsory rotating internship.The decision follows the announcements made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office to address the shortage of human resources in the fight against the pandemic. To augment manpower amid the crisis, the government had announced that the services of final year MBBS students can be utilised for providing services such as teleconsultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation by faculty.NMC secretary Dr RK Vats said that considering the unprecedented situation due to the pandemic, where augmentation of medical manpower is critical, duties performed by interns during their posting in various places or departments for Covid-19 management will be treated as the duty in those departments for purpose of compulsory rotating internship.As per the NMC notification, the MBBS interns will be involved in different departments for different durations. “They will spend two months in general medicine, including psychiatry, 15 days in emergency or critical care and two months in community medicine,” the notification reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-duty-by-mbbs-interns-to-be-treated-as-compulsory-rotating-internship-nmc-101620134658300.html
04-05-2021||Other||No challans, Moga admn to send violators of Covid protocols to open jails||Amid the raging second wave of Covid-19 infections, the Moga administration has set up an open jail at Godhewala stadium on Ludhiana Road to lodge violators of the various norms and restrictions put in place by the government. Moga deputy commissioner (DC) Sandeep Hans said the decision was taken to curb unnecessary movement of people amid rising infections. “People are roaming around the streets without any reason. For how long will we challan them? From now on, we will be taking stern action against the violators and sending them to open jails. Besides, people are already facing financial troubles. So, we have decided to detain them instead of collecting challans,” said the DC. The open jail has been set up under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. It will remain functional until further orders. DSP City Barjinder Singh said, “We have cleaned and sanitised the open jail. But we appeal to residents to stay at home rather than ending up here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-challans-moga-admn-to-send-covid-safety-violators-to-open-jails-101620132018059.html
04-05-2021||Lucknow||4 arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders in Lucknow: Police||Four persons were arrested here on Tuesday for their alleged involvement in black marketing of oxygen cylinders in two separate cases, police said.Acting on a tip off, police arrested the accused, Vishnu and Vikas, for illegal trading of cylinders at their agency -- Balaji Jeevan Dayani -- in Kalyanpur locality in the Gudamba area, Police Commissioner DK Thakur told PTI.Police recovered 87 empty oxygen cylinders and ₹1 lakh from their possession, the officer said, adding the accused have confessed to the crime.In the second case, two men -- Ikram Ali and Ayush Shukla -- were arrested from Gomti Nagar area and 10 filled jumbo oxygen cylinders and eight empty cylinders were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-in-lucknow-police-101620127152506.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Riverfront devp has more under-currents than free-flowing solutions||Over 250 individuals attended an online meeting last Sunday on the proposed Mula Mutha riverfront development project which had a presentation from a municipal official. Conducted very cordially by Sajag Nagrik Manch, the meeting provided information about the project, estimated to cost ₹2,619 crore. Participants highlighted several concerns they feel should be addressed by the city authorities. Fundamental questions raised at the Sajag meet were: “Who asked for this project?” “If your mother is ill, do you take her to the hospital or the beauty parlour?” “Why this massive expense for Pune’s citizens in Covid times?” Similar concerns have been expressed by a member of Parliament, and other citizens, in letters to the municipal commissioner last month. There is agreement with the riverfront project that the current state of the rivers is of concern, especially that untreated sewage is discharged into rivers. There is also agreement on removing debris and waste, and preventing future dumping. However, there are different views about what exactly are the other problems being addressed. Since there isn’t an agreement about the problems, there is certainly no agreement about the solutions. The project highlights flooding impacts on residences and business close to the river, and proposes construction of high walls and embankments for protection.But why were buildings permitted in flood prone areas in the first place. Now, a cheaper, less destructive solution may be to rehabilitate flood-affected households in other locations. Removing debris and roads in the riverbed would improve the river’s carrying capacity. However, constructing metro pillars in the river would again reduce it. NGOs have highlighted studies from IITM that indicate an increasing number of extreme rainfall events in the country due to climate change. They also draw attention to a report by TERI ‘Assessing Climate Change Vulnerability and Adaptation Strategies for Maharashtra’ prepared for the state government Environment Dept, which projects an increase in rainfall by 10 to 32.5% by 2030. We are already experiencing this in Pune. The NGOs point out that creation of walls and embankments along the river will further inhibit the drainage of flash flood waters, creating greater risk for people living along the streams draining into the rivers. Further, the project proposes commercialization of the flood plains of the river to raise funds, for conserving the river. However, if the river bed and flood plains are destroyed, what is left to be conserved.The cumulative impact of construction of metro pillars, pipelines and the changes in the concretized streams and paving in the surrounding landscape as well as the increasing frequency of extreme rainfall events need to be taken into account. The municipal corporation needs to address urban flooding at a cityscape and regional level, rather than through modifying the river channel and building walls. It is to the credit of the project consultants that springs have been mapped and would be integrated into the project design. On the other hand, the project includes beautification of the banks and laying cycling and jogging tracks. Beautification is proposed with creation of ‘rural riparian’ banks, but ecologists disagree. Dr Swati Gole, Ecological Society cautions that the construction of walls to contain floods, creation of artificial green spaces on the embankments and a continuous body of impounded water would completely destroy the river biodiversity. Rocky outcrops and natural banks are part of this valuable biodiversity. A study by the Ecological Society shows the different habitats along the river, the conservation concerns, and a different approach to river restoration. The report is available at https://tinyurl.com/ES-CEE-MMReportVisits to the river show direct dependence on the river ecosystem such as collection of medicinal plants, small patches of vegetable growing, sheep grazing, and fishing. Instead of formal green landscapes that displace some of the poorest citizens of Pune, the design could integrate such subsistence uses of the river ecosystem. In fact as early as the 80s, Shri Prakash Gole spoke about creating utility points for laundries and rickshaw washing and treatment of their wastewater using eco-friendly technologies like root zone beds. Public surveys and consultations were done to develop the proposals. However, now the full project proposals are available. Other project documents such as the metro line, scientific inputs on climate change, as well as the ecological study of the river are also now available. All of these need to be considered together. Now is the time for widespread deliberations on the proposals with multi-disciplinary scientists, especially ecologists, and the public. The municipal corporation should not be in a hurry to implement this large-scale project without such deliberation. The rivers are a defining feature of our city. The Mula Mutha and other rivers of Pune need protection, conservation and restoration, but construction and commercialization will be counter-productive and may increase risk. Let the experiences, concerns and knowledge from multiple minds inform the way forward, much like a river itself forms.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-riverfront-devp-has-more-under-currents-than-free-flowing-solutions-101620126557678.html
04-05-2021||Bangalore||DK Shivakumar accuses K'taka govt of putting 'no efforts' to control Covid-19||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Tuesday accused the state government of putting "no efforts" to control the spread of Covid in the state."Everyone should be vigilant and courageous during the hardship of Covid-19 but state government in Karnataka is putting "no effort" to control the Covid situation in the state," Shivakumar said.Responding to media on Tuesday at Sadashivanagar residence, he said "Government is bidding the prestige of state government to the whole country. We have to be with the people at this time. They should be the voice of all people's pain and suffering. You need to know what is going on, but what government is doing to fight covid? "Nothing," he said.Shivakumar said that people of the state are feeling helpless."People are feeling helplessness. 24 people died in the oxygen disaster in Chamarajanagar and many are dying of Covid anxiety. When Rajanarajeshwari Nagar Medical College was in an oxygen shortage later MP DK Suresh intervened and appealed to the CM then oxygen was supplied," said Shivakumar."We will lose people if we are not conscious. Now politics is not important. Save everyone, and reassure the families of patients are safe," he added.He also mentioned that it is very sad that young people are dying more often."The state put the demand for oxygen at 1750 tonnes. The center has given 850 tonnes. The central government controls everything," said Shivakumar."Not just the resignation of the health minister, but this government must go, How 33 ministers did not go to the districts they are in charge of? Did Suresh Kumar embolden the family of the dead? If they can not handle let them go, once the governor's administration will come, the authorities, officials will control the situation," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dk-shivakumar-accuses-k-taka-govt-of-putting-no-efforts-to-control-covid19-101620125957638.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rain triggers flashfloods in Chamba, property damaged||Flashfloods triggered by overnight heavy rain wreaked havoc in the Palyur and Kuned panchayats of Chamba district on Tuesday morning, damaging property. The flashflood struck around 8am and soon Tipra Nullah was in spate. Floodwaters entered houses near the banks of the stream. A cowshed was damaged in Palyur panchayat, while two cars were buried in the debris. Drinking water supply lines were damaged. Also read: JEE Main Exam 2021 for May session postponed: Education MinisterThere were reports of a flashflood in Kuned panchayat of Bharmour sub division in the district, where fields of recently sown potato and maize were washed away. The heavy rain triggered landslides, bringing traffic to a halt on the Chamba-Bharmour highway and on two dozen rural roads. Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana said there were reports of damage to public and private property, but no loss of life was reported. Revenue authorities have been directed to assess the loss. Affected people have been moved to safer areas. Mandi wettest in state followed by Shimla Panodh in Mandi was the wettest place in the state, recording 47mm of rainfall. Kotkhai and Narkanda in Shimla district recorded 39 and 35 mm of rain, respectively. Palampur recorded 22mm of rain, Mandi 16mm, Kufri 15mm, Dalhousie 6mm and Dharamshala 4mm. The meteorological department has forecast rains in the low hills till May 8, while inclement weather will prevail in the middle and high hills till May 10. Manmohan Singh, the director of the Shimla meteorlogical centre, said a yellow weather warning has been issued for thunderstorm, hailstorm, lightning and winds of up to 30-40 km per hour for low and middle hills from May 5 to 7. Keylong coldest in state at 7 degrees Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest in the state, recording a low of 7 degrees Celsius, while Kalpa in Kinnaur registered a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-triggers-flashfloods-in-chamba-property-damaged-101620126197206.html
04-05-2021||Patna||‘We failed, went by govt’s false assurances’: Patna high court on Covid crisis||The Pata high court on Tuesday upbraided the Bihar government for its handling of the Covid crisis but did not pass any order after being told mid-way through the hearing that the state government has announced a lockdown till 15 May.“At least one order has been complied with,” the bench of Justices Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Mohit Kumar Shah observed after the state’s advocate general Lalit Kishore informed the judges about the government’s decision.The judges, however, made it clear that they would pass “appropriate orders” on Thursday. “The court will fail in its duty if necessary orders are not passed in the larger public interest to ensure the right of life to the people in the state,” the bench said as it wrapped up Tuesday’s hearing.The bench said it wasn’t issuing any directions today though the state government had failed to implement its previous directions and their implementation “remained on paper”.Like at the previous hearings, the bench was upset with the state government for not doing enough when the hearing started at 11 am on Tuesday and observed that the court could not go on waiting and put the lives of people at risk.“We have all failed. All of us feel ashamed for what we have done. Don’t make a joke of the proceedings. We cannot wait. We cannot play with the lives of the people, you may. It is an observation on us also that we have failed. This has happened only because we depended on the state officials and false assurances given by state officials,” the bench observed.When Bihar’s top law officer Lalit Kishore claimed the state government had taken effective steps, the bench promptly told him that he should not make a joke of the proceedings.When he referred to the state’s Rajendra Nagar Eye Hospital where 150 beds had been marked for Covid patients, the bench brushed it away saying this was nothing and reminded the state about its assurances.“You had spoken about 1,000 beds at the IGIMS (Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences) and 500 beds at the ESIC (Employees’ State Insurance) hospital, but it could not start. PMCH (Patna Medical College and Hospital) is in shambles, NMCH (Nalanda Medical College & Hospital) is struggling,” the bench said.“The orders we have passed from the first date when we first took the matter on April 15 speak for themselves. In our opinion, certain drastic measures need to be taken to tackle the situation in the state, which has already gone beyond control”.“According to you, the government has taken effective steps, but it has failed and therefore we have to pass orders. The fact remains that you could not manage beds in ICU,” the court said, asking what happened to the PSA plant (pressure swing absorption plant for oxygen) at PMCH and why it was not functional despite statements made earlier to the court.The court also raised doubts about the functioning of dedicated Covid health centres, saying most beds are vacant and there were no facilities there. The court also asked additional solicitor general KN Singh to seek instructions from the Centre in light of today’s proceedings and told Bihar to file a detailed affidavit on the progress made by the Bihar government in fighting the Covid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/we-feel-ashamed-high-court-rebukes-bihar-government-on-handling-covid-crisis-101620125657210.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab, Himachal, Uttrakhand get 1st instalment of supplies from abroad||The Central government has begun allocating medical equipment received as assistance from foreign countries with Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand figuring among the beneficiary states in the first batch.In a May 3 letter to different states and UTs, the Centre said Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been allocated oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and pulse oximeters to meet the shortfall of critical medical equipment and supplies to treat Covid-19 patients.In the first instalment, a total of 95 oxygen concentrators have been allocated to Haryana. 35 of these concentrators, out of the 150 donated by Taiwan, will reach a Gurugram warehouse on Tuesday, a top government official said.The other 60 oxygen concentrators marked for Haryana will come from the equipment received from Kuwait. Their delivery date is currently not known.Centre also said that Punjab will get 50 out of the 150 oxygen concentrators donated by Taiwan. Taiwan also donated 500 oxygen cylinders, out of which Himachal has been allocated 185 and Uttrakhand 300.Himachal will also get additional 282 oxygen cylinders donated by Kuwait, as per the letter of Union ministry of health and family welfare.A state official said Haryana has also been allocated 113 Pulse oximeters [received from abroad?], which will be dispatched to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Jhajjar.India has received thousands of tonnes of medical supplies including oxygen generation units, cylinders, concentrators, cryogenic tankers, separators, ventilators, face masks etc., from countries such as the United States, Russia, Germany, France, Italy, Romania, Belgium, Uzbekistan, the United Kingdom, Kuwait, Bahrain, UAE, Thailand, and Taiwan to name a few.The Haryana government officials said they will start allocating the medical equipment to different hospitals in order of priority once they receive it. Shortage of medical oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients has resulted into a big crisis in Haryana hospitals. The Central government had initially allocated 162MT of medical oxygen to the state at the beginning of the crisis last month, which had to be revised quickly to 257 MT last week; however, the state government has now reached out to Centre with the demand for 300 MT of life-saving gas to meet the ever expanding demand.The chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar has been reviewing oxygen availability status with visits to each district hospital after many Covid patients recently died due to its short supply in private hospitals.The state government has also formed district-level teams of officials to monitor and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen in all hospitals, public or private.Meanwhile, state health minister Anil VIj on Tuesday made it mandatory for all hospitals in the state with 50 or more beds to have their own oxygen generation plant. He said the decision was taken after learning from the Covid-19 experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-punjab-himachal-uttrakhand-get-1st-instalment-of-supplies-from-abroad-101620120796942.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||'You may be blind, but we are not': HC slams Centre over deaths due to scant oxygen supply in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the central government to divert the unutilised tankers of oxygen to Delhi from states like Maharashtra where the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation is improving."If the need for oxygen and tankers has depleted in Maharashtra, they could be diverted to Delhi. This is not a permanent arrangement. Whenever the need arises again, you can send them back," the Delhi high court said, acknowledging a suggestion from the amicus curiae.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma assured the high court bench that the central government is already considering the possibility of diverting oxygen cylinders to Delhi from other states and that the same would be done.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also came down heavily on the Centre over the shortage in oxygen supply in the national capital. The high court bench said that the Centre must ensure that oxygen reaches Delhi, according to the instructions issued by the Supreme Court earlier.The bench said that it would result in contempt of court the directives of the apex court are not met.Representing the Delhi government, advocate Rahul Mehra pointed out that although the Supreme Court had instructed 700MT of oxygen to reach the national capital, only 433 MT has reached till now. "People are dying," he noted.When additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, representing the central government, said in response that these are "rhetorical statements", the court hit back."Is it only a rhetorical statement? It's the reality. You may be blind, but we are not. We cannot shut our eyes. This is so insensitive and unfortunate. How can you make such a statement?" the bench said.The court also asked the central government to clarify how many oxygen suppliers there are in its empowered group to tackle the Covid-19 crisis. "What you are planning is all in the future. But our main concern is to ensure if it is being done in the most efficient way possible. If the suppliers are major stakeholders, they should be brought into the allocation plan" the court noted.The Delhi high court suggested that the government could also consider consulting help from experts at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and the Indian Institute of Management (IIM). "Whatever fleet you have, use it at the maximum potential," the bench noted.The court also asked the Centre about the request of the Delhi government seeking aid from the Indian Army to set up field hospitals."This has to be done fast. The nature of the request is such," the bench observed.When ASG Sharma said that the matter is being considered and logistical issues are being seen, Justice Palli said, "It has already been 48 hours since the request was made to you."The matter would be heard post-lunch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/you-may-be-blind-but-we-are-not-hc-slams-centre-over-deaths-due-to-scant-oxygen-supply-in-delhi-101620117558840.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal announces free rations for card holders, aid for taxi, auto drivers in Delhi||Announcing a repeat of two key measures taken by the Delhi government during lockdown last year, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the state will once again provide free ration for two months to ration card holders and also give financial aid of Rs.5,000 to autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the city, while adding that the announcements do not mean that the curbs will remain in place for the next two months.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the free ration scheme will benefit around 7.2 million ration card holders and the financial assistance will help around 156,000 autorickshaw and taxi drivers.“To deal with coronavirus, we have imposed a lockdown in Delhi. This was essential to curtail the number of cases and to break the chain. Any lockdown creates a financial crisis for people, especially for the poor. It hits the daily wage workers particularly hard, following which it becomes difficult for them to run their homes,” he said.“Today, we have taken two major decisions. Firstly, free ration will be provided to the around 72 lakh ration card holders of Delhi for the next two months to help the poor wade through their financial crisis. Having said that, one should not assume that the lockdown will continue for the next two months. Let us hope that the cases begin to decrease and the lockdown is lifted early,” he said.Kejriwal said the second decision is to provide all registered autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the city as monetary aid of Rs.5,000 each.“All autorickshaw drivers and taxi drivers are seeing some tough times, as their homes would run on their daily wages. Some do not have much savings too, and with the lockdown of the past few weeks, their daily earnings have depleted completely. Just as last year, when the lockdown was imposed, all of Delhi’s auto and taxi drivers were given Rs.5,000 each by the Delhi government. Today, we’re extending the same financial assistance to all the auto and taxi drivers to help them during this financial adversity,” he said.The national capital has been locked down since April 20 due to an unforeseen surge in Covid-19 cases, and the curbs has been extended twice with cases continued to remain near or above the 20,000 mark.The lockdown, the chief minister said during the announcement on April 19, would help the state government bolster the city’s health care infrastructure, which has been under severe pressure due to the increase in infections requiring hospitalisation. Even after the curbs, hospital beds, medical oxygen and space at funeral homes have been hard to come by for residents of the Capital.The Delhi government on April 20 announced it will resume its scheme of giving Rs.5,000 financial aid to those registered with the Delhi building and other construction workers welfare board (DBOCWW).He also appealed to all political parties to unite and work together to help people as Delhi reels under a raging fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.“We are undergoing a very difficult period and the second wave in the country has been extremely dangerous. There is so much sadness everywhere, people are troubled and are falling ill all across. It is my earnest request that this is the time to help each other, this is the time to become a good human being. Everyone, irrespective of the party they belong to, be it the BJP or the Congress or the Aam Aadmi Party, everyone should together help each other. This is not the time for politics, everyone should work together. Be it any religion or caste, this disease does not discriminate. Be it the rich or the poor, everyone should help each other,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-announces-free-rations-for-card-holders-aid-for-taxi-auto-drivers-in-delhi-101620119836812.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||#CampusCalling: College students turn Covid warriors||Driven to save lives, students of various colleges in Delhi have been working hard amid the second wave of Covid-19. Whether it is to verify and share leads for available hospital beds or oxygen cylinders, or donating money to support the patients financially, many college goers have turned into virtual soldiers in Delhi’s fight against the coronavirus. “I joined Miranda House Covid help desk that has been working to help others 24X7, and is open to students and others who want to volunteer for the same. Despite being Covid positive myself, I’ve been contributing to this initiative since I feel it’s my duty to do so at this time, when people need me the most,” says Vidyanshi Singh, a first year student of Miranda House, Delhi University. She adds, “Whenever we get any leads of beds, plasma or oxygen from social media, reliable websites, or any official sources provided by the government, we first verify the resources personally and then forward the contacts to those in need. My seniors and I have helped a lot of people including my batch mates, by providing them verified sources to avail ventilator beds, ICU, plasma, oxygen cylinders, medicines or any other Covid resources in not just Delhi but in cities across India including Lucknow, Kanpur and Hyderabad.” Alongside, some students are also organising food deliveries for the Covid impacted families. And above and beyond providing all tangible help, some are trying to bring in positivity to the lives of others, by counselling those who are struggling with anxiety and other mental health issues due to the present crisis. “I’ve always wanted to contribute to humanity in whatever way I could. So when the new wave of pandemic struck, I decided to provide people with verified information about medicines, oxygen cylinders, beds, and also helped in getting food delivered to the Covid infected families. And incase they feel they need someone to talk, I ensure that I’m always available! I listen to them, and try and uplift their spirits. No feeling is more exhilarating than saving lives,” says Anchal Singh, a second year student of Miranda House.“Losing my professor to Covid, since she couldn’t find a bed in any of the Delhi hospitals, propelled me to helping others. I wanted to make sure that no one else faces such a situation, and so I actively started helping people out as much as I could,” says Sugandhika Ghalyan, a second year student of Lakshmi Bai College. She informs how college students pan India have made groups on social media, to help Covid patients procure what they are looking for. “I’m the central councillor of my college, and many of my college mates who faced difficulties in getting beds, ambulances, plasma and other requirements have reached out to me in the recent past. I started helping them, and gradually with the assistance of my seniors, I connected with students from across the country to form pan India student Covid teams, to help residents suffering in our respective cities,” adds Ghalyan. Sanjay Kataria, a Master’s student at Department of Library and Information Science, has recently distributed food, masks and ration to the daily wage labourers around the campus who have been adversely impacted by Covid and the lockdown. He says, “This is the best time to step forward and help people who are suffering. I double masked myself, and went along with a fellow hosteller to distribute food to the underprivileged and daily wage labourers around the campus. A lot of them don’t even have the money to get tested for Covid, and are facing a hard time. We distributed masks and basic medicines to them. I’ve also been helping people get access to hospital beds, oxygen, and plasma through my network of friends who are health care professionals.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/campuscalling-college-students-turn-covid-warriors-101620119005112.html
04-05-2021||Lucknow||Rae Bareli: Three journalists get notices for reports on ‘diverting’ oxygen||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Rae Bareli district have issued notices to three local journalists for publishing and sharing news articles alleging diversion of 20 metric tonnes of oxygen to Kanpur and sought information on their sources.Anuj Awasthi, one of the three, said he published an article about the diversion that came despite a crisis in the district. He added he picked up the story after a tweet from a national news agency, articles published by two national news portals, and verified the information also from the local sources. He said the article was published on April 22 after was shared on Facebook by multiple users with their comments questioning the Rae Bareli district administration about the diversion.Also Read | UP panchayat polls: BJP chief says Yogi govt’s work in rural areas paid offAwasthi said he was handed over the notice calling the article and comments made on it misleading and violative of the Information Technology Act. He added the notice dated April 30 was given to him when he visited the district information office on Sunday. He said the notice was issued on behalf of the district magistrate and was signed by additional district magistrate Ram Abhilash. He said two other journalists Shivam Kumar Trivedi and Durgesh Singh Chauhan were also issued notices.Awasthi said he replied to the notice the same day.The Rae Bareli district administration officials could not be contacted for their comments on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/local-journalists-get-notices-over-articles-in-up-s-rae-bareli-101620118456683.html
04-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow youth out to ring in ‘Badlav’ with timely help to Covid-patients||Members of a group called ‘Badlav –Ek Kadam Shiksha Ki Ore’ are helping Covid patients in home isolation in Lucknow with oxygen cylinders, free food and medicines, apart from ambulance service.Team Badlav said they have been coordinating with district authorities to ensure essentials like food, medicines and even oxygen supplies reach Covid patients under home isolation in areas such Alambagh, Charbagh, Ashiana, Krishna Nagar and Hussainganj.“It all began when Covid-19 infected father of a friend died recently. We were not able to arrange an oxygen cylinder for him. An ambulance came nearly 15 hours late. He died at home. From that moment, I decided to help all Covid-affected people,” Somnath Kashyap, leader of Team Badlav said.Lucknow is the worst Covid-hit district in Uttar Pradesh. The state capital reported 3,058 fresh Covid infections on Monday, followed by Gautam Buddha Nagar-1,446, Kanpur-1,311, Varanasi-1,022, Prayagraj-858 and Ghaziabad-598. Many patients are alleged to have died in hospitals across the state due to shortage of medical oxygen. At least three cases of patients’ relatives vandalising hospitals in Meerut and Agra were received recently.Somnath claims some good people in district administration helped them arrange six oxygen cylinders which were given to the needy following proper procedures. With many city residents coming out in their support, the group has now arranged two ambulances.“Two ambulances that we run, have taken nearly 150 patients to various city hospitals. We are supplying food to more than 500 people daily along with medicines to Covid and non-Covid patients, for free,” he said.Those helped by the group are full of gratitude. “My Husband Abhas Bajpai (45) was advised oxygen support as his oxygen level dipped to 90. Doctors prescribed him Medrol and oxygen support which I got from team Badlav. When I called them for help ,they collected my original prescription and arranged oxygen support without any charges, they also helped my family with food and other medicines,” said Shalini Bajpai, a resident of Kesri Khera near Krishna Nagar in Lucknow.Team Badlav ensures that it provides oxygen cylinders only against original prescription and Aadhar cards as per the instructions of the district authorities.At a time when news of Covid patients dying due to shortage of medical oxygen and medicines and their struggles to get beds in hospitals is spreading gloom and doom, the Badlav group’s positive intent has lit a spark of hope. Somnath says many city residents including doctors, advocates, professors, teachers, businessmen, traders, writers, intellectuals and policemen have begun to support the group in their noble cause.“We are helping team Badlav because of their honesty in serving Covid patients, that too at a time when sons are refusing to touch their fathers if they are found positive. These boys are providing them all sorts of help including installation of oxygen cylinders at the bed side of a patient,” said Tarun Kumar, director of Desire Career Point.Somnath said they have created a WhatsApp group Badlav Covid Helping, through which they receive requests for help. Last year too, these young men distributed food during the lockdown. “People have seen us help others in the past. That’s why this time we have got monetary support from everywhere to run our service,” said Akash Pal, another Team Badlav member, who mostly does night shifts.The group has more than 50 members including Shanu Pal, Virendra Saroj and Satish Gupta, who play prominent roles.Lucknow residents can reach Team Badlav on phone numbers- 7275999311 and 8953547346 for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-youth-out-to-ring-in-badlav-with-timely-help-to-covidpatients-101620116836699.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to get 95 oxygen concentrators donated by Taiwan, Kuwait||The Centre has begun allocating to the states and Union Territories (UTs) the much-needed medical equipment India has started receiving from other countries. In a letter sent to states and UTs on Monday, the Centre informed Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand that they have been allocated oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and pulse oximeters. In the first instalment, 95 oxygen concentrators have been allocated to Haryana. Thirty-five oxygen concentrators of the 150 Taiwan has donated will reach the Haryana warehouse at Gurugram on Tuesday, top government officials said. Haryana is yet to get the update about 60 oxygen concentrators it will receive as donation from Kuwait.According to the Centre, Taiwan has donated 150 oxygen concentrators of which 50 have been allocated to Punjab and 35 to Haryana. 500 oxygen cylinders for HimachalTaiwan has also donated 500 oxygen cylinders of which Himachal Pradesh has been allocated 185 and Uttarakhand 300. Himachal Pradesh will also get an additional 282 oxygen cylinders that Kuwait has donated, the letter of from the Union health ministry said. Haryana has also been allocated 113 pulse oximeters that will be despatched to AIIMS, Jhajjar. Haryana government officials said that they will start allocating the medical equipment soon after receiving it as the state has been grappling with the shortage of medical oxygen amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. Haryana seeks increase in oxygen quotaEven as the Centre has increased medical oxygen quota of Haryana to 257 MT, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government has requested to increase this quota to 300MT. The oxygen quota of Haryana was increased from 162MT to 257MT last week. Khattar has been visiting every district to review the oxygen availability status in district hospitals after patients died of short supply of oxygen in private hospitals in Rewari, Hisar and Gurugram recently. The Haryana government has also formed teams of officers in all districts to monitor and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen in all hospitals, including private ones. State health minister Anil VIj on Tuesday directed that it will be mandatory for all hospitals with 50-bed capacity to have their own oxygen generation plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-get-95-oxygen-concentrators-donated-by-taiwan-kuwait-101620114441356.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Delhi CM announces free ration for card holders, relief of ₹5,000 cash for auto and taxi drivers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced free ration to all beneficiaries living in the national capital. Citing a figure of 72 lakhs, the chief minister said that they will receive ration free-of-cost for the next two months amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic."It doesn't mean that the lockdown will continue for 2 months. It is just being done to help the poor going through financial issues," said Kejriwal while making the announcement, as per new agency ANI.The Delhi government also extended the financial help of ₹5,000 to auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers who have been hit by lockdown imposed in the national capital since April 19.The announcement comes a day after Kejriwal held a Covid-19 review meeting with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the chief secretary and the principal secretary of health.During the meeting, Kejriwal instructed authorities to strengthen the home isolation system so that patients can get good treatment with timely counselling and to keep in touch with patients undergoing treatment in home isolation.He said that a clear record should be kept of how many Covid-19 positive patients are going to the hospital and how many are being treated in home isolation.Delhi is reeling under the devastating fourth wave of Covid-19 which has pushed the already burdened healthcare system to a breaking point. Hospitals are inundated with patients leading to a shortage of beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders. With the continuous rising numbers, there is almost a waiting of 7-days if a person is trying to get the Covid-19 test done at their home.Most pharmacies as well have run out of basic tools like oximeters which is a key thing for patients to monitor oxygen levels.The national capital on Monday reported as many as 18,043 new coronavirus cases and 448 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's daily health bulletin informed.This is the highest single-day death toll in the city since the pandemic broke out last year. The total active cases in the city now stand at 89,592. The cumulative positive cases now stand at 12,12,989, including 11,05,983 recoveries and 17,414 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-delhi-cm-announces-free-ration-for-card-holders-relief-of-rs-5-000-cash-for-auto-and-taxi-drivers-101620113221518.html
04-05-2021||Patna||Bihar Congress slams Nitish Kumar government’s handling of Covid-19||The Congress party has accused the Bihar government led by chief minister Nitish Kumar of failure to manage the Covid-19 crisis, which has found the health infrastructure in the state crumbling under pressure with shortage of beds, medicines, oxygen support and trained manpower reported across the state.“The state government is unable to draw its quota of oxygen, allotted by the Centre, for want of storage facility. This often led to a serious crisis of oxygen for patients admitted in hospitals,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha.Chairman of BPCC media department, Rajesh Kumar Rathore alleged black marketing of oxygen cylinders and drugs like Remdesivir had gone beyond government’s control. “A 40-kg cylinder of oxygen is being sold at ₹50,000 to ₹1 lakh, as hospitals are grappling with oxygen shortage,” he said.Several hospitals in Bihar have reported shortage of oxygen and medicine such as Remdesivir over the past few days. Patna high court pulled up the state government on Monday saying it lacked expert advice, trained manpower, adequate oxygen and life saving drugs to deal with the second wave of the pandemic, which has left hundreds dead and thousands others scrambling for hospital beds in the state.A senior officer of the health department, pleading anonymity, said the state was able to get 120-135 MT of medical oxygen per day against the current requirement of nearly 250MT. “There is a serious problem in getting the centrally allocated quota of oxygen, as not a single hospital has cryogenic storage-- required for storing liquid medical oxygen,” he said.The centre has allocated 214MT of medical oxygen to Bihar every day, out of this, 34 MT is to be created from the Air Separation Units (ASU) in the state, he added.Covid patient Rita Dubey, who was admitted to the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna in a serious condition, was prescribed Remdesivir injections, which retailers claimed to be out of stock. Her son Prashant Dubey claimed he was forced to buy two vials of the life-saving injection of 100mg potency for ₹56,000 from the black market. The drug carries MRP of ₹2,800 per unit.“Other crucial drugs like Doxy 100mg and Azithromycin 500 are also out of stock at medicine retail outlets. Subsequently, I had to pay double the cost of these medicines,” alleged Dubey.Health minister Mangal Pandey didn’t reply to questions over the alleged shortage of oxygen, oxygenated beds and common antibiotics.Criticising the state government over its alleged failures, BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha said a Covid task force made up of Bihar Pradesh Youth Congress (BPYC) members had helped over 250 Covid patients in accessing medical facilities in the month of April. BPYC officer bearers said they had arranged ICU beds for over three dozen Covid patients and distributed more than 100 oxygen cylinders in the past one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-congress-slams-nitish-kumar-government-s-handling-of-covid19-101620111376435.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first drive-in vaccination centre opens in Dadar today||Mumbai first drive-in vaccination centre started operations today. The multi-storey Kohinoor parking lot on JK Sawant Marg, near Shivaji Park in Dadar West, which has been turned into a vaccination centre, offers drive-in facility to senior citizens and specially abled citizens. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over this area said, “The facility has the capacity to inoculate 5,000 beneficiaries per day across seven booths. Two of these booths are reserved for drive-ins.” Also Read | BMC resumes inoculation of 45+ today; only for those needing 2nd doseThe parking lot has enough space for 60 to 70 vehicles to queue up for the two booths, Dighavkar said. A registration stall will also be set up, but beneficiaries will be registered by staff at the centre as they wait in the queue. BMC tweeted on Monday evening, “Drive In Facility For 45+ specially-abled. @mybmcWardGN has started a new vaccination centre at Kohinoor Parking Lot, JK Sawant Marg, Dadar(W), for 45+ citizens coming for their 2nd dose of #Covishield Starts at 10 am tomorrow & has 7 vaccination rooms. #VaccinationForAll.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-first-drive-in-vaccination-centre-opens-in-dadar-today-101620111136229.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC resumes inoculation of 45+ today; only for those needing 2nd dose||After halting Covid vaccination for 45+ age group past Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is restarting it today, but only for those in need of their second dose.The vaccination drive was suspended for those above 45 years of age until Monday due to shortage of stock. With more stock now, BMC is resuming vaccination. Keeping it only for those seeking their second dose will help avert crowding.From Tuesday, city’s first drive-in vaccination centre is also expected to start in Dadar. As of now, only the second dose will be administered there. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC, on Monday said, “The parking lot has enough space for 60 to 70 vehicles. A registration stall will also be set up, but beneficiaries will be registered by the staff at the centre while waiting in the queue.”Also Read | At 36.1°C, Monday Mumbai’s hottest day in May in decadeBMC also explained why it had decided to inoculate only those eligible for their second doses. In a tweet on Monday night, the civic body said, “Due to limited stock, it is important to provide second dose to beneficiaries on time, to ensure vaccine efficacy. Once sufficient stock is available, vaccination can be made open for all, for both doses.”This means overall 60 vaccination centre in the city will be functional on Tuesday administrating second dose in the city. These all 60 centes will be government and civic-run centres.In case of private hospitals, the BMC has maintained that, “ As per government of India guidelines, private hospitals have to procure vaccine from manufacturers and not BMC. For 45+, list of private hospitals which have procured vaccine and their slots available are visible on Co-WIN portal along with price per dose and vaccine type.”Meanwhile, vaccination for 18-44 age group will continue at five vaccination centres in the city wherein 2,500 slots have been booked. In Mumbai, overall 5,813 citizens in age group of 18-44 have been vaccinated followed by 862,560 in age group of 45 to 59 and 980,546 in the above 60 years of age group. If we include healthcare and frontline workers, Mumbai has vaccinated 2,459,883 people since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-bmc-resumes-inoculation-of-45-today-only-for-those-needing-2nd-dose-101620108256174.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh imposes additional Covid restrictions from Tuesday: Check details||The administration on Tuesday announced additional restrictions in Chandigarh for a week as the Union territory fights a surge in cases of coronavirus disease. The measures will come into effect from 5pm on May 4 and will continue till 5am on May 11. In addition to the week-long restrictions, the weekend lockdown, already in place, will also continue.The decisions were taken in a review meeting on Covid-19 on Monday. In the meeting, chaired by the Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore, there was a detailed discussion on the steps taken by the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.Chandigarh on Monday reported 860 fresh Covid-19 cases, in the highest single-day surge since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. The tally of cases in the city increased to 44,306, with 7,592 active cases. As per official data, seven people succumbed to the disease during the day, bringing the fatality to 496.Here's a list of things that will be allowed or not allowed during the restrictions:1. All government offices and banks will work with 50% staff capacity. All private offices have been asked to ensure their staff work from home as much as possible.2. The ban on cinema halls, gyms, spas, bars, swimming pools and coaching centres will continue.3. All shops selling non-essential items will remain closed.4. Public transport will run with 50% capacity.5. Restaurants, including hotels, cafes, coffee shops and eating places, will be allowed to function only for takeaway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-imposes-additonal-covid-restrictions-from-tuesday-check-details-here-101620105748811.html
04-05-2021||Pune||3 doctors held in Pune for charging ₹1 lakh for ventilator bed||The Pune Police on Monday arrested three doctors for charging a family of a patient ₹1 lakh for a ventilator bed at a hospital in Pune's Pimpri Chinchwad area.As per the police, a complaint has been lodged by the Municipal Corporation and a probe is underway.This comes in the middle of the devastating second wave of Covid-19.Several other similar instances have been reported from across the country. The police have taken action against several people for hoarding and black marketing Remdesivir, oxygen and other medical equipment used in the treatment of Covid-19.As per the state health department, there are currently 1,08,915 active cases in Pune. As many as 9,717 deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-doctors-held-in-pune-for-charging-rs-1-lakh-for-ventilator-bed-101620104681846.html
04-05-2021||Patna||FIR against Pappu Yadav and supporters for violating Covid-19 rules||Bihar politician and Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav was booked for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines and disaster management rules in Gaya late Monday night. Yadav claims he was at the hospital to take “stock of the facilities” for treatment of Covid patients.The former MP was booked for “forcibly” visiting the Covid-19 wards at Magadh Medical College Hospital in Gaya and not wearing a personal protection equipment (PPE) kit during the rounds. The FIR adds that Yadav and his supporters didn’t listen to hospital staff and guards who were trying to stop them.Yadav and his supporters were booked at the city’s Medical police station under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after a complaint was filed by Dr P K Agarwal, the superintendent of Magadh Medical College Hospital, said Abhishek Singh, Gaya’s district magistrate (DM).Yadav said he has been visiting several hospitals across the state to help patients with admission and to check the status of oxygen supplies. Earlier on May 2, he was stopped outside Ara Sadar Hospital in Bhojpur district citing Section 144.“The condition of govt hospitals is very bad. There is no cleanliness in the Red Zone. Attendants are forced to sleep on the ground. What have Nitish Kumar and Mangal Pandey done for so many days?” Yadav said.He alleged that the state government was trying to hide its shortcomings. “Private hospitals are minting money as government hospitals have failed to provide quality treatment to the common man,” he said.Supporting Yadav's claims, a Patna resident said Yadav was at least visible in the midst of suffering people and was speaking for them, when no other politician was visible anywhere. "Hospitals are not admitting patients. Where will people go? Despite his own health issues, he is helping people he doesn’t know and who may never have voted for him,” said Surendra Prasad. Prasad said Yadav helped his patient get admission in a hospital.Another Patna resident, Kumari Manisha, whose relative is admitted in a private hospital in the city said, “I got Remdesivir from Yadav. The medicine is available in black market at a very high price, but the former MP gave it to me for free."Meanwhile, the district police chiefs across Bihar have been asked to ensure effective implementation of Covid-19 related restrictions.Bihar recorded 11,407 new Covid infections on Monday to go past the five lakh-mark. 82 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 2821 in the state, health department bulletin said. Patna with 11,407 new cases and Gaya with 662 cases are among the worst hit districts in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fir-against-pappu-yadav-and-supporters-for-violating-covid-19-rules-101620104295793.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Adverse foreign court orders do not disentitle woman to minor kids’ custody: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has rejected a Sri Lankan national’s plea saying his estranged wife has lost the right to retain custody of their minor children because of her “improper conduct” of keeping them in India in defiance of the order of a Sri Lanka court and refusing to accept its summons.The couple got married in March 2010 and lived in the US, where their first child was born in 2013. The second child was born in 2014 in India. The discord started after the couple shifted to Sri Lanka in 2015. The husband said the woman brought the children to India (Thane) on the basis of a district court order of October 3, 2017, ostensibly for two weeks, and did not return to Sri Lanka thereafter. He said the district court order was stayed by a Sri Lankan high court on October 10.Also Read | Pharma firms must supply Remdesivir vials to Maharashtra on time: Bombay HCThe Bombay high court said its focus, as per settled law, was on the best interest of the children. “We find the children appear to be comfortable with their mother in India. Their progress report appears to be satisfactory and merely because there are orders passed by a foreign court against their mother, according to us, that would not disentitle her from continuing with their custody.”The court rejected the petitioner’s emphasis on the question of the identity of the children as Sri Lankan nationals. It said the Supreme Court has held that factors such as citizenship of children pale into insignificance while determining what is in their best interest for the purpose of custody. “...the fact that children are Sri Lankan citizens, and the elder child is also an American citizen cannot be a deciding factor insofar as the relief sought in the petition is concerned.”The Bombay high court noted the two children have been admitted to a school in Thane. It added they “appeared to have developed roots” and have also become conversant with the local language and adjusted to the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/adverse-foreign-court-orders-do-not-disentitle-woman-to-minor-kids-custody-bombay-hc-101620104115682.html
04-05-2021||Noida||Private hospitals can't ask attendants to arrange oxygen for patients: Noida CMO||Doctors in Gautam Buddh Nagar will not ask attendants to arrange oxygen for their Covid-19 positive patients at private hospitals, which will have to bear the onus of making such arrangements, chief medical officer Deepak Ohri said on Monday.The development comes in the wake of multiple hospitals in Noida and Greater Noida claiming shortage of medical oxygen and several people facing acute difficulties in procuring oxygen cylinders for their patients in hospitals and home isolation.However, the district administration has refuted such claims and said it has made adequate availability of oxygen and medicines and scaling up its efforts for more as the second wave of the pandemic hit people hard.“All private doctors are being directed to not ask relative or attendant of any patient to procure oxygen cylinders because it leads to a problematic situation and causes trouble to everyone. Hence, it is being stopped with immediate effect,” the CMO stated in an order issued Monday evening.Ohri said the direction has been issued to prevent causing inconvenience to attendants of Covid-19 patients as the responsibility for oxygen arrangement has been fixed on private hospitals.“The attendants of Covid-19 patients are already in trouble and some hospitals have asked them to arrange oxygen cylinders for which they run pillar to post and stand in queues for hours. This cannot be allowed to happen. Now the hospitals will have to ensure availability of oxygen for patients and they can use their own staff to fetch cylinders if need be,” Ohri told PTI.Asked about the situation of oxygen availability in hospitals of Gautam Buddh Nagar, the CMO said, “Hospitals are being provided oxygen in adequate quantity and there is no need for panic. More patients are admitted to hospitals depending on the availability of resources in them.”Gautam Buddh Nagar is one of the worst-hit districts in Uttar Pradesh with 250 deaths linked to Covid-19 and 7,982 active cases while its overall infection tally stood at 45,792, according to officials figures on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-hospitals-can-t-ask-attendants-to-arrange-oxygen-for-patients-noida-cmo-101620099783160.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi, NCR may see light rainfall today, says IMD||Delhi got some respite from soaring temperatures on Monday as several states across north and central India experienced rainfall. India Meteorological Department scientists said there is a possibility of light rain in some parts of the city on Tuesday, which will keep the temperatures from rising. On Monday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 39.7 degrees Celsius (°C), a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 24.3°C, a notch below the season’s average. “On May 4 and May 5, there is a forecast of rain in Delhi and parts of NCR. The temperatures will also remain below 40°C,” said an IMD official. Delhi has been recording high maximum temperatures for a while now, with the mercury levels at some weather stations soaring above 44°C.On Monday, the air quality in the National Capital deteriorated to the poor category. The air quality index (AQI) was 216 at 9.05am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-may-see-light-rainfall-today-says-imd-101620097575387.html
04-05-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat polls: BJP chief says Yogi govt's work in rural areas paid off||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantradev Singh on Monday attributed the victory of party candidates in the panchayat elections to the development in rural areas and welfare of farmers ensured by the Yogi Adityanath government in the state.In a statement issued here on Monday, Singh claimed that in the three-tier panchayat election in the state, over 45,000 party-supported candidates have won the post of village pradhan, while more than 60,000 party-supported candidates have emerged victorious as members of kshetra panchayats."As many as 918 party-supported candidates have won the post of members of zila panchayat," he said."On more than 450 seats, the party-supported candidates have taken a decisive lead," Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-polls-bjp-chief-says-yogi-govt-s-work-in-rural-areas-paid-off-101620095616259.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Biomedical waste generation at maximum as Covid-19 cases surge in Delhi||With the number of Covid-19 infections rising over the past several weeks, the city is facing a massive surge in biomedical waste.According to Biotic Waste Management, one of the largest common biomedical waste treatment facilities in Delhi, Covid-19 waste generated last July was around 7.2 tonnes per day, which increased to 12.5-13 tonnes per day by the end of April 2021.“We have a total capacity of 34 tons per day so while we have a margin, if cases keep increasing, then we will reach capacity,” said Vikas Gehlot, spokesperson for Biotic Waste Management, the common biomedical waste treatment (CBWT) facility which caters to north, north-east, south, southeast and New Delhi.“For the first time, there is a slight worry that we may reach capacity, but overall waste management is better than last year, mainly because of guidelines that have categorised biomedical waste and ensured that food and general waste is not coming to us,” said an office bearer of SMS Water Grace Pvt Limited, another CBWT.Data shared by the three municipal corporations shows that general biomedical waste collected spiked to around 3 tonnes in April, compared to only around 700kg collected in March.East Delhi Municipal Corporation collected 748.28kg of hazardous waste in April, compared to 170.8kg in March. The north civic body collected 2,776 kg of biomedical waste in April, out of which 959.1kg was collected between April 23 and April 30, when the cases began rising at a rapid and unprecedented rate.In south Delhi, too, between April 23 and April 30, biomedical waste collected was 291.7kg.Experts pointed out that the actual production of biomedical waste in the national capital is much higher than what is being collected by the civic agencies.Delhi has reported an average of 23,890 new Covid-19 cases everyday in the past week. On Monday, 18,043 new cases were recorded in the city, with a positivity rate dropping to 29.56%.“Unlike last year, the biomedical waste generation is not limited to hospitals and quarantine centres now. The cases are rising at such a fast pace that every household is now producing such waste, and much of it is not being disposed off in a safe manner. Trash from thousands of patients in home isolation is not even being collected separately as biomedical waste,” said Sunil Chhabra, solid waste management expert and volunteer with Save Our Planet, a citizens’ group working with waste collectors in Delhi-NCR.Sanjay Gahlot, president of Delhi Safai Karamchari Union, said that masks, gloves and other hazardous biomedical waste is carelessly strewn all around the city. “With the rising number of cases these days, these could become the reason for infections,” said Gahlot.East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain, said waste is segregated at households. “The quantum of biomedical waste has increased but we are managing it safely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/biomedical-waste-generation-at-maximum-as-covid-cases-surge-in-delhi-101620082193191.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal tells officials to strengthen monitoring of Covid-19 patients in home isolation||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday asked state government officials to revive and strengthen the home isolation monitoring system for Covid-19 patients, and issued specific directions on mandatory phone calls by medical officers within 24 hours of a patient testing positive, providing pulse oximeters, and maintaining records.The review meeting was chaired by Kejriwal and attended by deputy CM Manish Sisodia, chief secretary Vijay Dev, and other senior officials.With the city adding more than 20,000 new Covid-19 cases every day for over two weeks, government officers in several districts said they were unable to contact people isolated at home. Officials, who asked not to be named, said that while district surveillance teams were earlier getting in touch with around 31 contacts of each infected person as part of the state’s contact tracing efforts, this has stopped completely because of the sheer number of cases in the city.“During the meeting, he [Kejriwal] directed that people being treated at home should receive a call from a doctor within 24 hours of being tested positive. He also directed that a clear record be kept of the number of Covid-19 patients going to the hospital and of those being treated at home. Kejriwal directed that patients in home isolation who do not have an oximeter should also be provided one, along with a Covid-19 kit,” the government said in a statement issued after the meeting.Kejriwal instructed officers present to pay special attention to home isolation patients who may need hospitalisation, the government said.Till Sunday evening, over 50,000 Covid patients in Delhi were being treated at home, according to government data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-tells-officials-to-strengthen-monitoring-of-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation-101620081214656.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Alarm bells ring constantly in Delhi, with even officials scrambling for oxygen cylinders||Private hospitals in Delhi on Monday continued to post SOS messages on social media, raising alarm over oxygen supplies dipping precariously even as the state government maintained it has not been receiving its quota of 590 metric tonnes of oxygen.The Delhi government regulates the allocation to each hospital depending on the average supplies being received and the number of patients admitted to the hospitals. The actual supply that Delhi might receive is calculated on the basis of the supply projections by the companies.Delhi had received 448 MT of oxygen on Sunday, slightly lower than Saturday’s 454MT, according to a government official.“With so many patients on high oxygen support – today 39 patients were either on ventilator or high-flow oxygen – our daily requirement for oxygen has gone up to 1.2MT a day. The government had earlier allocated 0.9MT that has been almost halved to 0.49MT. How can we treat the same number of patients with such little oxygen?” asked Rajiv Biala, vice president, Institute of Brain and Spine in Lajpat Nagar that dipped into the last few cylinders. The hospitals asked patients to look to other facilities on Monday. He said, “We need at least 90 to 100 cylinders a day, we are somehow getting 50 to 60 after begging and borrowing from other hospitals. Our vehicles are stuck at refilling plants.”Around 2.30pm, attendants of patients admitted at IBS Hospital, Lajpat Nagar, tweeted that the hospital was running out of oxygen and the lives of people were in danger.Akash Hospital, Dwarka, also claimed it got inadequate supplies. “Today, we got a good supply of liquid oxygen but our vehicles are standing outside two to three stations to get the cylinders filled. And now the government has reduced our allocation by up to 30%,” said Dr Ashish Chaudhary, managing director of the hospital. The hospital had been allocated 4.7MT on April 29, which was increased to 5.1MT on May 1, and then reduced to 2.75MT on May 2.The hospital has been running at capacity and has added 40 makeshift beds in the parking lot and the driveway to cater to the rush of patients.The total allocation to Covid-19 hospitals by the Delhi government has reduced from 380MT on April 29 to 363.87 MT on May 2. This is largely because the quantity of oxygen promised to the government by the suppliers has reduced from 445MT to 425MT. The allocation to Covid-19 hospitals went up to 438.4 on May 1, when the suppliers promised 520MT to Delhi.“The government is not sure how much oxygen they will get and on a daily basis they keep increasing or decreasing the allocation... Patient care is suffering,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Health Forum.He said, “If the oxygen situation is sorted, hospitals can increase the bed strength by a minimum 5,000.”Several hospitals including IBS hospitals and Batra hospital had to close admissions on Monday in view of limited stock.Smaller hospitals and nursing homes said being at the tail end of supplies, they were in a precarious situation.“The bigger hospitals, once they get the liquid oxygen, are okay for some time. We have to go queue up outside filling stations for hours; our vehicles just drop the oxygen and go back to the filling station. I need 220 cylinders, the quota was reduced to around 103 cylinders and I get only about 50 to 60 a day,” said Dr CM Bhagat from Bhagat Chandra hospital in Palam.The hospital raised as SOS on Monday night. “We have also asked our patients to arrange for oxygen and many have their own cylinders and concentrators. The problem occurs when they need high flow or ventilators,” he said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the government was in touch with several entities to boost oxygen supply in the capital.“It is imperative we receive adequate oxygen and increase our capacity of beds. But we need intensive and immediate help to ensure proper oxygen supply in Delhi, and we are in touch with private entities, the social sector, and the Centre for the same,” Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/alarm-bells-ring-constantly-with-even-officials-scrambling-for-oxygen-cylinders-101620080163000.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Fire rules order may cost Delhi 6000 Covid beds||Several small nursing homes in Delhi have started doing away with Covid-19 beds in their facilities on the second floor and above, with the health department enforcing a fire safety norm that is likely to end up costing the city around 6,000 Covid-19 beds, a union of health care providers said.“The keepers of all nursing homes, providing Covid-19 related treatments, who have not submitted NOC from fire department are hereby directed to carry out nursing home activities on the ground and first floors only,” the order dated April 30 read. The order, signed by state medical superintendent Dr RN Das, also warns nursing homes of action if any contravention comes to light.Health infrastructure in the city has been under immense pressure due to the surge of cases in the fourth wave, with hospital beds and medical oxygen extremely hard to come by.As on Monday night, only 1,353 of the 21,395 beds and 23 of the 5,147 ICU beds were vacant, showed government data.Experts have questioned the timing of this order.“Any hospital that has 50 beds or more cannot be restricted to just the ground and first floors. We have been in discussion with the government for nearly two years now on fire safety norms, which none of the small nursing homes can meet and should not need to meet as we are allowed in the residential areas as per the Master Plan for Delhi 2021. Now, this notice suddenly in the middle of the [Covid-19] peak is uncalled for,” said Dr Ajay Bedi, head of the nursing home cell of the Delhi Medical Association.Bedi said he is shutting 20 of the 40 beds in his nursing home that caters to Covid-19 patients.“This order directly means that more than 6,000 beds used in various nursing homes and private hospitals on the 2nd floor of the premises shall be made unavailable with the immediate effect and causes the collapsing medical facilities of the city to be undermined,” said a letter from the National Medical Forum.The 2019 norms make it mandatory for all two-storey buildings to get no-objection certificates (NOC) from the Delhi Fire Services(DFS).The norms also make it mandatory for institutes that are two-storeys tall or higher to have a six-metre-wide access road for fire tenders. Their corridors need to be at least 2.4 metres-wide, and their staircases two metres-wide staircases.There are 1,478 registered hospitals, nursing homes, maternity homes and health sub-centres in Delhi, data shows. Only 103 of these had a clearance certificate from the fire department in April 2019, according to a letter sent by DFS to the Director General of Health Services. Nursing homes’ registrations were renewed without inspections in 2020 due to Covid-19.“We are shutting down well-equipped and staffed beds and creating beds in makeshift facilities. How does this make sense?” said Dr Bedi.“This is not the time to look for compliance to such guidelines. With the current load of cases, hospitals are adding beds in the galleries, do you see the NABH [National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers] objecting to it?” said Girdhar Gyani, director general, Association of Healthcare Providers (India).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-rules-order-may-cost-delhi-6000-covid-beds-101620079155520.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid response fraught with lapses||Call it laxity, insensitivity, incompetence or short-sightedness, Chandigarh’s fight against the deadly second wave of Covid-19 is fraught with lapses and the administration’s response is failing on the focus points of testing and treatment.In fact, the hospital infrastructure that is being pushed to the extreme is crumbling, able to hold only 850 patients at present, even though the infection number is expected to hit more peaks.At a time when new cases are rising at a rapid pace, hospitals have started making provisions for adding new beds, mostly equipped with ventilators, which are the need of the hour.Deepak, whose 62-year-old mother was admitted at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, was told to arrange for a ventilator when her oxygen level dropped to 60 on Monday evening.“I could not arrange it and she died. I cannot speak a word beyond it,” the Dadumajra resident said.Badnore satisfied with UT’s efforts: AdmnMeanwhile, the UT official statement on Monday said that administrator VP Singh Badnore was satisfied with the efforts made by UT, and directed that more ventilators and oxygen concentrators should be arranged for future needs.UT, however, has been able to mobilise only 126 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, which are clearly not able to accommodate the rush of those requiring intensive care.Painting a rosy picture, the UT official release also stated that the administration had set up 100 beds at the Sector-48 hospital and 21 more oxygen beds were being added. At Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, 155 beds were available, which had now been increased to 200 oxygen beds. At GMSH-16, with the addition of 48 more beds, the total capacity will increase to 248.Former vice-president of the Indian Medical Association Dr RS Bedi said, “We are not prepared on the scale we could have been after we witnessed the first wave. The last eight months, we could have created specialists to run more ICUs efficiently. But we were sleeping during that time.”‘No concrete plan to deal with crisis’Hospitals in the city have said that due to non-availability of a trained workforce, they were unable to expand ICU facilities. But there was no concrete plan on how to deal with the crisis, they have said.While the administration is turning to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for more beds, the institute has said that expanding Covid-19 services would hit routine health-care.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We have created enough infrastructure for Chandigarh residents keeping in mind the requirement. PGIMER should push their capacity as they have enough workforce. Every resource at administration-run hospitals is being utilised but that is not proving to be sufficient.”Our capacity is limited: PGIMER directorPGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “Our beds have been increased from 50 to around 360, which are almost full; around 50 patients in the emergency block are yet to be adjusted. There is a limit to our capacity. If it comes to arranging more beds, our non-Covid services will be badly affected.”Meanwhile, issue of test reports from government-run facilities are experiencing considerable delays, with not more than 1,000 samples being processed in a day due to the involvement of private players in the process of sample collection by UT hospitals. Only now, GMCH-32 has placed an order for two new testing machines, while the work at Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory has been pushed.A city-based social activist, RK Garg, said, “A sample of a relative was given on April 29 and the report was delivered on May 3 and the patient had to stand in this summer for more than one hour at the civil hospital in Sector 45. This should be stopped immediately and reports should be delivered on the mobile within 24 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-covid-response-fraught-with-lapses-101620076575239.html
04-05-2021||Other||32 ventilators lying unused to be installed in Mohali hospitals||After Hindustan Times reported that 32 ventilators were gathering dust at the upcoming Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali, for the last nine months, the district administration on Monday swung into action.Five ventilators will be installed at the civil hospital in Phase-6; 15 will be made available for the upcoming 104-bed makeshift Covid hospital; while 12 others will be installed at another 100-bed facility being created in the district with the support of the army.HT had reported that several parts of the state were reeling under an acute shortage of critical care facilities for Covid-19 patients and the number of active cases had crossed the 9,000 mark. Mohali is among the nine worst-hit districts of Punjab, where more than 22,000 Covid cases and 180 deaths have been reported since April 1.Deputy commissioner of Mohali, Girish Dayalan, said that all 32 ventilators will be made operational in about twenty days.‘We’re working on war footing’Dr Bhavneet Bharti, director principal of the upcoming Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “We are working on a war footing; appointment letters have been issued to the faculty to ensure human resources are in place while the faculty joins. Arrangements are being made for setting up an oxygen generation plant to ensure uninterrupted supply to the institute. We are well aware that the health facilities in the district are overwhelmed by the sudden surge in Covid cases. So we are trying our best to meet the manpower and the equipment challenges, and will hopefully get a go ahead as soon as the team of the National Medical Council conducts the inspection of the facility.”The ventilators were received nine months ago under PM Cares Fund, but the installation remained pending due to unavailability of an oxygen generation plant and paucity of technical manpower. The ventilators also needed some software up-gradation for which a technician from Bharat Electronics Limited (BHEL) had been contacted, said DC.On April 27, Hindustan Times had reported how eight ventilators, which the civil hospital in Phase-6 had bought around eight months ago, were lying unused due to a lack of infrastructure and staff to operate them. The next day, the hospital authorities had handed over the ventilators to two private hospitals in Mohali—Max and Fortis.Mohali has emerged as a medical tourism destination with 30 private hospitals, having top-class facilities, catering to patients from the region. These currently have 256 ICU beds, of which 240 were occupied as on Sunday. There are three major government-run civil hospitals in Phase-6, Kharar and Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/32-ventilators-lying-unused-to-be-installed-in-mohali-hospitals-101620076574268.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Counting of past service: Panjab University teachers seek 3-month extension for document submission||Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has requested the university to extend the time limit for teachers to submit supporting documents related with the processing of their cases for counting of past service.In a letter to the registrar, the teachers’ body said that letters had been issued to some teachers by PU’s establishment branch to submit more documents, supporting their cases, within 15 days.PU has already cleared the cases of 13 teachers for the counting of their past services, after they were cleared by a special panel last year. The counting of past service has remained one of the most important issues at PU in recent years and it was also one of the main agendas during the last PUTA elections.However, as per the recommendations of the panel, the 52 teachers, whose cases are still in the pipeline, have to submit requisite documents to the varsity.“PUTA has been approached by several colleagues that a 15-day period is not sufficient for them to arrange all the documents especially under the prevailing situation. It is therefore requested that an extension of at least three months may be granted to enable them to do the needful,” reads the letter of PUTA submitted to the registrar.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We are hopeful that the request will be accepted keeping in view the present situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/counting-of-past-service-panjab-university-teachers-seek-3-month-extension-for-document-submission-101620076572995.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A recovered doctor’s confessions||These days, all families are alike in symptoms. The young doctor caught COVID, and then everybody else at his flat in Noida’s Sector 50. Thankfully their symptoms were mild, and radiologist Sushant Mittal exploited the quarantine to answer the Proust questionnaire in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore the lives and experiences of Delhi citizens. Meanwhile the household has recovered and Dr Mittal gamely posed with wife, Dr Sarika Jain (dermatologist), and kids, Ambika and restless Shantanu, for a WhatsApp portrait.Your favorite qualities in a womanKnowledge, poise, love a bit of attitude tooWhat do you appreciate the most in your friends?I do not appreciate anything. Appreciation lessens the motivation to be a better version of oneself (psst: my friends know and loathe me for this, although I love how they are there whenever I need them)Your idea of happinessTucked away in the mountains, sitting by a window, with good books and jaggery tea. Give me lots of Ruskin Bond and Rabindranath TagoreYour idea of misery?Losing a loved one. Heart breaks when I look around what’s unfolding these daysWhere would you like to live?Ranikhet Cantt, with many deodar trees around. Cotswold villages in England are inviting tooYour favorite birdSparrow, so comforting to see, and mountain thrushYour favorite prose authorsRuskin Bond—his prose is loaded with mountain freshness and silence. GulzarYour favorite paintersMonet, Tyeb Mehta and Ambika, my daughterYour heroes/heroines in real lifeMy father and mother. They gave up everything to bring us upYour favorite namesGayatri , DevbandhuWhat do you hate the most?Admiring false heroes. I hate when our politicians choose to look away. I also hate lies and deceitThe military event you admire the mostNot sure.. not my cup of teaHow do you wish to die?Peacefully under a deodar tree—Ruskin Bond says it is the tree of the GodsWhat is your present state of mind?Heartbroken. I feel so helpless in this pandemicFaults for which you have the most toleranceI think there are no faults, only the choices we make. What is a fault in my eyes, is maybe a choice someone wants to make||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-recovered-doctor-s-confessions-101620076238375.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC planning complete waste clearance at Dadumajara dump site||Even as the legacy mining project at the city’s oldest garbage dumping site in Dadumajra has got a deadline extension, the municipal corporation (MC) is now planning to start the removal of waste from the rest of the site.The MC will soon float a tender for the work and expects it to be financed through the Swachh Bharat Mission or Atal Mission For Rejuvenation And Urban Transformation (AMRUT). While there is 5 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of legacy waste to be removed, in the next planed phase, the MC plans to remove around one lakh MT of waste dumped on the site over the years.Speaking during the MC general House meet on Wednesday, municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “We will clear the waste from the waste. For this, a tender will soon be floated. It will be financed through AMRUT or Swachh Bharat Mission funds, which the central governments allots.” The issue came up during the discussion on a new eight-acre sanitary waste site coming up in Dadumajra.It is learnt that the MC is considering the use of plasma technology to clear the waste and the timeline for the entire project can be four to five months.In the election year, the ruling BJP is trying to resolve the nixing issue of garbage dump site, which is a major electoral issue in south Chandigarh. Notably, the current legacy mining site has courted controversy, with major fires breaking out repeatedly at the project site.The legacy mining project which is being carried out at a cost of ₹33 crore, started in December 2019, was to be completed in 18 months. But, only 30% has been completed so far.The project ‘s deadline was revised in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the firm has been directed to complete it by December this year. So far, 1.5 lakh MT of legacy waste has been removed, MC officials claim.On Thursday, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and Yadav visited the garbage processing plant to take stock of the ongoing work, compost plant and progress of the legacy mining project. The mayor appreciated the enhancement of conveyer belts from three to five at the project site to mine the waste. He asked the officials concerned to complete the work within the deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-planning-complete-waste-clearance-at-dadumajara-dump-site-101620076514444.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University governance reforms: Panel proposes no election for faculty deans’ appointment||The sub-committee constituted by the high-level committee, which has been formed to recommend governance reforms at Panjab University in light of the National Education Policy, has proposed that deans of various faculties of PU be appointed by the vice chancellor (V-C) from among the professors on seniority basis by rotation.Currently, they are appointed through election, from among the members of each faculty. The recommendations of the sub-committee were accepted by the high-level committee during its last meeting on April 19.Based on these suggestions, the recommendations of the panel and the comments of the Punjab government, the final report will be prepared by the committee and submitted to the office of the Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU.According to the sub-committee’s proposal, there will be no bifurcation of major and minor faculty. It has also been proposed that the arts faculty be named as humanities and social sciences, faculty of languages as faculty of languages, culture and fine arts and faculty of engineering and technology as design, engineering and technology.The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February, after the University Grants Commission (UGC) in November had informed PU to initiate governance reforms, as per provisions mentioned in the PU Act and regulations.As per a report submitted to the high-level committee, 35 stakeholders sought changes in appointment of faculty of deans and only nine said that the existing system should continue.According to the proposed composition of faculties, upto five people in each faculty will be nominated by the V-C from among the experts in the respective faculties.Punjab govt takes up matterAs nominees of the Punjab government to the high-level committee had sought time to take the views of the state government over the proposed changes, mainly regarding the substitution of ‘registered graduate constituency’ and the nominations by the chancellor of the university in senate, state government officials held a meeting last week.According to sources, the meeting was also attended by a few ex-senators. Sources who attended the meeting said, “During the meeting the constitution of the high-level committee was discussed. The committee has been constituted to look into the feasibility and give recommendations. They are not the final authority. Decisions have to be taken in consultation with the Punjab government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-governance-reforms-panel-proposes-no-election-for-faculty-deans-appointment-101620076513281.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||3BHK flat in Sector 63 goes under hammer for ₹1.05 crore||A three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 fetched ₹1.05 crore against a reserve price of ₹86 lakh in the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) auction that concluded on Monday. Two other residential properties, also three-bedroom flats in Sector 63, went for more than ₹1 crore against a reserve price of ₹86 lakh. This was the first auction held by CHB in one-and-a-half years. Even though CHB could auction only 36 dwelling units out of the 109 built-up freehold properties up for auction, it bettered its previous auction performance. CHB’s last auction in December 2019 had turned out to be a damp squib due to lack of buyer response to its 212 properties, the blame for which was pinned on high reserve prices. The offerings included 64 residential units, of which nine were on leasehold and 55 on freehold. Most of these were located in Sector 63. This time around, the CHB has reduced the reserve price by 10% to make the properties more attractive to buyers. CHB earned ₹29.41 crore from the auction of 36 dwelling units. This was the first phase of the auction.Properties sold in Southern Sectors The CHB invited e-tenders for the sale of 109 built-up dwelling units on free-hold basis. The units were available in Sector-38 (West), Sector-49, Sector-51 and Sector-63. The deadline for submission of e-bids was 2pm, April 30, and the technical bids (first envelop) were opened on April 30 after 3pm. Single bid each was received for 12 dwelling units, two bids each for eight units, three bids each for seven units, four bids each for four dwelling units, six bids each for two dwelling units, eight bids each for two dwelling units and 12 bids for one dwelling unit. Realty sector looking up Even as the city gets battered by the second wave of Covid-19 infections, the CHB getting a positive response for its auction indicates that the real estate sector is showing an upward trend. Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said, “The e-tender was very successful and provided an opportunity to genuine buyers to have a residence in Chandigarh. We were neither expecting so many bids nor such high bids against the reserve prices. It will impact the real estate prices in those particular areas. Out of the 105 bidders, only 36 remained successful bagging the property they had set their eyes on. We will invite bids again for the remaining units.” Kamal Gupta, president, property consultant association, Chandigarh, said, “In the midst of the pandemic, CHB could sell properties at reasonable prices. This suggests the market is still strong. If CHB had rationalised prices and reduced these as per market conditions, the response may have been better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3bhk-flat-in-sector-63-goes-under-hammer-for-rs-1-05-crore-101620076453405.html
04-05-2021||Other||For mourning kin of Covid victims, it’s a painful wait for last rites in Mohali||Amid a rise in Covid-19 deaths, the waiting time at Mohali’s sole crematorium, located in Sector 73, has gone up. On Sunday, bodies of 20 Covid victims were cremated but the families of 13 victims were asked to wait till Monday. Again, on Monday, seven other families were asked to wait till Tuesday. As deaths started rising in April, the crematorium in Sector 73 had created a separate enclosure for Covid victims. Since April 1, as many as 186 persons have succumbed to the virus in the district. Narinder Pandey, the head priest of the crematorium says, “We had to ask seven families to wait till Tuesday to carry out the last rites of their loved ones. We are helpless. We can cremate only 20 bodies a day. Only four bodies are cremated in an electric crematorium in a day.” A resident of Sector 69, whose father died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital on Saturday, said, “We were already shattered by the death. Now, we have been asked to wait for another day for the cremation. Even the hospitals don’t hand over bodies to the family. They only give it to the nodal officer as per the protocol.” During the waiting period of over 24 hours, the mourning families have additional tasks—to arrange a 1 litre sanitiser and four PPE suits. Three PPE suits are for the crematorium staff and one is for the family member who is allowed to light the pyre. 90 quintals of wood used every day With 20 bodies being cremated every day, 90 quintals of wood are being used every day since April 1. For cremating one dead body, four quintals are used. Before April, only 24 quintals of wood were used. The cremation is done by three employees of the cremation ground and one member of the family. Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have already made a special enclosure for the cremation of Covid victims. We have enough space. I will check, how there is a waiting period of one day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-mourning-kin-of-covid-victims-it-s-a-painful-wait-for-last-rites-in-mohali-101620075612930.html
04-05-2021||Other||Chandigarh sees a new peak as 890 test positive||A day after recording the highest-single day count of 860 cases, Chandigarh saw a new peak of 890 fresh infections on Monday. Eleven persons, including a 35-year old man from Faidan village, also succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 507. Out of 11 fatalities, six breathed their last in private hospitals of Panchkula and Mohali.A total of 528 persons were also discharged after recovery on Monday. Chandigarh’s cumulative count of cases currently stands at 45, 196, of which, 7, 943 are active cases. The new infections include 466 men and 424 women.Four more succumb in Panchkula as 250 test +veFour more persons lost their life even as 250 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula on Monday. The deceased include two men, aged 60 and 68, from Pinjore, a 45-year-old woman from Moginand and a 66-year old man from Sector 21. All four had pre-existing comorbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes.Panchkula’s cumulative count of cases is 21, 937, of which 2, 021 are active, 19, 695 have recovered and 221 have died. The district’s recovery rate, as on Monday, was 89% while the positivity rate was 15%. The fatality rate stood at 1.6%. Panchkula health department is planning to set up 40 isolation beds in the OPD of the Civil Hospital to deal with any exingency.Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “We are planning to shift the OPD in a hospital in Saket and the gynaecology services to Sector 26 in case we witness a certain surge in cases. And 40-isolation beds with oxygen supply can be set up in the OPD.”12 deaths in Mohali take toll to 622 Twelve more persons died in Mohali in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 622. As many as 534 fresh cases were also reported on Monday, taking the count to 49, 085. The district has recorded 2, 515 cases and 27 deaths in just three days. Out of total, 534 cases, 182 are from Mohali city, 109 from Dhakoli, 77 from Kharar, 86 from Dera Bassi, eight from Lalru, 13 from Boothgarh, 30 from Gharuan, 21 from Kurali and eight from Banur. Meanwhile, with 1, 042 patients also recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 8, 713. Civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “All those who died were above the age of 60 and were having comorbid conditions.”29 micro-containment zones in UT The UT administration on Monday declared 29 more micro-containment zones in the city. These are located in Sectors 7, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 47 and Daria village, Indira Colony, New Indira Colony, Ram Darbar, Phase 1 and 2, and Modern Housing Complex, Pipli Wala Town and Samadhi Gate in Mani Majra, Vikash Nagar in Mauli Jagran and Mauli Jagran Complex. As many as 32 micro-containment zones were declared in the city on May 1. 356 in 18 to 44 age group vaccinated PanchkulaAs many as 1, 409 persons received the Covid vaccine on Monday, of which 356 were in the age group of 18 to 44. On Tuesday, the timing of vaccination has been divided as per the age-group. Persons above 70-years will be given the vaccine from 9am to 11am, those in the age group of 50-60 will be given the jab from 11 am to 12:30pm, and persons in the age-group of 45 to 50 will be vaccinated from 12:30pm to 2pm. The vaccination sites will be Polyclinic, Sector 26; MDC-4; Government Dispensary, Sector 12 A; and Government Dispensary, Sector 21, Panchkula. For people in the age-group of 18-44, the vaccination drive will take place from 9am to 4pm at Government Dispensary, Sector 25; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Ayush Dispensary, Sector 9, Primary Health Centre (PHC), Pinjore; and Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani, and Community Health Cente, Kot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-sees-a-new-peak-as-890-test-positive-101620075132622.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccination of 18-44 year olds takes off in Capital||The Delhi government on Monday inoculated 37,562 people aged between 18 and 44 against Covid-19, widening the vaccination drive on the lines of the Centre’s decision to make all adults eligible for the jabs, even as states grappled to acquire more doses from manufacturers to ramp up immunisations.While the third phase of vaccinations was officially launched from May 1, Delhi began wider inoculations only on Monday as supplies ran low. While the Centre is sponsoring vaccinations for those above 45, it has said that the states and private hospitals will have to directly procure doses from manufacturers to cover those in the 18-44 age group.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said 301 centres have been established at 76 schools. “Mass vaccination for youth of Delhi has begun in Delhi… Our target is to establish 3,000 such centres in 300 schools, subject to the availability of vaccine,” he said in a tweet. Sisodia added that there was 100% turnout at the vaccination centres on Monday. An official said that all slots were booked for the next two days.More than 45,000 beneficiaries in this category can get jabs at the 300 centres in a day, according to the government.“I am glad that the vaccine process for 18+ has started smoothly. It’s heartening to see that youngsters are coming out in large nos to get vaccinated. Get your elders vaccinated too. Encourage ur friends and relatives also to get vaccinated,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.Around 9.2 million people in India are eligible for the jabs in the 18-44 age group.Sisodia said the Delhi government has received 450,000 vaccine doses so far for the third phase. “We want to ensure that all citizens between the ages of 18-45 are vaccinated, and are committed to scaling up vaccination centres in Delhi in a way that each school has 10 vaccination centres,” he said during his visit to a school to inspect the drive.India has two Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers active at the moment, and both of them put together produce about 80 million doses a month. The two manufacturers are Serum Institute of India (SII), which is locally manufacturing Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, which is producing Covaxin.As per SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla, the company has a production capacity of about 60-70 million Covishield doses per month. Bharat Biotech currently produces about 10 million doses of Covaxin in a month.On Monday, 250 people per centre were called in for the vaccination drive, with 100% turnout, Sisodia said. “I am confident this turnout will prevail because the youth is looking forward to get the Covid-19 vaccine. I met several people who informed me that while they faced no hindrances in getting vaccinated at the centres; there were challenges with regard to booking appointments. This is so because we only have 450,000 vaccines at the moment with limited centres, but we will resolve these challenges as we continue to expand our centres,” he said.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for managing the Covid-19 situation, said the Delhi government was in constant touch with companies and will continue to receive more doses.Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai said the Delhi government aimed to allocate at least one school in each of the 274 wards of Delhi.The Centre has made it clear that free vaccine doses are meant only for those above the age of 45, who are seen to be more at risk of severe disease or death with Covid-19. Vaccine makers will need to supply in a 50-50 ratio, with half going to the Centre, which will pass it on to states for the 45-plus vaccination in a formula it is yet to announce, and the rest directly to states and private hospitals.The government has set up the vaccination centres in schools to accommodate the large number of beneficiaries in this phase, an official told PTI.Before the current phase, vaccines were being given to those aged above 45 at about 500 centres in the national capital.Around 60,000 people aged above 45 can be inoculated in the Capital every day, the official quoted above said. Pre-registration is mandatory for vaccination in the 18-44 age group, and there are no walk-ins under this category for now, the official added.While Delhi’s Max Hospital started vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group at limited centres from Saturday, Fortis Healthcare began the exercise on Sunday.The Delhi government has placed orders for 13.4 million vaccine doses, which will be delivered over the next three months. Of these, 6.7 million doses are of Covishield vaccine, which are being procured from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the official said.Kejriwal last Thursday said that a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against Covid-19 within the next three months. He had then said that everybody aged above 18 would be administered Covid-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi.Experts said it is imperative for the vaccine drive to cover as much ground as quickly as possible.“The vaccination drive was announced for people over the age of 18 years from May 1 without ensuring availability of doses. No one is able to procure Covishield, which is what we have been administering...,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospitals Forum and the chief executive director of Saroj Hospital.Dr Narin Sehgal, Delhi secretary of Association of Healthcare Providers (India), said, “There is no clarity from the Delhi government on whether the private centres will receive any doses from them; they have started the drive today. Only a few private hospitals have started the immunisation drive with doses that they have procured themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-of-18-44-year-olds-takes-off-in-capital-101620073625676.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Extend help to poor before imposing lockdown: AAP to CM||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to make arrangements to meet the domestic needs of people of the state before a possible lockdown and provide financial assistance to the needy and the poor families. In a statement, AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann said the party will extend all possible cooperation to the state government. “In view of the impact of the Covid pandemic, the state government appears to be preparing for a complete lockdown in the state but the question is whether it has found a solution to the problems faced by the people during lockdown,” he said. He said that the businesses of the people will be shut down during the lockdown and the employees of factories and companies as well as construction workers will lose their jobs. “This will make it difficult for the needy and poor to support their families,” he said, demanding that the state government should make arrangements to ensure that no family goes hungry. Demanding financial assistance for labourers and poor, Mann said that just as the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi has provided assistance of ₹5,000 to poor labourers, taxi and auto drivers, the Punjab government should do the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/extend-help-to-poor-before-imposing-lockdown-aap-to-cm-101620073332226.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||300 oxygen cylinders ‘missing’ in Moga district||Nearly 300 oxygen cylinders owned by different suppliers remain untraced in Moga district with the administration suspecting that these have either been hoarded by private dealers for making profits or by people for personal use in case of coronavirus infection. Of a total of 450 oxygen cylinders in the district, the administration has been able to collect only 150. The authorities had directed the suppliers to deposit all the cylinders and centralised the supply of oxygen through a single vendor. Officials said they were also getting oxygen supply from Mandi Gobindgarh-based plants but did not have enough empty cylinders for refilling. They could arrange an extra 0.5 metric tonne (MT) if they get the 300 cylinders, an official said.As of now, the district is getting 2 MT oxygen against the daily consumption of 2.23 MT at government and private hospitals for Covid and non-Covid patients. Moga sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Satwant Singh, who has been tasked with monitoring oxygen supply in the district, said, “We have information that private dealers and individuals have hoarded 300 cylinders. While some have hoarded these cylinders for black marketing, others have done so due to panic in wake of scarcity of medical supplies.”“If we trace these cylinders, we can get maximum supply of oxygen from plants in Mandi Gobindgarh. We may take legal action against hoarding of cylinders. We just want to save lives in this medical emergency,” said SDM. Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “We are regulating the oxygen supply by centralising it through one vendor. The purpose of this is to stop hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and to ensure it is supplied to the patients in need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/300-oxygen-cylinders-missing-in-moga-district-101620072974457.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm union in Punjab gears up for Delhi march amid second Covid wave||Even as the Punjab government has ordered stringent restrictions in the state in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) is organising meetings in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts to mobilise support for marches to the national capital to intensify their protest against the Centre’s contentious agriculture laws. Two large processions of tractor-trailers are scheduled to leave for Delhi from Beas town of Amritsar district and Harike Pattan village of Tarn Taran district on May 5 and May 20. On Monday, the committee leaders held meetings with farmers of various villages of Amritsar Kathunangal block. “We admit that there is coronavirus, but an exaggerated scare is being created around it. As per the government figures, the death rate of the virus is 1.11% which is very low. The death rate of tuberculosis is 7%,” said Sarwan Pandher, general secretary of KMSC, which has a considerable base in Majha. “The repeal of the three laws is more important for the farmers. These laws are a direct attack on our livelihoods. People may survive the coronavirus but how will the farmers be saved from the three laws. Our fight against the anti-farmer laws will continue as it is a do-or-die battle for us. We will move in thousands to the national capital,” he added.KMSC’s Tarn Taran president Sukhwinder Singh Sabhran on Monday held a meeting of farmers of various villages in Tarn Taran’s Bhikhiwind sub-division. In the meeting, social distancing norms were hardly followed and no one was seen wearing face masks.“We will take more than 500 tractors from Tarn Taran alone on May 20. Where was the coronavirus when huge rallies were organised by the BJP and other political parties in the election-bound states? The administration can lodge FIRs against us but we are not bothered about it,” said Sabhran.Amritsar senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said he was not aware of the farmers’ march on May 5. “Nobody will be allowed to flout the rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-union-in-punjab-gears-up-for-delhi-march-amid-second-covid-wave-101620072973520.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe into Amritsar hospital deaths delayed as panel yet to record statements of victims’ kin||The inquiry panel looking into the deaths of six patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, due to shortage of medical oxygen at a private hospital in Amritsar on April 24 is yet to conclude its probe despite a 48-hour deadline as it is yet to record to the statements of the victims’ families. The committee comprising deputy director (local bodies) Rajat Oberoi and Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh has been saying that some of the families have not turned up to record their statements. Three of the victims were from Amritsar, two from Gurdaspur and one was from Tarn Taran district. “We had called their families to record their statement but only three families reported to us. We have given last opportunity to the rest of the families to come on Tuesday, or we will conclude our findings without their statements,” said Rajat Oberoi. The management of Neelkanth Hospital had blamed the district administration for the incident, saying they had intimated the officials about the shortage of oxygen a day before the incident. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had directed the Amritsar deputy commissioner to constitute the inquiry panel. The civil surgeon had claimed that the hospital was authorised to admit only level-2 Covid-19 patients but it allowed even critical level-3 patients without informing the health department. Also, the hospital didn’t have any senior doctor on night duty in the intensive care unit (ICU), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-into-amritsar-hospital-deaths-delayed-as-panel-yet-to-record-statements-of-victims-kin-101620072972082.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||ASI shoots self dead in Moga, SHO booked for abetting suicide||A 52-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) on Monday committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver at government quarters of the police post in Moga district’s Lopo village after he was allegedly harassed by the Badhni Kalan station house officer (SHO). A case of abetment of suicide was registered against sub-inspector Karamjeet Singh, the SHO. The ASI, a resident of Jaimal Wala village in the district, was deployed at the police post nearly six month ago. Minutes before ending his life, he called his son and sent him a suicide note over phone. In the note, he alleged that the SHO was pressurising him to demand ₹50,000 from an accused in a 6-year-old case of brawl case on the pretext of reopening the investigation. The ASI refused to accept this but the SHO asked him to either demand it from the accused or pay from his own pocket, it was alleged. “I told the SHO that I do not take bribes. But he used to call me to his office and harass me. Therefore, I am going to kill myself,” the purported suicide letter reads. Talking to mediapersons, the victim’s son said, “The SHO had been harassing my father for the last 10 days. He called me around 6am saying he was going to commit suicide as SHO Karamjeet Singh was demanding ₹50,000 from him. I immediately reached the police post only to find that he was taken to a hospital where he died.”Superintendent of police (headquarters) Gurdeep Singh said, “A case under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Karamjeet on the complaint of the victim’s wife. The accused has not been arrested yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asi-shoots-self-dead-in-moga-sho-booked-for-abetting-suicide-101620072912111.html
04-05-2021||Other||New Covid-19 variant highly infectious; R0 up to 3: TIFR-IISc model||The new variant of the Covid-19 virus prevalent in the second wave is likely to be almost two to two-and-a-half times more infectious than the previous variant according to a statistical model by Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore.Allowing the virus to be two to two-and-a-half times more infectious than the virus strain seen last year best explains the observed Covid-related fatalities in Mumbai between February and April this year, finds the model.This was revealed in the latest report released on Monday. A simulation model, developed last year by scientists from the two institutes, projects that the R naught (R0) or reproduction number of the virus has increased from two-two-and-a-half times to over three under the new variants in the non-slum regions, where the second wave was more severe.R0 denotes the expected number of individuals a single person exposed to the virus infects in a city where everyone else is susceptible. This means, a person infected with the new strain of the virus is likely to infect over three people they come in contact with.“The increased R0 is an indicator that the new variant of the virus is much more infectious. This is in line with the rapid spread of the virus in the second wave and more number of people getting infected,” said coordinator of the simulation project at TIFR Sandeep Juneja, who is the dean of the institute’s school of technology and computer science.The R0 for the overall city (slums and non-slum areas) is likely to be three-and-a-half to four-and-a-half. The R0 is higher in slums owing to a higher population density.“However, as the current infections in the city are largely in non-slums or high rises, the increase in R0 from non-slums is a better measure of the impact of more infective variants to the city,” said Juneja.The model which makes this prediction mimics a city with a population of 13 million. It takes into consideration different population demographics, densities, household sizes, city movement restrictions and interaction of people with each other. The initial parameters that were chosen were such that the death rates matched the actual observations in last April. The simulations that arose from the parameters chosen were done for various scenarios such as population compliance, lockdowns and other restrictions, role of local trains, vaccinations.Murad Banaji, senior lecturer in mathematics, department of design engineering and maths at the Middlesex University, London, who has been studying the epidemic in Mumbai, agreed that the mutant circulating in the city was more transmissible.“The epidemiological evidence, the speed of spread in particular, does point to whatever variants are circulating in the city being more transmissible and/or more able to infect people who have previously been infected. The spread has been wider than we would expect, and this has undoubtedly resulted in more fatalities. On the other hand, I have not seen evidence that whatever variants are circulating in Mumbai are more lethal (causing more severe disease in those infected). Overall, I think we can be fairly confident that new variants have played a role in Mumbai’s latest wave, causing increased spread and hence fatalities; but I don’t feel I’ll be able to put numbers on this,” he said.Lancelot Pinto, a city-based pulmonary specialist, said that the current variants of the virus appear to be more transmissible. “Epidemiologists have been maintaining that the new variant is more infectious. While earlier one in five people in a family in close contact would contract the disease, now we seldom see that. Now, almost all members of the family test positive for the virus. On the ground, in our experience, it does appear that the variant at play now is more infectious. We are also seeing a rise in the close contact transmission rate,” said Pinto. However, with the number of cases now dropping, the current reproduction number (Rt), which is an indicator of the infectiousness of the virus at a given point in time, is likely to have reduced.“Looking at the drop in cases, one can assume that the Rt in Mumbai could be less than 1, although our model doesn’t calculate Rt,” said Juneja.If Rt is below 1, an infected person infects one or less than one person on an average.In yet another measure of the infectiousness and severity of the new strain of the virus, the TIFR-IISc model projects that the variant is likely to cause 1,500-2,500 additional deaths by September. The scientists arrive at this after plotting estimated fatalities for various scenarios, such as 2.5% of infected people infected with infectious strain on February 1 (two to two-and-a-half times more infectious), with lockdown from April 15-May 15 and with vaccination effectiveness of 0.75. This was plotted against a scenario without infectious strain and without lockdown. Irrespective of the scenarios, the model predicts that the city may record a few thousand new infections each day in September, which correspond to a few hundred reported cases daily. “This is taking into account that there are no new variant or significant reinfections, which could substantially increase the number of cases,” Juneja said.Vaccine effectivenessThe analysis by the TIFR-IISc model as well as by Banaji point to the effectiveness of the vaccination drive in saving the lives of the elderly.According to Banaji, as on April 25, up to 580 lives could already have been saved by the vaccination drive focussed on the elderly. “We have to remember that the estimate of 580 fewer fatalities is based on what we would expect to see if the elderly had continued to form 80% of the city’s fatalities, as was true from the start of the year to the end of March. But it is also roughly consistent with the drop in the delayed case fatality rate in the city. So we definitely have seen fewer recorded fatalities during April than expected based on the epidemic’s path up to the end of March,” said Banaji.In the TIFR-IISc model, the reduction in fatality numbers due to the senior citizens vaccinated in March will start to show up around May. “If vaccination continues at a rapid pace, say more than 50,000 new persons daily, then by July it leads to significant reduction in fatalities, so much so that one can hope to return to fatalities near single digits by the end of June or early July. There are caveats. We don’t understand how infectious, virulent, and prevalent the variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus are. There may also be immune escape by a virus mutation that makes antibodies produced by an earlier infection or a vaccine shot ineffective,” said Juneja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-covid-19-variant-2-5-more-infectious-than-last-year-s-strain-tifr-iisc-model-101620072551512.html
04-05-2021||Other||Hailstones destroy homes, crops in Thane district’s Murbad||Around seven villages in Murbad taluka within Thane district experienced hailstones on Sunday evening. The sudden change in weather has destroyed acres of crops in Alaychi Wadi, Merdi, Modhalwadi, Kelewadi, Valhivare, Dharrkhid and Bandeshet villages. The hailstones have also damaged many of the houses that did not have sturdy rooftops, and impacted the glass windows too. The unexpected change in weather has also changed the façade of the village, making it looks like an ice-covered hill station. “The hailstones fell heavily on the roofs and windows of our houses. Though it was very cloudy for the past few days, we did not expect such a drastic change in weather. All the vegetables that were yet to be harvested have been destroyed and this has greatly affected us farmers,” said Jaideep Pavshe, 42, a resident of Merdi village. The tribals who practice summer farming have been the most affected. Many villagers are asking for compensation as the farms and crops have been destroyed.Murbad taluka’s tehsildar Amol Kadam said, “We have reached out to the villagers and are providing them support, especially to those whose houses have been damaged. We shall talk to the collector and decide if further support can be provided. These seven villages are within Thane District but are situated closer to Malshej Ghat. Around 150 houses were damaged, with some of the roofs having ripped apart completely. We are still assessing the damage to crops and other problems faced by the villagers.”Murbad taluka has a population of around 22,000.Amid the destruction, children in these villages were excited as they enjoyed playing with the layers of ice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hailstones-destroy-homes-crops-in-thane-district-s-murbad-101620072371495.html
04-05-2021||Other||Delay in getting oxygen bed led to Palghar journo’s death: Kin||A 34-year-old journalist working with a Marathi newspaper died due to Covid-19 at Palghar district on Monday morning. His brother claimed that he died due to a delay in getting a bed. The journalist, Raju Salvi, had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago and was admitted to a Covid Care centre in Mokhada. However, after his condition worsened, the doctors advised his relatives to admit Salvi to a hospital where an oxygen bed would be available. His brother Ravindra, also a journalist, looked for an oxygen bed in Jawhar-Mokhada area but was unable to find one. Ravindra claimed he was looking for an oxygen bed since Friday but found one only on Monday morning.“On Monday morning, a bed was available in a Dahanu hospital and Raju was being taken there in an ambulance. However, he died during the transit when the vehicle crossed the Jawhar city limits,” said Ravindra.Raju is survived by his wife and three children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delay-in-getting-oxygen-bed-led-to-palghar-journo-s-death-kin-101620072313787.html
04-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 wave: Political party workers take the lead on ground||As the pandemic rages on, young politicians across party lines have kept politics aside to assist those who are battling the Covid-19 wave. Over the past few weeks, Maharashtra has been hit by a strong Covid-19 wave, leading to shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, anti-viral drug and availability of ambulances in many parts, forcing people to seek assistance on social media platforms. Young politicians from the Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress have responded to the cry for help, at times in collaboration. Besides them, political parties too have set up parallel systems to help Covid-19 patients. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have set up jumbo Covid-19 centres in cities such as Nagpur, Pune and Mumbai, facilitated the procurement of oxygen and Remdesivir injections, donated ambulances and put up vaccination centres in various cities.For Yuva Sena functionary Rahul Kanal, throughout April, the day started at 8am and ended at 4am the next day, as he was flooded with requests for arranging hospital beds, Remdesivir or oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 patients in Mumbai. Kanal said that everyday, they would get around 1,000 requests from people. “Now as the cases in Mumbai have come down, the requests have reduced. But we still get tagged for Remdesivir and ambulances. Smaller hospitals have issues in getting Remdesivir; those admitted to civic-run facilities do not have to run around for the drug. We guide people to collector’s office and (FDA Food and Drug Administration) to get the injections.” Kanal added that Yuva Sena has been feeding stray dogs and cats too. “With the lockdown imposed, the strays do not get food. We distribute dog and cat food packets to non-governmental organisation (NGO), which take them to different areas of the city,” he said. AAP’s national joint secretary Ruben Mascarenhas said he was being tagged for aid on social media. He later decided to set up a helpline with party members and volunteers, as it would not have been possible to help everybody, considering the volume. “I woke up with about 1,000 requests on social media accounts, which has now come down to about 500, as the cases have reduced. Later, we set up a helpline to keep things organised. We have had 12,000 calls in the past three-four weeks, of which we have helped 40% of the callers. Typically, there are five requests — Remdesivir, oxygen, hospital beds, ambulance and plasma,” he said.Congress legislator from Bandra (East) Zeeshan Siddique said that he was responding to requests from the hospital bed, as he was admitted for Covid-19 for 15 days. “I had nothing much to do apart from resting. So I used to divert all the requests I got on Twitter and Instagram DMs (direct messages) to the team,” he said. Siddique, the state’s youngest legislator, had set up a helpline last year. “In 2020, we used to get requests, but not as many as these. The second wave has hit hard. In the past one-and-a-half months, the resources have been exhausted,” he said, adding that his social media feed and helpline buzzed the most at night, with requests for ICU (intensive care unit) and ventilator beds.Even though, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the state government have streamlined the allotment of hospital beds and distribution of Remdesivir, Siddique and Mascarenhas said they have to follow up with officials for immediate allotment. “We guide people to BMC war room but again get calls that even after a few hours, the bed has not been allotted,” Mascarenhas said.The young politicians that are getting tagged for requests are collaborating with each other. “I tag leaders like (Shiv Sena parliamentarian) Priyanka Chaturvedi, Kanal, Siddique, Jiten Gajaria from BJP in my posts. The idea is to get people help in the least possible time,” Mascarenhas said. “Right now humanity comes first. Nobody should think twice in seeking help from someone from another party. Ruben, Priyanka Chaturvedi, etc… we are all helping each other to save lives at the moment,” Siddique said.BJP’s top leaders, including Union minister Nitin Gadkari, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state unit chief Chandrakant Patil have put in their efforts in helping strength of the health infrastructure. The party facilitated setting up of three 100-bed Covid-19 hospitals each at Nagpur’s National Cancer Institute, Nelson Hospital and KT Nagar. They also set up a Covid care centre at Koldongari in Andheri, among others, and procured 78 metric tonnes of oxygen for Nagpur from a private company. BJP’s attempt to procure the stock of 60,000 vials of Remdesivir from a Daman-based pharma company had mired in controversy after the company’s director was summoned by Mumbai Police for questioning over stockpiling suspicions. Similar controversy erupted after Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, BJP parliamentarian from Ahmednagar, had procured Remdesivir vials directly and distributed them in his constituency. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has slammed him for his “surreptitious and illegal” procurement using a chartered flight. The court has ordered the police for action. Vikhe-Patil said that he did so to save lives and was ready to face action.Meanwhile, the state Congress unit will donate ₹2 crore to chief minister’s (CM) relief fund to facilitate the expenses for vaccination of citizens in Maharashtra free of cost. Congress legislative party chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat announced that 53 party legislators from both the houses will donate their one-month salary to the fund. He also announced that he would donate his one-year salary and the amount for vaccinating 5,000 employees in the group of companies he heads to the fund.The party has also asked all its workers till gram panchayat level to adopt families in their villages for vaccination. “Party leaders and workers will donate the expenditure of vaccination of their family as well as of those adopted by them to the CM’s relief fund. The workers will also ensure that the families adopted are taken to the vaccine facilities, monitored for side-effect and for their second doses. This will help us expedite the drive and complete it in due time,” said Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole.Another Congress leader said that six executive presidents, district in-charge leaders, district presidents, tehsil presidents have been given responsibility to monitor the drive in villages. “Workers who are not in a position to pay for vaccine doses will help in taking beneficiaries to the centres and ensuring that they get their shots in time. The donation towards the vaccination shots is to be deposited to tehsildars at tehsil level,” the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-wave-political-party-workers-take-the-lead-on-ground-101620072191464.html
04-05-2021||Other||Political row over Adar Poonawalla’s claims||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief Adar Poonawalla claim that he had received “aggressive demands” from some “powerful people” of the country for vaccines has turned into a political slugfest between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The MVA has asked Poonawalla to disclose the names, while BJP said they have information on who threatened the SII chief, but will disclose the names at an “appropriate” time.Maharashtra minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai, who is a Shiv Sena leader, said, “If someone is threatening Poonawalla, he can file a written complaint with the police department. We will probe the matter.” Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole in his media interaction appealed to Poonawalla to disclose the names of the “influential” people who threatened him and promised security. “It is beyond logic to understand why Poonawalla has been provided Y-category security by the central government without any request or proven threat perception. It needs to be checked if the security had been provided to keep a watch on the industrialist. Both Poonawalla and the central government need to clarify on this issue,” said Patole. In an interview with British newspaper The Times, Poonawalla who heads Pune-based SII, talked about receiving “aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India”, demanding the supply of vaccines. He said that the level of expectation and aggression was “unprecedented”. Currently, Poonawalla is in London to be with his wife and children.The state BJP also jumped into the controversy, with leader Ashish Shelar claiming that he knew the people threatening Poonawalla. “Various names are cropping up in the case related to the threats to SII’s Adar Poonawalla. If the links are connected to the local party, then it needs to be taken very seriously. We have specific information about it and BJP will expose them. The people who are involved should be ready to face consequences,” warned Shelar.A news channel had claimed that Shiv Sena workers were threatening Poonawalla for vaccines. Industries minister Subhash Desai wrote a strong-worded letter to the channel, objecting to it defaming the party. The channel anchor expressed regret later, calling it “mixing of identities”. But Sena has demanded an apology on prime time show over the allegation.The name of farmer leader Raju Shetti has also cropped up in this matter. Shetti has warned that he would not allow vaccine trucks to leave the state till Maharashtra gets its “rightful share” of the doses. “I have never called Poonawalla and had warned central government that I will not allow discrimination to Maharashtra. The state has the highest number of Covid-19 cases and the [SII’s Covishield] vaccine is produced here. Hence, we are entitled for a larger quota,” said Shetti.Meanwhile, NCP slammed Poonawalla over the vaccine prices. “He [Poonawalla] sold vaccines at ₹150 per dose to the Centre and at ₹400 per dose for the states. When people started questioning him, he reduced the price by ₹100. All this has created suspicion [over profit making] about him. No one is trying to defame him,” NCP’s chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-row-over-adar-poonawalla-s-claims-101620072131483.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Death of 66-year-old Covid patient triggers outrage in Ludhiana||High drama took place outside Arora Neuro Hospital near Mall Road as relatives of a 66-year-old woman patient diagnosed with Covid accused the authorities of medical negligence that resulted in the patient’s death. The woman’s son alleged that his mother died due to lack of oxygen. He claimed that the cylinder had run out of oxygen and the attending nurse did not change it due to which, his mother’s saturation level dropped and she died. The deceased is Adesh Rani, whose son Deepak said despite being diagnosed with Covid, but her condition was stable and she even walked to the hospital during her time of admission two days ago. “We were not satisfied with the treatment she was getting at the civil hospital and decided to shift her here. But, the attending nurses stopped the oxygen flow due to which my mother’s saturation level began to fall. I raised an alarm following which it was learnt that no oxygen was left in the cylinder. After a couple of hours, my mother died. She has not died due to the Covid, but medical negligence,” Deepak alleged. Meanwhile, the hospital authorities termed the allegations baseless and said the woman was admitted to the civil hospital initially. They said she was brought to their hospital two days ago and was suffering from acute respiratory failure.A medical expert said that sudden thrombotic complication was witnessed, which resulted in the patient’s death.Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, while expressing grief over the patient’s death, said, “In this particular case, the patient was sick and brought from civil hospital. We had tried our level best, but could not save the patient. Currently, doctors are under tremendous pressure. They need support, not abuses from people. Our sympathies are with the family, but there has been no lapse in the treatment. We are doing so much to accommodate the patient. We have increased the capacity of the hospital, but one thing needs to be understood that the number of staff and doctors is still the same.”Division Number 8 station house officer Jaswinder Singh said the matter was being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/death-of-66-year-old-covid-patient-triggers-outrage-in-ludhiana-101620072014517.html
04-05-2021||Other||Drug addict held for vehicle lifting in Ludhiana||The Millarganj police arrested a drug addict for vehicle theft on Sunday. Two scooters were recovered from his possession.The accused was identified as Salinder Singh alias Shinda, alias Bakri alias Gora of Basti Abdullapur.ASI Balbir Singh, in charge at Millarganj police post, said that the police had arrested the accused near Millarganj during special checking. When the police stopped the accused for checking, he failed to produce the documents of the vehicle. On being questioned, the accused confessed that he had stolen the scooter from outside a park. Following the information provided by the accused, the police recovered another scooter from his possession.ASI Balbir Singh said that the accused was a drug addict and committed the crime to meet his need for drugs. He used to roam around the city and steal vehicles using the master key. He is already facing trial in three cases including one for possession of illegal weapons.A case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Division Number 6 police station. The accused was produced before the court on Monday. The court remanded the accused one day in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-addict-held-for-vehicle-lifting-in-ludhiana-101620072013432.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Jawaddi school, health centre to get 100 beds for critical patients||With hospitals in district reaching full capacity and kin of Covid patients running from pillar to post to find vacant beds, the Ludhiana administration has decided to add 100 Level-2 beds (50 each) to the Covid care facility set up at Government Meritorious School and community health centre (CHC) in Jawaddi. The financial hub of Punjab has become the Covid capital of the state by clocking around 1,500 cases on an average for the last three days and recording a high number of daily deaths. The rising cases have stretched the health infrastructure in the city with patients and their relatives desperately hunting for L-2 facilities.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday directed the officials to run the centres at Jawaddi as Level-2 Covid (critical care) facility and asked them to install piped oxygen supply, beds, ACs, and complete other compulsory requirements at both the sites.Sharma said both the facilities have the necessary infrastructure and these must be utilised for the treatment of critical patients to reduce the load on other hospitals and helping them to convert their Level-2 beds to ICU ones. He also visited the sites and issued necessary directions to the officials, while asking them to ensure that the Covid facility at Jawaddi health centre starts by Thursday (May 6) and meritorious school by next Monday.Councillor Mamta Ashu said the entire team of her husband and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu was committed to providing best healthcare services to people. Mamta said she was personally monitoring the entire situation and more such Level-2 facilities would be set up in other parts of the district as well.DC Sharma said the infrastructure at both the buildings was being upgraded by roping in industrial associations such as Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), which is funding the installation of piped oxygen supply lines.Sharma said that district administration was fully geared up to meet any situation arising due to the pandemic and there was no dearth of resources — neither oxygen, nor other necessary drugs.He said the administration needed the active support of the public to tackle the devastating second wave of Covid-19. He urged the people to exercise restraint and not panic due to any reason, besides strictly adhering to norms of social distancing, masking, and hand hygiene.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said the country was going through quite tough times and it was their duty to come forward and help in controlling the pandemic. “Covid cases are increasing day by day and our hospitals are finding it hard to provide beds. Keeping in view this situation, CICU is taking initiative by providing support to set up 50+ bed hospital with proper oxygen pipeline and all other equipment required at the meritorious school as it is located at a strategic location. It is close to a big hospital and critical patients can be shifted there easily,” he added.Municipal councillor Mamta Ashu, ADC (G) Amarjit Bains, SDM (West) Amrinder Singh Malhi, civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill, and DMCH expert Dr Bishav Mohan were also present. Meanwhile, following DC’s appeal to industry to return the oxygen cylinders, the industries/factories of the city gave 91 oxygen cylinders, including 17 filled. All 17 filled cylinders were immediately given to civil hospital.DC Sharma said they (industrialists) have upheld the tradition of Punjabis to help the people in despair. He also appealed to other industries/factories to come forward and give oxygen cylinders, either empty or filled. The DC said the administration has already ramped up the oxygen generation capacity.Nodal officer Harpreet Singh Sekhon said thatany industry/factory can contact him on his mobile number (83901-00001) for cylinders.Amid the steep rise in the demand for medical oxygen, district magistrate-cum-DC Varinder Kumar Sharma had set up an 11-member committee to inspect and collect the cylinders. This committee is headed by GLADA chief administrator Parminder Singh Gill, besides ADCP Jaskaran Singh Teja, PPCB SE Sandeep Behal, executive engineer Manohar Lal, assistant labour Commissioner Baljeet Singh, besides others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-jawaddi-school-health-centre-to-get-100-beds-for-critical-patients-101620072011990.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police toil to enforce fresh directives, book 25 for violations||A day after the government issued fresh restrictions and put a cap on the number of passengers travelling in public transport or personal vehicles besides announcing closure of shops dealing with non-essential items, cops toiled hard to enforce the orders. The police have booked as many as 25 people under section of 188 of the IPC and registered 20 FIRs against those violating the directives. The violators included three-wheeler drivers and shopkeepers, who open their business despite restrictions and also the residents found roaming around in streets without masks. The police also stopped commuters at checkpoints and enquired for their reason for stepping out. The cops were found informing people about new restrictions wherein no more than two persons can travel in a car at a time and only one person can ride a two-wheeler.Most of the three-wheelers plying on the city roads were found occupied by more than five passengers at a time. According to the orders of the state government, the occupancy in a public transport has been kept at 50%. As per this, a three-wheeler driver cannot accommodate more than three passengers at a time in his/her vehicle.Three-wheeler drivers, however, rued that if they ferry only two to three passengers, they will suffer losses at the time when they are already finding it difficult to survive. Don’t let customers inside: Eatery owners toldIn Sarabha Nagar main market, the police found some of the eatery and bakery owners were allowing customers to step in for takeaways. The cops warned the eatery owners against letting the people inside. ACP (Civil Lines) Jatinder Singh said they have asked the eatery owners to handover the takeaways to the customers outside the premises.Three held for not wearing masksThe Jagraon City police have arrested three persons — Harkirpal Singh, Abhishek Gautam and Prabhjit Singh — for travelling in a car without wearing masks. A case under section 188 of IPC has been registered against them. The Payal police of Khanna also arrested a driver, Sukhwinder Singh, for ferrying 13 passengers in his SUV. 1,157 empty cylinders sent for Covid patients from locked plantSahnewal police on Monday found 1,157 empty oxygen cylinders at a Giaspura plant during checking. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma ordered to send the empty cylinders to other plants so that these could be used for treatment of Covid patients.The Sahnewal police had reached Aparna Gases in Giaspura in the morning for a checking.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, Sahnewal station house officer, said the deputy commissioner had ordered to check all gas plants in their respective areas to see if these were supplying oxygen to the industry instead of diverting the supply to tackle the Covid crises. The SHO added that the gas plant was already closed for the past two months over non-supply of raw material.He said the gas plant owner, Vijay Jain, has assured to send the empty cylinders to other plants. As there was no anomaly found, no legal action has been taken against the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-toil-to-enforce-fresh-directives-book-25-for-violations-101620071956300.html
04-05-2021||Other||HC dismisses plea by Kangra doctor deputed for Covid duty||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by a doctor from Kangra district challenging the orders of his deputation to a makeshift Covid-19 hospital in Una district.In his petition, the doctor maintained that in 2018, he had met with an accident and remained hospitalised for a period of five months. He pleaded that since he had suffered lumber, spine and sacrum injuries in the said accident, he would not be able to serve at the place of deputation.While disposing of the petition, the division bench comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia observed that the petitioner has failed to realise that the health workers in over-crowded hospitals, the policemen and other frontline workers are already beset with overwhelming load of Covid-19 patients and these workers are exhausted from almost a year of restless fighting against the pandemic.The court observed that the state is currently fighting the grimmest battle against Covid-19 which is nothing short of a disaster culminating in mass deaths and, therefore, it is imperative that the frontline workers are made to work on rotation basis or else the health system is likely to collapse with the sudden and drastic surge in Covid-19 cases.The bench said the petitioner is trying to escape from the duties and responsibilities that have now been assigned to him as there is no contemporaneous records to show that the petitioner is in any manner incapacitated to serve at the transferred station and if the petitioner is fit enough to render his services in Kangra district, why he cannot serve at the makeshift Covid facility in Una.A government servant is the holder of a status and that cannot be made depending on his will, the bench said.“Once a person accepts the status as per rules, he no longer remains only a simple individual, but an integral part of governance, and at times even in the face of government,” said the division bench.The court said that in the garb of self-unwillingness to serve, the petitioner cannot be permitted to shirk from his duties and responsibilities and this tendency has to be dealt and curbed with an iron fist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-dismisses-plea-by-kangra-doctor-deputed-for-covid-duty-101620071955282.html
04-05-2021||Other||Mehbooba criticises sacking of govt staff over ‘anti-state’ activities||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday lashed out at the Centre for dismissing government employees in Kashmir on what she said were “flimsy grounds”.“In the middle of a pandemic, GOI should focus on saving lives instead of firing government employees on flimsy grounds in Kashmir,” she said in a tweet.“No wonder its misplaced priorities have converted India into shamshanghats and kabristans. The living continue to suffer and the dead are deprived of dignity,” she said.Mufti’s comments came after the government dismissed a teacher and then a revenue officer in what it said was in the “interest of the security of the state”.The general administration department issued an order on Friday stating that Lt governor Manoj Sinha, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case, observed that the activities of Idrees Jan, a teacher of Government Middle School, Kupwara, are such as to warrant his dismissal from service.Similarly, in another order, Nazir Ahmad Wani, naib tehsildar of Pulwama, was dismissed under similar clauses.The dismissals come after the government last month set up a special task force to identify and scrutinise employees involved in any case related to posing a threat to the country’s security or anti-national activities.The order, however, has not gone down well with employees and union leaders. Former employee union leader and chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum Abdul Qayoom Wani expressed resentment over the sacking calling it a jab on the employees’ integrity.It has demanded that the decision be revoked and reviewed judiciously under the service norms so that justice can prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mehbooba-criticises-sacking-of-govt-staff-over-anti-state-activities-101620071953187.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 21 lives in Ludhiana, most fatalities from rural areas||The district touched yet another grim milestone on Monday as 21 deaths were reported due to Covid in just 24 hours. Thirteen of the victims were women, while 80% of them hailed from rural areas. The youngest deceased was a 30-year-old man from Khanna. As many as 1,198 fresh cases were also recorded, which took the district’s Covid count to 58,788. Ludhiana’s death toll now stands at 1,431, while 47,048 people have recovered so far. Currently, there are 8,585 active patients in the district. As many as 109 deaths have been reported in a quick span of six days in Ludhiana with the daily toll crossing the 20-mark twice as on April 30, 20 people had died of the contagion.ADCP Sameer Verma tests positiveAdditional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (City 3), Sameer Verma also tested positive for Covid on Monday. He has isolated himself at his home. The health department is now tracing his contacts. ADCP Verma is already vaccinated.According to the officer, he experienced mild fever and body ache on Sunday. He underwent a test, which came out positive.Meanwhile, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, who had tested positive for the virus on April 18, has now recovered.Industrialist, philanthropist succumbs to CovidCity-based industrialist, philanthropist and active member of the traffic wing of Sambhav Foundation, Anoop Garg, 45, lost his battle with Covid on Monday. He was admitted to a local hospital and had been suffering from fever since April 12. He had received the first dose of vaccine in March and was waiting for the second jab. His death has come as a shock to social activists and business community. According to Rahul Verma, traffic expert and member of the Sambhav Foundation, Garg was actively highlighting the traffic issues plaguing the city. He was involved in the protest against the delay in the construction of Jagraon Bridge as well. He is survived by two daughters and wife, who is a government schoolteacher.Industrialist appeals to donateLocal industrialist Mridula Jain, chairperson of Shingora Textiles, appealed to the public to generously donate in terms of either cash or jewellery to help the administration in its fight with Covid. “We are daily losing several of our nears and dears due to the infection and lack of medical care, inadequate healthcare infrastructure, non-availability of oxygen/medicines. I appeal to management/committees of all temples and religious institutions to donate or assist in setting up of temporary Level 1 and Level 2 facilities and ensure oxygen supply through cylinders and concentrators, besides helping in arranging free vaccines to all,” she added. Vax crunch hits drive againThe ongoing inoculation drive faced yet another hiccup after the health department yet again ran out of vaccine stock.Facing the crunch, the department has decided that only those who are scheduled to receive the second jab of Covaxin will be inoculated at the registered government sites and dispensaries.Sharing details, district immunisation officer Dr Pankaj Juneja said that the department has run out of Covishield vaccine. While the plans to vaccinate residents above the age of 18 have already been delayed due to shortage of vaccine doses, the administration is also struggling to meet the requirements for residents aged above 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-21-lives-in-ludhiana-most-fatalities-from-rural-areas-101620071952090.html
04-05-2021||Other||J&K sees 50 more deaths, its highest single-day toll since pandemic struck||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded highest single-day spike of 51 fatalities, first time since the pandemic began in March last year, taking the total death toll to 2,421.The UT also reported 3,733 fresh novel coronavirus infections, taking the union territory’s overall cases to 1,87,219.Of the new cases, 2,439 cases were from Kashmir, while 1,294 from Jammu, including 103 travellers.Out of the 51 deaths in the UT, 35 were reported in Jammu division and 16 in Kashmir.The month of April recorded the highest monthly case tally of 45,123 infections and 289 deaths.Officials said with 1,136 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 584 in Jammu district, 296 in Pulwama, 232 in Baramulla, 209 in Sambha and 208 in Budgam.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 34,567, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 09 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.As many as 1,536 patients have recovered, including 910 from Kashmir and 626 from Jammu.As many as 1,50,231 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 80.24 % against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.38 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 82,000 cases and 1094 deaths of the total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-50-more-deaths-its-highest-single-day-toll-since-pandemic-struck-101620071894420.html
04-05-2021||Other||J&K BJP leader accuses Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh of aiding illegal mining in Tawi river||Former BJP legislator and All Jammu Stone Crushers’ Association president Vikram Randhawa on Monday levelled serious allegations of facilitating illegal mining in Tawi riverbed against Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh, district mineral officer Ankur Sachdeva, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer and SSP Jammu Chandan Kohli.Randhawa, who was recently appointed as BJP state secretary, alleged that under the garb of a high court ban on mining in the riverbed, Dr Jitendra Singh has been aiding illegal mining, for which his secretary Bharat Sharma gets hefty commission every week.“District mineral officer Ankur Sachdeva is facilitating illegal mining in lieu of crores of rupees and the share goes to Dr Jitendra Singh, Jammu divisional commissioner, SSP Jammu and other officials,” he said at a press conference at his residence here.“From Badyal Brahmana to Ramnagar, there were around 45 stone crushers, which were operating on their proprietary lands on valid licences. These crushers were not indulging in any illegal mining and were generating revenue for the government. However, a conspiracy was hatched to shut them all and Sachdeva conducted raids in November last year and accused the stone crusher owners of keeping illegal raw material with them,” said Randhawa.“However, Sachdeva failed to prove his allegations or submit any report. On February 10, he served notices to us, slapping fines up to ₹25 lakh. Since we wanted hassle-free trade, we moved the high court on April 19, which granted us permission to run the stone crushers till the probe was completed,” he said.The former MLC also claimed that anti-corruption bureau has booked Sachdeva in corruption cases but “pressure” from the top brass has scuttled the investigations.Randhawa alleged that in the past two and a half years, Dr Jitendra Singh and his ”agents” have caused a loss of ₹350 to ₹400 crore to the state exchequer.He also accused Dr Singh of throwing open auction of liquor licenses to outsiders from J&K forcing locals to starve.Meawnhile, Sanjeev Sharma, BJP executive member and parliamentary affairs in-charge for Dr Jitendra Singh, said that the latter will file a defamation case against Randhawa.“MoS PMO will file a defamation case of ₹1 crore if Randhawa does not come up with evidence within 24 hours,” he said.J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina said, “Since Randhawa has levelled serious allegations, they must be probed and whosoever found guilty must be taken to task. Also, he used unparliamentary language in his presser, which was highly objectionable. We will seek an explanation from him.”“This notice of show cause initiates disciplinary proceedings against you in line with directions of J&K BJP president with respect to addressing a press conference and a series of media interactions today by you while levelling unfounded allegations against a senior leader of party holding responsible position in Union Council of ministers,” read the notice issued by the panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-bjp-leader-accuses-union-minister-dr-jitendra-singh-of-aiding-illegal-mining-in-tawi-river-101620071892107.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Board data likely to act as reference point for Class 10 marking||While the state education department is yet to declare a formula for marking students of Class 10 after the state government cancelled board exams, authorities are now mulling options to include data of schools and subject-wise performance as a reference point for marking. Experts, who are part of consultation meetings, said while schools are likely to be asked to send the data of student performance in internal assessments, data on school-wise and subject-wise performance for the previous years can be used as an indicator to ensure accuracy in scoring. “When schools send scores, they are most likely to be inflated and this is a fear across boards and schools. But the state board does have data on how each of the schools performed during all these years. Data sent by schools can thus be cross referenced with these details. If a school has had 100 students scoring distinction, it will be questionable if the number suddenly becomes 200. Similarly, there is data on subject-wise performance of students, which can be used to check their performance this year,” sad an expert on the condition of anonymity. On May 1, CBSE announced its marking criteria for Class 10 students in an 18-page document. Students will be marked on the basis of their pre-boards, midterm and unit test exams for Class 10. Similarly, ICSE released its assessment criteria to schools on the same day wherein students will be marked on the basis of their average performance in classes 9 and 10. The state education department is yet to come up with its own assessment criteria 1.7 million students. While an official from the education department said a decision is yet to be made, he added that details are being worked out. “The number of students is quite high as compared to other boards, hence the decision is taking longer,” he added. On April 20, the state government, in a cabinet meeting held that day, decided to cancel Class 10 exams to the state board owing to the growing Covid-19 infections in the state and the resultant lockdown. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that students of Class 10 will be marked on the basis of internal assessments. Since then, the state education department has held numerous consultation meetings with various stakeholders including schools, teachers, parents, educationists and technology firms to assess and understand feasible ways of marking students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-board-data-likely-to-act-as-reference-point-for-class-10-marking-101620071831495.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||At 36.1°C, Monday Mumbai’s hottest day in May in decade||On Monday, the city recorded its highest daytime temperature in May at 36.1 degrees Celsius, matching that in May 2016. Monday’s reading was 3 degrees Celsius above normal, and marks the highest daytime maximum recorded in May in 10 years, as per data with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). On May 31, 2016, the mercury had climbed to 36.1 degrees Celsius as well, as per the automatic weather station in Santacruz.After a relatively cooler April which saw a near normal average daytime temperature of 33.8 degrees Celsius, days have been growing hotter in May, in line with IMD forecasts. Since April 30, both minimum and maximum temperatures have shown an upward departure from normal, showed IMD data.However, Monday’s temperature isn’t the hottest that Mumbai has been this pre-monsoon season, which runs from March to May every year. On March 27, the city sizzled at 40.7 degrees Celsius, the highest of the season. “As we have already conveyed in our long-term forecast, it is going to be a hotter than normal summer season in Mumbai this year. April was cooler due to the formation of rain bearing weather systems over Central India. But as we go further into the summer season, their cooling impact on the Konkan coast will diminish,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s regional centre in the city.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, there will not be any respite from heat in coming days, with maximum daytime temperature expected to hover between 35 and 36 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature, which was 26.5 degrees on Monday, is also set to rise slightly and remain at around 27 degrees Celsius in the next week.Meanwhile, rain, thunderstorms and even hail continued to lash parts of central and western Maharashtra on Monday, affecting parts of Jalgaon, Dhule, Pune, Ahmednagar, Nasik, Nandurbar, Satara, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed and Osmanabad districts. IMD on Monday issued a severe weather warning for parts of Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarhbha and Marathwada. Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Solapur were placed under ‘orange’ alert, indicating a high possibility of severe weather over the next 20 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-36-1-c-monday-mumbai-s-hottest-day-in-may-in-decade-101620071771337.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||NEET-PG delayed: Students unhappy||Hours after the Prime Minister’s office’s announcement that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for Post Graduate courses (NEET-PG) will be postponed by at least four months in order to boost availability of medical personnel to fight Covid-19, the reaction of parents and students. This decision comes less than a week after the National Medical Commission (NMC) in its circular requested medical colleges to continue the residency period of PG medical students as part of the Covid task force, especially at a time when the country is witnessing the second wave of the pandemic. “Medical personnel completing hundred days of Covid duty will be given priority in the forthcoming regular government recruitment programs. While medical interns shall be deployed in covid management duties under the supervision of their faculty, final-year MBBS students can be utilised for tele-consultation and monitoring of mild covid cases under supervision of senior faculty,” said a statement released by the PMO on Monday. Final-year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in February every year and the final year examinations are generally held between April-May in Maharashtra colleges. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. “When medical and nursing students are being roped in for Covid task force, why are students and interns from other branches of medicine including physiotherapy, ayurveda spared,” asked Sudha Shenoy, parent of an MBBS student. Many students took to various social media sites to share their unhappiness with the decision to postpone NEET-PG. Many felt this delay will severely affect the plans of higher studies of PG medical students. “We’ve been working non-stop for several months now and the government needs to understand that if they conduct exams on time, they will still have more students/manpower to join the Covid task force,” said Anukriti Thakur, a final year PG resident doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neetpg-delayed-students-unhappy-101620071712032.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 48,621 new Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra on Monday added 48,621 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally of infections to 4,771,022. The slight dip in cases is however due to a drop in tests conducted in the past 24 hours owing to the weekend. The state tested 211,668 samples in the past 24 hours. Mumbai reported its lowest single-day figures since March 17 (2,377 cases), with 2,624 fresh infections. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) tested 23,542 samples in the past 24 hours—lower than what it tested on Saturday (28,636) and Friday (37,607). On Monday, the areas that constitute the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) added 4,056 new cases. Pune district added 7,718 new cases. Maharashtra added 567 fatalities, to push its toll to 70,851. Mumbai added 78 deaths. The state has managed to control the rise of cases in the state over the past two weeks. The state was projected to have an active case count of 1.1 million (1,094,996) by May 2. However, the state managed to keep the growth of cases under control. The active cases in the state on Monday stood at 656,870. Over the past few days, the active case count has remained around 650,000. Of the projected 1.1 million active cases, 300,000 cases are expected to be from Mumbai and its surrounding districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The region now has 137,688 active cases. State health department officials said the numbers are under control due to the tightening of restrictions on the movement of people by the government. Since mid-April, the state enforced a complete curfew, followed by a near lockdown from April 22. “These are mathematical projections; they are sometimes accurate and often not. The idea of these projections is to understand the magnitude of the outbreak and what to prepare for. Having said that, the manner in which we were seeing cases in mid-April, if not 1.1 million, we would have reached 800,000-900,000 by now had the government not intervened with restrictions and imposing a lockdown,” said a senior health department official, who did not wish to be named. Pune district continued to remain at the top in terms of the active case count with 108,915 cases, followed by Nagpur district with 70,186 active cases. Mumbai’s active caseload stood at 59,970, while Nashik remained at 51195. The high number of daily deaths remains a concern for state health department and district authorities. Of the 567 deaths reported on Monday, 283 occurred in the past 48 hours and 146 in the past week. The remaining 138 deaths are from the period before last week. Thane rural areas reported 56 deaths on Monday. Ahmednagar district reported 48 deaths followed by Satara district with 47 deaths. Kolhapur district recorded 31 fatalities, while Solapur district reported 29 deaths. As the number of cases is showing signs of stabilising in urban areas, the tier two cities, mainly rural areas, continue to report cases burdening its health infrastructure. On Monday, Ahmednagar district reported 2,002 fresh cases, while Nashik district saw 3,673 new cases. Satara added 2,429 fresh cases, while Kolhapur and Sangli rural areas reported 1,402 and 1,157 fresh cases, respectively. Jalna and Parbhani districts added 880 and 868 fresh cases. Beed district saw 1,262 new cases, Yavatmal added 1,383 new cases, Buldhana added 1,409 cases. Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur added 545, 551, 228, and 832 cases, respectively. Chandrapur has an active case count of 27,640, while Bhandara has 10,235 active cases. Buldhana has 11,884 active cases. Latur and Beed districts have active case count of 12,365 and 12,657, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-48-621-new-covid-19-infections-101620071711364.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: AAP accuses Chandrakant Patil of influencing bail for Chhagan Bhujbal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded the arrest of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former minister Chandrakant Patil, alleging that he had confessed to having influenced the bail of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister Chhagan Bhujbal. AAP sought an investigation in the matter. Bhujbal was in prison from March 2016 to March 2018 for allegedly laundering the kickbacks he allegedly received as the public works minister.The controversy began when Bhujbal criticised Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi for losing West Bengal elections. Bhujbal said that barring Assam, the BJP has been vanquished all across, indicating that an anti-BJP wave is sweeping across the nation. He said if elections were held now, BJP would face a crushing defeat. In response to this, Patil warned Bhujbal, reminding that he was out on bail and would face the music if he indulged in such rhetoric again. Patil also said that Bhujbal’s nephew Sameer used to come to his bungalow (during BJP rule in state when Patil was a minister) to plead his case. According to AAP leader Priti Sharma Menon, Patil had claimed in his interview to news channel ABP Majha that the then BJP government had favoured Bhujbal. “Chandrakant Patil said the then government had gone out of their way and ensured bail for Chhagan Bhujbal. Patil should be arrested and a probe should be ordered,” said Menon. The BJP denied that Patil made any such remarks about influencing the judiciary. “There was no way we could have interfered with the judicial process against Bhujbal in the first place. Patil said that Sameer was going everywhere regarding bail for his uncle and even met Patil in his bungalow. The interviewer asked whether this was the reason how Bhujbal got bail since his nephew used to come to him. Priti Menon picked this part and is unjustly attacking Patil,” said BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari.Bhujbal was not available for comment despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-aap-accuses-chandrakant-patil-of-influencing-bail-for-chhagan-bhujbal-101620071651376.html
04-05-2021||Other||Bookie, 2 bizmen accuse ex-Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh of extortion||A cricket bookie and two businessmen from Mumbai have written to Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey, alleging that former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh ran a recovery and extortion racket in Thane while serving as that city’s police chief between 2015 and 2018. The three have also named a former encounter specialist and a serving inspector of Thane Police of being part of Singh’s alleged illegal activities. The bookie and businessmen alleged that the cops extorted crores of rupees from them. Police sources said Pandey has entrusted the complaints to state crime Investigation department (CID) for inquiry. Singh, who is posted as the commandant general of Maharashtra home guards, did not respond to calls and messages for response over allegations. The complainants – bookie Sonu Jalan and businessman Ketan Tanna and Munir Ahmed Pathan – had met the DGP Pandey last month and filed their complaints against Singh. As per their complaints (of which HT has copies), the three alleged that on Singh’s instructions, the two other cops named in the complaint, had taken “contracts” for recovery of money from private individuals. These officers, the complaints stated, would call up businessmen on the pretext of inquiry in a fake complaint and then extort them by threatening to implicate them in false cases.The complainants have claimed that under Singh’s leadership, the two police officers would also allegedly extort money from those who had received calls from Ravi Pujari for extortion, claiming that they had links with the gangster.Jalan, who was arrested by Thane Police in 2018 in a Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA) case, stated that Singh, with the help of these “corrupt” officers, manipulated complaints with the intention of extortion from innocent persons. A first information report (FIR) has already been registered against Singh on a complaint by Akola police inspector BR Ghadge, who had alleged that as he had refused to follow Singh’s “illegal” orders to benefit some accused in a criminal case, the former Thane top cop conspired with others and registered extortion and corruption cases between August 23 and September 3, 2015, against him. Ghadge claimed that the accused had falsely implicated him to harass him.Recently, Singh was removed from the post of Mumbai Police commissioner following the Antilia explosives scare and the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. Hiran was in possession of the vehicle in which explosives were found outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani residence. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen around a week before it was found with the explosives in late February. He was found dead on March 5. Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze has been named as the main accused in both cases. After Singh was removed as the commissioner, he wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that the state’s then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other officers to extort money from establishments. Deshmukh has resigned and the Central Bureau of Investigation is probing the allegations against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bookie-2-bizmen-accuse-ex-mumbai-police-chief-param-bir-singh-of-extortion-101620071591980.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Those with ailments not given priority for Covid jabs, live in fear||As the civic body’s vaccination drive remains way behind its target owing to shortage of vials, patients with immunocompromised diseases, who are the most vulnerable. but are still to get the jab, remain the most hit. Pratik Soni, 30, has been on dialysis for the past 13 years. In March, when the state started the mass inoculation programme for those above 45 years with co-morbidities, he went to Tunga Hospital in Malad with the hope of getting the jab. But with a heavy heart, he had to return home without vaccination due to age restriction. On March 31, Soni, a patient living with chronic kidney ailment, started developing a fever with breathlessness. Next day, he immediately rushed to the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre for Covid-19 testing. He was quarantined in a separate ward and on April 1, his report came positive for the infection. Patients on dialysis are the most vulnerable as they have to undergo dialysis on alternate days, which not only weakens their immunity, but exposes them to other possible Covid-19 infected patients. “I wanted to get the vaccine, but due to the age restrictions, I couldn’t. I got discharged within six days on April 6, but I remained positive for the next 20 days. Every alternate day, I have to travel to BKC from Borivli for dialysis. I am glad I survived the infection, but many don’t,” said Soni. Vasundhara Raghavan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Kidney Warriors Foundation, had written to the Central government requesting to include kidney patients for universal vaccination. She said, “Earlier, the government didn’t include patients on dialysis, and now when the age limit for vaccination has been increased to 18 years, vaccines aren’t available. The vaccination slots are getting filled within seconds. This is similar to booking Tatkal railway tickets.” Similar demands have been raised by patients who suffer from other chronic ailments such as tuberculosis, HIV and cancer, who are equally vulnerable to the infection. A 44-year-old Malad resident, who has been living with HIV, is running from pillar to post for the vaccine. Talking to HT, she said, “In the third phase, the government didn’t include vulnerable groups. I even wrote a letter to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to include HIV patients in the list of beneficiaries, but nothing happened. I stay with my two children and elderly in-laws. If I contract the Covid-19 infection and spread it to my family, who will be responsible for that?” The patient lost her husband to HIV in 2018. Since then, she has been earning her living by working with a non-government organisation (NGO) as a counsellor for people living with HIV. Social activists believe such delay can further increase the fatality rate in Mumbai, which already stands at 2%. Ganesh Acharya, a person living with HIV, said, “The government should have prioritised the vulnerable group. With the second wave, as the cases have doubled and every second person is getting infected, we are now living in fear.” As per data provided by the BMC, unlike last year, the highest number of infections is visible among people in the age group of 20 to 40 years. “Last year, due to lack of awareness, people above the age of 60 years were contracting the highest number of infections. But this year, the infection rate is the highest in young adults, so it is essential to vaccinate them at the earliest to control the ongoing second wave,” said Dr Avinash Supe, in-charge of the BMC Covid-19 death committee.  “We have 136 centres which are capable of vaccinating 75,000 daily. But if we don’t get the vaccines, we can’t do anything. In fact, until the Centre gives us the nod to include patients with chronic illness in the priority list, we can’t immunise them,” said a senior officer from the BMC health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/those-with-ailments-not-given-priority-for-covid-jabs-live-in-fear-101620071531339.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Kin of 104 cops who died of Covid this year await compensation||None of the families of the 104 policemen, who lost their lives to Covid-19 this year, have received any compensation from the state government, as the state scheme for providing financial aid of ₹50 lakh to each of the families of such policemen has not been renewed after December 2020. As a result, some of the families of deceased cops are facing serious issues. Kavita Mahale, 30, wife of Sanjay Mahale, a constable posted with Nardana police station in Dhule, is now at the mercy of her parents, as she was finding it difficult to provide basic necessities for her two children after her husband’s demise. Sanjay succumbed to the disease on March 25 and his father passed away after eight days. Sanjay’s mother had already died six months ago due to a prolonged illness. “In just six months, I lost my husband and both in-laws. I moved back to my parent’s place in Nandurbar as there is none left in my late husband’s family who would take care of us. Now, my children and I are completely dependent on my parents. I haven’t received a single penny from the government yet. How am I supposed to feed my children and raise them? I have also applied for a job on behalf of my husband, but by the time I get the job I still have to feed my children. The solatium could be very helpful,” said Kavita in tears. Gaurav Wani, an engineering student and son of head constable Sanjay Wani, who was posted with Kolshewadi police station in Kalyan, is equally perplexed. Three months have passed since his father’s death due to Covid, but the family hasn’t yet received any compensation from the state.“My father died of Covid-19 on January 19 at Vedanta Hospital in Thane, and now the responsibility of the family is on my shoulders,” said Gaurav, a third-year engineering student. His sister is also a college student.Similar is the case of the family of head constable Ramesh Survase from Chunabhatti police station who died last month due to Covid. Survase’s brother Vishnu said the compensation money would help his brother’s wife take care of her two children aged 17 and 12 years. A senior IPS officer said the scheme for financial aid to families of deceased policemen has ended in December 2020 and hasn’t been renewed thereafter. Sanjeev Singhal, additional director general of police (administration) said, “We have written to the government requesting that funds be released so that the grieving families of deceased policemen could get much needed financial aid.”During the initial days of the pandemic, many police personnel pressed into Covid-related work had contracted the virus and were falling sick. The disease was spreading among the police force rapidly, and thus there was a sense fear and panic among the men in khaki. Later, the state government announced a financial help to the families of deceased policemen with ₹50 lakh solatium and a government job to one family member. Mumbai Police went a step ahead and announced an additional ₹10 lakh fund for each family from police welfare funds. So far, hundreds of families got benefits and many family members even got jobs in the police force.Though the fatalities in police department remained limited to 12 a month from January to March this year, in April more than 6,000 personnel contracted the disease and 68 of them succumbed, making April the second-deadliest month after September 2020 for the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-kin-of-104-cops-who-died-of-covid-this-year-await-compensation-101620071412712.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools request CBSE to extend date for class 10 results||Two days after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the guidelines for the revised assessment scheme for class 10 students, in the wake of board exams being cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, principals of Delhi government schools have expressed concerns over the timeline given by the board and said it may be difficult to submit the result sheets to the CBSE by June 5, as directed. The board plans to declare the results on June 20.The CBSE on Sunday asked each school s to form a results committee, comprising the school principal, five teachers, and two external examiners, by May 5 and to finalise a “rationalisation document” by May 10. The committee would be in charge of preparing the class 10 results which will be calculated this time on the basis of internal tests and assessments.The unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases and fatalities in the second wave of the pandemic across the country -- and the fourth wave in Delhi -- had forced the CBSE to cancel class 10 exams. But with several government schools turning into Covid care centres and vaccination centres, and teachers being allotted Covid-19 duties, several principals said they would not be able to carry out the steps listed by the CBSE within the stipulated time frame.For instance, principals have said it is “impossible” to select five teachers and two external examiners by May 5 and follow guidelines like ensuring that there is no overlap of teachers in the committees of two nearby schools.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice- and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said, “All heads of schools are of the opinion that nothing should be started in May. Many schools have been converted into vaccination centres and Covid care centres in Delhi. There is a 100% risk of getting infected if principals and teachers are asked to step outside of homes. It is not possible to form a committee by May 5.”In a letter to the CBSE chairperson on Monday, Yadav asked the board to defer implementation of the May 1 notification till the pandemic situation improves.Sujata Tamta, head of school at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya at Molarband, said, “We won’t be able to form the results committee by May 5. Our vice-principal and around seven teachers have already tested Covid positive and this number keeps increasing. Many of the teachers also have to arrange medicines and other items for their family members who are ill. We will revisit this in a few days.”CBSE officials, however, said the members of the committee could work from home. Controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “We are only talking about five teachers and they don’t have to come to the school. This can be done from home as well.” Schools have to submit marks to the CBSE by June 5 and results will be declared on June 20.Awadhesh Kumar Kha, principal of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, however, said the different clauses and modalities stated in the notification will make it difficult to coordinate remotely.The board had also directed that if any candidate has not appeared in any of the assessments conducted by the school, the school may conduct an offline/online or a telephonic one-on-one assessment.“Work from home will not be feasible because not many internal exams were conducted due to the pandemic. The notification from the CBSE suggests that teachers will have to conduct these exams by May 15. We have around eight sections of class 10 in our school. To ensure standardisation of marks, as directed by the CBSE, will require analysing subject-wise marks of three years and these things cannot happen remotely. Teachers will have to come to school for this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-schools-request-cbse-to-extend-date-for-class-10-results-101620071411976.html
04-05-2021||Other||Three of a family die of Covid-19 in 20 days||Three members of a family died due to Covid-19 within a span of just 20 days in Anshet, Wada. Savita Thakre, who was undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre in Wada, succumbed to the infection on April 11. Her husband Sadanand and son Sagar were also admitted in the same hospital. On April 22, Sagar died after some complications during treatment and on May 1, Sadanand too succumbed.Sagar’s wife and her 2-year-old son, who had also tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted in the same hospital, recovered and were discharged from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-of-a-family-die-of-covid-19-in-20-days-101620071411308.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Doctor lives in Covid care centre to care for patients||For the past six months, Mohhamed Fahim Nakade, a 32-year-old doctor from Panvel, has not met his family as he is staying at a Covid healthcare centre in Badlapur to care for Covid patients. All his duty hours and free time is spend with the patients, and seeing his dedication, various other doctors have joined him at Gauri Hall ICU Covid-19 Centre in Badlapur. The humble doctor, an intensivist, is too shy to speak of his dedication and instead claimed, “I am merely performing my duty as a doctor. This recent wave is difficult for everyone, and all of us need to do whatever we can to help people. I am also trying to tell people not to delay treatment and ignore even a single symptom.” Nakade is the doctor in charge of the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital and has increased ICU beds from 30 to 50 for the second wave and also managed to add a few more for emergency. He works over 22 hours a day and at times even the entire 24 hours without a wink of sleep, said his colleagues. His family includes parents and his three brothers. More than 250 patients have been discharged from this centre in the past four months. Dr Pooja Ghodwinde, his colleague, said, “We have joined this centre in September, and since then Nakade has never been to his house in Panvel. He increased the ICU beds to accommodate more patients. However, these days none of the beds are vacant. He not only treats the patient but also feeds them if anyone is in need to be fed. His level of dedication is completely difficult to attain.” Ghodwinde who stays at Titwala visits her house once in a month. Jaideep Shivre, 65, a senior citizen admitted there, said, “I was admitted in this centre in March. All my family members were tensed as I am diabetic and a heart patient. For the 15 days I was admitted there, I haven’t seen Dr Nakade rest. He will perform the work assigned to someone else without minding it. I have seen him cleaning urine and stool of patients, feeding them. He gave me so much positive energy and shared positive thoughts when I was feeling low. I am really thankful to him that I am fine because of his continued care, day and night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctor-lives-in-covid-care-centre-to-care-for-patients-101620071352740.html
04-05-2021||Other||Gang black marketing oxygen concentrators busted||New Delhi Four members of a gang allegedly selling oxygen concentrators in the black market were arrested from the national capital and as many as 115 oxygen concentrators were recovered from their possession in an operation that also saw the Delhi Police also search for an oxygen cylinder to cut open the shutters of a godown from which the alleged kingpin refused to come out for nearly 12 hours.The main accused, Anil Jain, was arrested four years ago as well for allegedly changing old currency notes worth ₹5 crore to new ones, in the aftermath of demonetisation, said Rajiv Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north). Police could not immediately share the current status of the case.The latest racket was busted after the special staff of the outer north district police learnt that a gang was allegedly hoarding and selling oxygen concentrators illegally.“Based on the inputs we received, we sent a policeman as a decoy customer to purchase an oxygen concentrator on Friday,” said the DCP.The decoy was offered a machine for ₹1.1 lakh though the maximum retail price was only ₹40,000. Police arrested the two sellers, Anuj Jain and Shekhar Kumar, from Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar in outer Delhi and seized five concentrators kept in their car.Their questioning led police to a house in West Delhi’s Janakpuri, from where 60 oxygen concentrators were recovered, and five more from another car. A third suspect, Keshav Chaudhary, was also arrested.Chaudhary’s questioning allegedly pointed police to a warehouse in Janakpuri where more concentrators were allegedly stored.“When we visited the warehouse on Saturday evening, we were surprised to learn that Anil Jain was inside,” the DCP said.With Jain locking himself in and refusing to surrender, police looked for a gas cutter but could not operate it without an oxygen cylinder. Nearly 12 hours later, police had finally managed to secure an oxygen cylinder and began to cut the shutter when Anil Jain surrendered.The DCP said that 45 oxygen concentrators were recovered from the warehouse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-black-marketing-oxygen-concentrators-busted-101620071352064.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Back to school as nearly 91K queue up for vaccines in Delhi||Hand sanitisers, double masks, and face shields — residents of the national capital stepped out of their homes on Monday during a lockdown to queue up for Covid-19 vaccine jabs at public schools in different parts of the city that have been converted into inoculation centres as part of the state government’s plans for the expanded drive to cover those between 18 and 44 year of age.The summer heat, which was just shy of 40°C on Monday afternoon, did not play spoilsport for people who said they’ve been waiting for a vaccine since the pandemic broke out. No sign of hesitancy here.Classrooms that were abruptly shut because of the virus last year, opened again on Monday, but this time as “war rooms against Covid-19”, a civil defence volunteer said.At the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Tughlaqabad, Class 1-D became an observation room where those who got the jab waited for 30 minutes to observe for adverse events.Class 2-D was the attendance room, where one had to show their appointment slip. A few rooms away, two auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), sitting on class teacher’s chairs in front of an undusted blackboard with notes from a February 2020 mathematics lesson, were ready to administer the vaccines to beneficiaries.Schools across the city saw similar scenes on Day 1 of the expanded drive, which was rolled out two days late, owing to a shortage of doses in the city.As the Capital reels under the fourth wave of infections, the Delhi government began the mass vaccination programme in 76 schools, which had 301 inoculation centres between them.More than 45,000 beneficiaries in this category can get jabs across the 300 centres in a day, according to the government.Around 9.2 million people are eligible for the jabs in the 18-44 age group.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Delhi government has received 450,000 vaccine doses so far for the third phase.On Monday, about 90,803 people across age-groups across the city got doses of the vaccine.“We waited for this moment for more than a year. I checked the Co-WIN website all day on Sunday. I lost all hopes of getting a slot, but one finally opened up around 11.30pm,” said Aditya K, who took the jab at the Tughlaqabad school.Outside the centres, Delhi Police personnel and civil defence volunteers ensured people kept the required distance.Some volunteers said it was unclear to many people that walk-in vaccinations weren’t allowed for the 18-44 age group.A civil defence volunteer posted outside a school in south-east Delhi’s Molarband said, “There were many people who do not use smartphones but came with their Aadhaar cards. It was difficult to explain to them that one has to use the internet and get themselves registered. Many believe it is a walk-in vaccination site. The government must come up with an alternative method for people to get an appointment.”But it wasn’t smooth sailing everywhere.Officials at a school in Badarpur said they did not get time to prepare signage that would have helped people. Every school had at least three vaccination points.The centre number is specified on the appointment slip, but these were not displayed in most schools.A couple had to be pacified at a school in south-east Delhi’s Jaitpur after they were told they were at the wrong centre.“The address of the centres in the Co-Win app is vague. I went to three different schools before coming here,” said Amar Singh, who was waiting outside the girls senior secondary school in Jaitpur.At several places, the drive began well after 10am, leading to large crowds. For instance, vaccine vials arrived late at a Delhi government senior secondary school in Jangpura.The school’s principal, Harish Chand, said 15 teachers, five IT persons, five civil defense volunteers, five ANMs and one doctor were deployed at the vaccination site.“There is also an ambulance outside if anyone reports any adverse event,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/back-to-school-as-delhi-queues-up-for-vaccines-101620071351214.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Pleas seek mother’s milk for Covid-19 orphans||While requests for leads on hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, plasma and medicines galore on social media amid the Covid-19 pandemic in the capital, pleas for breast milk donors for newborns and infants whose mothers were infected with the virus or succumbed to it are also slowly making their way onto our timelines.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said that they have acted on several similar requests on their helpline number or through people who tagged them on social media. Officials at breast milk banks in Delhi too said that they have been receiving several such request from many private maternity hospitals.Between Sunday and Monday, a Delhi-based family’s plea, for a breast milk donor for a newborn whose mother died of Covid-19 last week, caught the attention of Twitter. A family friend whose number was shared in the message confirmed the authenticity of the message and said that they managed to arrange milk from personal acquaintances.In another request floating on social media, a Lucknow-based family pleaded for a breast milk donor for a day-old infant whose Covid-positive mother died while giving birth. Several others requested for breast milk donors for infants separated from Covid-19 infected mothers.Abhinav Sharma, a resident of Rajendra Nagar, said that his wife, a new mother, tested positive for Covid-19 last week. “We had to find a milk donor for our one-week-old son. We put out a request on Instagram and Facebook following which several lactating mothers approached us. We then contacted a breast milk bank for guidance, and they helped in the selection of the donor and collection of milk,” he said.Ohika Chakraborty Malik, the spokesperson at Breast Milk Foundation in Safdarjung Enclave, said, “We recently received a request from a private maternity hospital in Rohini wherein the mother was Covid positive and had given birth to twins. We sent them batches of milk stored with us.”Malik said that there is a scarcity of stored mother’s milk at their bank currently. “There has been no donation amid the pandemic. Our freezer is almost empty right now. We request lactating mothers to come forward and donate milk so that we can help more such kids,” she added.Officials at the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said they have also received several requests for donors through social media in the last few weeks. Ranjana Prasad, a member of the commission, said, “We helped such families connect to the milk banks and possible milk donors. We also counselled them to not panic and start giving pasteurised milk to infants whose mothers are not in a position to nurse them.”Nurses working in maternity wards across several Covid designated hospitals also said infected mothers can nurse their infants while taking all precautions.Babita Rani, a senior nursing officer at the Covid maternity ward at the Employees’ State Insurance Model Hospital in Basaidarapur, said, “We have several such mothers at our hospital. We make them wear masks, and wash their hands before nursing their kids. In case the mothers are too weak to sit for long then we express milk and feed the kid. In case mother died of Covid or any other complication, the infant can be given pasteurised milk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pleas-seek-breast-milk-donors-for-infants-whose-mothers-are-infected-or-have-died-due-to-covid-101620071291864.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination for 45+ age group to resume in Mumbai on Tuesday||Vaccination for citizens above the age of 45 years, who are to receive their second dose only, will resume in Mumbai at select municipal and government vaccination centres on Tuesday, after being suspended for three days since Saturday due to shortage in stock. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will separately issue a list of vaccine centres operational on Tuesday for this age group. Meanwhile, vaccination for the age group 18-44 years will continue on Tuesday as well, for the fourth day since the drive started on May 1. It will take place at five vaccine centres for the beneficiaries who have registered on the CoWin application and have received a slot from BMC. It will take place at BYL Nair Hospital at Mumbai Central, SevenHills Hospital at Andheri, BKC Jumbo Facility, Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar, and Cooper Hospital at Vile Parle. BMC will vaccinate 2,500 people in this age group on Tuesday. Slots for bookings were opened by the civic body on Monday evening at 7.30pm and all slots were booked within seven minutes. At 7.37pm, BMC tweeted, “All the 500 slots each at all the 5 centres have been booked in Mumbai. We look forward to vaccinate those who have booked their slots. Please carry the ID with which you registered.” On Monday, BMC vaccinated 2,394 beneficiaries from the age group of 18-44 years. In the past three days, a total of 5,813 beneficiaries from this age group have been vaccinated. Since this phase of the drive started on May 1, BMC had kept aside 20,000 doses as a separate stock to facilitate vaccinations for this age group which are being utilised. On Monday, eight beneficiaries aged 45 years and above were vaccinated at the BKC jumbo facility. Apart from this, 30 healthcare workers, two frontline workers, 410 citizens aged above 60, and 375 citizens between age 45 years and 59 years were vaccinated at HN Reliance Hospital and Mallika Hospital.Drive-in vaccination centreMumbai’s first-of-its-kind drive-in vaccination centre will start at Kohinoor Parking Lot on JK Sawant Marg near Shivaji Park in Dadar (West) on Tuesday, to cater to senior citizens and specially-abled citizens. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North ward which has jurisdiction over this area, said, “It is the largest vaccination facility with capacity to vaccinate 5,000 beneficiaries per day across seven booths. Two of these booths are reserved for drive-ins.” The parking lot has enough space for 60 to 70 vehicles queuing up, leading to the two booths, Dighavkar said. A registration stall will also be set up, but beneficiaries will be registered by the staff at the centre as they are waiting in queue. BMC tweeted on Monday evening, “Drive-in facility for 45+ specially-abled. @mybmcWardGN has started a new vaccination centre at Kohinoor Parking Lot, JK Sawant Marg, Dadar (W), for 45+ citizens coming for their 2nd dose of Covishield, starts at 10 am tomorrow & has 7 vaccination rooms. #VaccinationForAll.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-for-45-age-group-to-resume-in-mumbai-on-tuesday-101620071291212.html
04-05-2021||Other||Ensure no job losses, salaries are given to staff on time: Dental Council of India to colleges||The Dental Council of India (DCI) advised all its affiliated self-financed colleges to not cut salaries of both staff and students who have been working non-stop at the forefront of Covid-19 relief for the past one year. In a letter, DCI further suggested that institutes should not lay off their staff in such trying times. “We are all aware of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases and the country is currently fighting a second wave of the pandemic. It goes without saying that the economic position of a person contributes a lot to their mental condition and staying mentally strong is the need of the hour,” said the circular released by the council in the last week of April. It further stated that the circular follows recent directions issued by the Union Ministry of Labour & Employment, advising employers to not default on the payment of monthly salaries to their employees. “All institutes are advised to extend their support and contribute to the national cause by not deducting salaries of staff and students employed at present, or laying off faculty or other employees, and ensure on-time payment during this hour of need,” said the circular signed by the DCI deputy secretary, Mukesh Kumar. A similar demand has been made by several state governments as well as final-year resident doctors’ organisations who have been working extended shifts for the past 13 months. “Most colleges are overworked at present, especially with the second wave of the pandemic pushing the present health infrastructure to the brink. It will be impossible for the medical and dental college hospitals to function without their employees. So we are all ensuring that no one loses their job in the midst of such crisis,” said the head of the management of a private dental institute in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-no-job-losses-salaries-are-given-to-staff-on-time-dental-council-of-india-to-colleges-101620071232439.html
04-05-2021||Other||Police join hands with MHA, NPCI to act on cyber crime during pandemic||New Delhi Bank accounts of people who dupe online buyers of oxygen supply equipment and medicines will be blocked immediately and the use of their mobile phones will be restricted, senior officers of the Delhi Police cyber cell, Union ministry of home affairs and the National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) decided on Monday during a meeting. Police said that an analysis of the phone numbers behind the scams revealed that many were operating from outside Delhi to cash in on the chaos due to the pandemic. According to Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal, eight such cases have been registered at the cyber cells and police stations across Delhi in the recent days.With social media flooded with several such complaints and police directly receiving many complaints, Delhi Police chief S N Shrivastava on Monday directed the district cyber cells in Delhi as well as the crime branch to act on the matter, said Biswal, adding thatthe Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) and Economic Offences Wing (EOW) too have stepped in.“Senior officers of Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre of the MHA and NPCI too were invited to find a solution,” Biswal said.The NPCI agreed to freeze the bank accounts used by cyber criminals, said Biswal. For instance, if a complaint is received regarding such cheating, police will contact NPCI to freeze the bank account of the suspects which increases the scope of retrieving the money.Police will also reach out to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to ensure that the phone numbers used by the fraudsters are required to undergo the mandatory KYC process. Police said this will deter the scamsters from using the phone to dupe more victims.Police have urged the public to lodge such complaints on their helpline number, 155260, and on www.cybercrime.gov.in. Victims can also simultaneously seek help from police’s Covid helpline 011-23469900 or send an email to acp-cybercell1@delhipolice.gov.in.“Each complaint shall be duly enquired into and appropriate action will be taken. CyPAD will act as the nodal point for interacting on a daily basis with the concerned authorities. All major cyber criminal networks, based out of Jamtara, Mewat, Purulia and other places, shall be under intense scrutiny,” said Biswal.“It is noticed that people in desperation are not exercising due diligence or even the slightest of verification before transferring money online to unknown persons who are claiming to be oxygen or medicine providers. We urge people to be very careful and transfer money only after verifying the contacts,” Biswal said.In one such case of fraud, Hemant Kumar, an outer Delhi resident, sent an SOS message seeking oxygen for his sick father and was contacted by a man who offered to provide a cylinder if he made an advance online payment of ₹45,000. While the suspect remained incommunicado after receiving the money, the victim approached Adarsh Nagar police on Monday which swung into action and caught the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-join-hands-with-mha-npci-to-act-on-cyber-crime-during-pandemic-101620071231207.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s plans to tackle third wave of Covid-19||A week after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray struck a note of caution, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has come up with a plan to scale up infrastructure which will enable the city to tackle 2,500 moderate to severely symptomatic patients daily by setting up a 400-bed facility catering solely to children within a month, additional oxygen plants and oxygen refilling plants, and new Covid jumbo centres in anticipation of a possible third wave between July and September. In all, 6,000 oxygenated beds will be added to the current capacity of 11,200 and 1500 ICU beds will be added to the city’s current 2,900 beds. The focus will be on children’s well-being, civic officials said. The BMC will build a 400-bed Covid facility for children at the NESCO jumbo centre in Goregaon, which is expected to be ready within a month. It also plans to create crèches for children in Covid facilities to cater to families where both parents are infected and admitted. Apart from that, the BMC is planning to build four oxygen plants as well as stock up on medicines like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab injections, officials added. However, the officials did not give any timeline for when the oxygen plants or the crèches would be available, as yet. “We have decided to have at least 400- bed pediatric Covid-19 ward for children. We will also have a crèche where children will be taken care of in case both their parents are infected due to Covid-19. We are also considering having separate Covid wards for senior citizens. We want to be in a position to handle around 2,500 symptomatic patients who need hospitalisation daily, up from the 1,500 such patients [who needed hospitalization in] the second wave,” Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said. “There may or may not be a third wave, but we need to prepare for it. Also, with mutations we also need to change our focus. In the first wave it was the elderly [who were most affected], [in the] second wave, [it was the] above 30-age group, and [in the] third wave it may be children [who could be affected]. Hence, we need to strategise accordingly,” Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra Covid-19 task force said.The CM and Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray have held meetings with civic officials for preparations for a third wave since Saturday. As part of the BMC’s scale up, 1,500 beds were added to the NESCO centre, of which 1,000 beds are oxygenated. The NESCO jumbo centre, which was set up last year, will now have 3,700 beds. The city currently has six jumbo centres with 8,000 beds. Four more jumbo centres are expected to come up in next two months at Kanjurmarg, Malad, Sion and Mahalaxmi which will add another 7,000 beds.“If at all we announce any relaxation in lockdown by June 2021, there are several models that suggest a third wave might come between July to September 2021. We need to understand that these are just predictions and there is no surety about the third wave, but we need to be prepared for handling it, and hence we are constantly ramping up our health infrastructure,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said. The state is under an effective lockdown which began on April 23, and it is expected to end on May 15. Experts argue that the lockdown is the most effective time to scale up infrastructure to tackle a spike in cases, which is likely to occur once the current restrictions on movement are relaxed.“Mumbai saw a massive spike last month and sustained it because of constant capacity increase in beds & facilities. As the virus mutates and targets different age groups, our response to it must actively mutate as well,” Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Monday. “Historically about such scenarios there is a trend that the second wave is more damaging than the first wave, but the third wave is less damaging than the second wave. However, our preparations have to be obviously for more damage than the second wave,” state task force member Joshi said.Meanwhile, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday appealed to more and more citizens to get tested as the city’s daily testing figures are falling down. “Our testing was more than doubled and had touched 56,000 tests on a single day in April but now it has been observed that the testing figures have fallen to around 28,000 on Sunday. It is likely to fall further during weekends. Our aggressive testing policy has resulted in reduction of positivity rate. This might have reduced the natural demand for home collection of swabs by our citizens in the last few days. We need to increase the testing to 40,000 per day, at least, if not more. I request you to appeal to our eminent citizens to come forward and test themselves to increase Covid testing to maximum possible level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-plans-to-tackle-third-wave-of-covid19-101620071171184.html
04-05-2021||Other||Delhi RWAs ask govt to arrange oxygen for Covid patients in home care||New Delhi: Families of Covid-19 patients in home care have requested the government to make arrangements for oxygen cylinders and refills, with the boom in cases choking supplies and driving up prices.The shortages have meant that families must contend with travelling long distances, waiting for extended periods, and paying exorbitant rates for oxygen cylinders that may last just a few hours. Garvit Singhvi, a resident of Greater Kailash-1, said arranging oxygen support for his parents, who tested positive for Covid-19, was difficult. His father’s oxygen saturation had dropped to 85%. “We wanted to have oxygen support at home while we hunted for hospital beds. The first fight was to arrange an empty cylinder, which I got from a friend in Hisar. But getting it refilled was a struggle,” he said. “There was a long queue at one of the oxygen plants in Mohan Cooperative area. But we didn’t get the oxygen even after waiting for nearly three hours. We then somehow managed it from another plant after waiting for around five hours.”Singhvi said his parents were lucky to get admission in a hospital.SB Singh, president of Lajpat Nagar 3 RWA, said they have had difficulties getting oxygen cylinders refilled. The RWA has maintained 12 oxygen cylinders and one concentrator for its residents. He said, “It is difficult to find a place where we will get oxygen. A few days ago, we sent our volunteers to an oxygen plant in Naraina at 6am, but got just two cylinders, that too at 7pm.”He said all the cylinders in his area are in use. “While supply to hospitals should be the priority, we request the government to make arrangements to ensure that people in home care who need oxygen get it easily.”A district magistrate said, “The priority is first given to hospitals. But we have kept a quota of oxygen for people who are not in the hospital setup. The queues are long, but we are trying to ensure that people don’t have to wait long.”A senior official with the central district said, “We don’t have an oxygen plant in our district. People have to go to Mundka and Burari to get oxygen.”Satyajit Vaish, a resident of Panchsheel Park, who has been trying to arrange oxygen for residents in need, said, “There are so many people who are undergoing treatment at home, as they are finding it difficult to get a bed in the hospital. It is not possible for people to go out and stand in a queue for hours on end to get a cylinder refilled. We are trying to help people get oxygen at home. But getting the cylinders refilled is such a huge challenge. It is good that the government has regulated the supply to check on black-marketing, but there is a need to streamline the oxygen supply for people undergoing treatment at home.”RWAs said that earlier, they could get oxygen refilled from dealers in their areas. “But most oxygen refillers have stopped taking calls. Not everyone can travel to the oxygen plant. The government should make some provision to resolve this problem. There should be some more centres where people can go to get the cylinders refilled,” said Pankaj Agarwal, president of Safdarjung Enclave RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-rwas-ask-govt-to-arrange-oxygen-for-covid-patients-in-home-care-101620070991186.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia writes to Rajnath Singh seeking army’s help to set up more beds, transport oxygen||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has written to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh urging him to mobilise the army to set up and run Covid-19 facilities, to augment bed strength by another 11,000, and ensure adequate supply and transportation of medical oxygen and 40,000 additional oxygen cylinders, as the Capital grapples with the tsunami of fresh infections and daily deaths, and people frantically search for oxygen and other medical essentials.Since Delhi is recording an average of 25,000 new cases every day, and about 10% of these require some form of hospitalisation, the additional health infrastructure will soon be at its capacity, Sisodia wrote in the letter dated May 2.“The army has always stood at the forefront during times of crisis, helped and protected the citizens of this great nation. I shall be grateful if your ministry could lend the services of our armed forces to set up, operationalise and run some Covid health facilities with about 10,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,000 ICU (beds). Since health infrastructure machinery is overwhelmed by the management of the existing hospitals and the upcoming Covid hospitals, it will be a timely help to the people of Delhi if the ministry of defence, with the considerable resources at its command, is tasked with the responsibility to provide and man the additional Covid health facilities,” Sisodia wrote.He also requested the defence ministry to arrange for the supply of medical oxygen for the Covid health facilities that will be set up.The letter came after the Delhi high court, on Saturday, directed the Delhi government to seek the help of the armed forces in getting oxygen and setting up more Covid facilities. On Saturday, the court also asked the Delhi government why nothing was done despite the court asking it two to three days ago to that to seek the help of the armed forces.While the defence ministry is yet to respond to the letter, the Centre informed the high court on Monday that defence minister Rajnath Singh is looking into the request of the Delhi government asking for the army’s help to set up hospitals with oxygenated and ICU beds.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli was informed by additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma that an officer was in contact with the defence minister, and they will let the court and amicus curiae know more details once they receive information.“The matter is now being looked into by the defence minister himself,” Sharma said.The court asked the Centre for a report on the matter, while stating that there was a “good case” to seek the army’s help.“…there is a good case made out for the army. It is a national calamity, no doubt about it,” the bench said.Delhi has 16,272 non-ICU oxygen beds and 4,866 ICU beds at the moment, and the Delhi government has said it will create an additional 15,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,200 ICU beds in the next 10 days. But it is yet unclear how it will get the oxygen to supply for these beds given that the Capital has been grappling with a shortage.Sisodia also urged the ministry to provide cryogenic tankers for the transport of liquid medical oxygen. “Additional allocation (of medical oxygen by the the Centre) has been made from plants located more than 1,500km from Delhi -- i.e. Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinga Nagar. The government of Delhi, with necessary help from the government of India and other state governments, is augmenting the transport infrastructure by sourcing cryogenic tankers even from abroad. It would be an extraordinary help from the armed forces if the ministry can provide cryogenic tankers for transport of liquid medical oxygen,” he wrote in the letter.Delhi also needs the army’s help in procuring about 40,000 D-Type medical oxygen cylinders, the deputy CM said.“The operational details can be mutually worked out after receipt of in-principle approval from the defence ministry,” Sisodia wrote.The Covid-19 crisis in Delhi worsened in April, and was compounded by the scarcity of oxygen and beds.Taking note of the situation, the Supreme Court on Sunday issued an order asking the Centre to address Delhi’s oxygen issue by Monday midnight. It also asked the Centre to create a buffer stock of oxygen that can be used by all states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-writes-to-rajnath-singh-seeking-army-s-help-to-set-up-more-beds-transport-oxygen-101620070691720.html
04-05-2021||Other||Oxygen Express trains to deliver 205 MT of oxygen - Rlys biggest single day load - to Delhi||New Delhi The national capital is scheduled to receive around 205 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) on Tuesday morning, as the Indian Railways has deployed 10 tankers on board two Oxygen Express trains — its biggest single-day load since the special operation to ferry oxygen tankers began amid acute shortage.One train from Durgapur in West Bengal, ferrying 120 tonnes of liquid oxygen is scheduled to reach the Tughlakabad railway station at 9.30am on Tuesday while the second train, ferrying 85 tonnes of liquid oxygen, is coming via Hapa (Gujarat) to Gurugram,the railway ministry said on Monday. Officials said that the train from Hapa will halt at Gurgaon and the LMO will be transferred to trucks of the Delhi government and taken to the city. While another Oxygen Express train, carrying 30.86 tonnes of LMO from Angul in Odisha, will arrive in Delhi by Monday evening, railway ministry officials said this is meant for supply in Haryana. “Railways is set to deliver its biggest single day load of nearly 205 tonnes to Delhi by tomorrow morning,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday. The move is expected to give a breather to the national capital which has been facing an acute shortage of oxygen supply for the past few weeks. Several hospitals in Delhi have sent out desperate calls to authorities to replenish their oxygen supplies which dropped precariously and threatened lives as the health infrastructure was crumbling under the pressure of an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.Till Sunday, Delhi received 454 MT of oxygen in the last 24-hours against its increased quota of 590 MT. The Delhi government has demanded 976 MT of medical oxygen to add 1,200 ICU and 15,000 oxygen beds.The central government last week directed states to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying oxygen amid reports of some states diverting the vehicles for local use while hospitals sent out frantic appeals for emergency supplies.“EG 2 (Empowered Group 2, formed by the PMO comprising officials from different ministries and experts) decides oxygen pipeline for states. EG 2 on Thursday set the ball rolling for mapping the sources of medical oxygen and their production capacity to match the requirement of 12 high-burden states, and has developed a framework to guide them,” railway ministry spokesperson said.“Oxygen pipeline is a railway operation term which means oxygen express trains on hand with us for various destinations (states) in the country. We have an online real-time system to monitor the movement (pipeline) of Oxygen Express trains. EG 2 group is already working since long and is closely monitoring the situation in the country. Officials of our Ministry are also part of it,” he explained.The national transporter has so far delivered around 1,125 tonnes of LMO in 76 tankers to various states. “Seven Oxygen Express trains are on the run currently, with 422 MT LMO in 27 tankers. Haryana will receive its fourth and fifth trains carrying nearly 72 MT LMO from Angul (Orissa) and Rourkela (Orissa),” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-express-trains-to-deliver-205-mt-of-oxygen-rlys-biggest-single-day-load-to-delhi-101620070691010.html
04-05-2021||Other||Punjab traders protest against closure of shops due to Covid-19||The Punjab government’s directive to keep shops selling non-essential goods shut till May 15 to check the spread of covid-19 has not gone down well with shopkeepers. There were protests across the state against the decision on Monday, seeking the withdrawal of fresh restrictions. In Faridkot, a protest was carried out through the main-street of the town to the major market. Malkit Singh, a shopkeeper said that they don’t have any other alternative to generate revenue. “We are middle-class people and depend on our shops completely. Liquor shops are open and even government offices are working with 50% staff, so why can’t we open our shops? Our survival is at stake, we are ready to follow the strictest of covid norms, but we must remain open,” he added. Later, a local Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Gurdit Singh Sekhon led a delegation to meet deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia and requested for some relief. In Sangrur and Barnala, protesters raised slogans against the government, adding that even a few-hour window to open shops will work for them. They also met Sangrur SDM and DC to seek relaxation in restrictions to ‘save’ their business.“The government says there is no lockdown, but our shops are being closed. This cannot work,” said Jaswinder Prince, chief of Sangrur Vyapar Mandal.In Patiala, Rakesh Gupta, president, Patiala District Beopar Mandal, said, “The authorities have failed to identify essential services, as police forcibly even shut grocery stores on Monday. When banks and government offices, which witness huge rush, are allowed to operate, then what crime have we done.” Fatehgarh Sahib-based readymade garment trader said the government should allow the traders to open their shops on rotational basis “We stocked up summer merchandise worth ₹40 lakh before the onset of summer season but it appears that sale will drop this year too, due to covid,” Gupta added.Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said traders and shopkeepers must support the government. In Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts of Doaba, it was business as usual for small towns, though in bigger cities, non-essential shops remains closed. Police was deployed in large numbers across Jalandhar city for implementation of restrictions. In SBS Nagar, police booked 15 people for violation of covid-19 norms. Over a 1,000 persons were fined for not following covid-19 guidelines, and their samples were also taken. In Kapurthala, deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal inspected Kapurthala city to ensure there was no violation of government orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-traders-protest-against-closure-of-shops-due-to-covid19-101620070032241.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||AI pilots say many got Covid-19, want pay cuts to be rolled back||Air India’s Airbus pilots on Monday- appealed to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to revert their pay cut that they term as “illegal”. A senior pilot with the Indian Commercial Pilots Association said, “...This deadlier second wave has gripped the country requiring travel restrictions on Indians worldwide due to the elevated risks of infection. The number of passengers and crew testing positive for COVID-19 has increased fourfold, and consequently, Air India pilots’ rate of infections has shot up drastically, likewise for our family members.”Despite raising their concerns through various meetings and representations, the pilots said they find it demoralising that even Puri’s office has not addressed any of their grievances. As a result, Air India pilots continue to bear the longest-standing pay cuts in the Indian market despite undertaking the longest and most diverse missions under the Vande Bharat scheme. The letter read, ‘We have not slowed down or disrupted work in any way despite having been exploited shamelessly by the management under the guise of this pandemic. We haven’t even been categorized as front line workers despite having been at the frontline from day one alongside other frontline workers in the country like the medical staff. Ironically, we were the first to get a pay cut but are the last to be considered for vaccination.’ The pilots pointed out that the increasing frequency of Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights has also led to their increased workload and also the risk of getting infected. They also said that even after taking all possible precautions, many of the airline pilots are struggling for their lives in the hospital.Making an urgent appeal to Puri to reverse the long-standing pay cut the letter read, “If we cannot get the support from management and ministry that we deserve, the least that can be done is to restore our rightful wages so that if the worst comes to pass, we can provide for our family‘s immediate medical needs and future well-being.”Air India spokesperson said, “We would not like to make any comment on such internal issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aipilots-say-many-got-covid-19-want-pay-cuts-to-be-rolled-back-101620069910827.html
04-05-2021||Other||UP panchayat elections: Vote-count still around 50%; parties start claiming wins||The counting of votes for the three-tier panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh remained inconclusive on Monday evening, even as political parties started claiming victories of candidates they supported, largely for the posts of zila panchayat ward members.According to a press statement issued by the state election commission here, only as many as 2,32,612 village ward members, 38,317 village pradhans, 55,926 kshetra panchayat ward members and 181 zila panchayat ward members had been declared elected till Monday evening.“As per the information available from districts, the counting is in progress at all the 826 centres across the state,” a commission spokesman said.The manual counting of votes began on May 2 and people familiar with the issue said that final results were not expected before Tuesday afternoon since 40-50% of votes were still to be counted.The counting of votes is being held for 58,176 posts of village pradhans, 7,32,485 village ward members, 75,852 kshetra panchayat ward members and 3,051 zila panchayat ward members. Large gatherings of candidates, their supporters and agents continued to be seen at most counting centres on the second consecutive day, throwing Covid-19 protocols to the winds. The counting will determine the fate of over 12 lakh candidates who were in the fray with nearly 12 crore rural voters having exercised their franchise in the four-phase voting exercise. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday claimed victory for party-backed candidates in the three-tier panchayat polls, saying they had won most seats and were leading in many. The claim of victory was made even before the full election results had come.Uttar Pradesh (UP) BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, The BJP win/decisive leads are a ratification of the party work/initiatives taken for the rural poor and farmers.” The state election commission (SEC) has already made it clear that though political parties may have backed candidates, the results won’t be declared on party line||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-elections-vote-count-still-around-50-parties-start-claiming-wins-101620069310675.html
04-05-2021||Other||Be mental support for people amid Covid: UP CM to sportspersons||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked the sportspersons in the state to become the mental support and strength for people and the society for fighting and overcoming the pandemic.“This is a pandemic. In a pandemic, no amount of resource is enough and today all need mental support and strength. And who are accustomed to taking on challenges in life better than sportspersons? Who knows the value of teamwork (which we need in these times) better than the sportspersons? Sportspersons should become the support that society is looking for. Ask people to follow guidelines,” Yogi said while interacting with national and international sportspersons across the state via videoconference.Yogi said this was not the time for making unnecessary comments, spreading myths and rumours. Doctors, nurses, other frontline workers were all fighting Covid with dedication. It’s time to stay united and win the war against Covid, he added.The interaction involved sportspersons from various fields like hockey, cricket, athletics etc in which state sports director RP Singh also participated.Former international cricketer Suresh Raina said there was a need to be united to defeat Covid and for prevention alertness was utmost. Preeti Dubey, a hockey player, said people can defeat Covid positive status by internal positivity and people should work on strengthening their immunity.Ashok Kumar, a former Indian hockey player and son of legendary former Indian hockey wizard Dhyan Chand, said a balanced and disciplined lifestyle was significant in either preventing or overcoming the disease. He said people should include yoga and exercises in their lifestyle to stay fit.Vijay Singh Chauhan, an athlete, said people should steer clear of all kinds of misinformation and rumours and be vary of such people who were spreading negativity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/be-mental-support-for-people-amid-covid-up-cm-to-sportspersons-101620069130637.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s vaccination drive slows down for want of doses||For a third day in a row, Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 vaccinations went below the 100,000 mark owing to the unavailability of doses, resulting in fewer inoculation sessions across the state.There is uncertainty over the full-fledged resumption of the drive from Tuesday, as the state is yet to get its fresh stock of 1.05 million doses, promised to be delivered in the next three days by the Centre. From 534,228 doses, the state’s highest one-day inoculation figures, administered on April 26, Maharashtra’s daily numbers dropped to 47,613 on May 2 and 78,759 on May 3, according to figures on the CoWIN portal. After keeping the number of daily inoculations over 100,000 doses throughout April, it dropped below the mark for the past three days. In April alone, 10 million doses were administered in Maharashtra. Even after launching the third phase for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group on May 1, the day’s count stood at 95,240. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said the state will get 1,050,000 more doses in three days. The ministry has stated that as of 8am on Monday, the state has administered 16,338,923 of the 16,362,470 doses supplied by the Centre. The state government has merely 23,547 doses with it, as of Monday.State authorities said many centres were shut on Monday for both the 18-44 and above 45 age groups, owing to the non-availability of doses.“After supplying about 16 million doses in 110 days of the drive for the beneficiaries above 45 years, the supply has now come down by half from May 1, as per the changed policy. This means the vaccination rate will dwindle to half of its pace in April henceforth for 45-plus beneficiaries because of reduction in the supply by the Centre. The pace of the vaccination for the age groups of 18-44 years cannot pick up unless we procure the stock from two domestic manufacturers — Serum Institute of India (Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin),” said an official from the health department.According to the changed policy by the Centre, half of the vaccines manufactured by these two players, will go to the government of India, while the remaining half will be available for procurement by state governments, private hospitals and industrial sector. Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said they expect a fresh stock of about 450,000 doses of Covaxin in the next couple of days for the age group of 18-44 years. “After we received 300,000 doses of Covishield, we rolled out the third phase from May 1 with 3 to 10 centres per district for the age group. We will add similar number of centres after getting a fresh stock of Covaxin,” he said.The state government has placed a demand for 120 million doses at the rate of 20 million a month as it wishes to complete vaccination of 57.1 million people in the age group of 18-44 years in six months. According to the officials, though the state is ready to import the doses of other vaccines from manufacturers like Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson , there is no stock available in the international market. The officials feel that the pace of vaccination is expected to be low through the entire month of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-vaccination-drive-slows-down-for-want-of-doses-101620068170412.html
04-05-2021||Other||Private hospitals seek clarity on vaccination||Private hospitals here have sought clarity on the Covid vaccination drive and they have urged the state health authorities to provide vaccine vials so that they can resume giving jabs. They said they had not been administering vaccines since April 30 here and beneficiaries, whose second dose is due now, were calling them up for appointment.The Association of International Doctors, a body of doctors from the private sector in India has written a letter to a senior official in this connection.“On April 30, we were told to return the stock of vaccine we had. Now that we do not have vaccines people coming for the second dose have to be returned,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.“The entire process is stopped and there is no further clarity on vaccination by private hospitals. We request the private hospitals be provided with vaccine doses. We would wish to know from where we can purchase vaccine and the amount to be given so that the programme can run again,” said Dr Shukla.On Monday, 8,897 people got their vaccine doses in Lucknow, including 2,851 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years of age at 60 vaccination sites, all in government hospitals.Over the last 60 days, many beneficiaries have been vaccinated. While a large number have their second dose due, many are seeking their first dose. Many hospitals in Lucknow have set up separate vaccination desks and rooms for the 30-minute post-jab observation period as per the protocol and they have had to deploy additional staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/private-hospitals-seek-clarity-on-vaccination-101620067750280.html
04-05-2021||Lucknow||New daily infection count sees slight fall in UP, Lucknow, says govt data||The daily count of fresh Covid-19 infection cases recorded a slight fall both in Uttar Pradesh and Lucknow on Monday, according to official data.The state’s daily fresh case count went below 30,000 after April 28 and the Lucknow figures were less than 3,100 after a gap of 24 days, going by official data.The state reported 29,192 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its total case count to 13,42,413 while the death toll reached 13,447 with 288 more fatalities, the data showed.According to the state health department, Lucknow reported the maximum 3,058 fresh cases, Kanpur 1,311, Varanasi 1,022, Prayagraj 858, Ghaziabad 598, Gautam Buddha Nagar 1,446, Moradabad 1,404, Saharanpur 1,222, Amroha 1,082 and Meerut 833.“The tests and the number of recovered (patients) are rising. The daily new cases are falling. If we compare, on April 25 there were 1,86,346 tests, 35,614 new cases and 25,633 recovered patients in one day. Today, the figures say there have been 2,29,440 tests, 29,192 new cases and over 38,000 recovered patients,” said additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal at a press conference on Monday.Lucknow reported the maximum 26 deaths in the last 24 hours, Prayagraj 25, Jhansi 21, Kanpur 17, Gautam Buddha Nagar 13, Varanasi 11, Meerut 10 and Ghaziabad 5, according to the data from the health department.The state has tested 4,15,91,659 Covid-19 samples till now.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,14,403 cases of which 1,76,136 have recovered. The recovery rate is 82.15%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.The number of active cases under treatment in the state is 2,85,832 while in Lucknow it is 36,384.“Of the total active cases, 2,33,290 are in home isolation and 8,673 admitted to private hospitals,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (medical health) at a press conference.Till now, 10,43,134 patients have recovered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-daily-infection-count-sees-slight-fall-in-up-lucknow-says-govt-data-101620067630288.html
04-05-2021||Other||Yogi announces 25% extra salary for doctors, nurses on Covid duty||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced 25% extra salary or honorarium for doctors and nursing staff on Covid duty at government-run hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, the state government said in a statement.A range of other frontline health and sanitation workers in the state would also get additional emoluments. He made the announcement at the Covid review meeting with Team-9 here.“All health workers, doctors, paramedics, housekeeping staff, sanitation workers, ASHA (accredited social health activist) and anganwadi workers are setting an exemplary example of service and compassion. The state government will provide such workers with additional emoluments as an encouragement. For doctors, nursing staff working at hospitals, 25 % extra would be given over their present salary/honorarium. This would apply even when they are off-duty in their isolation period post-duty,” he said according to the statement.The chief minister also said that medical/nursing final year students will be also put on Covid duty. They too will be paid honorarium.He also said retired health workers, experienced doctors and ex-servicemen should also be deployed on Covid duties and they will get an honorarium as per rules and orders that will soon be issued in this connection.Giving further details, a state government spokesperson later said, “Doctors and paramedical staff giving their valuable services in Covid will get 25% additional emoluments/honorarium on their basic pay while the final year medical students, paramedics, nursing staff and retired doctors/nurses etc will be engaged contractually/outsourced at 25% more rates than the existing NHM (national health mission) rates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-announces-25-extra-salary-for-doctors-nurses-on-covid-duty-101620067150173.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||70% doses reserved for people with comorbidities in 18-45 age group in May||With the state getting 3.30 lakh vaccines for 18-45 years category from the Serum Institute of India for May, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered 70% of the doses to be reserved for individuals with comorbidities, and the remaining 30% for high-risk category of employees and workers in this age group. Chairing a virtual review meeting, Amarinder said that within these groups, district-wise allocation has also been prioritised based on population index, mortality and density. The state government had last week ordered 30-lakh doses of Covishield directly from the SII. “Given the severe supply constraints, it has been decided to limit the vaccination for 18-44 age group in this phase to major urban centres,” he said, expressing concern that even for the 45+ age group, the state was in short supply, as a result of which only a few vaccine centres were currently functioning. He said the state expects 2 lakh doses to arrive tomorrow for vaccination of 45+ category. Of the 33,46,500 Covishield doses received so far, a total of 32,91,0450 have already been utilised. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has allocated 6.2 lakh doses, including 4.7 lakh Covishield and 1.5 lakh Covaxin, for the state during the first fortnight of this month for free vaccination of 45+ population. In the 18-44 age group for May, the maximum allocation of 50% has been prioritised for Group A of the most affected districts of SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Patiala, according to an official spokesperson. Another 30% has been reserved for the Group B districts of Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, SBS Nagar, Faridkot, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur, while 20% will be utilised in the other districts that have the least cases at present. These decisions have been taken in accordance with the vaccine strategy recommended by the state’s vaccine expert committee. The committee recommended that when further doses are available or as the epidemiologic situation changes, the prioritisation framework may be modified. Obesity, disabilities included  in list of comorbidities Accepting the recommendations of the committee, the chief minister approved expansion of the list of comorbidities to include obesity (BMI>30), disabilities (e.g. spinal cord injury) and multiple co-morbidities determined to increase risk by a treating physician, in addition to those specified by the central government. He pointed out that since individuals with co-morbidities are at highest risk of severe disease and deaths, it was imperative to vaccinate them on priority. For the remaining 30%, the CM said that while the strategic roadmap contains a list of professions at risk, given the limitation of vaccine availability, for the month of May, the top three categories have been chosen. These are government employees, construction workers, teachers and other staff at government and private educational establishments. The committee has also recommended that increased doses be sought in partnership with private sector and other sources for allocation of available doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/70-doses-reserved-for-people-with-comorbities-in-18-45-age-group-in-may-101620065356350.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Vaccine shortage leaves second dose beneficiaries miss their jab date in Pune||Pune: Many second dose beneficiaries, including senior citizens, were unable to get the slot for inoculation as the city faced shortage of vaccine and there was limited stock in Pune district.On Monday, only 728 beneficiaries received vaccines in Pune rural. As per district health department data, no beneficiaries above the age of 45 years received vaccination in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Monday.As the vaccination drive for 18 years and above started from May 1, only 1,495 beneficiaries who were not in the age group of 18-44 have received jabs on May 1.Vilas Pingale, a 65-year-old beneficiary who took the first dose on March 20, said that he was given Covishield.“I am due for my second dose, but since the last one week, there has been a shortage. I have been repeatedly going to vaccination centres and returning empty-handed. While the doses were reported as limited last week, there is no stock at all this time and many vaccination centres are not functioning. No one has a clear idea when the doses will be available,” said Pingale.Malvika Jha, 49, is awaiting her second dose after the first taken on April 2.“I took my first dose as soon as the age group above 45 years old was open for getting vaccinated. I got Covishield and as it’s reported by the science community to take the second jab after 45 days, mine is due on May 17. Considering the shortage of vaccine, I’m worried that I may miss the date of second dose,” said Jha.Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer, said that there are no doses supplied to PMC since April 27.“On April 27, 35,000 doses were given to us and it has been utilised. We do not have vaccine stock for beneficiaries above 45 years of age,” said Dr Deokar.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that on April 28, Pune district received 80,000 doses.“After that no vaccine supply has been received for 45 years and above beneficiaries. We are hoping that we will get the vaccine supply on May 4,” said Deshmukh.Vaccination driveOn Monday, 2,507 beneficiaries between the age of 18 and 44 years received jabs. While 1,262 were inoculated in Pune rural, 665 in PMC and 580 in PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccine-shortage-leaves-second-dose-beneficiaries-miss-their-jab-date-in-pune-101620055927629.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Monday musings: From the bubonic plague to Covid, Pune’s crematoria burn through memories||Crematoria have never been in such focus as they are today in India. Pyres are burning round the clock as Covid fatalities surge every day. The foreign and Indian press has shown images from cremation grounds from across the country, much to the criticism of some. In Pune, the wait for cremation is extended, as 170-180 bodies are being brought in daily, although official figures reported by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the State health department do not match with records from the crematoria. Is this the first-time the city is witnessing such scenes? During the 1896-97 bubonic plague that hit the city, Pune, then called Poona by the British ruling the nation, saw scenes as scores of bodies were cremated one after another. There’s no precise record of the actual number of fatalities, though old reports and historians such as Mandar Lawate, say that around 5,000 deaths were recorded in Pune between October 1896 and May 1897. Given that the population of city - including those residing in municipal limits, cantonments and the suburbs – was 0.161 million, the fatality rate was in the range of 3.1 %. With many succumbing to the plague, Pune’s Omkareshwar ghat on the banks of the Mutha was flooded with bodies being cremated for months. During the period, the ghat stretching from Omkareshwar temple to Lakdi pul (near Deccan), was the only place for cremating bodies as compared to 21 crematoria that Pune has today. Pyres were seen burning from a distance, day and night, as being witnessed these days in many cities. “The situation was grim. British officer WC Rand had appointed police personnel to note down records of bodies coming in to the cremation ghat. Once the body was cremated, police used to visit the residence of deceased as part of a house-to-house search for infected patients and suspects. However, the search wasn’t just limited to identifying suspects. The houses where patients succumbed to the plague were cleaned, fumigated, dug-up (to destroy rats) and lime washed. The family members of the deceased used to be taken to a segregation camp at Swargate, while infected patients were shifted to a temporary facility at Sangam ghat near Shivajinagar,” said Lawate. Sassoon hospital was reserved largely for British or European patients, while special plague hospitals were erected in various parts of the city, one each for the Hindu, Muslim, and Parsi communities. More than the grief of passing away of loved ones, locals from Pune were extremely unhappy with suppressive measures by 34-year-old Walter Charles Rand, an Oxford-educated officer of the Indian Civil Service, to contain the plague. Rand was serving in Satara when he was appointed on February 10, 1897, as an assistant collector and chairman, Poona Plague Committee. In his plague report drafted in July 1897, Rand, in his introductory remarks mentioned: “The outbreak of bubonic plague with which I have to deal with in this report is the first that has occurred in Poona within the memory of living man, while of the occurrence of a similar epidemic in former times I am not aware of any authentic record. At the time of the present outbreak, the disease was quite unknown to the inhabitants of this part of India.” On containment measures, Rand explained in detail the gravity of the disease and urgency with which it had to be dealt. “There was, it is true, no Indian example of the suppression by strong measures, of an epidemic of the plague which had established itself in a large town, but the possibility of so suppressing the disease had been demonstrated at Hong Kong in 1894. It was certain that if the plague was not to be allowed to run its course, but was to be stamped out of Poona, stringent measures would have to be taken,” Rand observed in his report made available by National Library of Scotland. The report was later submitted to the British regime in England by RA Lamb, chairman, Poona Plague Committee, post Rand’s assassination by the Chapekar brothers. As the discontent against Rand grew in Poona, Damodar, Balkrisha and Vasudev shot Rand and Lieutenant Charles Ayerst at Ganeshkhind (now Pune University). While Ayerst died immediately, Rand succumbed to the injuries on July 3, 1897. Scared by the pandemic, many fled the city and took shelter at Fergusson College, which then was outside Pune. The situation was reported in great details by Lokmanya Tilak’s “Kesari”, then a weekly newspaper. The plague took a break intermittently and returned every after few years, though its intensity lowered. Like Covid, the bubonic plague did not discriminate between rich and poor. At the same time, many came forward to help, just as the Pune, in the grip of Covid, is seeing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-from-the-bubonic-plague-to-covid-pune-s-crematoria-burn-through-memories-101620038466378.html
04-05-2021||Delhi||PM house in new Central Vista given green clearance||The Vice President’s, and Prime Minister’s new residences are scheduled to be completed by May and December 2022, respectively, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the nodal agency for the Central Vista Project, as the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has granted the necessary clearance for the rest of the buildings under the plan.The buildings also include a Common Central Secretariat and the Special Protection Group (SPG) building.According to the CPWD’s submission to the ministry, the work on the new Parliament has been scheduled to be completed by November 2022, the vice-president’s enclave by May 2022, and the PM’s residence andthe SPG building by December 2022.The cost of project, which also includes a Common Central Secretariat, has been estimated at Rs.13,450 crore.The plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024.Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.The environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) meeting, held on April 13, the minutes of which were made public on Monday, said, “The EAC (Infra-2)...recommended granting environmental clearance to the project subject to the following specific conditions and other Standard EC Conditions as specified by the Ministry vide OM dated 4th January, 2019 for the said project/activity, while considering for accord of environmental clearance.”In December 2020, the EAC conditionally approved new terms of reference for the development or redevelopment of common central secretariat buildings a central conference centre, the prime minister’s residence, vice-president’s enclave and a building for the Special Protection Group (SPG).Under the Central Vista project, the Prime Minister’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block, while the V-P’s residence is proposed to be relocated behind North Block.The plan also includes razing buildings like Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are currently located across 30 buildings.The EAC added that there will be ample provision for greenery.“As proposed, at least 4,918 trees to be maintained within the project site during the operation phase of the project. The landscape planning should include plantation of native species. A minimum of 1 tree for every 80 sqm of land should be planted and maintained. The existing trees will be counted for this purpose. The species with heavy foliage, broad leaves and wide canopy cover are desirable. Water intensive and/or invasive species should not be used for landscaping,” it noted.It also said that there should be two continuous online Ambient Air Quality Monitoring stations in the project area before the start of demolition work. “As committed, at least 50 anti-smog guns and 15 anti-smog towers shall be provided to curb air pollution during construction phase. 15 anti-smog towers shall be installed during operation phase as proposed,” it added.Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, said, “The Central Vista project has been broken up into several components: a new parliament, Central Vista avenue and now this consolidated proposal which still does not include the Prime Minister’s Office, as the land use change for that is still pending. The EAC which had asked the CPWD to avoid a piece meal approach and submit a consolidated proposal back in November 2020, recommended environment clearance going against its own observations. In effect, the cumulative environmental impact of the Central Vista project, which also includes constructing the new India garden on the Yamuna floodplains has not been assessed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-vista-v-p-pm-residences-to-be-ready-by-2022-101620026340743.html
