05-05-2021||Gurugram||4,740 new cases reported, state positivity rate at 37%||The district reported 4,740 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Wednesday, as it continues to struggle with the second wave of infection that has overwhelmed its healthcare system.With regard to the sheer surge in case numbers, Gurugram is fifth among 30 districts across the country that are reporting a constant increase in cases over the last two weeks, as per the union ministry of health and family welfare data. Haryana, meanwhile, has the second-highest positivity rate in the country, of 37%, which is more than Delhi’s positivity rate of 32%, and behind only Goa, which has a positivity rate of almost 48%.“Several measures are being adopted to control the surge, such as imposing lockdown and increase in testing. It will take some time to see the impact of lockdown in regulating the spike. Until then, we are continuing with high testing and strengthening hospital infrastructure. Other hospitals that are not yet registered to provide beds for Covid-19 patients have been asked to come forward,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer.According to the health department data, from April 13 to 19, the district reported 12,261 new cases. The following week (April 20-26), this number increased 23,305 and the surge continued, with 26,840 new cases being reported between April 27 and May 3.Gurugram is currently fifth among 30 districts showing a rapid growth in daily cases. Other most affected cities are Bengaluru, Chennai, Kozhikode and Ernakulam that are showing a higher growth rate than Gurugram. According to senior health officials, the peak of the Covid-19 second wave is expected to arrive by May 15. Until then, cases are likely to grow with a test positivity rate of 25% - 30%.As of Wednesday, the active case count in the district was 38,901, which accounts for at least 34% of the overall active cases in the state. With more than 100,000 active cases, Haryana is currently among the 12 worst-affected Covid-19 states. The state announced 15,416 new infections over the past 24 hours.At least 2,451 patients have been undergoing treatment in hospitals, but many more are being denied treatment due to a dearth of oxygen supply, ventilators and medicines. As the crises continue, the death toll also reached 537, with 15 deaths confirmed by hospitals and the district health department. At the state level, at least 153 succumbed to the illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/4740-new-cases-reported-state-positivity-rate-at-37-101620237700101.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents ferry patients, bodies in private vehicles as ambulances go off roads||Covid-19 patients and relatives of Covid-19 victims are staring at a major crisis as around 250 private ambulances went off the roads, in a protest against the administration’s decision to cap ambulance charges. Residents were left to fend for themselves, with many ferrying infected patients and bodies of victims in private vehicles, even as doctors warned that this could lead to a further spike in Covid-19 infections.Members of the Private Ambulance Association (PAA), which represents 39 operators, on Wednesday met senior officials in Chandigarh and were assured that the charges would be revised within two days. The association members said they will continue to strike if the demands not met.Rajesh Yadav, president of PAA, Gurugram, said that they will only call off the strike when the prices are revised by the transport department. “A meeting was held with the transport department in Chandigarh, but the decision is pending. The notification is of 2009, when petrol cost ₹40 per litre. At present, fuel costs ₹80 per litre, so they will have to revise the fares,” he said.Prashant Singh, the mission director of National Health Mission issued an order on Wednesday, directing that a uniform policy for hiring of private ambulance be adopted. He directed deputy commissioners to hold a meeting with the operators and decide rates. “It is decided by higher authorities that rates decided by the deputy commissioners will prevail,” he said. At present, there are only 55 ambulances in total in the district, 35 of which are run by the municipal corporation and 20 by private hospitals.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said that they are transporting bodies to crematoriums free of charge. “These ambulances are working round-the-clock and are enough for the city. We have not faced any issues until now and are responding to all calls. The only challenge is that it takes one hour to respond to a call as the ambulances on back-to-back duties,” he said.Doctors warned that residents transporting Covid-infected patients and bodies of the victims could have serious consequences. They said that if the current situation persisted, the number of Covid-19 cases will increase manifold, as private vehicles do not have emergency and safety facilities for carrying a patient without coming into contact. Dr Neeraj Thakur, director, Ayushman Hospital, said that the chance of infections increasing is high due to increased contact with Covid-19 patients. “There are no ambulances available since Monday and we are struggling to find any. Taking a patient on their own can risk their lives, as they are not medically trained and cannot handle a patient in case of an emergency,” she said.Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy Hospital, said that two patients died due to the non-availability of ambulances on Tuesday. “There are majorly two issues due to the ambulance strike. First, critical patients are not getting timely help as ambulances have big oxygen cylinders and operators know how to use them as they are well trained. Second, it is risky for the family members also to ferry patients. Two patients were brought dead as families could not transport them to the hospital on time,” he said.More than 100 families shifted their patients and bodies of victims in the last two days, and were facing a tough time managing them.Sumit Agarwal, a resident of Sector 56, said that he had to shift his brother to a private hospital after his vital signs dipped, but despite trying for two hours, he couldn’t find any. “I drove him to the hospital along with my 10-year-old as it was difficult to manage it by myself. Even the hospitals had no ambulance available and most of the numbers shared by people on groups and social media were switched off,” he said.A resident of Sector 10A said that he lost his father to Covid-19 and could not find an ambulance to transport his body to the crematorium. “We waited for more than six hours and contacted more than 15 drivers but they refused and said there is a strike of ambulances. I took my father’s body to the crematorium and arranged for a stretcher too. Later, I was told by the staff that the MCG is providing ambulances,” he said.Ambulance operators said that they asked the drivers to switch off their phones as they were getting continuous calls for help.Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, we received around 70 bodies that were brought by families at both the crematoriums (including one in Madanpuri). All the pressure has come on MCG ambulances and they are working for more than 18 hours to transport bodies from homes. The situation has worsened due to the strike,” he said. Private hospitals said they were helpless as they did not have enough ambulances or vehicles to shift patients and that ambulances are currently shuttling between the hospital and oxygen centres. They also expressed concerns over relatives of Covid-19 victims ferrying them to their premises without wearing personal protective equipment (PPE).Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said that they have only one ambulance which is entirely on oxygen duty. “The ambulances get oxygen on priority, so we send our ambulance to refill oxygen. The hospital has received over 200 calls for providing ambulance as residents are not able to find any, but even our vendors are on strike,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-ferry-patients-bodies-in-private-vehicles-as-ambulances-go-off-roads-101620237698760.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents struggle to get second vaccine dosage||Even as the district health department is prioritising Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries who are awaiting their second jabs, many of them have been continuously struggling to book a slot on the Co-WIN portal or getting inoculated through a direct walk-in. Health officials said that 30 vaccination centres have been administering only 100 doses in a day, each, due to the limited supply of the vaccines.“The state has allocated additional 13,000 doses on Wednesday to inoculate prioritised population group above 45 years with the second dose. They are on priority, but every vaccination centre gets only 100 doses for inoculation, so only limited people receive doses every day,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.On Wednesday, at least 3,250 people aged 45 years and above took the jab, including over 2,963 people who took their second shot, at government health centres, while 154 received their jabs at private hospitals. Owing to the restricted stock, only 88 managed to get their first dose, said officials.The vaccination has declined dramatically since the inoculation of the population aged 18-44 started. Private hospitals have run out of stock after state administrations, complying with the vaccine policy, directed hospitals to procure vaccine doses from manufacturers.Citizens who have taken their first shot in private facilities are now visiting multiple centres to get their last dose at the scheduled time.Atul Sarin (50), a resident of DLF-Phase 1, visited four health facilities on Wednesday but failed to get the shot. “It has been almost eight weeks since I took the first dose. To avoid further delay, I tried booking a slot on the CoWIN portal, but it showed no slots were available. I personally visited four private hospitals and government health centres on Wednesday, but everyone cited the same problem, of unavailability of vaccine stock,” said Sarin.Relating a similar experience, 60-year-old Naveen Rangera faced troubles in finding centres where Covaxin is administered. “Covaxin is not easily available. Wherever it is available, a huge crowd is seen, which is dangerous to encounter during this time, when infections are being rapidly transmitted. Since health centres in the city are crowded, we thought of getting the shot in rural centres through a direct walk-in. But they too had no vaccine doses,” said Rangera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-struggle-to-get-second-vaccine-dosage-101620237699320.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Limited antigen kits hold up Gurugram efforts to increase testing||A day after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued an advisory to ramp up testing through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), the Gurugram health department on Wednesday said they had limited stock available.“Currently, there are about 2,000 antigen testing kits with the health department. The state has allocated almost 10,000 kits, which are likely to arrive by Wednesday night. We have been conducting over 4,000 antigen tests every day in large outbreak areas (LORs, where there are 15 or more cases) for timely detection and isolation of cases. the measures required to increase RAT can only be followed based on the sufficient allocation of kits by the state health department,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The district does not get daily stock of testing kits. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday advised setting up of dedicated round-the-clock RAT booths and drive-through booths at multiple locations in cities, towns and villages. Yadav said this could be done at the polyclinic in Sector 31 provided they get the additional testing kits. “But there is no clarity on when it is likely to start. For setting multiple booths, department needs health staff along with sufficient kits,” he said. The ICMR had earlier emphasised on at least 70% of testing in any region to be using RT-PCR kits, which is more accurate but slower than RAT that gives a result within 20 minutes. Experts said the new measure is to break the chain of transmission through early diagnosis. Since the beginning of the week, the health department has increased antigen tests. Over 8,700 antigen tests were done over the last two days. On Wednesday, however, only 2,392 antigen tests were administered. The seven-day average of antigen tests in the last week of April shows at least 1,679 RAT were administered every day. Like other cities, Gurugram has been reeling under pressure to give timely RT-PCR results within 36 hours due to intense case load. But people have been getting test results within three to four days, which has been a hurdle in breaking the transmission chain. The new ICMR testing strategy said round-the-clock booths were to improve access and availability of vaccines. Even drive-through for RAT testing facilities has to be created. To reduce the existing burden on the laboratory, ICMR has suggested that RT-PCR test results should be removed for interstate domestic travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/limited-antigen-kits-hold-up-gurugram-efforts-to-increase-testing-101620237697588.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen shortage continues due to spike in serious Covid-19 cases||The increase in the number of critically ill patients at large private hospitals continues to put pressure on the oxygen distribution system in the district, despite Gurugram receiving additional oxygen stock over the past few days.Against an allocated quota of 40 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, the district on Wednesday received around 48 MT. However, officials familiar with the development said that there is demand for 60 MT of oxygen and that the shortage of oxygen is also hampering the treatment of patients in smaller hospitals and owners of some of them said they have stopped taking new patients.“The demand is rising exponentially as the number of serious patients is rising. We are distributing as per the demand and also to ensure there is no distress situation at any hospital. We don’t want a situation where there is an emergency,” said Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram.On Wednesday, the city received oxygen from one tanker from Faridabad, one from Bhiwadi and two from the oxygen express train between Faridabad and Rourkela, while the city will receive two tankers from Panipat on Thursday morning, said officials. On Tuesday, the city had received 43 MT oxygen against a demand of 55 MT.Last week, the Haryana government directed that hospitals with fewer than 15 beds should not admit Covid-19 patients as they did not have adequate oxygen infrastructure. However, larger hospitals are also struggling to cope with the shortage.The management of Artemis Hospital in the city on Wednesday stopped new admissions, citing oxygen shortage, and that the policy will continue till the situation improves. “We have suspended admissions because of extremely limited oxygen supply. We will not be able to create any extra space for Covid-19 patients, even in the emergency (ward),” said an official spokesperson for Artemis Hospitals.While larger hospitals struggled to increase the facilities of critical patients, smaller private hospitals and nursing homes called for streamlining oxygen distribution and checking overcharging.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, the director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, said that they have not received oxygen supply despite a quota being fixed. “The refilling station is demanding ₹40,000 in cash apart from the payment in cheques. They are charging ₹450 per oxygen cylinders, instead of ₹250. How we will run operations if all the agencies involved demand cash? Our patients will die, but we are not responsible as we are unable to provide them with oxygen,” he said and wanted the authorities to intervene.Even as hospitals and residents complained over malpractice at refilling facilities, the Haryana government on Wednesday ordered all district deputy commissioners to constitute a committee to oversee oxygen refillers.M Shayin, additional chief secretary of Haryana health and family welfare department, said that they have come to know that the oxygen being delivered to refillers was often not being optimally utilised. “The committee will include an executive magistrate and police personnel,” said Shayin in the order.The order also asked deputy commissioners to prepare a list of chronic oxygen-dependent patients and designate at least one refiller in the district to fill their cylinders. Deputy commissioners and civil surgeons were directed to assess the utilisation of oxygen at hospitals. Drug control officers will have the overall responsibility to enforce the penal provisions applicable for oxygen as a medical drug and to ensure its non-diversion, the order statedOwners of smaller hospitals also demanded an increase in the allocation of oxygen.Dr Swati Rathore, director, Kriti hospital in Sector 56, said that eight people had died on April 30 in her hospital due to lack of oxygen and the situation is the same at present. “I have six critical patients and one on a ventilator. We can’t keep them without oxygen but we have not received a single cylinder in the last two days. The officers from the district administration and municipal corporation are not responding to our calls and messages and we are helpless,” she said.Administration officials said that they are doing their best to ensure supply, despite a shortage.Garg said, “We received 48 MT on Wednesday while the demand is almost 60 MT. We are trying hard to meet the demand somehow and the distress calls have reduced in the past two to three days.”He said that wherever the hospitals have flagged emergencies, oxygen was supplied.He said that to resolve the problem faced by smaller hospitals, a fixed quota has been set for 72 hospitals. “I have also allocated gas to Star Gases in Manesar for issuing the same to individuals who are isolated at home,” Garg said, adding that he had not received any complaint regarding overcharging.A few private hospitals said that the situation improved after the district administration allocated a fixed supply for smaller hospitals. “We have been allotted 10 cylinders daily by the administration and we are getting the same. The authorities have finally woken to the problems faced by nursing homes that form the backbone of the city’s healthcare system,” said Dr Shyam Lal Kohli, managing director, Chirag Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-shortage-continues-due-to-spike-in-serious-covid-19-cases-101620237698172.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Health officials to check oxygen use at hospitals||The district administration is planning to deploy health officials at private hospitals for conducting checks to ensure that medical oxygen is being used judiciously.Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller officer, who is part of the oxygen management team, said, “We are focusing on proper management of oxygen and ensuring that it does not go to waste. We are planning to deploy our existing health officials at private hospitals, who would be conducting regular checks to ensure that there is no misuse, leakage or black marketing being done.”He said that the team has not received any complaint so far about black marketing of oxygen at private hospitals, but officials are being extra cautious due to the high demand.“We are trying to ensure that all hospitals get the required amount of oxygen, with no hospital getting extra or less than the requirement. We are calculating the requirement of different hospitals based on the number of oxygen and intensive care unit (ICU) beds available at each facility,” Chauhan said.Meanwhile, officials of the health department said that many hospitals are not taking proper measures for distributing oxygen to patients and placing excessive demands, whereas the condition of the patient can be managed by either giving steroids or other medicines.“We understand that the demand for oxygen is high and patients need it, but there are known medical procedures or medicines that can be given to patients to stabilise their condition without giving them oxygen. If hospitals follow these medical procedures correctly, then oxygen supply can be diverted to patients who actually need it; there are many patients in home isolation who also need oxygen but are not able to get it,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.The official cited above said that the health officials deployed at private hospitals will also be able to keep a check on whether apt medical procedures are being followed and families do not have to run from pillar to post for procuring oxygen for the patients.At present, Gurugram is allotted 40 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen but is currently in possession of additional stock due to increased supply over the past few days. The district received 43 MT of oxygen on Monday from plants in Bhiwadi in Rajasthan and neighbouring Panipat, besides a consignment from the oxygen express train on its route from Rourkela to neighbouring Faridabad. The supply was eight metric tonnes more than the supply on Sunday, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-officials-to-check-oxygen-use-at-hospitals-101620237639944.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||‘Haryana will see Covid-19 second wave peak by May 15’||Haryana is already among the 10 worst-affected Covid-19 states across the country, but it is yet to witness its peak, says Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health and home affairs department, Haryana government. Arora spoke to Archana Mishra about the projections, mutant strains of SARS-CoV-2 virus prevalent in the state and oxygen supply disruptions in the district.Gurugram has been witnessing a powerful resurgence in coronavirus infections. How do you assess the situation and what are the projections?The projections made by the central government on the current growth rate of the infection shows that Haryana will see the Covid-19 second wave peak by May 15. Currently, there are 108, 830 active cases in the state. It is expected that by May 15, it will reach about 140,000. Thereafter, the curve of the active case will begin to plateau. The surge will not be from Gurugram alone, which has been reporting maximum coronavirus case every day, but from other districts too. In the case of Gurugram, the average test positivity rate has been around 25% in the last few days, which was earlier around 29 to 33%. This test positivity rate of Gurugram will remain for some time, as, in all likelihood, the decline will be seen first in the northern belt of Panchkula, Ambala and Kurukshetra.The district is already grappling with a lack of oxygen and beds for critically ill Covid-19 patients. How is the state planning to address the situation when the cases increase further?Haryana’s oxygen production has been high. But, as per the allocations made by the Government of India, we are providing it to other states like Delhi and Punjab. There are diversions in the oxygen supply even after the allocation. Certainly, there are logistical issues, but the state has already detailed the oxygen demand of every district. In the last seven to 10 days, there have been dramatic changes in the oxygen plant contract policy, which has also affected the certainty of oxygen supply and the existing mechanism between oxygen plants and hospitals in Gurugram. It was not expected that oxygen demand would shoot up within a week. To timely address the shortfall in oxygen supply, we are airlifting cryogenic oxygen containers from Rourkela. For Covid-19 bed management, deputy commissioners have already been assigned the task of arranging facilities.How many mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus are currently prevalent in Haryana?Based on the genomic sequencing of 922 samples collected across the state, at least 555 showed no mutation while 367 showed mutant strains. Of these, 310 samples were of the UK variant. Results provided by a Delhi-based lab mentions that 45% of samples had “variant of concern” and 3% with “variant not of concern”.Covid-19 vaccination has also become a big challenge in the district, especially for those who need to take the second shot within the allotted time frame. How is the state planning to address the problem?Undoubtedly, the process has been disrupted. The vaccine stock which was to be used only for the prioritised population groups has been now divided into two categories, 18 to 44 years and citizens aged over 45 years. Since the state is no longer linked with private hospitals to provide the vaccine, people who require the second dose can get the inoculation at government facilities. We have already allocated 13,000 additional doses to Gurugram to streamline the vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-will-see-covid-19-second-wave-peak-by-may-15-101620237639227.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Police, drug controller bust oxygen cylinder smuggling racket||In the largest haul yet in Gurugram, police recovered 260 oxygen cylinders from three person who were caught selling them at exorbitant rates on Wednesday in Sector 68. Police said this was part of a 500-cylinder consignment that they had brought from Maharashtra to sell in the Covid-hit city.Police said the suspects, Vikas Kumar (32) and Shiv Kumar (33) from Karnal and Prabhat Kumar (31) of Uttar Pradesh, sold 150 type-D cylinders (46.7 litres) for over ₹34,000 each in the last two days. The market price of the cylinder is around ₹7,000.According to the police, the Gurugram drug controller received a tip on the operation on Tuesday. A joint team of the drug controller and police a raided Aklimpur village in Sector 68. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said, “They sold the cylinder from their canter. They had brought 500 oxygen cylinders on Wednesday, out of which 20 were filled and sold the same day along with 150 empty cylinders. The suspects sold 70 empty cylinders on Tuesday.” Rao said Prabhat had arranged the cylinders after the demand for it increased in the city amid the coronavirus crisis. “We are were carrying out drives against black marketeers across the district and more than 10 people have already been arrested,” he said.Amandeep Chauhan, district drug controller, said that they have activated their sources across the city to share the leads of people involved in black marketing Covid medicines and oxygen cylinders. “We are yet to verify the vendor from whom they had bought these cylinders. We will coordinate with Mumbai Police and will share information regarding the gang smuggling oxygen cylinders,” he said. Police said the suspects were produced before the court on Wednesday and were taken on a three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-drug-controller-bust-oxygen-cylinder-smuggling-racket-101620237638623.html
05-05-2021||Other||Gurugram to get six new oxygen plants to offset shortage: MP||The district will get six new oxygen plants to offset the shortage of oxygen required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, said Lok Sabha member from Gurugram, Rao Inderjit Singh, on Wednesday. He said that one oxygen plant each in Rewari, Mahendragarh and Mewat will also be set up under the aegis of the National Disaster Management Authority, which has sanctioned 50 plants for the state.The announcement assumes significance as the city presently is getting around 45 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, against a daily demand of 60 MT, said officials.“The work on these plants has already been initiated and I have asked officials to expedite the process to identify land and create infrastructure for setting up these plants at the earliest,” said the Gurugram member of Parliament, who also held a review meeting with the district officials.Singh also said that an oxygen tank would.be soon made available to the medical college in Nuh, which will ensure that ventilators and other equipment become functional at the earliest.In a related development, the state government on Wednesday also issued directions that committees be formed at the district level to ensure that refilling of oxygen cylinders is streamlined and home-isolated patients don’t have to struggle to get cylinders refilled.The committees would check that cylinders are filled as per correct weight and that buyers are not overcharged, as per an order issued in this regard.“The deputy commissioners will also, through Red Cross societies, prepare a list of chronic oxygen-dependent patients and designate at least one refiller to supply oxygen to them on presentation of chronic disabilities certificate,” said an order issued by the health department, adding that authorities will also keep a tab on the usage of oxygen at private hospitals and government facilities to ensure these are not diverted for non-medical use.The government on Wednesday also appointed Rajnarayan Kaushik, an IAS officer of the 2010 batch, to assist the district administration in Covid management. It also directed that an HCS official should be appointed to share information and apprise the elected representatives of the latest step being taken for Covid-19 management.Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that he has already designated the Star Gas plant in Manesar for filling oxygen cylinders for patients in home isolation and after assessing the demand for chronic patients, one filling station would be designated for them also. “We have also launched a WhatsApp chatbot through which city residents can get information regarding vaccination, testing and related information. One can save the number 9643277788 and send a message on WhatsApp to get information,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-to-get-six-new-oxygen-plants-to-offset-shortage-mp-101620237637518.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Covid helpline numbers set up||Gurugram launched a Covid-19 relief WhatsApp chatbot (+91 96432 77788) on Wednesday to help patients isolating at home. The administration stated in a press release that the chatbot will help patients get free home consultation from doctors, information about nearby RT-PCR test centres and camps, and other queries regarding Covid-19. The chatbot was developed in partnership with at least eight private companies, it said. A Covid-19 helpline number, 1800-1800-147, was also released by Shri Vishwakarma Skill University set up by Haryana government on Wednesday. It will give information about beds, oxygen cylinders, blood plasma donors, ambulance facility and Covid-19 testing and vaccination spots in districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-helpline-numbers-set-up-101620237638007.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||35-year-old shot dead in PG in argument with two others||A 35-year-old man was shot dead inside a paying guest (PG) house in Ishlampur village of Sector 38 on Tuesday night by two armed persons, the police said. The victim was killed over personal rivalry, the police said. According to police, the victim, identified as Sandeep of Sampla village in Rohtak, was residing in a PG in Ishlampur village for the last two months along with the suspects, identified as Manish and Jonty. It is suspected that the trio had an argument over an issue, following which one of them opened fire. The police said the victim was hit with four rounds and he died on the spot. The suspects fled the spot and the hospital Sandeep was taken to declared that he was brought dead,A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant section of the Arms Act was registered at Sadar police station. No arrest has been made so far. “The murder seems to be the fallout of an old enmity. The accused has been identified and exact cause of the murder could be known only after the arrest of the accused,” said KK Rao, the police commissioner, adding that teams are conducting raids to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/35yearold-shot-dead-in-pg-in-argument-with-two-others-101620237577528.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Committee to oversee oxygen refillers in city||Haryana government on Wednesday ordered all district deputy commissioners to constitute a committee to oversee oxygen refillers.M. Shayin, additional chief secretary of Haryana health and family welfare department said that they have come to know that the oxygen being delivered to refillers was often not being optimally utilised. “The committee will include an executive magistrate and police personnel,” said Shayin in the order. In case of any discrepancy, there will be legal action against the refiller, it said. The order also asked deputy commissioners to prepare a list of chronic oxygen-dependent patients and designate at least one refiller in the district to will fill their cylinders. Deputy commissioners and civil surgeons were directed to assess the utilization of oxygen at hospitals. Drug control officers will have the overall responsibility to enforce the penal provisions applicable for oxygen as a medical drug and to ensure its non-diversion, the order stated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/committee-to-oversee-oxygen-refillers-in-city-101620237578049.html
05-05-2021||Other||UP BJP leaders stage sit-ins to protest Bengal violence||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday staged a sit-in outside their homes, sitting alone to indicate Covid-appropriate behaviour, to protest against the attacks on party cadre in West Bengal after Trinamool Congress’s third consecutive win there. The UP BJP leaders claimed that the attacks on BJP cadres were carried out at the behest of the ruling TMC. While state BJP chief Swatantra Dev staged a dharna outside his residence, several party functionaries and ministers follow suit across the state. “There is Corona curfew in the state and hence as representatives of a disciplined party, we staged protests in keeping with the Covid protocol. But the situation that prevails in West Bengal is shocking. Such things were heard during the partition,” said the UP BJP chief. The BJP leaders claimed that within 24 hours of the election results in West Bengal, the TMC cadre unleashed terror, targeting BJP cadres. “Such violence is unacceptable in a democracy,” the BJP leader said adding they would continue to fight against such violence in a democratic way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-bjp-leaders-stage-sit-ins-to-protest-bengal-violence-101620235957175.html
05-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19: Jharkhand extends lockdown-like restrictions till May 13||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday extended the lockdown-like restrictions till May 13 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, officials said.The restrictions, first imposed on April 22 as "Health Safety Week", were scheduled to end on Thursday."In exercise of the powers conferred under ... the Disaster Management Act... the provisions of order number 82 dated 28.4.2021 shall extend till 6 am on 13.05.2021," chief secretary Sukhdev Singh said in an order.State government offices shall be permitted to function till normal hours instead of 2 pm, as per the order.The restrictions were first imposed till April 28 and then extended till May 6.The decision to extend the restrictions was taken at a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren.During the period, the shops are open till 2 pm and people are allowed to travel till 3 pm.All indoor and outdoor congregations of more than five persons are prohibited, except weddings that have a cap of 50 persons and last rites with a maximum of 30 persons in attendance.All education centres and coaching institutions are closed and all examinations postponed.Cinema halls, multiplexes, stadiums, gymnasiums, swimming pools and parks, among others, are also closed.Agriculture, industries and mining operations are functioning. Religious places are open but devotees in fixed numbers are allowed.Essential and emergency services are exempted.Jharkhand reported 132 new Covid-19 deaths and 5,974 more cases on Wednesday.The state at present has 59,707 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-jharkhand-extends-lockdown-like-restrictions-till-may-13-101620235556467.html
05-05-2021||Other||BJP woos Independents as SP upsets its applecart||The three-tier panchayat elections, considered a semi-final before the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, provided a boost to the Samajwadi Party (SP) that bagged the single largest chunk of zila panchayat wards, but the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ended up with a below par performance and was now looking to make amends in the indirect election for zila panchayat chief and block pramukhs, who will be chosen by zila panchayat members. The trends and results available for the 3,050 district panchayat wards on Wednesday evening showed the SP winning or leading in 779 wards, the BJP at 579, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) at 361 and the Congress at 76. Independents and smaller parties won or led in 1,272 wards.The BJP, which secured a landslide victory in the 2017 UP assembly election bagging 312 out of 403 seats in the state assembly over four years ago, suffered setbacks in its bastions of Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur in the panchayat elections even as the SP maintained its grip on its strongholds of Etawah (western UP), Kannauj (central UP), Mainpuri (western UP), Azamgarh (eastern UP), Etah (western UP), Kasganj (western UP) and Farrukhabad (western UP) by bagging the maximum seats.Although the panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols and the State Election Commission (SEC) has said results won’t be declared on party lines, all parties have officially released the names of the candidates backed by them.The BJP has already opened channels with the independents, a majority of them rebels from various parties, to try and win the maximum of the zila panchayat chairpersons’ and block pramukhs’ post. “Several independents are in touch with us,” a BJP leader confirmed.The indirect elections are to be held for 75 posts of zila panchayat chairpersons and 826 kshetra panchayat chairpersons (block chiefs).“In 2015, when the Samajwadi Party was in power, they had claimed win in nearly 2100 zila panchayat seats. Naturally, they won the indirect polls to elect the zila panchayat chief and block pramukh too. But this time our performance wasn’t up to the mark and a major reason for it could be several party candidates contesting for the same post, which created confusion and ultimately division of our votes,” a BJP leader said. The victory of the SP and other Opposition candidates in the panchayat election is likely to set the ground for fresh political realignment and alliances before the assembly election. The smaller political parties, including the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), the Aam Admi Party (AAP), the Apna Dal, the Azad Samaj Party (Bhim Army) and the Pragtisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia also bagged wards in the areas of their influence. The Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha launched by the smaller parties has called for a united alliance against the NDA in the 2022 assembly election, said SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar.The farmers’ agitation against three central agrarian laws dented the BJP’s fortunes in west UP where it had won the maximum seats in the 2017 assembly elections.The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) that won only one seat in the 2017 assembly election and was wiped out in its stronghold in west UP made a comeback in the panchayat election, winning seats in Meerut, Shamli, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Hapur and Bijnor (all in the west UP region).The BJP had “organised” chaupals in the villages before the panchayat elections with party MPs, MLAs and a battery of ministers campaigning in the rural areas.In Varanasi, the SP won 15 of the 40 wards, the BJP seven, the BSP seven and the Congress five wards so far. In Ayodhya, the SP won 24 of 40 wards, BJP bagged six and BSP five wards.In Lucknow, SP won 10 of 25 wards, the BJP bagged three and the BSP secured five wards. The Congress failed to win in any ward in the two regions. In Gorakhpur, the SP won 19 of 68 wards, the BJP won 20, theEven as the BJP and the SP claimed victory in the panchayat election, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday congratulated the victorious party candidates and thanked the voters for supporting the BJP candidates.In a tweet, Yogi called upon the victorious candidates and people to assist the administration in fighting the Covid pandemic. They should follow the Covid guidelines and corona curfew protocol, he said.Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said the ruling BJP was a sinking ship. The results of the panchayat elections clearly showed that BJP would face defeat in the 2022 assembly elections, he said. The BSP that won merely 19 seats in the 2017 assembly elections also made a comeback in its strongholds of Saharanpur (western UP), Mau (eastern UP), Amroha (western UP), Ghaziabad (western UP), Bhadohi (eastern UP) and Ambedkar Nagar (eastern UP) by bagging the maximum number of the zila panchayat wards there.BSP chief Mayawati has directed the party leaders and workers to begin preparations for the assembly election. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, however, said the party had done well in the polls.BSP legislature party leader Lalji Verma dismissed BJP claims of having done well in these rural polls. “I would have agreed that they did well had they announced their candidates for block pramukh, zila panchayat and block development council. This they didn’t do. Rest is immaterial for the BJP is currently the ruling party,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-woos-independents-as-sp-upsets-its-applecart-101620235717244.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cop who kicked vegetable vendor’s basket suspended||Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta suspended station house officer of Phagwara Navdeep Singh on Wednesday after a video showing him kicking the vegetable basket of a street vendor went viral on social media.Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SHO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences. https://t.co/terAynz6aoIn the video, Navdeep was seen kicking a basket of vegetables set up by a vegetable vendor at a market in Phagwara. The Punjab DGP said that such kind of behaviour was unacceptable and suspended the police officer. “Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SHO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences,” Punjab DGP said in a tweet.Navdeep’s behaviour was condemned even by Kapurthala’s senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur who said that such behaviour lends a bad name to the entire police force. “A departmental enquiry has been initiated against him,” Kaur told news agency PTI. The officers of the Kapurthala Police also contributed a small amount from their salaries in order to provide compensation to the vegetable vendor.The Punjab government declared lockdown-like measures until May 15 where it ordered closure of all shops barring those selling essential commodities. Punjab is among the states which has observed a daily rise in the number of cases. The state saw the highest single-day surge in the number of Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday as it reported 173 fatalities. Punjab recorded 7,601 new cases which took its tally to 399,556. The state has 61,935 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cop-who-kicked-vegetable-vendor-s-basket-suspended-101620234681805.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Bihar reports 14,836 new Covid-19 cases, Patna worst affected||Bihar was on Wednesday left with more than 1.13 lakh active COVID-19 cases with nearly 15,000 people testing positive in the last 24 hours, while its death toll rose to 2987 as 61 people succumbed to the dreaded coronavirus since the previous day. According to the state health department, 14,836 people tested positive in the last 24 hours and Patna remained the worst hit among Bihar's 40 districts, accounting for 2420 of the fresh cases and 17 of the fatalities during the period. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases reported from the district, so far, stands at 1.15 lakhs, more than 20 per cent of the states aggregate of 5.38 lakh cases and its active caseload soared at 20,487. Meanwhile, rattled by the second wave which has caused its active caseload to jump by more than 50 times in about a month, the state underwent an 11-day lockdown. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar reached out to the people of the state with an appeal to put off, "if possible", ceremonies like weddings until the situation was under control. As per the guidelines issued by the state home department, marriage ceremonies can take place with a maximum number of 50 people attending the functions. The day also saw the police cracking down on those flouting restrictions imposed to contain the contagion, besides those involved in "black marketing" of oxygen cylinders, the demand for which has seen a dramatic rise following the recent spurt in COVID-19 cases. According to the state police headquarters, four residents of the state capital were arrested and 55 oxygen cylinders seized from their possession. Notably, the day also saw the chief minister chairing a high-level meeting where he issued instructions for ensuring adequate supply of oxygen and increasing the generation capacity. Besides, altogether 448 vehicles have been seized, seven people arrested, five FIRs registered and fines to the tune of ₹7.97 lakh slapped, in the last 24 hours, on those found to be guilty of violating the guidelines and protocol enforced for containing the outbreak, said the police headquarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-reports-14-836-new-covid-19-cases-patna-worst-affected-101620232602413.html
05-05-2021||Noida||3 arrested in Ghaziabad for supplying used surgical gloves, say police||Three people were arrested here on Wednesday for allegedly supplying used surgical gloves in the market to make some quick money amid a high demand for such protective medical equipment due to the Covid-19 pandemic, police said.The accused have been identified as Guddu, Azeem and Parvez, all residents of Delhi, they said.Based on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at a factory in Tronica City area. The accused were washing and repacking the used surgical gloves before supplying them in the market, Superintendent of Police (rural) Iraj Raja said.They rented a plot and started the recycling unit after seeing the huge demand for gloves due to the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said.Ninety-eight gunny bags containing used surgical gloves and 60 containing washed gloves were seized during the raid at the factory. As many as 800 packing boxes, three washing machines, one dryer and some chemicals were also seized, Raja said.The accused told police that they bought the used surgical gloves from hospitals for supplying them in the market after recycling. A case has been filed against the trio under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.Action will also be initiated against the plot owner, Jai Pal Singh, if it is found that he had rented out his plot to the accused knowing about their unlawful activities, Raja said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3-arrested-in-ghaziabad-for-supplying-used-surgical-gloves-say-police-101620233273439.html
05-05-2021||Other||Agra sees dip in Covid cases during partial curfew: Study||The partial statewide corona curfew seems to have a positive impact in Agra with the Taj city witnessing a decline in daily Covid cases, said a study conducted by the district administration.The corona curfew from Friday 8 pm (April 30) to Tuesday 7 am (May 4), which was extended on May 3 for 48 hours and is in force till May 6 till 7 am has been further extended till Monday (May 10) 7 am.As per the study, there were 893 Covid positive cases on Friday (April 30) when the partial corona curfew began and the number gradually fell and on Wednesday (May 5) 205 cases were reported. Such downward trend was also witnessed in daily sample positivity which was at peak in last days of April and has witnessed downward trend after the curfew began since Friday last.On Wednesday there were three deaths due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 285 while 205 people tested positive of the virus. Also, 707 people were cured in the last 24 hours and active cases stands at 3127. “In all there had been 22619 positive cases of Covid-19 in Agra out of which 19207 patients got cured. In all 75391 samples have been collected and tested in Agra,” said district magistrate Agra Prabhu N Singh.The recovery rate which was badly affected in second wave in April also exhibited signs of improvement and rose to 84.92% on Wednesday after dropping to 75.68% on April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-during-partial-curfew-study-101620233016711.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi not receiving enough Covid-19 vaccine doses, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Wednesday said the city is not getting enough vaccines, and reiterated if doses are made available in time his government could vaccinate everyone here within three months.He also said the Delhi government will decide about extending the ongoing lockdown in the city depending on the number of Covid-19 cases.“Right now the citizens of Delhi themselves want this lockdown to continue to stop the spread of this virus,” he said after visiting a vaccination centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Rajendra Nagar.He said Delhi has put in place infrastructure for vaccination which can be used to scale-up inoculation drive massively within 24 hours."Supply of more vaccine is the fundamental requirement right now. If vaccine is provided in sufficient quantity, we can achieve our target of vaccinating entire Delhi in 3 months," he said.The Delhi government has already ordered 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines."The process of vaccination has started successfully. We have received a very less quantity of vaccines. Now the kind of infrastructure we have developed based on that we can ramp up the vaccination drive within 24 hours," he said.Full-fledged vaccination of people in the age group 18-44 years began in Delhi on May 2, after the city government received 4.5 lakh doses of vaccine.The vaccination drive in the city has begun at both private and government facilities, and a large number of youth are turning up for taking jabs, the Chief Minister said."As I earlier said that we want to vaccinate every citizen here within three months but to do that we need proper supply of vaccines. I am very hopeful that we can reach that target but for that sufficient supply of vaccine should be ensured."Kejriwal also said his government is working with the Centre on the issue of oxygen supply. "We completely understand that the Central government is responsible for ensuring oxygen to the entire country. But we hope that Central will provide Delhi with its quota of required oxygen," he said.The Centre has allocated 590 MT of oxygen per day to Delhi. The city government has complained of getting less oxygen than the fixed quota and demanded it to be raised further to 976 MT."For the past several days, we are battling with the scarcity of oxygen. During this tough time, we have also received massive support from the Supreme Court and the High Court. I am hopeful that in the coming days the situation will improve.”The oxygen supply is being constantly monitored, he said.A total 43 SOS calls for oxygen were received from hospitals on Tuesday, Kejriwal said, and added the Delhi government is working round the clock to ensure there is no fatality due to lack of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-not-receiving-enough-covid-19-vaccine-doses-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101620231792305.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Man in police custody for killing havaldar||A police havaldar was murdered on a public street in Budhwar peth early on Wednesday morning. The havaldar identified his assailant in his final moments in hospital which helped the police catch the accused within an hour of the murder. They police arrested Praveen Mahajan (34), a resident of Budhwar peth, over suspicion of his involvement in the killing. He has been remanded to three days in police custody, according to the police. The deceased cop has been identified as Sameer Sayyed (48), a resident of Khadak police lines. Sayyed was a havaldar attached to the Faraskhana police station. Police believe he was attacked when heading home. The deceased was found with deep cut marks on his neck, stomach, and chest, according to police. He was found lying in a pool of his blood near a restaurant close to the defunct Shrikrishna Talkies in Budhwar peth. The police suspect he was killed around 1am. Mahajan has a history of violent crimes and has several on occasion violated externments handed out to him in the past. Even now, he was serving a one-year externment, said Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. “There was some dispute which led to the murder [Sayyed’s] but it is too premature to say anything [conclusively]. We are also chasing a suspect in a second murder,” said Narnavare. A complaint in the matter was lodged by sub-inspector Shrikant Sawant of Faraskhana police station. “When we recieved the information and went to the spot, the havaldar was alive. On his way to the hospital, he told his colleague who had done it. So the man was caught immediately. Within half an hour of reaching the hospital, he was declared dead,” said assistant commissioner of police Satish Govekar of Faraskhana division of Pune police. The people who were out on the streets and witnessed the attack are in the process of recording their statements, according to ACP Govekar. A case under Sections 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act; Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act has been registered at Faraskhana police station. Commercial sex worker killed in her house A 24-year-old sex worker was killed in her house in the Kachra building of Budhwar peth on Wednesday. The woman lived on the first floor of Kachra building in the red-light area of Pune. The woman was a native of West Bengal as is the suspect in the case, according to senior inspector Rajendra Landge of Faraskhana police station. “We are close to catching the man. He was a regular customer and a friend of her husband. They had had multiple fights as the woman had asked him not to tell her husband. He came to her house at 3am and killed her,” said PI Landage. A case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered at Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-police-custody-for-killing-havaldar-101620231996563.html
05-05-2021||Pune||PMC extends Swach contract, but evaluating other options||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has extended the contract of Swach, a non-profit responsible for door-to-door waste collection in the city by another month but is also checking out options to appoint other agencies for merged villages.The plan is to continue with Swach in the old city limits. Swach is a PMC supported non-profit organization for door-to-door waste collection. PMC renews the contract with Swach every five years, which ended in December 2020. Based on the complaints of corporators, the PMC standing committee was earlier pursuing bids of other agencies for fair competition in the collection and segregation of garbage in the city. However, due to Covid-19, there was no general body meeting taking place and hence the decision was pending but it was passed in a general body meeting in March 2021 to extend Swach’s contract for two months. Now, the standing committee has given another one-month extension to Swach on the background of Covid-19 situation. One of the PMC officials said, “In the coming days, we are working on the proposal to call tenders for merged villages and give extension to Swach in the old city limit areas. In the Covid-19 situation, if we carry the fresh tender for garbage collection of garbage, it will hamper the existing waste collection system. So, without disturbing the existing Swach system, we are working to call tenders for merge areas.” Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “The administration demanded to give an extension of three months to Swach. However, we have given an extension by a month and instructed the administration to start a new tender process.” Kunal Khemnar, PMC additional municipal commissioner said, “We prepared all necessary steps to call fresh tenders for door-to-door waste segregation and collection. Now, the committee has given a month’s extension to Swach. After the merger of 23 villages, we will check the option of appointing other agencies.” Ajit Deshmukh, head of solid waste department of PMC said, “We have mentioned in the proposal that there is a need to give extension to Swach for five years. On the other side, there will be a merger of 23 new villages in the PMC limit. There is no proper system to collect garbage and Swach is also not covering these areas. Therefore, the administration will have to outsource garbage transportation and collection but, it will take some period.” Swach covers around 8.5 lakh properties in the city and gets ₹4.5 to ₹5 crore from residents every month in addition to ₹2.5 to ₹3 crore paid annually by PMC as supervision fees. However, there are numerous complaints from corporators, and some citizens are against Swach workers for not lifting garbage properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-extends-swach-contract-but-evaluating-other-options-101620231696406.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra preparing for third wave of Covid-19, Uddhav Thackeray announces||Having witnessed the brunt of the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that the third wave is imminent and urged the people to be careful. The chief minister said that the state government has started ‘Mission Oxygen’ to avoid any scarcity."We have started the preparations for the third wave. We have directed to increase oxygen production by 3,000 metric tonnes from the current 1,200 metric tonnes," Thackeray told media persons.Also read: Citizens in several nations keen to get shots but govts fail to cater to demandsThe chief minister also noted that the Covid-19 cases in some districts have started declining while in some other districts they are still witnessing a rise.On the preparations by the state to combat the inevitable third wave Thackeray said the task force members have started speaking with family doctors to tell them what to do if a Covid-19 positive patient comes and what line of treatment to follow etc.The health ministry also warned about the predestined third wave of Covid-19, considering the high level of virus circulation. While the time when the third phase of the deadly virus has not been determined, the government urged everyone to be prepared."Phase 3 is inevitable, given the high level of circulating virus. Though not clear on what time scale Phase 3 will occur. We should be prepared for new waves; previous infections/vaccines will cause pressure on the virus for changes to escape; need scientific solutions, "principal advisor to the government K Vijay Raghavan said during a press briefing on Wednesday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19India is currently reeling under the weight of the second wave of Covid-19 that has overwhelmed the underprepared healthcare infrastructure of the country.Maharashtra is the major contributor to the number of new infections as well as to the active caseload of the country. The state reported over 57,000 new Covid-19 infections and 920 deaths in the last 24 hours, data updated by the state health department on Wednesday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-preparing-for-third-wave-of-covid-19-uddhav-thackeray-announces-101620229754391.html
05-05-2021||Pune||No frequent heat wave conditions reported in April: IMD||As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), like March 2021, the heat wave conditions in April 2021 were occasional and also for shorter periods over very small pockets. In Maharashtra and rest of Central India, no frequent heat wave conditions were observed and the maximum temperature over Maharashtra and Central India was below normal by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius.Explaining the cause of fewer heat waves, OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and forecast, IMD Pune said that the cause of isolated heat waves in Central India is that we are experiencing La Nina conditions this year. “We generally observe fewer heat waves during the La Nina condition. Also, the major reason for fewer heat waves in the region is attributed to regular wet spells observed over western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India and adjoining central parts of India in April. Due to the presence of lower-level wind convergence on many days in April this year, Maharashtra and adjoining parts of peninsular India, experienced rainfall and thunderstorm activities at regular intervals, thus reducing the heat intensity in April. The warmer days with higher maximum temperature were relatively less in number due to frequent rainfall activity,” said Sreejith. He further added that a few occasional shorter duration spells of heat wave were reported at isolated pockets in other parts of the country like Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. According to IMD officials, the month of April this year was the 12th warmest for Central India since 1901 with an increase in day temperature by 0.6 degrees Celsius. As per data shared by IMD, the maximum temperature over Central India that includes Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha exceeded the normal temperature during April by 0.6 degrees Celsius.According to the department, the subdivision of Konkan and Goa from west coast is likely to report warmer than normal day temperature in the month of May.“As predicted for the month of May, the Konkan and Goa region may have warmer than normal day temperature. The temperature may vary due to various local weather patterns that are at play. For other parts, local forecasts are given by IMD. For monsoon, IMD will issue an updated forecast by the end of May,” said Sreejith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-frequent-heat-wave-conditions-reported-in-april-imd-101620231636315.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||UP sees biggest single-day jump in Covid deaths at 357; 31,165 fresh cases added||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday recorded the biggest single-day jump of 357 Covid-19 deaths that took the toll to 14,151 while 31,165 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 13,99,294.Of the latest fatalities, 46 were reported from Kanpur, 38 from Lucknow, 24 from Chandauli, 17 from Lakhimpur Kheri, 13 each from Sonbhadra and Ghaziabad, 12 each from Gorakhpur and Jhansi, and 10 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, the state government said in a statement issued here.Lucknow reported the highest number of fresh cases at 3,004, followed by 1,732 in Meerut, 1,703 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, 1,373 in Ghaziabad, 1,206 in Kanpur, 1,069 in Saharanpur and 1,055 in Gorakhpur.There are 2,62,474 active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the statement said.As many as 40,852 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,22,669, it said.More than 2.32 lakh samples were tested in Uttar Pradesh the previous day. So far, over 4.20 crore samples have been tested in the state, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sees-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-deaths-at-357-31-165-fresh-cases-seen-101620230714088.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Chairman of Badve group passes away||Shankar Prabhakar Badve, chairman of the Badve Group of Companies passed away on Tuesday at the age of 82. Born in Jodhpur, in 1938, his father Dr Prabhakar Badve was a veteran doctor in the Indian Armed Services. Shankar Badve, after completing his B.E. Mech from College of Engineering, Pune joined Bajaj Auto Limited and after serving for 37 years, superannuated as a plant head of the three- wheeler division. Post his retirement in 1987, along with his elder son, Shrikant Shankar Badve, he laid the foundation of Badve Group of Companies. By his vision and enormous efforts Badve Group reached ₹5,000 crore turnover and is one of the reputed auto component manufacturers in India having its presence in seven states and 28 manufacturing facilities across India. Badve group caters to all major OEMs in the like of Bajaj Auto, Honda Motors, Hero Motocorp, Mahindra and Mahindra among others. Shankar Badve has left behind his wife, two sons, one daughter, two daughters-in-law and grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chairman-of-badve-group-passes-away-101620231396307.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Remdesivir vial stolen from Sassoon Hospital||A vial of Remdesivir injection used for treating Covid-19 patients was reported stolen from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) in the first week of May. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a nurse who works in the Covid-19 unit of the hospital. The missing vial was a 200mg dose of Remdesivir by Remdac company worth ₹1,200, according to police. The hospital staff had received Remdesivir vials for the admitted Covid-19 patients at the hospital. The vials per patient are handed directly to the hospital by the local administration since the shortage of the drug had caused several cases of black marketing of the experimental drug. The hospital had received vials for a set number of patients on the evening of May 1. The drugs were handed over to the hospital staff on the morning of May 2. One injection was administered on the morning of May 2 and the empty vial was returned. However, when she came back at 2:30pm for the second dose, the new vial was missing, according to the complaint. After searching for the missing vial until the morning of May 3, the hospital staff decided to lodge a complaint. “We are told that the people who are involved in the treatment are the only ones who have access to the store. We are investigating everyone involved,” said assistant police inspector Harish Thakur of Bundgarden police station who is investigating the case. A case under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/remdesivir-vial-stolen-from-sassoon-hospital-101620231336309.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Three sandalwood trees stolen from Yerawada jail premises||Three sandalwood trees were reported stolen from the premises of women’s section at the Yerawada Central jail. The theft happened between 4pm on April 24 and 10:30am on April 25, according to jail officials. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sudhir Gangarde (51), a supervisor at the Yerawada Central jail. The trees that were stolen were believed to be over 15-years old, the cost of the three trees are estimated to be around ₹1, 30,000. The trees were planted in the restricted area of the open jail meant for women. The open jail is meant for prisoners who are either at the end of their term or have a lenient sentence. The trees have not been uprooted but cut from the ground level, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 379 and 447 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Felling of Trees Rules was registered at Yerawada police station. Police sub inspector S Bhosale of Yerawada police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-yerawada-jail-premises-101620231276255.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Unused subways and FOBs in a poor state: survey||The Parisa NGO has found the conditions of foot over bridges (FOBs) and subways across the city to be in a poor state in an independent survey conducted earlier this year. The survey assessed the condition of 13 pedestrian subways and nine FOBs in Pune after a physical site visit and conditions using parameters defined in the city’s pedestrian policy.This report is yet to be presented to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), but shows that many facilities of subways and FOBs are poor in terms of lighting, ventilation, have no firefighting equipment, and have water seepage.According to Priya Pharanade, Parisar NGO junior programme associate, the organisation conducted the survey between December 2020 and January 2021 by visiting 16 subways, of which conditions of 13 were noted. “During our survey, we found that three subways are closed, while we found that there are two subways for vehicle movement and a pedestrian subway. Similarly, we surveyed 10 FOBs of which only one FOB was closed. After conducting the survey, we think that subways and foot overbridges are undesirable and should not be constructed, and if the authorities are planning more they should be maintained and should be used by people,” said Pharande. “It should be maintained, so pedestrians can use it. Some of the subways and FOBs are closed because of not being maintained properly and others are not used much as it is not convenient. This means that large amount of public money has been wasted on FOBs and subways which in the absence of proper maintenance makes them a dead expenditure,” added Pharande. According to Pune’s pedestrian policy, PMC should ensure regular maintenance and security for the pedestrian infrastructure (including FOBs, subways) to retain it in a good, clean, usable and safe condition at all times. Ward officers are responsible for pedestrian infrastructure in respective ward areas and necessary coordination with other departments such as road, traffic, electrical, garden department. “They have to ensure regular maintenance and security of existing FOBs, subways to retain it in a good, clean, usable and safe condition at all times in the pedestrian policy,” Pharande said. Box Total surveyed subways- 16 Condition noted down- 13 Closed subways- 3 Vehicle + pedestrian subway - 2 Total surveyed FOBs - 10 Open FOBs- 9 Closed FOB- 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unused-subways-and-fobs-in-a-poor-state-survey-101620230196052.html
05-05-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 tally nearing 625,000; 12,319 new cases reported||Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday reported 12,319 Covid-19 cases and 71 fatalities, taking the tally of infections in the state to 6,24,985 and the death toll to 6,074, the state health department said. A total of 9,643 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the count of recoveries to 5,29,667, the department said. With 1,817 new cases, Indore's caseload went up to 1,19,902, while that of Bhopal rose to 98,055 with the addition of 1,579 cases. Indore reported seven deaths taking the district's toll to 1,176 and the fatalities in Bhopal stood at 770 with six more deaths. Indore is now left with 12,930 active cases while Bhopal has 11,107 such cases. The number of active cases in the state stands at 89,244. With 66,283 new tests, the total of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh has crossed 80.58 lakh. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 6,24,985, new cases 12,319, death toll 6,074, recovered 5,29,667, active cases 89,244, number of tests conducted so far 80,58,819.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-s-covid-19-tally-nearing-625-000-12-319-new-cases-reported-101620229290369.html
05-05-2021||Pune||PMC headquarters fail to keep visitor count as per lockdown norms||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) headquarters could emerge as a potential Covid hotspot with residents crowding the premises despite restrictions on the number of functional staffers since the last two weeks and posing risk of the virus spread. Many visitors are seen without masks and violating social distancing rules. Large number of visitors has been observed at the health and building permission department. Those who visited the offices following the Covid protocol a few days ago expressed fears that unchecked crowding could lead to spread of the virus infection.During lockdown, PMC has issued guidelines that only 15 per cent of the staff would remain on duty and outsiders would need mandatory pass to gain entry into the premises.However, visitors to the PMC headquarters claim that many are gaining entry without being checked. “The offices are getting many visitors and it is a cause of concern. We request PMC to toughen measures and ensure that only genuine ones are allowed inside the campus,” said Somnath Patil, a visitor with mandatory pass.Social activist Anagha Deshmukh said, “Most people seen inside the building visit the health department and could be Covid positive patients or can be asymptomatic as they usually come to take letters from the department for free medicine or availing scheme for poor patients or other health related work.”Ajit Kankariya, who visited the health department office, said, “I saw people getting inside without being checked at the main gate. They don’t wear masks properly and social distancing norms are being violated blatantly. Only those who have the pass must be allowed while those not wearing masks must be fined.”.Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “Only citizens with genuine work and mandatory pass are allowed. We will ensure that the strictest protocols are followed so that we can make the surroundings healthier for citizens.” He said steps will be taken to check the increase in footfall at PMC main office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-headquarters-fail-to-keep-visitor-count-as-per-lockdown-norms-101620229295994.html
05-05-2021||Ranchi||Over 2k deaths since April||Jharkhand, which has been witnessing more than 100 deaths due to Covid-19 daily for last 11 days, on Tuesday reported its highest ever mortality rate of 1.24%, more than the national average of 1.10%.While the unprecedented surge in number of casualties in last 34 days played havoc across the state, health experts opine that the spike in cases will lead to a corresponding surge in deaths. With 132 casualties reported on Tuesday, the state’s Covid-19 toll climbed to 3,205, including 2,092 deaths in last 34 days between April 1 and May 4.The state, which discovered it’s first one lakh cases in a period of seven months between March 31 and October 27 last year, detected the same number of cases in merely one month in April this year. The increase in mortality rate was more disturbing, as the state recorded more number of deaths in these 34 days than the first 12 months of the pandemic’s outbreak combined.While Jharkhand registered a total of 1,113 Covid-19 deaths till March 31 this year, it added another 2,092 deaths in between April 1 and May 4.Besides, the state was adding over 100 deaths daily for the last 11 days, sending shock waves across every section of the society. On May 1, it logged its highest ever single-day spike in the toll with 159 deaths.The rising number of cases in the state has put health care and services in crisis, causing trouble to patients with many of them dying for want of adequate and timely treatment.The state was also facing acute shortage of oxygen supported beds. Many deaths were allegedly caused due to non-availability of oxygen to needy patients.However, health experts suggest that the high number of deaths can be averted by taking preventive measures and timely medical intervention. “The number of deaths will largely depend on the number of cases in a given period of time, the infrastructure to match and accommodate the surge without diluting the quality of care,” said Dr RK Jha, former professor and head, department of medicine, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi.He added, “It is also possible that this new Covid-19 strain--Indian and UK variants--is far more infectious and difficult to detect through the conventional RT-PCR / RAT. No wonder many deaths took place due to late diagnosis or death outside hospital due to denial of admission to such cases.”Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine, RIMS, said, “The infection spread is wide. So, with rise in cases, deaths will also increase. This is a pan-India scenario. The high number of deaths could have been averted had there been adequate preparations. It is suggestive to start taking medicines with the first advent of symptoms in order to ward off fatality. Every fever, diarrhoea and other symptoms should be considered as Covid-19.”Capital city Ranchi, which is the hardest hit by the pandemic, reported the maximum 741 out of the total 2,092 deaths in the last 34 days.NTPC provides health infrastructure supportNational Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining Project, Hazaribagh, has come forward to provide assistance to RIMS in installation of oxygen piping system to convert a four-storied unit (16 wards) with additional 332 oxygen equipped beds. Under its CSR initiative, the corporation is extending financial support of ₹45 lakh. The work is in progress and around 150 beds will be ready for admission this week, officials said. NTPC was also assisting Hazaribagh’s Seikh Bhikari Medical College to facilitate and install a centralized oxygen system in identified wards to support 84 beds for critical care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/over-2k-deaths-since-april-101620228635833.html
05-05-2021||Ranchi||Mandatory weeklong quarantine for returning migrant workers||The state government on Wednesday made it compulsory for returning migrant workers to be under institutional quarantine for a week before they are allowed to go home with a negative test report. As per the new direction, all migrant workers returning from other parts of the country will have to undergo Rapid Antigen Test, and will have to stay in quarantine for seven days even if they test negative, the order issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh said. “Those who test positive will be treated as per Covid-19 protocol,” the order said. The migrant workers will be tested again before their departure from the quarantine centre, the order further stated. The decision was taken in view of the rising number of cases in district towns and villages. The order observed that there was an exponential increase in Covid-19 cases in the state during the last fortnight. It was anticipated that the large-scale inflow of migrants back to their respective villages might pose a considerable threat in spread of the disease in rural areas, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/mandatory-weeklong-quarantine-for-returning-migrant-workers-101620228575894.html
05-05-2021||Ranchi||Police station in-charge death case: SIT set up||The Sahibganj police constituted a five-member special investigation (SIT) team into the recent death of Rupa Tirkey, officer in-charge of women’s police station in the district, officials said on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Opposition and tribal bodies demanded a CBI enquiry into the case.Twenty six-year old Tirkey was found hanging inside her official quarters at police line in Sahibganj on Monday night. Sahibganj superintendent of police (SP) Anuranjan Kispotta said, “We have set up a five-member special investigation team, comprising two deputy superintendents of police, one inspector and two sub-inspectors to probe the case. We are waiting for the postmortem examination report. I have requested the doctors to provide it at the earliest.”According to Tirkey’s roommate, the quarters’ door was locked from inside when she returned home from duty around 8.30pm on Monday. When the door was broken, Tirkey was found hanging in a room, she told the police.Even though police said prima facie it appeared to be case of suicide, Tirkey’s family members, who live in Ranchi’s Ratu area, suspected murder. Her mother Padmawati Orain on Tuesday lodged a complaint with Sahibganj police station, alleging that Tirkey was being tortured by two female police officials.Former chief minister and senior BJP leader Babulal Marandi on Tuesday evening tweeted a copy of Padmawati’s complaint and demanded CBI enquiry into the case. “In view of gravity of the case, I would request chief minister Hemant Soren that her postmortem examination be conducted by senior doctors of medical college and the case be immediately handed over to the CBI,” Marandi said.Ranchi’s Hatia legislator Naveen Jaiswal also wrote a letter to the CM minister on Wednesday for the same. “I would request the CM to conduct a CBI probe so that the tribal police officer gets justice,” he said.Several tribal outfits in the state also demanded proper investigation into the case. Former Tribal Advisory Council (TAC) member Ratan Tirkey requested the CM, home secretary and director general of police (DGP) that the case should not be probed as a case of suicide, as “circumstantial evidences tell a different story”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/police-station-in-charge-death-case-sit-set-up-101620228515835.html
05-05-2021||Other||Bihar parties bite dust in Assam, Bengal polls||PATNAThe ruling JD(U) and other regional parties in Bihar have fared poorly in the recent assembly polls in Assam and West Bengal where they had fielded their candidates in a number of seats to expand their base. As per data available with the Election Commission of India (ECI), JD(U) managed a mere 0.11% of total votes polled in Assam, where all its 34 candidates lost their deposit. Sources said majority of candidates got around 600- 800 votes. In 2016 assembly polls in Assam, JD(U) had contested four seats and got 0.07% votes. In Bengal, JD(U) got 0.02 % votes of the total votes polled and majority of its 16 candidates lost deposits, sources said. The RJD, which contested one seat in Assam as part of the Congress-led alliance, got only 0.07% of total votes polled. In West Bengal, the party had not fielded any candidate and had extended support to the Trinamool Congress. The Lok Janshakti party ( LJP), which contested 10 seats in West Bengal and around a dozen seats in Assam, got 0.01% and 0.04% of the total votes polled in the two states, respectively. The CPI-ML(Liberation), which is a major Left party in Bihar, got 0.03% votes of total votes polled in West Bengal and 0.14% in Assam. Sanjay Verma, JD(U) leader in-charge of Assam polls, said the party did not perform as per expectations in Assam that saw a straight contest between BJP and Congress-AIUDF alliance and in West Bengal because of straight fight between BJP and Trinamool. RJD’s Abdul Bari Siddiqui, a former minister, said his party could have done better in Assam had it got more seats in alliance with Congress.Headline: Dismal performanceJD(U)’s all 34 candidates in Assam and 16 in Bengal lost their depositsAssamParty: Votes (%)JD(U): 0.11% RJD: 0.07%LJP: 0.04% CPI-ML(Liberation): 0.14%BengalJD(U): 0.01% LJP: 0.04% CPI-ML(Liberation): 0.03%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-parties-bite-dust-in-assam-bengal-polls-101620228396469.html
05-05-2021||Other||Bihar steps on the gas to beat oxygen crisis||PATNAWith a projection of three lakh new Covid case in days to come and amidst the looming oxygen crisis, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday promised all financial assistance for bottling plants, refilling plants, tankers required for oxygen generation in state. The CM’s instruction came during a high-level meeting attended by two deputy CMs, industry and health ministers, besides senior officials to assess the oxygen supply and demand in the state. Bihar on Wednesday reported 14,836 new Covid-19 infections and 61 deaths during the last 24 hours. Patna continued to be worst hit, reporting 2,420 cases, followed by 857 in Vaishali, 671 Nalanda, 655 in West Champaran and 635 in Samastipur. The number of active cases rose to 113,479 from 110,430 on Monday. During the meeting, the CM also asked to increase number of beds in hospitals to meet future requirements, ambulances and ensure supply of medicines and oxygen at all cost. “Take action against private ambulance operators who are charging exorbitantly,” he said. Meanwhile, big hospitals in Patna reported near normal supply of oxygen cylinders on Wednesday. “We are getting near normal supply. On May 4, we got 856 D-type (jumbo) cylinders which created a crisis for a short duration but it was immediately fulfilled. On an average we require 900-1000 D type cylinders daily,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent, NMCH, a Covid dedicated hospital. Some private hospitals reported “less supply than demand” while others reduced number of beds to overcome oxygen short supply. Bihar has been allotted a daily quota of 194 MT of medical oxygen by the Centre, which was increased to 214 MT on May 2. Of this, 34 MT is to be obtained from the air separation units (ASU) functional in the state whereas the rest are to come from Air Water, Jamshedpur, Linde Jamshedpur, Inox Bokaro, Ellenberrrrie, Satyam, Vedanta Electro Steel, Bokaro, and Narayan. “The situation will ease further once the three plants, two in Patna district and one at Samastipur, with a capacity to produce/refill 2000 cylinders per day, starts operating within a week,” said industry minister Shahnawaz Husain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-steps-on-the-gas-to-beat-oxygen-crisis-101620228395768.html
05-05-2021||Other||Villagers refuse to get vaccinated||BETTIAHFlat refusal by villagers to get vaccinated for Covid-19 has presented a new problem in parts of East Champaran district.According to officials, no resident in Mangalapur village of Sangrampur block agreed to be vaccinated, saying it could cause harm to them.“The sentiment against vaccination is deep seated in villages,” said Dr. Shital Narula, in-charge of public health centre (PHC), Areraj. Officials said only 17 people agreed for vaccination at Binwaliya village (in Areraj block), which has a population of around 250. At Salaha village of the same block, the turnout for the second dose was very low. “As against over 100 vaccinated ones, mere 25 agreed for the second dose,” Dr Narula said.High drama unfolded at Mangalapur in Sangrampur block after a medical team reached to administer vaccine. “During six hours of our stay in the village, not a single resident agreed for vaccination and hence we had to return,” said Dr Neeraj Kumar, in-charge of PHC, Sangrampur.“The villagers say they are scared after a person died 15 days after taking vaccination. We are planning to launch an awareness drive,” said an official, refusing to be identified. “Will you take care of our family if the vaccine backfires?” was their common refrain, said Om Prakash Kumar, village headman, Baraiyatola Rajpur panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/villagers-refuse-to-get-vaccinated-101620228335838.html
05-05-2021||Other||South, central Bihar worst hit in second wave||PATNAA review of the Covid-19 pandemic in rural areas by the panchayati raj department has found the spread of the virus is less in north-east districts comprising Kosi and Seemanchal regions in comparison to the southern districts like Aurangabad, Gaya , Nalanda and some central Bihar districts, mainly Patna. The department has instructed all mukhiyas (village heads) in the vulnerable districts having higher case load, especially in southern Bihar, to track symptomatic patients and ensure they are put on early medication after proper tests so that complications and mortality rate is reduced. Bihar reported 14,794 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of active cases to 110,430. Sources said an internal assessment by the health department has concluded similar findings based on positivity rate (the percentage of people turning positive as against total number of tests daily) in the districts. The district-wise positivity rate could not be assessed as senior health officials did not respond to messages and phone calls.Bihar’s positivity rate stood at 15.6% on Tuesday while it was 16.1% on April 30, the highest so far after resurgence of Covid cases in the second wave. “North-east Bihar is far less affected by Covid cases whereas southern districts are witnessing a surge in cases. The positivity rate in districts also indicate the same. Our review meeting with mukhiyas and other officials on Tuesday indicated the same trend,” said Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary, panchayat raj department. Officials said panchayat representatives have been asked to monitor general health of people in their respective gram panchayats, especially in households where members are running fever. “For us, the next seven days are crucial as there are reports that an average 30% of the households in rural areas have some members having fever. It could be seasonal flu but we are taking updates from rural areas on a daily basis,” said a senior official in the department, seeking anonymity. Some of the districts, whose Covid related data for last few days are available, corroborate the findings. For instance, Aurangabad recorded 535 new cases on Tuesday against 356 cases on Monday. Gaya recorded 767 cases on May 3 and 662 cases on May 2.Nalanda, the home district of chief minister Nitish Kumar, too has seen an upward trend, with 618 cases detected on May 3. Begusarai has also witnessed a surge in cases.On the other hand, the number of new cases in north-east districts has fluctuated from 100 to 400 on a daily basis over last few days. The lowest number has been in Kishanganj and Madhepura, the latter recording 210 cases on May 1 and 299 cases on May. In other districts like Purnea, Katihar and Saharsa, the number of cases has remained below 400, as per official data. “Our priority is to check the spread of Covid in rural areas in all districts,” Meena said, adding that panchayat representatives have already bought 40 lakh masks for distribution as per norms. Each household this time is being given six masks for protection against Covid. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/south-central-bihar-worst-hit-in-second-wave-101620228275819.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Disappointed by verdict on Maratha reservation, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray in address to state||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday termed the Supreme Court's verdict of quashing the reservation to the Maratha community as 'disappointing'."It is a disappointing verdict on Maratha reservation. We have been fighting for it for the last many years. All the parties unanimously cleared it in the state legislature," the chief minister said.Also read: Maratha youth fear for future with reservation gone"It was challenged in the high court, and received a clearance. It was challenged in the Supreme Court again and here came the decision today. The SC has shown us a way. It has said the right is with the Centre and the President," Thackeray added.Speaking on the verdict Thackeray said the demand for reservations is not just of a community but of the entire state. Exuding confidence in the Centre he said that the demand will not be disrespected by the Prime Minister or the government."This demand is not of just a community but of the entire Maharashtra. I am of the view that it will not be disrespected by the PM or the Centre," said Thackeray.Earlier in the day, Thackeray said that he will send an official letter in this regard to the Centre on Thursday. Citing the examples of the central government taking a stand on the Shah Bano case or the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, Thackeray appealed to the government with 'folded hands' to intervene in the matter."Please be calm and patient as we are in the middle of a pandemic. We will continue to fight until we succeed," Thackeray assured the people of the state.Also read | Maratha quota: Maharashtra to approach Centre; BJP blames MVA for SC verdictThe apex court on Wednesday rejected reservation in government jobs and educational institutions for Marathas, introduced by the state government in 2018, on the grounds that it breached the 50% cap on reservations.In the judgment, the court termed it 'unexceptional' said that there was no valid reason to exceed the 50% reservation while granting affirmative action to the Maratha community.State minister Ashok Chavan also criticised the former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on the reservation row as he said the Fadnavis passed the Socially and Educationally Backward Communities (SEBC) Act in 2018 without “due rights”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/disappointed-by-sc-verdict-on-maratha-reservation-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-in-address-to-state-101620225686487.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist sees 9,084 fresh Covid cases, 93 deaths||Pune: Pune district, on Wednesday, recorded 9,084 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours and 93 Covid-related deaths as per the state health department. Of the 93 deaths reported in the district, 33 deaths were in Pune rural and 59 in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). One death was reported in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. In the Pune district, there are a total of 889,629 Covid cases, of which, 765,455 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 9,920 deaths in the district. At present, there are 114,254 active cases in Pune district. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 448,504 Covid cases and 5,754 deaths till Wednesday. Whereas PCMC has reported 215,955 cases so far, and a total of 1,527 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 2,25,170 total cases so far and 2,582 deaths due to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-sees-9-084-fresh-covid-cases-93-deaths-101620227195682.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||UP CM inaugurates DRDO’s first makeshift 505-bed hospital in Lucknow||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday inaugurated a 505-bed makeshift Covid hospital set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at Awadh Shilp Gram in Lucknow.Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases, the CM also announced a massive anti-Covid campaign in the rural pockets where panchayat polls were held recently.“We have inaugurated the makeshift hospital today. In the first phase, we have inaugurated 250 beds. Of the total beds here, 150 would be Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds while other would be a set of general beds, equipped with 24 hours oxygen connectivity,” said Adityanath while extending gratitude to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on whose direction the hospital was established.“Anticipating surge in the Covid cases in the rural parts of the UP, we have launched a campaign under which we have formed dedicated nigrani samities to check and report Covid cases. The Samities would also be provided with handheld infra-red thermometer, oxymeter and sanitisers. The samiti members would be asked to facilitate the antigen tests and RTPCR tests of the villagers,” the CM said.He also announced the construction of massive quarantine centres in every gram panchayat in order to quarantine those suffering from Covid-19 infection.Other 305 beds of DRDO’s makeshift hospital would be made operational shortly, said DRDO officials. “The hospital is equipped with 20 kilo litre oxygen tank that would ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to the hospitalized Covid patients,” said Shantanu Pratap Singh, public relation officer (PRO), Defence, Lucknow.Other than ensuring regular oxygen supply, Singh said the hospital was also equipped with a dedicated power backup and bio medical and other waste management system to ensure hygienic environment at the hospital. “Indian Armed Forces have provided 30 medical specialists, 28 medical officers, 6 officers for administrative support, 51 nursing officers, 110 nursing assistants/technicians and 79 support staff for the hospital,” said Singh. Be it food or medical treatment, he said there will be no charges for facilities available at the hospital that would run by a team from Armed Forces comprising of doctors of many specialities along with nurses and paramedic staff.“The admission to the hospital will be controlled through an Integrated Control Centre at Lucknow established by the Uttar Pradesh State Authorities (0522-4523000). The hospital does not cater to walk in patients and admissions. Information on admitted patients will be available from the helpdesk at mobile numbers 9519109239 and 9519109240,” said Singh while explaining the hospitalization process at the hospital.The city would get another makeshift 250-bed Covid hospital that would come up in Haj House later this week. Gopal Sutar, chief of corporate communications/media relations at HAL, confirmed the establishment of 250-bed hospital and said it would be operational in a few days. The hospital would be of L3 category and would be equipped with around 100 high flow nasal cannula and 25 ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-inaugurates-drdo-s-first-makeshift-505-bed-hospital-in-lucknow-101620225696046.html
05-05-2021||Other||In Covid-19 times, CT scan machine at this prominent Prayagraj hospital is lying non-functional||At a time when doctors are increasingly depending on CT scan of patients to confirm Covid-19 infection and determine the scale of its impact on vital organs like lungs, the CT scan machine of Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital is lying non-functional for over two weeks now. This despite the fact that the CT scan machine in Beli hospital is just the second one in a government hospital in the district, the only other one is installed at SRN Hospital.The CT scan costs ₹5,300 to 5,500 at private diagnostic labs in the market against ₹600 at government hospitals for regular patients and the scan is free for those suffering from Covid-19. RT-PCR tests detect coronavirus in around 80 per cent of the cases and for confirmation in other cases clinical features and CT scans/chest X-rays are being used to rule out false negatives in symptomatic patients followed by a repeat test after 24 hours.“However, people like me having kin suffering from Covid-19 have to get it done at private labs paying almost 9 to 10 times the cost despite being able to ill-afford it,” said Manas Srivastava, a shop owner and a resident of Pratapgarh whose father is undergoing treatment at SRN hospital in Prayagraj.In Prayagraj, the scanning facility under the government system is presently available only in SRN Hospital, which is limited to the patients of this very hospital. Here the screening of Covid patients is being done free of cost whereas the patients admitted in other wards (non-Covid) have to pay ₹600 for the CT scan of the chest.“We are on an average performing 50-60 scans every day here,” shared a senior doctor of SRN Hospital.“The CT scan fee for Chest at SRN Hospital is ₹600. However, the screening of Covid patients is free of cost and we are doing it every day for our patients,” said Gautam Tripathi, deputy superintendent in charge of SRN Hospital.As for Beli Hospital’s machine non-functional for more than 15 days, the hospital administration claims that it has appealed to senior officials several times, but no one seems to be listening.“We are trying to get it fixed,” said Kiran Malik, chief medical superintendent of Beli Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-covid-19-times-ct-scan-machine-at-this-prominent-prayagraj-hospital-is-lying-nonfunctional-101620225396337.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||LU student is elected pradhan: Will give my village a makeover||Arushi Singh, 21, who is pursuing BA LLB second year from Lucknow University, won the recently held election to the post of Gram Sabha Pradhan at village Seheriya, Wazirganj block in Gonda district.“It was like a dream come true. I was declared winner at around 1.30 pm and soon friends and relatives started calling,” said Arushi, who is pursuing the course from City Law College, an affiliate college of LU.“Now it is my duty to make it a smart village with good internet connectivity and better public service,” she added.“My grandmother, Vidyawati Singh won election to this post in 2000. And prior to her my great grandfather won election here. It is a small village of 1500 population. And they love us. I am happy to carry forward the family legacy,” said Arushi.There were four contestants to the post and Arushi was declared winner with 384 votes. She enjoyed support from her family who always encouraged her to contest the election.Arushi reached Gonda on March 2 and started door-to-door campaign following all COVID-19 guidelines. “I encouraged the youth and their parents not to lower their guard in COVID-19 times,” she said.Her mother Garima Singh is reader of district judge in civil court while father Dharmendra Singh is a steno of commissioner of police in Lucknow.After law graduation, she wants to prepare for the PCS examination.Talking about her development plan, Arushi said, “Firstly I will focus on education system for girls and boys and maintain the toilets with special emphasis on health and hygiene. I will focus on the improvement of the social and economic condition of people.”“I will focus on the health, employment, infrastructure and the basic amenities like housing, drinking water and sanitation. I will ensure that the people of my village get to avail the benefits of all the schemes run by the centre and the state government,” she said.Arushi is all for restoration of student union elections in state universities and degree colleges as it is a democratic right of students’ community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-student-is-elected-pradhan-will-give-my-village-a-makeover-101620225155917.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||BJP 'intimidating' panchayat poll winners, will pay for it in 2022, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday alleged that the elected members in the panchayat polls were receiving threats from the BJP that was abusing power to conspire against the system.“BJP has never respected democracy,” he said in a statement, adding that after its defeat in panchayat elections, the saffron party was conspiring against the democratic system.“The BJP's strategy of intimidating elected members and misusing power through inducements is a sign of malafide intentions. The BJP will have to pay for it in the in the 2022 assembly polls,” he said.Yadav further attacked the BJP for its "faulty policies" that failed the country in Covid 19 management. Some people were “taking opportunity of the disastrous situation” and the general public was bearing the brunt of it, he said.He stressed that the infection was now fast spreading in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh, which were vulnerable due to their weak health infrastructure.Noting that Delhi High Court Tuesday slammed the BJP-led central government for failing to fulfill the responsibility of managing oxygen tankers, he also said they failed to curb black marketing of cylinders and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-intimidating-panchayat-poll-winners-will-pay-for-it-in-2022-says-akhilesh-yadav-101620224302508.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||‘We can’t let a virus win over humanity’||: Mahesh Chandra Agarwal, 84, a resident of E block Rajajipuram died due to corona last Sunday.He had no son and none around to accompany his body to the crematorium. That’s when his married daughter browsed through social media and contacted a 23-year-old youth who along with his friends offered his services to cremate Covid body with dignity.Abhishek quickly arrived with his friends - Karunesh Pathak, Sunny Sahu, Shashank Shukla , Ramesh Tripathi and Raghav Kumar. Once at Agarwal’s place, they wore PPE kits and accompanied the body to the cremation ground where they performed Agarwal’s last rites.“Had they not been here, the last rites of my father would not have been performed. At a time when relatives are running away from a corona patient, they are risking their lives to help others. I have no words to express my gratitude,” said Mahesh’s daughter Kanta Agarwal (52).Abhishek shared how and why he decided to perform the last rites of Covid bodies.“I was really sad when I heard that in Jaunpur an elderly man was forced to carry the body of his deceased wife on a bicycle for hours because residents of the village did not allow the funeral of the woman fearing coronavirus. That day I called my friends and told them that I want to cremate bodies of those who are abandoned by their relatives due to fear of corona. I wanted to give the dead the respect they deserve,” he said. “I asked my friends if they would like to join me, and all agreed. We collected some money, purchased PPE kits, face shields, gloves, masks, head covers, shoe covers, and sanitisers, floated our number on social media and got going. Till now we have cremated 12 such bodies,” he said.“Anyone who needs our services can dial 8887987566. Our services are free. I just want to remind everyone that every dead body deserves to be treated with dignity. As human beings, we cannot let a virus dictate terms to such an extent that we start disrespecting dead bodies,” he said.“My parents are bit worried about safety but at the same time they are proud of me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/we-can-t-let-a-virus-win-over-humanity-101620224615069.html
05-05-2021||Other||Indian origin alumni of Singapore univs to help UP in pandemic times||Lucknow: Amidst Covid-19 crisis, Indian origin alumni of top Singaporean Universities are raising funds to purchase oxygen concentrators for Uttar Pradesh in coming weeks. The group plans to distribute at least 50 modern high-capacity oxygen concentrators in the state by next week.Aarti Kumar, an alumna of a university in Singapore is one of the persons coordinating the effort. “The initiative was aimed at providing some relief to India as it fights a massive second wave of Covid pandemic. The group set the target to raise $75000 which was met within two days. The target was then doubled,” said Aarti.The mission named SUMO (Singapore University Mission Oxygen) was launched by Milaap foundation. The group has raised a total of $117,463 with the help of 668 supporters by the time this report was filed.“A large number of students studying in top universities in Singapore have joined the effort to help their home country in the time of distress. Beside concentrators, the group is also rallying support to procure other medical equipment which could be used for people suffering from Covid-19,” she said.“We are currently procuring the devices. Efforts are also being made to get all the required paperwork done for distribution of the devices in the country,” said Aarti.The volunteers from the group are in touch with other groups which are currently working towards Covid-19 relief measures in Uttar Pradesh for the distribution of the medical devices.“We are looking for groups that are arranging emergency medical equipment for the people suffering from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh so that we could provide the required medical equipment to them,” Aarti added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indian-origin-alumni-of-singapore-univs-to-help-up-in-pandemic-times-101620224495135.html
05-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees record jump in daily Covid-19 cases with 50,112 infections; tally over 1.74 million||Karnataka on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day spike in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 50,112 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,741,046, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 346 people succumbed to the disease while 26,841 were discharged in the last 24 hours.The state’s caseload now includes 16,884 deaths, 1,236,854 recoveries and 487,288 active cases, the bulletin showed. The Covid-19 positivity rate has climbed to 32.28% while the case fatality rate is nearing 0.7%.Wednesday’s Covid-19 cases in Karnataka are 5,481 greater than those of Tuesday’s when 44,631 were detected positive. Similarly, the deaths on Wednesday are 54 more than those of Tuesday’s (292).Being the second worst-hit state from the pandemic after Maharashtra, Karnataka has been contributing the most towards the daily cases and deaths in the country.Also Read| ‘We should prepare’: Centre warns third Covid-19 wave 'inevitable'The health infrastructure in Karnataka is overburdened amid the surge in daily cases and deaths and hospitals are facing shortage of oxygen supplies to treat the critical Covid-19 disease patients.The state has witnessed four tragic incidents in three consecutive days as the oxygen crisis is deepening day by day. On Monday, 24 patients lost their lives at a government hospital in Chamarajanagar district due to exhaustion of supplies.In Kalaburagi district, four patients died at a government hospital while three deaths were reported from a government hospital in Belagavi, according to news agency PTI.And on Wednesday, five patients lost the battle to the Covid-19 disease at the Shri Bhanji D Khimji Lifeline Hospital in Hubballi. The relatives of these deceased patients told ANI the cause of death was shortage of oxygen.Also Read| ‘Greater tragedy likely to unfold’: Former Karnataka CM Kumaraswamy writes to PM Modi on oxygen crisisFormer Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday requested the urgent intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address this severe problem and warned that a greater tragedy is likely to unfold if the BJP-led state government does not act briskly and does not receive support from the Centre.With a view to augment the supply of medical oxygen in the state, the Centre has allocated four tankers of 20 metric tonnes capacity each, chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s office tweeted adding two of these have arrived at the New Mangalore Port Trust in Mangalore.“Five empty containers have been airlifted to Odisha through IAF flights which will pick up about 74 MT of oxygen and reach Karnataka by road in a day or two,” the CMO said in a subsequent tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-record-jump-in-daily-covid-19-cases-with-50-112-infections-101620223685336.html
05-05-2021||Other||Maratha youth fear for future with reservation gone||PUNE The Supreme Court ruling cancelling reservations for the Maratha community in the state is expected to have a long-lasting impact on the educational sector, as well as on job opportunities for Maratha youth. The court also clarified that there will not be any impact on admissions to post-graduate medical courses that were granted till September 9, 2020. Maratha youth are disappointed with the verdict. Shailesh Patil, a post-graduate student who also participated in Maratha Kranti Morcha’s protests, said, “After my post-graduation I was planning to apply for a government job and under this reservation was hoping to get it. This verdict will not only impact on us, but all forthcoming generations of Maratha community. Still there are lakhs of students in the state from the community who come from rural areas and giving them a boost is necessary through this reservation.” Last year, Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC) admissions were delayed by close to two months due to the reservation case going on in the court. An interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, saw the state education department stop the admission process for FYJC on September 9, 2020. It resumed from November 26, 2020. Talking about the SC verdict Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of the Students Helping Hand organisation said, “It was expected that this reservation will get cancelled and now all the Maratha students are in great disappointment. We respect the SC judgment and we hope that state government will find a solution over this critical issue which is related to the careers of lakhs of students.” Another student Pooja Thite said, “There are several post-graduate courses where fees are not affordable. There is a large number of students from the Maratha community who come from economically weaker families. I wanted to opt for higher education in computer engineering, but getting a good college and affordable fees is not possible now due to this reservation getting cancelled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-youth-fear-for-future-with-reservation-gone-101620224074982.html
05-05-2021||Other||‘Very disappointing for the Maratha community’||After the Supreme Court quashed the reservation for the Maratha community on Wednesday, strong reactions came in from within the community. Constitutional experts said this verdict was expected. In its judgment, SC ordered the 2018 law framed by the Maharashtra government to give reservations to the Maratha community void as citing that the state cannot breach the 50 per cent ceiling on quotas. Speaking about the judgment, Ulhas Bapat, a constitutional expert, said, “I had earlier also said that giving reservation above 50 per cent is not possible. It was clearly mentioned in the Indira Sahani case that reservation cannot be given over 50 per cent. The SC verdict is final. Despite knowing this, how did the high court allow this law to happen?” According to Bapat, also an academician, the state government has an option to file a review petition in the SC, although the government will have to look at accommodating the Maratha community in the other backward class (OBC) quota. “In the current situation, reservations cannot breach the 50 per cent ceiling. So it will directly impact OBC reservation and then lead to issues between OBCs and Marathas,” said Bapat. Prakash Ambedkar, grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader said, “A large section of the Maratha community, which is economically downtrodden, deserves reservation. There are two segments within Marathas. While the rich don’t require this, economically poor Marathas should be included in the quota.” Rajya Saba member Sambhajiraje, who was at the centrestage of the Maratha reservation issue, said, “Today is a very disappointing day for the Maratha community. In the end, the state government failed to convince the Supreme Court and now the supernumerary quota method should be implemented, it is the only option left. I appeal to the Maratha community not to undertake protests or huge gatherings in view of the current Covid situation.” Shiv Sangram party leader Vinayak Mete, who is also one of the coordinators of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, alleged that the state government failed to strongly put up a legal fight for the Maratha community in front of the Supreme Court. “Taking moral responsibility of this Ashok Chavan should immediately resign from the cabinet. Throughout the last one year, as the case was going on in the court, there was no proper coordination between the committee headed by Chavan and the Maratha community leaders. It is high time Sharad Pawar intervenes in this matter and helps to resolve this entire reservation quota issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/very-disappointing-for-the-maratha-community-101620223474800.html
05-05-2021||Indore||Centre, Madhya Pradesh government failed to stop Covid-19 deaths: Kamal Nath||Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Wednesday held the Centre and the Madhya Pradesh governments responsible for the Covid-19 fatalities which he attributed to the failure to take timely measures to deal with the "second wave" of the pandemic. “Should we blame the public for the deaths due to Covid-19? Both the Centre and the state governments led by the BJP are responsible for the fatalities. They are playing politics over dead bodies. They have no concern for the common people,” Nath told reporters here. He said the national and international media had been alerting about the second wave of coronavirus for the last three months, but no preparations were made in advance. "..Rather India was exporting medical oxygen and Remdesivir injections that time,” the Madhya Pradesh Congress chief said. Targeting the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, Nath said the administration was indulged in politics and distributed Remdesivir injections to leaders of the ruling BJP. "The injections are being sold in the black market," he alleged. Attacking the Union government over the vaccination program, Nath said, “The government has no adequate stock of vaccines but still it announced the launch of the inoculation drive for the people in the age group of 18 to 44 years”. Nath reiterated his allegation that the announcement to launch the drive for the younger lot was made in a bid to attract voters to the BJP during the recently-held Assembly elections. “Today the people are dependent on God and not on the government. I have prayed at the famous temple of Lord Hanuman in Chhindwara (Nath's constituency)," he said. As of Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 tally stood at 6,12,666 with 6,003 fatalities, the state health department had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/centre-madhya-pradesh-government-failed-to-stop-covid-19-deaths-kamal-nath-101620221459750.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||'A patient is a patient': Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Covid hospitalisations from Delhi, Noida||Apart from treating its own residents who have been infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Haryana is also admitting patients from neighbouring Delhi and Noida, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday, adding no hospitals have refused to admit patients from outside the state.Addressing a press conference on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state, Khattar said, “Almost 8,556 patients are on oxygen support while 3,828 patients are on ventilators and ICUs. We are treating all patients from Haryana. But in Gurugram, nearly 40% of the Covid patients are from Delhi. In Faridabad, 20% patients are from Delhi and Noida. Other cities in Haryana are also taking in patients from these regions. We will keep on treating patients from Haryana as well as from outside because a patient is a patient. Our hospitals have not refused treatment to anyone from outside the state.”The Haryana government is working towards creating 1,000 more hospital beds across the state, Khattar said. With the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), a 500-bed hospital is being made in Panipat as well as Hisar, he added.Also Read| Haryana’s Faridabad to have doctor-on-call service for Covid patientsAs hospitals in the state are reporting a severe shortage of oxygen supplies in view of the recent spike in cases and deaths along with patients coming in from outside, Khattar informed reporters a control room has been set up in Chandigarh to monitor the supply.“We’ve been allotted 70 MT per day of oxygen from Odisha. We have acquired 20 tankers for the transportation of oxygen. We need more tankers,” Khattar said and added the state is also procuring oxygen from the free market.According to news agency PTI, Mansesar and Faridabad are everyday witnessing long queues of people refilling their oxygen cylinders from plants. On the other hand, Haryana health minister Anil Vij claimed on Tuesday that Haryana is only receiving 252 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen against its daily requirement of 300 MT.Also Read| ‘We should prepare’: Centre warns third Covid-19 wave 'inevitable'Haryana on Tuesday saw the highest single day spike in daily Covid disease cases at 15,786, while 153 more people lost their lives, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The caseload is nearing 544,000 including 4,779 deaths, 429,950 recoveries and 108,830 active cases. The state is currently placed under a week-long lockdown from May 3 till May 9 to stem the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-patient-is-a-patient-haryana-cm-on-covid-hospitalisations-from-delhi-noida-101620218591478.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Patna’s Mahavir temple offers free oxygen lifeline during Covid-19 crisis||Patna’s historic Mahavir Mandir is closed for devotees due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic but it has opened up a lifeline for Covid-19 patients, many of whom have died in hospitals and at homes in absence of oxygen support.Amid the shadow of gloom cast over the state’s healthcare sector which is crumbling under pressure from an increasing number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygenated beds or ventilator support, the over 300-year-old temple is spreading hope from dawn to dusk by giving out oxygen cylinders to patients for free. All that patients’ attendants or kin need to show is the prescription and the Aadhaar card of the patient.“People need to register online for oxygen, but if one is unable to do so, oxygen is given on presentation of required documents. The idea is to help people in genuine need for free,” said Acharya Kishore Kunal, the administrator of the temple.Ramchandra Sheshadriji and his team, who were earlier engaged in preparing Tirupati laddoos for famous ‘navedyam’, have now got down to public service whole-heartedly. Since many visiting the temple for oxygen are either aged or physically frail, the temple volunteers deliver cylinders to their vehicles while offering reassuring words.While black marketing of oxygen cylinders and important drugs continues to create a depressing scenario for Covid patients, harried residents recognised that selfless initiatives such as these are ‘god sent’, spreading hope and positivity.“For us, this is not just oxygen, it comes along with Hanuman ji’s blessings,” said Abhay Kumar, who got an oxygen cylinder from the temple for his teacher, a Covid patient in home isolation.Acharya Kunal said the temple management wanted to set up an oxygen plant, but it was going to take time at a time when people were crying out for immediate help.“We contacted many firms, but the minimum time it would take is four months. So, we decided to refill small cylinders. Industrialist Sanjay Bhartiya has helped in this pious endeavour and we appreciate his gesture,” he added.Mahavir Mandir has also started a 40-bed Covid hospital at Patna-based Mahavir Arogya Sansthan and another 25-bed hospital in Begusarai.A couple of years ago, the Mahavir Mandir Trust, which runs 12 big institutions including hospitals and orphanages, started free treatment for cancer patients under the age of 18 years and children born with holes in hearts, Kunal said.Mahavir Mandir is not alone in this pious movement, several voluntary organisations and individuals such as Gaurav Rai have also pooled in critical resources such as oxygen cylinders to help the needy. Fondly called oxygen man, Rai carries small cylinders in his car everyday to deliver at the doorsteps of the needy – all for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-mahavir-temple-offers-free-oxygen-lifeline-during-covid-19-crisis-101620217114332.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal imposes 10-day ‘corona curfew’||Amid an unprecedented surge in infections across Himachal Pradesh, the state government on Wednesday decided to impose a 10-day ‘coronavirus curfew’ across the hill state.The lockdown-like restrictions will be in place from the midnight of May 6 till May 16. The decision was taken in a Cabinet meeting called to review the coronavirus situation in the state. Announcing the fresh restrictions, Cabinet spokesperson and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said, “In order to break the virus’ chain, the Cabinet has decided to impose corona curfew across state.” Educational institutions across Himachal Pradesh will remain closed till May 31. The state board has been asked to cancel the Class 10 exams and promote all students to Class 11. Annual exams for Class 12 and colleges will also remain suspended till further orders. All government and private offices will remain closed from May 7 to the midnight of May 16. However, essential services such as health, electricity, telecommunication, water supply and sanitation will not be disrupted.Work will continue at civil, horticultural, agricultural and other project sites. All government and private transport will ply at 50% occupancy and inter-state transport will continue. Industrial establishments will work as per the state government’s guidelines.Apart from instating Covid regulations, the Cabinet also gave its nod to create specialised HP Revenue (State Taxes and Excise) Services in place of the existing posts in the department.It green lighted a jal shakti circle at Dharampur, Mandi, and a jal shakti division at Thanakalan in Kutlehar Vidhan Sabha area of Una district. It also gave its nod to shift the existing staff and infrastructure in jal shakti sub-division 2, Una to Basal for better administrative functioning of the division.The ministers agreed to increase the beds at the regional hospital in Una to 300 and to create 76 posts to ensure better healthcare facilities to the people of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-imposes-10-day-corona-curfew-101620216755645.html
05-05-2021||Other||AU to promote UG second, third year students sans exam||Covid-19 Impact Allahabad University (AU) has decided that students of second year of undergraduate courses and intermediate semester of postgraduate and professional courses will be promoted to the higher classes or semester. The varsity has also decided that the students of the third year of undergraduate courses will also be promoted, and mark sheets will be awarded to them on the basis of their performance in the previous class. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the examination committee chaired by the vice-chancellor prof Sangita Srivastava held in the online mode on Tuesday, said AU officials.It has been decided in the meeting that for the students of undergraduate first year courses and postgraduate or professional final semester, the examinations will be held in the July - August 2021 depending on the then prevailing pandemic situation, said AU PRO Jaya Kapoor. The examination committee also resolved that for the purpose of the implementation of the reservation policy in the combined research entrance test (CRET)-2020 admissions, the individual departments of the University would to be treated as separate units as vacancies will be calculated under faculty members of a particular subject, the PRO added.For the purpose of application of reservation in constituent colleges, the colleges are to be treated as separate units and like university, seats for research admissions would be calculated college-wise/department-wise in order to be in conformity with the policy being adopted, she added.After announcing its decision to keep the Allahabad University (AU) campus and its constituent colleges closed till April 30, the varsity administration had recently decided to open the campus only from July 5. The authorities had preponed the summer vacations by 10 days. The summer vacations of AU have now begun from May 4 instead of May 15 and would end on July 5.Earlier this month, owing to the present Covid-19 pandemic and many of the teaching and non-teaching staff members getting infected with the coronavirus, the varsity administration had decided to close the main campus and that of the constituent colleges till April 20. Later, when the corona positive cases continued to rise in the city and more staff members were infected, AU authorities extended the duration of closure of AU till April 30.The varsity authorities had begun its annual exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from April 3 through online mode. After few days, when the campus of AU and its constituent colleges was closed till April 20, the exams were postponed. Later, the controller of examination had said that the exams would be held from April 30, but soon that was also withdrawn owing to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/au-to-promote-ug-second-third-year-students-sans-exam-101620216633637.html
05-05-2021||Patna||11-day lockdown underway in Covid-rattled Bihar, authorities face difficulty ensuring compliance||An 11-day complete lockdown, imposed in the wake of a state-wide Covid-19 surge on an unprecedented scale, got underway on Wednesday in Bihar where the authorities had a tough time ensuring compliance from people.Police personnel had begun patrolling the streets since early in the morning, anticipating heavy rush and overcrowding between 7 A.M. and 11 A.M., the four-hour period during which shops selling vegetables, meat, fish, poultry, and grocery items have been allowed to do business.Owners of many shops, not dealing in items deemed as essentials, faced a rude shock as they were made to down their shutters, besides being slapped with fines, by the men in uniform.The policemen were also seen striking their canes against the ground at many places to scare away and disperse people who had come out to make purchases and gathered at shops or around hand-pulled vegetable and fruit carts throwing physical distancing norms to the winds.Many motorcycle-borne youths, loitering around to enjoy high-speed rides on the deserted streets, tried to brazen it out when stopped by police personnel whom they told with a sheepish grin that they had come out for "hawakhori" (breath of fresh air).Some of them ended up being fined and even their vehicles being impounded. The luckier ones were let off after being made to undergo, in public, the humiliation of doing squats with their hands grabbing their earlobes.Some of the businessmen and residents, whose behaviour was deemed to be recalcitrant, also ended up being arrested.The number of arrests made, vehicles seized and amount of money recovered by way of fines is likely to be provided by the state police headquarters by the evening.The lockdown from May 5 to 15 was announced by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday on his official Twitter handle, a day after the Patna High Court pressed the panic button and told his government that it will have to pass a judicial order if the state failed to show the resolve to impose restrictions necessitated by the raging "second wave" that has wrought huge devastation across the country.Meanwhile, many people complained of alleged high- handedness by the authorities in enforcing the lockdown and claimed that the guidelines issued by the state home department have left plenty of room for ambiguity."We are in the restaurant business. In the morning some police personnel came and ordered us to down our shutters. The guidelines say we can do home delivery of food from 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. but in the same breath, they add that restaurants have to remain closed.'Why could they not be more specific and make it clear that our kitchens be allowed to function and our delivery boys be allowed to perform their jobs", said a Boring Road resident who did not wish to be named.A male nurse, residing in Sipara locality who visits Shri Krishna Nagar, about five kilometres away, to attend to an elderly patient, said, "it is not clear whether or not auto rickshaws are allowed to ply. During my commute today, I could see the driver of the three-wheeler I rode paying bribes to constables at three places."The burden fell on my shoulders, finally. The autorickshaw driver insisted that I cough up ₹50 for my daily commute which costs less than half of that. I had to do as he said. But how are we going to survive in this manner? We have limited means", he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/11day-lockdown-underway-in-covid-rattled-bihar-authorities-face-difficulty-ensuring-compliance-101620215311860.html
05-05-2021||Other||‘Breathe India’: IIT-K grads’ fundraiser for O2 concentrators||Lucknow A group of five IIT Kanpur alumni have started a fund raising drive on a social media platform to buy oxygen concentrators which they will donate to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments for distribution in hospitals. Their initiative, ‘Breathe India’, has raised more than ₹3 crore in a week and they are hopeful it will soon touch ₹4 crore mark. For UP, they have tied up with a Lucknow -based NGO, RightWalk Foundation, headed by Samina Bano, an IIM Bangalore alumna. On Wednesday, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between KGMU and RightWalk Foundation for donation of oxygen concentrators. The foundation will give 25 units of oxygen concentrators. Of these, 5 units of 10 LPM machines were given today and 15 units of 5 LPM will be given by Friday. RightWalk Foundation works to implement the Right to Education 12.1(c) and the Apprenticeship Act, 1961. Currently, they are supporting the Covid relief efforts by distributing food kits and other items. With the demand for oxygen being higher than ever before, Dr Suryakant, head of the department pulmonary sciences made an appeal to civil society, on the Lucknow Management Association platform. This appeal was then promoted by Prof Nishi Pandey from the English and Modern European Languages Department, Lucknow University. Later KGMU vice chancellor Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri and programme director, Kush Tripathi of RightWalk Foundation, signed an MoU. How IIT-K alumni partneredwith Rightwalk Foundation Ashutosh Ranka, Class of 2017 and four others took to Milaap fund raising platform. They raised more than ₹3 crore, of which ₹2.4 cr will be used to meet crisis situation in Delhi and the rest of the money will be used for Uttar Pradesh. “We decided to get oxygen concentrators for Delhi and tied up with NGO Save Life. Working closely with the Delhi government, we started the fund raiser, Preet India and raised ₹3 crore in a few days. Now we have placed an order for 300 concerntrators with different vendors,” Ashutosh said. Road-map for UP “We decided to expand and in UP we collaborated with RightWalk Foundation. The IIT alumni community also pitched in and we received ₹10 lakh from the batch of 1985,” Ashutosh said.. “As the number of Covid cases started spiralling in April, the demand for oxygen also went up. Realizing the need, our first step was to quickly finalize suppliers of oxygen concentrators. Our consignments from China and Turkey will be reaching us soon,” said Samina Bano, founder and CEO of RightWalk Foundation. She added: “RightWalk has a presence across all the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh, but we have chosen to intervene in 12 districts where Covid has spread like wildfire. These districts are Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Amroha, Prayagraj, Noida, Bareilly, Ghaziabad, Aligarh and Moradabad. We plan to keep a fixed number of oxygen concentrators in each district and offer it to needy people free of cost. The intervention will help in saving 30,000 to 40,000 lives in the next four-six weeks. We also plan to distribute medical and ration kits among Covid-affected families.” Currently, RightWalk’s fundraiser has raised more than ₹50 lakhs and counting. Other organizations join in The Swasth Foundation and ACT grant combination has sent 50 units of oxygen concentrators (OCs) to Lucknow that are to be distributed through RightWalk. These are in addition to the 135 concentrators RightWalk has procured from China and Turkey. The former is a non-profit social enterprise focused on providing the poor a range of affordable and high-quality primary-preventive health services, while the latter is a movement by India’s startup ecosystem to fight societal problems at scale. Furthermore, GiveIndia is supporting RightWalk with procurement and deployment of 100 units of 10L OCs and 10 units of 5L OCs in several districts of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/breathe-india-iit-k-grads-fundraiser-for-o2-concentrators-101620215493276.html
05-05-2021||Other||Hundreds of farmers defy Covid curbs in Amritsar, head for Delhi to protest||Defying the Covid-19 protocols and lockdown in Punjab, hundreds of supporters of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), including women and the elderly, gathered at Beas town in Amritsar district on Wednesday before heading for Delhi’s Singhu border to intensify the agitation against the three farm laws passed last year.They left in dozens of tractor-trailers, cars and tempo-travellers with many huddled together.Before embarking on the journey, the supporters gathered to raise slogans against the Centre and a few corporate houses. The protesters are expected to reach the national capital on Thursday.Asked why no action was taken against them despite the Covid curbs, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said he will seek a report from the senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya. “Whatever legal action is there, it will be discussed with the SSP,” he said.Amritsar is one of the Covid-19 hotspot districts of Punjab with more than 5,000 active cases and 1,014 deaths. A total of 674 positive cases were reported from the district on Tuesday.Also Read | Assembly poll results vindicate stand of agitating farmers: SKMKMSC leaders have been holding meetings in villages over the past week to mobilise support for the march.Asked why the organisation was holding a march despite the second Covid-19 wave, KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “If any harm comes to farmers due to coronavirus, only the Centre will be responsible. We have been forced to remain on the roads because the Centre is not accepting our demands. We will go home immediately if our demands are met.”He wrote on social media on Tuesday: “The Centre is trying to sabotage our movement. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is helping the Centre indirectly.”Another such march of the KMSC is scheduled to begin from Tarn Taran on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hundreds-of-farmers-defy-covid-curbs-in-amritsar-head-for-delhi-to-protest-101620214413731.html
05-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid test, week-long quarantine must for migrant workers returning to Jharkhand||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday announced that all migrant workers returning to the state will have to undergo Covid test on arrival and a mandatory week-long quarantine.The decision was taken to prevent the further spread of Covid-19, particularly in rural areas, amid a surge in cases over the last fortnight, officials said."All migrant workers coming back to the state of Jharkhand shall be tested (RAT) on arrival. Those migrant workers who test negative shall be quarantined for 7 days in institutional quarantine facilities to be set up at appropriate level by the respective district administration," Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh said in an order.The migrant workers will be tested again before departure for home from the quarantine facilities, he said."Those tested positive in any of the two tests mentioned above shall be managed as per protocol of Department of Health and Family Welfare," the order mentioned.The government is expecting that a large number of migrant workers will be returning from other parts of the country with several states announcing lockdown amid the Covid crisis, affecting economic activities, officials said."...the situation of Covid -19 has been reviewed and it has been observed that there has been an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the state during the last fortnight and it is estimated that large scale inflow of migrants back to respective villages may pose a considerable threat of spread of Covid-19 in rural areas of Jharkhand," the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid-test-week-long-quarantine-must-for-migrant-workers-returning-to-jharkhand-101620212748114.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: “Kasba Pune” Gao, with its movers & shakers||Time travel is not an easy task. But, as we jump across to Pune’s medieval period, from the early medieval and ancient era, the hazy blur starts changing to a clearer picture. The discovery of paper and use of written correspondence for recording court proceedings and grants grew in the medieval period, which updates us about the political and administrative events of medieval Deccan.The Bahamani rule in Pune continued without a hiccup from 1347 till the 1480s, but the kingdom started disintegrating due to internal conflicts. Malik Ahmad Nizam Shah I, was the son of Nizam-ul-Mulk Malik Hasan Bahri, originally a Hindu Brahmin (originally Timappa) from Bijapur (or Bijanagar). Ahmed Nizam Shah was initially appointed as governor of Beed and Daulatabad and was honoured with title “Nizam-ul-mulk”. As the Bahamani Sultans were made puppet monarchs under hands of Baridshahi prime ministers, Ahmad Nizamshah, who was Junnar governor then, rebelled against the Sultan and successfully defended the attack. He established the new kingdom of Ahmednagar with the early capital at Junnar near Pune; it was subsequently shifted to Daulatabad.Pune to the south of Junnar, thus, became part of the Nizamshahi kingdom of Ahmednagar in the 1490. This period witnessed the migration of many families from Karnataka province to the Pune region.The Thakaars, were a Brahmin family who migrated to Pune, and were later responsible for the establishment of the Gram-daivat, or village deity of Pune, the Kasba Ganapati. Shaligram, Kavalange/Kalange, Kanade, Dhere, Vaidya, Nilange, Bharait and Bharange, were the eight original resident Brahmin families (aath-ghare) of Pune. Pune had some significant Kanadi Brahmin families such as Dharmadhikari, Honap, Nilange and later, the Panses. Before arrival of kokanastha Peshwas, Pune was occupied primarily by deshasta Brahmins such as Purandares and Pethes, who had mansions built in southern Kasba and practised Vedic learning.Zambres are the oldest known resident family of Pune, spanning a period of 800 years.Around 1510 CE, Bengal’s famous saint Chaitnaya Mahaprabhu Maharaj visited Pune. His disciple, Govinddas, described Pune as “Purnanagar”, and in his verses says that the citizens of Purnanagar were well versed in the various fields of knowledge. The pathshalas in the town taught Vedic and Bhagawat literature. The views of the scholars were well accepted. Thus, Pune appears to be an important centre for study of religion and an educational hub, even back in 16th century CE.Pune functioned as Kasbe Pune - a tehsil-like headquarter, as well as a large village, under Nizamshahi. During this period, we find records of various families in the Pune region who were appointed to administrative positions which were passed on to the generations in a hereditary manner. The Zambre family were the Patils of Kasbe Pune and the remains of their open office called Zambre chawdi, existed near Gujarat High school in Kasba peth, until recently. They served as village head, head of police and justice, and were responsible tax collection. The Bharat Itihas Samshodhak Mandal’s secretary and historian, C G Karve, reports its existence in the form of a two-storeyed building till 1943. The Ladkat family were appointed as Patils for the Mali area and till today, they are responsible for upkeep of Nava Kalbhairav temple in Pune. Rajashris were the Brahmin Kulkarnis of Pune. Traditionally, Kulkarni was a title used by people who maintained the accounts and records of villages, used in collecting taxes. Dharmadhikaris were Upadhyays or the religious heads also responsible for religious teaching and decision making. The Saptashri family provided the priest for the Nageshwar temple.As Pune functioned as a Nizamshahi Pargana, the Shitoles were appointed as Deshmukhs, responsible for revenue collection, taxation, police and judiciary for the Pune Pargana. The “Deshmukhi vatan” of Pune and the adjoining territory was granted in a hereditary capacity. They were supported by the Deshpande-Honap family who were responsible for record keeping of the Pargana. Indian villages and towns did not grow as strictly planned townships in historical times, except for a few exceptions. However, there has been an organic method to the madness of its seemingly chaotic growth.The story of Kasba Pune followed the same logic and the core grew organically in the beginning. It had narrow meandering lanes and narrower by-lanes (alis, gallis and bols), distinctly medieval in their layout. Most of the houses then were made of “bhendyachya vita” (unbaked bricks) and few with rectangular book- shaped baked bricks. Like most medieval towns, it was built for pedestrian or animal drawn traffic. Houses were densely packed and close to each other opening into courtyards in the centre. A prominent village deity, such as Kasba Ganpati, marked the religious centre of the settlement. Unlike European settlements, the wards of Kasba were mixed-class areas where rich and poor lived in the same place - stately wadas surrounded by smaller houses and huts of the poorest. This was quite different from modern towns where economic class- based neighbourhoods are the norm. However, these neighbourhoods were caste–based. Thus people of same caste and often, occupation, whether rich or poor lived close to each other.In the last column, we saw potters living near Kumbhar Ves and the Mali community cultivating in Mali were near the Nagjhari stream. Bhoyis, or the fishermen, occupied the area next to Kumbhars near the river Mutha and even today, the oldest fish market in Pune functions from the same area. A small Wadar (stone workers) community stayed next to the fisherman area. A significant Muslim population occupied the area around Dhakta Shaeikh Salla dargah and the area within Killa-e-Hissar. As seen in most medieval settlements, the Mahar and Mang communities lived on the outskirts, to the northeast of Kasba; a stark caste divide was observed. The Kasai community lived next to them due to similar occupational interests. Central Kasba was occupied by Shimpis (tailors), Shoshka Kasars (bangle makers), and Tavastha Kasar/tambats (coppersmith) who lived along streets with respective names. In these kinship/community areas, they built temples and shrines to their community deities (for instance, the Twastha Kasar Mandir, of the Kasar community). Professionals and artisans like Tambats and Shimpis had their workshops and shops at the street levels, while they lived above or behind these. Thus there was hardly any separation between home and workplace.Thus, the canvas of the Nizamshahi period for Kasba Pune and its inhabitants materialises through a collation of names, faces and spaces, as per the archival records of the 16th century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-kasba-pune-gao-with-its-movers-shakers-101620212194935.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||50% occupancy in metro, limited gatherings: Mamata imposes new Covid-19 curbs in Bengal||In view of the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in the state, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced a slew of new measures to tackle the pandemic. A number of fresh Covid-19-necessitated restrictions were announced, including the suspension of local train services, the limited activity of market spaces, and 50% occupancy in public transport services including the Kolkata Metro.Also Read: Local train services to be suspended in West Bengal from Thursday in view of Covid-19Here's everything you need to know about the fresh Covid-19 restrictions announced in West Bengal:Also Read: Mamata Banerjee takes oath as chief minister of West Bengal for 3rd timeWest Bengal on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 Covid-19 patients, which took the state's death toll to 11,744, the health department had said in a bulletin. Meanwhile, a record number of new coronavirus disease cases were also registered, as the bulletin showed a single-day spike of 17,639 cases. West Bengal's total Covid-19 infection tally currently stands at 8,98,533.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-coronavirus-covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-curbs-kolkata-metro-markets-closed-check-all-details-here-101620208348227.html
05-05-2021||Bhopal||Villagers in MP oppose cremation of Covid-19 victims fearing for their own lives||A 65-year-old Kuntibai died in a private hospital of Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas district on Monday. She was Covid 19 suspect. When her daughter-in-law Babita brought her body for cremation to their home in Chapda village, the villagers asked her to cremate the body 40 km away at her mother-in-law’s native village of Matmor. However, villagers at Matmor also prevented her from performing Kuntibai’s last rites. After a five hour long struggle, Babita approached Bagli police station. With their help, the body was cremated in a nearby crematorium, but not without opposition from the locals.Bagli town inspector Jayram Chauhan said they assured the villagers that Kuntibai’s cremation in the local crematorium will not lead to Covid-19 infection spreading in the areas, as feared by the locals.This is just one example of many cases when villagers across Madhya Pradesh have prevented cremation of Covid 19 infected people fearing it may infect them.Last Friday, in Niwari district, an employee of district court, Sandhya Vyas, 45, died of Covid 19. His father Kamal Mishra and son Shivam Vyas were not allowed to cremate him at Chirpura village in Niwari district.“The villagers locked themselves in their houses and hid the wood required for cremation. Later, Niwari, superintendent of police (SP), Alok Kumar Singh and other district officials reached the crematorium and threatened to take legal action against the villagers. The cremation took place after 14 hours,” said Shivam Vyas, son of the deceased.A local villager Umesh Mishra said, “Our purpose is not to hurt anyone but to save our families from Covid-19. Unlike cities, the crematorium grounds in villages are not too far from our houses. If the infection spreads, what will we do?”In Dhar too, members of two village panchayats opposed the cremation of outsiders. Even, the SDM put a ban on the cremation of outsiders and deployed teachers to check the Aadhaar cards of those approaching local crematorium. The order was cancelled on Monday.The state government spokesperson and medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “The collectors have been asked to create awareness among villagers about Covid-19. They have also been asked to ensure respectful cremation of the infected people.”A local activist of Bundelkhand Manvendra Singh said, “Villagers are really afraid of getting infected in the second wave. They have stopped entry of people into the villages. The government should make necessary safety arrangement at the crematorium grounds.”As of Monday evening Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 caseload had crossed the six lakh-mark while the death toll stood at 5,905. 12,062 fresh infections and 93 deaths due to the disease were recorded in the 24 hour period up to the release of data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/villagers-in-mp-oppose-cremation-of-covid-19-victims-fearing-for-their-own-lives-101620209662785.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 20,960 fresh Covid-19 infections, positivity rate at 26.37%||Delhi reported 20,960 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Wednesday and 311 related fatalities which pushed the total number of cases in the city to 1,253,902 and the death toll to 18,063. The positivity rate, which is a measure of the percentage of people who test positive for the virus of those who have been tested overall, stood at 26.37 per cent, according to the state health bulletin. Within the same period, 79,491 tests were conducted and the active cases in the city now stand at 91,859.The total number of recoveries in the national capital stood at 1,143,980 as 19,209 patients recovered from the virus during the period. The number of containment zones in the city rose to 47,704 from 44,052 the previous day, the bulletin showed.Read more: DRDO to install medical oxygen plants in Delhi; equipment arrives at AIIMS, RMLOn Monday, Delhi recorded 19,953 new Covid-19 and 338 deaths while the positivity rate stood at 26.73 per cent.Delhi is currently under lockdown till May 10 during which only essential activities are allowed. These include sale and supply of food items, groceries, medicines, movement of health care workers, frontline workers, government staff, judicial officials, journalists and those seeking medical care.The hospitals in the city have been reporting shortage of oxygen supplies, beds and essential medicines as the health infrastructure continues to crumble under the pressure of the unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.Read more: 10 states account for 73% of new Covid-19 deaths. Here's all you need to knowDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced free ration to all beneficiaries and also extended financial help of ₹5,000 to auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers who have been affected by the lockdown imposed in the national capital.India on Wednesday recorded 382,315 fresh Covid-19 cases which pushed the nationwide infection tally to 20,665,148. 3,780 new fatalities were recorded in the same duration which pushed the death toll to 226,188, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. The number of active cases in the country currently stands at 3,487,229, comprising 17% of the total confirmed cases. As many as 338,439 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours with which the total number of recoveries stood at 16,951,731.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-20-960-fresh-covid-19-infections-positivity-rate-at-2637-101620142456848.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav-led MVA govt, ex-CM Fadnavis trade words over SC verdict on Maratha quota||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that the legal battle on Maratha reservation will continue and termed the verdict given by the Supreme Court as “unfortunate”. Thackeray also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take a decision on Maratha reservation since the authority to decide on the Maratha quota reservation lies with the Centre.The apex court on Wednesday quashed the 2018 law which was brought by the Maharashtra government in 2018 to give reservation to the Maratha community citing that the state could not have breached the 50% ceiling on quota.Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the state cabinet's committee on Maratha reservation, said that the MVA government will send a recommendation to the Centre for Maratha reservation since the apex court upheld the validity of the 102nd constitutional amendment and ruled that the central government is the only authority which has the power to determine socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs).“The Fadnavis-led government enacted the Reservation Act in November 2018 after 102th constitutional amendment which took away the state's power to give reservation,” Chavan said. He also accused the former chief minister of misleading the people of Maharashtra by passing a law when it had no power to do so.“The responsibility of giving reservation to the Maratha community now lies with the Centre after the Supreme Court order which makes it clear that states do not have right to give quotas to any community,” NCP minister Nawab Malik said.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis blamed the Shiv Sena and said that every single decision was taken after keeping Uddhav Thackeray into confidence since he was part of the previous government. He also highlighted that the Solicitor General had highlighted that the state's power to award reservation has not been taken away. “The law on Maratha quota was passed by our government by taking Uddhav Thackeray into confidence as his party was part of our government at that time,” Fadnavis said.“The Solicitor General had clearly told the Supreme Court that states' right to provide quota had not been taken away,” he further added.The five-judge bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan said that the decision to provide quota to the Maratha community beyond 50% violated equality and also said that the state failed to show any particular reason as to why the Maratha community should be considered as socially and economically backward class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhavled-mva-govt-ex-cm-fadnavis-trade-words-over-sc-verdict-on-maratha-quota-101620209044984.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||'Look forward to Centre's sustained support': Mamata to PM Modi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday expressed her gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his congratulatory message to her soon after she took oath as the chief minister for the third consecutive term.Banerjee took to Twitter to respond to PM Modi by saying that she looks forward to the Centre's sustained support. "Thank you @narendramodi ji for your wishes. I look forward to the Centre's sustained support keeping the best interest of WB in mind. I extend my full cooperation and hope together we can fight this pandemic amid other challenges and set a new benchmark for Centre-State relations," Banerjee said in a tweet.Earlier in the day, PM Modi congratulated Banerjee and said, "Congratulations to Mamata Didi on taking oath as West Bengal's Chief Minister."Banerjee was administered the oath of office by West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar."I thank all the people who were looking at the Bengal elections. Our first priority is tackling Covid-19. Secondly, I urge all political parties to look around so that violence to be controlled. From today onwards, I am taking law and order into my hands. I will post the police accordingly to tackle the situation. I will hold a big celebration once the pandemic is over," she said after taking the oath.The oath ceremony took place following Covid-19 protocols at the Raj Bhavan in Kolkata.Since the poll verdict on Sunday, there have been reported clashes involving both the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Both parties have traded blame for the violence.The TMC bagged 213 seats while the BJP won 77 of 292 assembly constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/look-forward-to-centre-s-sustained-support-mamata-to-pm-modi-101620204950312.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||Local train services to be suspended in West Bengal from Thursday in view of Covid-19||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that local train services shall be suspended in the state from Thursday onwards to combat the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation. Meanwhile, metro rail and government-run transport services in West Bengal shall operate with 50% occupancy from Thursday, the chief minister announced.Click here for more details on the fresh Covid-19 curbs imposed in West Bengal on Wednesday.West Bengal on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 Covid-19 patients, which took the state's death toll to 11,744, the health department had said in a bulletin. Meanwhile, a record number of new coronavirus disease cases were also registered, as the bulletin showed a single-day spike of 17,639 cases. West Bengal's total Covid-19 infection tally currently stands at 8,98,533.Also Read: Covid-19: West Bengal registers record 107 deaths in a day, 17,639 new casesThe West Bengal chief minister also announced lockdown-like measures across the state to tackle the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, encountered in the second wave of the coronavirus disease. Shopping complexes, markets, gyms, cinema halls, and beauty parlours have been closed, while all manner of social and political gatherings have been prohibited."Looking at the Covid-19 situation, we are going to take some steps. Wearing masks will be mandatory. There will only be 50% attendance in state government offices. Shopping complexes, gyms, cinema halls, and beauty parlours shall remain closed. Social and political gatherings will be prohibited," chief minister Mamata Banerjee said.Also Read: Mamata Banerjee takes oath as chief minister of West Bengal for 3rd timeMoreover, for the private sector in West Bengal, work from home has been allowed for 50% of the staff. Jewellery shops will remain open only for three hours in the day -- from 12pm to 3pm. Home delivery of food shall remain open. In fact, the government encouraged more people to have their food delivered at home to cut down on the virus spread.Banks will remain open from 10am to 2am, the chief minister said.Announcing measures to cut the coronavirus spread from domestic and international fliers, Mamata Banerjee said that from May 7, no one will be allowed to arrive at airports without an RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours. "Those who test positive shall be sent to 14-day quarantine arranged by the airport authority in collaboration with the state government," the West Bengal chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/local-trains-to-be-suspended-in-bengal-from-tomorrow-in-view-of-covid19-101620206698571.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||AIIMS nurse skips grandmother’s funeral for Covid duty||Rakhi John, a nursing officer at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, got a call from her family in Kerala on Sunday afternoon that her grandmother had succumbed to Covid-19. A few hours later, John picked herself up, reported to the Covid ward of the hospital and discharged her duties for the day.The 32-year-old said her grandmother raised her after she lost her mother at the age of one. “I addressed her as Amma. She was more than a mother to me. The news of her demise shattered me. I felt helpless, and orphaned at the same time. My husband asked me to take leave and go home. But I knew I would not be allowed to attend her last rites because of the Covid norms. Besides, there are so many patients banking on me. If I manage to save their lives, it will be my tribute to Amma,” she said.Amid the deadly second wave of Covid-19 in the country, and the fourth in Delhi,thousands of people are testing positive for the disease and over 2,000 are succumbing to the infection every day. The virus has not spared healthcare workers either. Many of them have tested positive, are in need of oxygen support themselves while some have lost their loved ones to Covid-19.Also Read | Centre moves SC against show cause notice of contempt over oxygen supply deficitJohn, who hails from Thiruvananthapuram, and lives here with her husband and two children, said her decision of not going home in such a situation was not easy. “I would have collapsed emotionally had I visited home now. I am needed here right now and that’s why, I decided to continue doing my duty. My aunt recorded the video of Amma’s last rites and shared it with me. I am yet to watch it. I am avoiding it so that I can remain mentally strong and work right now,” she saidSeveral other doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers have been on duty without a break. A senior doctor from Rajeev Gandhi Superspeciality hospital said, “A couple of days ago, two of my doctors lost their family members. One of them, who lost his parent, called me and said, ‘Sir, I am going for the cremation, I will not be able to make it to the evening shift. Can I take the morning shift instead?’ This is the level of dedication among my staff. Many of them have several family members who are down with Covid-19 and yet, they come for their duty.”A 48-year-old nursing officer at Safdarjung Hospital, who tested positive for Covid-19 during the course of her duty, reported back to work immediately after testing negative. “I lost 6kgs in the last 14-15 days. I feel weak all the time. It is difficult to climb to the second floor without getting tired. But I cannot afford to take a break at a time when almost half of my colleagues are down with Covid-19. My husband and two daughters also got infected because of me,” she said.A senior nursing officer at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital said two of her colleagues lost their husbands to Covid-19. Similarly, officials at the Employees’ State Insurance Model Hospital in Basaidarapur said many of their colleagues have been discharging their duties despite having personal losses. Babita Rani, a senior nursing officer at the hospital, said, “A colleague recently lost her husband to Covid-19. The husbands of two other nurses are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the hospital. They are performing their duty without a break. It’s very difficult but we cannot help. We all need some therapy for our mental well being once the dust settles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-nurse-skips-grandmother-s-funeral-for-covid-duty-101620203542418.html
05-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman, mourning her father's death of Covid, leaps into funeral pyre||Mourning her father's death due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a 34-year-old woman in Rajasthan's Barmer leaped into his funeral pyre, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday. Although she was immediately pulled out of the fire, the woman sustained severe injuries and was hospitalised with 70% burns, the police said. She is currently recuperating at a hospital in Jodhpur, where she was referred to after initially being rushed to a nearby hospital in Barmer.Elaborating on the incident, the police said that the funeral of Damodardas Sharda (73), who passed away of Covid-19 at a Barmer hospital on Tuesday, was being held today in the city. While Damodardas was being cremated, the youngest of his three daughters, Chandra Sharda, suddenly leaped into the flaming pyre, the police said, adding that the people present at the site immediately rushed in to pull her out of the fire.However, by the time Chandra was dragged out, the blazes had left their marks on her in the form of severe burn injuries. Initially, she was rushed to a hospital in Barmer, but later shifted to a Jodhpur facility."Damodardas Sharda had three daughters. His wife passed away some time back. The youngest of the sisters jumped on the funeral pyre," PTI quoted Prem Prakash, station house officer at the Kotwali police station, as saying. The police officer said the youngest daughter had insisted to go to crematorium for the last rites after she learnt that her father, who was admitted to the district hospital last Sunday, had passed away.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-woman-mourning-her-father-s-death-of-covid-leaps-into-funeral-pyre-101620201441399.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||Journalists in UP to get priority in vaccination; separate centres to be given||The Uttar Pradesh government has announced that journalists and their families will now get special consideration in the state and will be given priority in vaccination against Covid-19.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday issued instructions to allot separate vaccination centres for journalists and their family members, who are above 18 years of age, an official statement said here.The chief minister took the decision to recognise the efforts of journalists, who have been putting their lives and health at risk to cover the pandemic, it said.Adityanath has also instructed officials to ensure that all journalists get vaccinated, the statement said."If required, go to their workplace and administer free vaccination. All those above 18 years of age will be vaccinated in the families of journalists," Adityanath said.Non-accredited journalists and freelancers will also get the benefit of the welfare scheme, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/journalists-in-up-to-get-priority-in-vaccination-separate-centres-to-be-given-101620201817073.html
05-05-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: K'taka would implement decision taken by PM Modi, says Yediyurappa||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation on the Covid-19 situation, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said the state government will abide by his decision. Addressing reporters here, Yediyurappa said, "We have to implement the decision taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We are also waiting for his directions. Based on it, we will take a decision in the evening." The Prime Minister is going to take a decision against the backdrop of the Supreme Court's recommendation, which would be binding on Karnataka as well. The Apex Court has asked the Central and state governments to consider imposing a lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. Replying to a query, Yediyurappa said he has directed the ministers to camp in the districts they are in charge of and work there to control Covid. He said the ministers have been briefing him about the Covid situation on a daily basis but henceforth they would work in a more focused manner. The Covid cases are on rise in the state at an alarming proportion despite a lockdown from April 27 to May 12. The state is reporting 44,000 cases and over 200 fatalities daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-k-taka-would-implement-decision-taken-by-pm-modi-says-yediyurappa-101620201841116.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||HC strikes down doctor’s prosecution for failing to report child sexual abuse||The Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench last week struck down the prosecution of a doctor from Chandrapur district for failing to report child sexual abuse to the authorities after treating two minor rape survivors. It said the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act obliges reporting of child sexual abuse only if one has knowledge of such offences. It does require a person to investigate and gather knowledge, it added.A division bench of justices ZA Haq and Amit Borkar said it was clear from the wording of the law that it imposes a legal obligation on a person to inform the authorities in case of knowledge that an offence under it has been committed. It said the expression used is “knowledge” which means some information received by such person about the commission of a crime, and that is when it is required to report the authorities. “There is no obligation on such person to investigate and gather knowledge,” said the bench.Also Read | 26/11 Mumbai attacks’ key witness to be rendered homelessMaroti Pimpalkar was booked in connection with abuse of the schoolgirls at a hostel in 2019. During the investigation, the police found the two girls were first treated by the 72-year-old doctor, but he did not report the matter to the police and was named an accused.The court said the material on record did not indicate the doctor was informed about sexual assault when they were taken to him for treatment. It added the crime came to light only when the girls were shifted to the hospital as their condition deteriorated. “There is no material on record to show that the applicant [doctor] was made aware about the sexual assault...,” the court said. “On the contrary, from the statement of the teacher of victims, it appears that the sexual assault was detected only in General Hospital, Chandrapur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-strikes-down-doctor-s-prosecution-for-failing-to-report-child-sexual-abuse-101620201924771.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||#FightAgainstCovid: Doctors go beyond their call of duty||There seems to be no stopping the havoc that the pandemic is playing in our lives. And amid this crisis, even though the frontline workers are facing a severe burnout, there are some doctors in Delhi-NCR, who are going above and beyond their professional call of duty to ensure that they serve denizens in whichever way possible.Some like Dr Harjit Singh Bhatti — who started an initiative Doctors on Road to help the underprivileged in Delhi — have so far catered to migrant labourer in certain colonies of Okhla, South Extension, Nehru Nagar and Kidwai Nagar. “Small bastis in and around Delhi still have no access to healthcare or information about the pandemic. We provide them with masks, soaps and sanitisers since the infection can be curbed by these preventative measures,” says Bhatti. Overseeing work of 25 volunteers in his team, he adds: “There is a shortage of oxygen and beds in the city, so I believe teaching the poorer sections about Covid appropriate behaviour will go a long way in mitigating the problem. We are trying to connect more doctors in different cities and create a network that will aid all those in need.” Turn your attention to the community hall at Saket Court Residential Complex, and here’s Dr Kiran Kukreja tending to the non-critical Covid patients, with urgent care to those who have lowering oxygen levels. “Till they get transferred to a hospital, it’s important that they get some medical attention. And this seemed to be the best possible way in such times,” says Kukreja, who is working on shifts with another Delhi-based doctor, Dr Vinod Raina. She adds: “I received a request from the Residents Welfare Association to help with non critical members in the society, for they had a lot of infected people and a few casualties. To provide relief to the families, I opened the centre with round the clock nurses and doctors from my own team... Once a young girl was brought to me in a state of unconsciousness. We managed to stabilise her oxygen levels, till the time she could be referred to a hospital. This makes me happy. My family and friends worry about my safety, but I tell them – It’s our responsibility to help those in need.”Not just on ground physical care, even over the telephone, doctors are voluntarily extending help to those in need. For patients who were finding it difficult to seek medical advice in these times, Gurugram-based Dr Rajan Taneja started providing free teleconsultation services, after his office hours. “People are in a state of panic because of the extent of the second wave of the pandemic. And many patients are not seeking proper medical advice due to the inability to move out or financial constraints. We do not want them to suffer because of lack of resources, and offer sound advice,” says Taneja, who is presently attending more than 50 callers everyday. He adds that he doesn’t stop there. “After finishing our shifts at the hospitals, my wife, sister-in-law and I offer consultation both on WhatsApp and calls, to Covid patients and pregnant women in particular, guiding them on the right course of action. I get tired, but helping others gives me a dopamine surge, a feeling of happiness and fulfilment. As doctors, this is all we can do today.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fightagainstcovid-doctors-go-beyond-their-call-of-duty-101620201923715.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Cheema tests positive||Aam Aadmi Party legislator and leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema, on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. “I have tested +ve for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. (I’m) following instructions of my doctor while undergoing home isolation. All those who have come in close proximity to me over the last few days are requested to kindly get tested,” he said in a tweet. Also read: Centre moves SC against show cause notice of contempt over oxygen supply deficitPunjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh wished the Dirba legislator a speedy recovery. “Wishing a speedy recovery to leader of the opposition @HarpalCheemaMLA Ji who has tested positive for #Covid19,” Singh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-leader-of-opposition-harpal-cheema-tests-positive-101620200122126.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||As Mamata Banerjee takes her oath, BJP vows to 'dismantle' political violence in Bengal||As Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday took her oath as the chief minister of West Bengal for the third consecutive term; elsewhere in Kolkata, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took another -- to 'dismantle" political violence in the state. BJP national president JP Nadda, addressing party workers in the city, said, "We take an oath to carry out our responsibility, by happily accepting the mandate, and play the important role of Opposition. What we fought in Bengal - political violence, appeasement, and tyranny - we won't step back from carrying out our duties."Post-poll violence has ensued over the past two days across West Bengal, with reports emerging of clashes between rival political workers, torched offices, and the deaths of workers and supporters cutting across party lines.The BJP has been protesting this alleged "rampant violence" in the state, accusing the TMC of hunting down its workers in retribution. The party is also holding a nationwide dharna today to protest what it calls the debilitating law and order situation. West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, along with other members of the party's state unit, has demanded that President's Rule be imposed to bring the scene under control. At the same time, however, the BJP is also maintaining a line of political courtesy, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking to his official account on Twitter to congratulate Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday for her swearing-in.Addressing BJP workers on this day, JP Nadda said, "Those who were supposed to protect others are the ones responsible for this violence. They can take the oath, everyone has the right to do so in a democracy. But we also take an oath to dismantle political violence in Bengal."The TMC secured 213 seats in the recently concluded eight-phased West Bengal Assembly elections, while the BJP won 77 seats. This is the third consecutive time that Mamata Banerjee has been sworn in as the state's chief minister. She assumed the post for the first time in 2011, by ending the 34-year-long CPI(M) regime, one of the longest-serving elected governments in the world.After ruling the state for two successive terms, the game of thrones of 2021 was no less than a do-or-die situation for Mamata Banerjee. However, these elections saw the people of West Bengal once again rewarding her with an overwhelming mandate, and punishing the Left Front with zero seats, paving the way for a state legislature to be formed without any Left representation for the first time in history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/as-mamata-banerjee-takes-her-oath-bjp-s-jp-nadda-vows-to-dismantle-political-violence-in-west-bengal-101620196309147.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Bihar Covid crisis goes on with kin of dying patients assaulting hospital staff||At least five persons were arrested in three incidents of attack on hospital staff and vandalising property in Vaishali, Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur districts over the last 24 hours in Bihar. Those arrested were relatives of Covid patients who died during treatment. Their kin alleged that the deaths were caused by medical negligence by the hospitals.In Vaishali, police said three persons were arrested and a search for several others was going on for vandalism and manhandling of staff at a government hospital after the death of a Covid patient late on Tuesday evening. Following the incident, the hospital staff went on a strike.50-year-old Sumitra Devi, who was admitted to the Sadar hospital in a critical condition on Tuesday morning, died during treatment in the evening, which made her family and relatives accuse the medical staff of negligence. They ransacked furniture and broke window glasses and allegedly abused and manhandled the staffers. It was only after police’s arrival that the body of the woman was wheeled out. Two children of the dead woman, Jwala Mahto and his sister Sharmila Kumari, were arrested by police. Sharmila told reporters that her mother was “not treated properly” and the nursing staff at the hospital sought bribes at every step.“Nurse [name withheld] asked [for] money for treatment [of mother]. The other staff members were asking for cash separately to go check on my mother. When they were refused money, the medical staff referred her [mother] to Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH). It is complete medical negligence,” Sharmila told gathered reporters.A case was registered after the incident with the Town police station for rioting, assaulting public servants and criminal intimidation along with the sections of Epidemic Disease Act. The hospital has denied medical negligence.“There was no negligence. Patient’s condition was critical when she was brought to hospital. Her oxygen level was very low,” said civil surgeon Dr Indradeo Prasad. He added that policemen have been posted outside the hospital on his request after the incident.In the second incident, reported from Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) Muzaffarpur, angry relatives of a Covid patient admitted in ward 14, vandalised hospital property alleging the patient died due to medical negligence. The hospital staff ran for cover. The situation was brought under control after the station house officer (SHO) of police outpost Sumanji Jha arrived at the hospital with his team.In Bhagalpur, two brothers, Akshay Kapri and Chhotu Kapri were arrested earlier today allegedly for assaulting medical staff and vandalizing property at Mayaganj Hospital accusing them of mismanagement and negligence.Police said the accused attacked Dr Rahul Kumar Bharti and Dr Ranjan Kumar alleging they had cut off oxygen supply to their grandfather. After the situation was brought into control, the doctors at the hospital staged a flash protest refusing to return to work in absence of adequate security.The brothers said they had already lost their father and uncle to the coronavirus and were enraged to see the knob of oxygen cylinder supplying gas to their grandfather switched off. “I made a video, which went viral on social media. This led to police taking action against me,” alleged Akshay.Incidents of attacks on doctors and nurses have increased in Bihar in the past couple of weeks following the healthcare infrastructure crumbling under pressure from the second wave of Covid-19 infection. While the hospitals struggle to treat a rising number of patients, their problems have been compounded by a shortage of ICU beds and critical medical supplies such as oxygen and life-saving medicines, which are being hoarded and black marketed by unscrupulous elements. Unable to contain the crisis quickly, the state government has announced a 10-day long lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-covid-crisis-goes-on-with-kin-of-dying-patients-assaulting-hospital-staff-101620197181925.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination for those above 45 yrs of age resumes in Mumbai today||Vaccination for those above 45 years is set to start in Mumbai on Wednesday after five days. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received 100,000 vaccine doses on Tuesday night, facilitating vaccination for the first and second dose for beneficiaries in the 45 years and above age group from Wednesday. However, for these beneficiaries, vaccination will take place only between 12noon and 5pm, BMC said in a statement on Tuesday. Due to shortage of vaccine, the Mumbai civic body had suspended vaccination for those above 45 for four days till May 2. Later, only those who needed the second dose were allowed. Now, even the first dose will be given from Wednesday noon. While registration on the Co-WIN application is compulsory for beneficiaries of the first dose of vaccine, walk-ins are allowed for the second dose. Also Read | Busting the myths on Covid-19 medicationVaccination for those in the age group of 18 - 44 years is also taking place on Wednesday, for the fifth day in a row since it started on May 1. It is taking place at five vaccination centres where 2,500 beneficiaries will be vaccinated.Meanwhile, the first drive-in vaccination centre at Kohinoor Parking Lot began functioning on Tuesday for senior citizens, and for differently abled citizens. Responding to a fake message circulating on social media that this centre was operational for vaccinating beneficiaries in the 18 - 44 years age group, BMC on Wednesday urged citizens in this age group not to rush to the centre. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over the area, said, “Many 18-44 age group beneficiaries gathered at Kohinoor insisting for vaccination. I urge all to please spread this message: vaccination at this centre is only for people in the age group of 45 years and above, getting first or second dose. Drive-in is only for senior citizens and specially abled citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-for-those-above-45-yrs-of-age-resumes-in-mumbai-today-101620197123734.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||#NewNormal: Tired of household chores? Delhi-NCR folks put robotic cleaners on the job||Robotic cleaners are the new it thing when it comes to cleaning. With most city folks giving paid leaves to their house helps, to support them during the lockdown, and managing work from home and work at home alongside, the queries for these robotic cleaners are seeing a rise on various online platforms. And Delhi-NCR residents say that these robotic cleaners are a boon especially for households that have young children or pets. With work from home having become a norm, getting a robot to do the cleaning became a necessity for Meena Kapoor, a Delhi-based freelance writer. She explains, “It’s quite a lot of floor area, so I would end up cleaning two rooms every few days (in absence of my house help). For some time I could tolerate it, but not on a regular basis. Then my house help also developed a severe spinal problem, which made me start research on robot vacuums. I have lots of friends abroad who have robots, and was aware that these things exist. A couple of my friends here have also bought them recently. I asked them about their experiences with robotic cleaners, and then decided to buy one for myself online. Now having experienced it, I feel things work better than humans as a robot will gather more dust than a jhadu would.” Seema Sandhu, a Gurugram-based radiologist, who didn’t have a house help for almost 10 months last year, initially bought a vacuum cleaner and has of late invested in a robotic cleaner. She recalls, “In September we got home two dogs, and my workload increased like anything. The hand held vacuum takes a lot of time. So we decided to buy the robot cleaner. One has to map the place for the robot, and it takes some time to get a hang of it. It needs to be charged as well, and sometimes gets stuck. But if you use both the vacuum cleaner and robot, then it’s just perfect!” For those battling Covid, robotic cleaners have been a boon in disguise. Take for instance Ruchi Vidhani, a Gurugram-based business manager who recently bought one such machine. “I was down with Covid and nobody could enter my room to clean it. And I was obviously not in the state to clean it myself due to exhaustion. That’s when this robot came in handy and did the job for me. It’s such a worthwhile buy, and kept me stress free about the cleaning concerns while I recovered from the illness,” she says.Some like Surbhi M Tangri, a handicraft dealer, saw this challenge coming and bought a robotic cleaner right when the pandemic intensified. “I haven’t kept any domestic help since the pandemic hit last year since both my parents have comorbidities. I gave my house help a paid leave, and learnt to manage things on my own. But when the lockdown was lifted last year, I rushed to buy a dishwasher and a robot cleaner. These gadgets have been a blessing and totally worth the money. In fact, now I’m trying to convince my neighbours and friends to buy such cleaners till the new Covid wave settles down,” she says. And there are some who have made up their mind to buy these machines pretty soon. Paarul Chand, an author is now looking for available options to buy a robotic cleaner. “I’m not sure which one? But I have to buy for sure! We have live in house help, but when everyone is home during such lockdowns, it’s extra work for them to do cater to each family member’s demands and also do the cleaning. Also, when everyone’s home, the house gets dirty faster than usual. So I’m keen to buy a robot cleaner that mops as well, as that would be an extremely big help,” says the Gurugrammer. Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/newnormal-tired-of-household-chores-delhi-ncr-folks-put-robotic-cleaners-on-the-job-101620196591453.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Pune doctor resumes treating Covid-19 patients day after virus takes his father away||A 45-year-old doctor working in a private hospital in Pune resumed duty a day after his father's death due to Covid-19 even as his mother and brother were still battling the disease.Talking to PTI, Dr Mukund Penurkar, who is a physician and has been treating Covid-19 patients along with his wife, said he thought serving patients would be the best tribute to his 85-year-old father."As coronavirus cases increased in Pune last year, and since I and my wife are treating Covid-19 patients in the Sanjivan Hospital here, I sent my parents to my brother's place in Nagpur for the sake of their health," he said.But amid the current second Covid-19 wave, his brother contracted the infection last month, and later his parents also tested positive for the disease, he said.The doctor said his brother and parents required oxygen beds and the situation in Nagpur was precarious in terms of bed availability. He then arranged a cardiac ambulance and got all three of them shifted to the Pune-based hospital where he works."My father, who was aged and co-morbid, was diagnosed with renal failure. While undergoing treatment, his heartbeat also increased and he was diagnosed with pulmonary embolism (blockage of arteries in lungs). His blood pressure also became low and he died of Covid-19 on April 26," the physician said.Dr Penurkar said when he moved his parents here, his father was of the opinion that he should continue to serve the patients in these difficult times. At the time of his father's death, his mother and brother were also undergoing treatment in the hospital."My mother could see the situation in the hospital and told me to continue serving the Covid-19 patients as the services of MD physicians are required at this time," he said.Dr Penurkar said he performed the last rites of his father alone and resumed duty the next evening. "Fortunately, my mother and brother have now recovered," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-doctor-resumes-treating-covid-19-patients-day-after-coronavirus-takes-his-father-away-101620194925019.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||This Delhi-based doc is honouring the fighting spirit of Covid warriors through music||Since the Covid-19 pandemic has struck, alongside the health care workers there have emerged many kind souls who are relentlessly working as warriors to combat challenges at the frontline. Honouring their fighting spirit is a lyrical tribute by Dr Gurpreet Gulati, a former AIIMS professor turned musician. His recently released lyrical poem, Tere Saath Hoon (on YouTube/joerocks _aka_gurpreet) is a tribute to corona warriors.‘Tere saath tha, tere saath hun. Aae mere dost, Mai tere paas hun...’ are the opening lines of this tribute by Gulati, a radiologist who goes by the stage moniker Joerocks. He explains: “Earlier when we would talk about frontline warriors, we’d talk about people in the healthcare industry. But now, ordinary people are working silently and tirelessly, risking their own lives. This poem is for all those who today make us believe that humanity exists and together, we shall overcome.” He answered his inner calling of becoming a musician in 2013, and since then there has been no stopping him. “My career as a doctor was very demanding. I had to quit music for a few years, but while revaluating my choices, I decided to quit medicine and dedicate myself to music,” he says, adding how he hopes to bring positivity in the lives of people during such tough times. In 2020, during the initial months of the lockdown, Gulati came up with a corona warriors anthem, Kahe Ghabraye, which went viral on social media for its motivational theme. He recalls: “I had to record at home, and we had to film the whole song — that had doctors from AIIMS Delhi performing in it — in one day! It was another tribute to all the corona warriors, and showcased sanitisation techniques, PPE kits, masks, etc.” The singer-songwriter, who often writes on social and health issues such as mental health and organ donation, has been working on multiple songs during the pandemic; including two projects that are yet to release. “Agrasar is one of them. It’s a motivational song that tells us not to fear, go ahead and get vaccinated while maintaining all precautions; it’s the only way to beat the virus! I’ve other songs in the pipeline that I will release once we all have recovered and the situation isn’t grim. Till then, whatever little I can do with music, is all I can do right now while at home. But I wish to contribute in whichever way I can,” he concludes. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/this-delhi-based-doc-is-honouring-the-fighting-spirit-of-covid-warriors-through-music-101620195682046.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat poll results start coming in, parties claim stupendous performances||As results for the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls started trickling in Tuesday night, rival political parties claimed sterling performances, apparently taking advantage of the fact that these elections were not contested on party symbols.SP spokesperson Anurag Bhadauria told PTI, "Samajwadi Party-backed candidates have won 760 seats for the post of zila panchayat members."AAP leader Vaibhav Maheshwari said that 71 candidates backed by the party have won the post of zila panchayat members.UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu also told PTI that 389 party supported candidates have won the zila panchayat members' post.He said that a large number of party-backed candidates have won the post of pradhan of village panchayats as well.UP BJP chief Swatantradev Singh said party workers have emerged victorious for the posts of members of zila panchayats, members of kshetra panchayats and village pradhans.He also claimed that after the results, the party will get into formation of zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat boards.The BJP had on Monday claimed 918 party candidates have been elected for zila panchayats while over 500 are leading.In a statement issued here, Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantradev Singh had said that in the three-tier panchayat election in the state, over 45,000 party-supported candidates have won the post of village pradhan, while more than 60,000 party-supported candidates have emerged victorious as members of kshetra panchayats."As many as 918 party-supported candidates have won the post of members of zila panchayat," he had said."On more than 450 seats, the party-supported candidates have taken a decisive lead," Singh had said, attributing the performances to rural development and farmers' welfare ensured by the Yogi Adityanath government in the state.A senior State Election Commission (SEC) official said Tuesday evening that counting of votes for members of village panchayat, pradhans of village panchayat and members of kshetra panchayat has been completed.Only the counting of votes polled to elect zila panchayat members is left.At the end of counting, result sheets are being tallied and declaration of seats was likely to be done late Tuesday night, the SEC official said.The SEC also said that there should not be any delay in handing over the certificates to the winning candidates, and strict action will be initiated against officials concerned in case of any complaint.The counting of votes began Sunday morning at more than 825 centres across the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh.Over 8.69 lakh posts were up for grabs in these polls. Of these posts, more than 7.32 lakh seats were in the gram panchayat wards, 58,176 in the gram panchayats, 75,852 in the kshetra (block) panchayats and 3,050 in the zila panchayats.Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav, on Tuesday claimed that in the UP panchayat polls people gave first priority to his party and said that they did a tremendous job to save the democracy by electing his party candidates."Even in the Prime Minister's constituency (Varanasi) and CM's turf (Gorakhpur), the BJP had to taste defeat. In Lucknow too, the BJP had to taste defeat despite misuse of official machinery," the SP chief said.He said, "The panchayat election results showed that the BJP is now a sinking ship. Signals emanating from the panchayat polls in the state show that the BJP will be wiped out in 2022 (UP Assembly elections)," he said.The state election commission said over 3.19 lakh candidates were elected unopposed in the panchayat election. In all, there were over 12.89 lakh candidates in the poll fray.Uttar Pradesh held panchayat polls in four phases ending April 29 in which candidates contested on free symbols given by the SEC. The election was held at four levels of panchayat bodies --- gram panchayat members, gram pradhan, block panchayat and zila panchayat.In Ayodhya, the BJP won just eight out of the 40 zila panchayat seats, a disappointment for the ruling party in the district on which the Centre and the state government have lavished much attention.The opposition Samajwadi Party claimed to have made major gains in the panchayat elections, saying candidates it backed won 22 district level seats in Ayodhya.The Bahujan Samaj Party claimed its candidates won four zila panchayat seats in Ayodhya.Contrary to the BJP's claim of overall success in the state, its Ayodhya unit has conceded that it did not do as well as expected."The results are disappointing. Despite having sitting BJP MLAs in all constituencies in Ayodhya district, we won only eight out of 40 zila panchayat seats," BJP's district spokesperson Diwakar Singh told PTI.The Samajwadi Party claimed to have won three of the four zila panchayat seats there, leaving one for an independent candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-poll-results-start-coming-in-parties-claim-stupendous-performances-101620192916926.html
05-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt appoints 5 cabinet ministers for Covid-19 management||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise dangerously in Karnataka, five cabinet ministers have been appointed by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to manage the pandemic in the state.While Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar will manage oxygen supply, Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan will be in charge of Remdesivir, other Covid-related drugs and human resource management.Home minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue minister R Ashok have been given charge of bed availability and bed-related issues in medical colleges, private and government hospitals.Minister of Forest Department Arvind Limbavali has been given the responsibility of in-charge of the Covid-19 war room call centre and management of treatment to patients in proper time.Meanwhile, the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has established a 100-bed Covid Care Centre to help the state government's efforts to combat the surge of Covid-19."In accordance with guidelines of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), this Covid Care Centre facility has been established by the BMRCL at Hotel Ekaa in Bangalore," the BMRCL said.Amid the devastating second Covid-19 wave in the country, fresh cases have been rapidly rising in Karnataka. As many as 44,631 new cases, taking the total active cases to 4,64,363. With 292 fresh deaths were reported in the stateThe death toll stands at 16,538.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-appoints-5-cabinet-ministers-for-covid-19-management-101620192987904.html
05-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan girl jumps into father’s burning pyre, is critical||In a shocking incident in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, a 34-year-old girl jumped into the burning pyre of her father, who died of Corona, on Tuesday evening. In a critical condition with 70% burns, she was first taken to the local government hospital, which referred her to Jodhpur after preliminary treatment, police said.The girl was daughter of one Damodardas Sharda, (73), who died of Corona on Tuesday morning at the government hospital in Barmer, where he was admitted on Sunday. After his death, following the Covid-19 protocol, hospital authorities handed over the body to his family members for last rites.Prem Prakash, in-charge at city police station in Barmer said the youngest of Damodardas’ three daughters, insisted on accompanying the body to the crematorium for the last rites as there were no male members in the family.During the last rites process, Chandra Kala (34), jumped into the burning pyre after which she was somehow pulled out by others present at the spot. They also informed the police and called an ambulance, which rushed her to the government hospital at Barmer, Prakash added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-girl-jumps-into-father-s-burning-pyre-is-critical-101620189621562.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: Crackdown on black marketing, hoarding of oxygen and Covid medicines||The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of Bihar Police said it arrested at least four persons for hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and seized around 20 cylinders of the life-saving gas in Patna on Tuesday. The crackdown comes amid rampant black marketing of essential medical supplies to treat Covid1-19 patients, several of whom have died due to their shortage while several others have been forced to buy these at exorbitant prices.The EOU has constituted two teams comprising 10 policemen each to conduct raids and also set up a 24x7 control room with dedicated phone lines-- 0612-2215142 and 8544428427 inviting residents and NGOs to report illegal trade of essential medical supplies. “Traders are cashing in on the virus panic by jacking up prices of essential products,” said an official.12 oxygen cylinders (50 litres each) were seized on Tuesday from Madhav Market near Maurya Hospital in Patrakar Nagar police station area in the capital along with the arrest of traders Dhiraj Kumar Mehta and Kameshwar Rai for hoarding. Police also raided Agamkuan police station area and seized another five cylinders (50 litres each) following the arrest of two hoarders, Priyansu Raj and Pratik Singh.Earlier 57 oxygen cylinders (5 kg each) were seized in a raid in the SK Puri police station area. EoU officials said these were being sold to Covid-19 patients under home quarantine in Patna for as high as ₹40,000- over 10 times the normal price.Several hospitals in Bihar have reported shortage of oxygen and medicine such as Remdesivir over the past few days. A senior officer of the health department, pleading anonymity, said the state was able to get 120-135 MT of medical oxygen per day against the current requirement of nearly 250MT. The centre has allocated 214MT of medical oxygen to Bihar every day. However, the state is struggling to store liquid medical oxygen in absence of cryogenic storage.Additional director general of EoU, Nayyar Hasnain Khan said informers and plain clothes cops were keeping an eye on private hospitals, oxygen generation plants and medicine stockists to check illegal trade. The unit is also using technical surveillance to track offenders.“We also appeal to people to not hoard oxygen cylinders and drugs as those who immediately need them will face difficulties,” Khan said.Enforcement officers said several gangs were suspected to be involved in the hoarding of oxygen cylinders.Facing criticism over its handling of the crisis, the Bihar government on Tuesday announced a statewide lockdown for 10 days from May 5 in order to get a grip on the situation after rebuke from Patna high court. 105 people died due to the infection in Bihar on Tuesday, while 14,794 fresh positive cases pushed the tally of the diseased to 523,841, health department bulletin said. The state-wide coronavirus death toll increased to 2,926.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-crackdown-on-black-marketing-hoarding-of-oxygen-and-covid-medicines-101620187881484.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||A hot day ahead for Delhi today, mercury likely to touch 40°C||Delhi is likely to see a hot day on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 25°C, and the maximum temperature was 42°C.Also Read | ‘No need for RT-PCR test if...’: ICMR issues new testing guidelines for Covid-19Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 156. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 173.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are high and southwesterly, a change in wind direction to easterly is forecasted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-hot-day-ahead-for-delhi-today-mercury-likely-to-touch-40c-101620186561885.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal post-poll violence: Child rights body, NHRC raise concerns; BJP to stage sit-in today||The Bharatiya Janta Party leaders will stage a sit-in in West Bengal on Wednesday against the alleged violence by ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers in which at least 11 people from various political parties have been killed. The state government has not confirmed the figure.The sit-in is being organised on a day when TMC chief Mamata Banerjee is set to take oath as the chief minister of West Bengal after securing a third term in the assembly elections.BJP's national president JP Nadda is also in the state to participate in the sit-in. He arrived in West Bengal on Tuesday and met the families of those who died in the violence which started after the results of the assembly election were announced on May 2.On Sunday, the Election commission counted votes for the assembly elections the TMC came out winning 213 of the 292 assembly seats and secured a third straight term in office.The violenceThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office in Asansol was allegedly vandalised by the TMC workers on Monday. In Kolkata as well, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of BJP, alleged that 15-20 party goons of incumbent chief minister Mamata Banerjee attacked its office. It also claimed that the 'goons' engaged in an altercation with the activists and assaulted them. The party office was also vandalised.Party officials also claimed a BJP office in Hooghly district was set on fire and the shops of its supporters were torched in many areas. According to multiple reports, at least 11 people have been killed in the violence so far.Mounting pressure on TMCFollowing the violence, the pressure has mounted on TMC with Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling on West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar. Various other leaders as well have condemned the violence and called on Banerjee to take strict action against the perpetrators.On Tuesday, Banerjee held an emergency meeting with top state officials. and directed to them to increase surveillance in areas identified as sensitive to violence. "The CM is very worried about the situation and directed officers to take necessary steps to restore the law and order at the places from where reports of violence and clashes have come," news agency PTI reported an official as saying.On Tuesday, National Commission for Women (NCW) said it has taken a suo motu cognisance of videos purportedly showing women being beaten up in West Bengal's Nandigram, a key assembly seat and a hotbed of West Bengal politics. "Chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Director General of Police, West Bengal, to take immediate action and arrest the accused persons without any delay," the NCW said in a statement.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also took cognisance of the violence and ordered an investigation fact-finding team to conduct a spot inquiry and submit a report at the earliest, preferably within two weeks. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also wrote to the chief secretary of West Bengal and raised concerns over post-poll violence saying that it has received complaints claiming that many children have been recruited to participate in the incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-post-poll-violence-child-rights-body-nhrc-raise-concerns-bjp-to-stage-sit-in-today-101620184999461.html
05-05-2021||Patna||JD(U) and other Bihar parties hit rock bottom in Assam, Bengal polls||Bihar based political parties including the ruling Janata Dal (United) (JD-U) couldn’t win even a single seat in the recently concluded Bihar and Assam assembly elections. What is even worse, most of their candidates lost even their deposits in a grim reminder of their limited influence in politics outside Bihar.The JD(U) managed 0.11% of the total votes polled in Assam with all the 34 party candidates losing their deposits as per election commission data. JD(U) leaders, aware of the poll outcome, said the majority of party candidates polled around 600- 800 votes with only a few getting over 1000 votes. In 2016 Assam assembly polls, the JD(U) contested four seats and earned 0.07% votes.In Bengal, JD(U) fared even worse with 0.02% vote share with majority of the 16 party candidates losing their deposits, the JD(U) leader quoted above said.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) candidate got 0.07% votes on the single seat contested in Assam with support from the Congress-led alliance. The RJD didn’t field any candidates in West Bengal and extended support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress.Similarly, the Lok Janshakti party (LJP) contested 10 seats in West Bengal and around dozen seats in Assam with a negligible return of 0.01% and 0.04% votes respectively.The CPI-ML( liberation), which has re-emerged as a political force in Bihar after last year’s assembly elections, got 0.03% of all the votes cast in West Bengal and in Assam, it could manage only 0.14% votes.Sanjay Verma, a senior JD(U) leader and in-charge of Assam polls, said the party did not perform as per expectations because of a straight contest between BJP and Congress –AIUDF alliance in Assam. Similarly, its 16 candidates in West Bengal did not gain much due to the straight fight between the BJP and the TMC in the state.“But in both the states, the JD(U) has managed to strengthen its organisational base and would strive to gain political space in the coming days,” Verma said.RJD’s Abdul Bari Siddiqui, a former minister, said his party could have done better in Assam had it got more seats in alliance with the Congress. “The party has made considerable inroads in Assam. In Bengal, we did not contest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-and-other-bihar-parties-hit-rock-bottom-in-assam-bengal-polls-101620184221118.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Fire in Delhi’s Vikaspuri Covid hospital, 26 patients rescued||A fire broke out at a private Covid hospital in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri late Tuesday night, but the fire fighters and hospital administration were able to rescue all patients in time. Of the 26 patients rescued from the hospital, 17 were those admitted with Coronavirus infection, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. Also Read | Gangs from other states under scanner for duping Covid patients, families“No patient or anyone else was injured in the blaze. All were rescued safely with the help of hospital staff,” said Garg. The officer said that the call about the blaze was made around 11pm from the UK Nursing Home. “We were told that it is a Covid hospital with infected patients inside. We sent eight fire tenders,” said Garg. The blaze, which allegedly began in a store located on the first floor of the building, was controlled by 11.45pm. The cause of the fire remains unclear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-in-delhi-s-vikaspuri-covid-hospital-26-patients-rescued-101620183801032.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: West Bengal registers record 107 deaths in a day, 17,639 new cases||West Bengal on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 COVID patients taking the toll to 11,744, the health department said in a bulletin.The tally also went up to 8,98,533 after the state recorded its highest one-day spike of 17,639 cases, it said.In the last 24 hours, 16,547 patients recovered from the disease, taking the total number of cured people to 1,06,58,094.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of active cases has risen to 1,20,946, the bulletin added.Out of the 107 deaths, 53 were due to comorbidities where COVID-19 was incidental. North 24 Parganas district and Kolkata reported 33 and 31 fresh fatalities respectively. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts. The 17,639 fresh positive cases included 3,954 from North 24 Parganas district and 3,914 from Kolkata, the bulletin said.Since Monday, 57,748 samples were tested in West Bengal for the virus, taking the total number of such tests to 1,06,58,094.The total number of people inoculated in West Bengal on Tuesday was 1,34,819.The inoculation process for people belonging to the 18-44 years age bracket started at two private hospitals in Kolkata on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the state health department dismissed rumours regarding the shortage of Remdesisir and said that companies "should allocate the drug to clinical establishments on the basis of CCU bed strength and the rate of occupancy there".Companies would not be able to sell them to individuals against any doctor's prescription, the department said issuing a similar advisory for the usage of Tocilizumab drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-west-bengal-registers-record-107-deaths-in-a-day-17-639-new-cases-101620179600975.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Control room set up in Bihar's Darbhanga to dispose of unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 victims||On Sunday night, four members of Kabir Sewa Sansthan (KSS) were concealed behind PPE suits at Bhigo Multidham in Darbhanga.Behind them were four bodies of victims of Covid-19, wrapped in plastic body bags.According to the founder of KSS, Navin Sinha, though relatives of two of the deceased were present, there was no one for two others to bid final adieu. However, funeral pyres were finally lit by KSS volunteers as none of the relatives, who stayed 50 meters away from the crematorium, could muster the courage to come close to perform last rites despite being provided with a PPE kit.“We faced a tough time a few days ago in arranging for the funeral of a 45- year old suspected corona victim (ward no. 27). Only one distant relative was willing to handle the body. People in the neighbourhood shut their doors. Finally, we managed to carry out his last rites 20 hours later,” Sinha said.He said the KSS was formed to arrange for the funeral of unclaimed bodies with the help of dozens of volunteers.Meanwhile, district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM, at a review meeting on Monday, asked officials to arrange manpower for providing assistance in the funeral of the deceased.SDO (Sadar) Rakesh Gupta said there were instances of kin abandoning the bodies of corona victims.Now, Darbhanga municipal commissioner Manesh Kumar Meena has issued a circular that cleanliness in-charge of the municipal ward concerned would ensure the lifting of unclaimed bodies while identifying four employees under his jurisdiction for this purpose. The municipal corporation has set a control room for the disposal of unclaimed dead bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/control-room-set-up-in-bihar-s-darbhanga-to-dispose-of-unclaimed-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-101620181336832.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to take oath as West Bengal CM for her 3rd consecutive term||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee will take oath as the chief minister of West Bengal on Wednesday. After emerging victorious in the high-stakes West Bengal Assembly elections on May 2, the TMC supremo will become the CM of the state for her third consecutive term. The oath-taking ceremony, organised at Raj Bhavan, will be a low-key programme given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, a government official told news agency PTI.Click here for full election coverageThe CM's predecessor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, leader of Opposition of the outgoing House Abdul Mannan and CPI(M) veteran leader Biman Bose are among the few leaders who have been invited to the ceremony, the official added.Chief ministers of other states and leaders of other political parties have not been invited for the ceremony in view of the current Covid-19 situation in the country. While the infection tally in India has breached the 20-million mark, West Bengal has recorded 8,98,533 infections till date. The state on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 Covid-19 patients, taking the toll to 11,744, the health department said in a bulletin.Also Read: Mamata Banerjee, a street fighter who’s now beaten Left, Right, Centre"It has been decided to keep the oath-taking ceremony of Mamata Banerjee a very simple one because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Banerjee will be the only leader who will be taking oath tomorrow. The programme will be a very brief one," the official quoted above told PTI.After eight rounds of polling in the state, the votes were counted and results announced on May 2. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which had set a target of winning more than 200 seats out of the 294-member assembly, won 77 seats while the TMC won 213 seats.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-to-take-oath-as-west-bengal-cm-for-her-3rd-consecutive-term-today-101620175156945.html
05-05-2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan adds 16 more tankers for oxygen transport; total 38||The Rajasthan government has made 16 more tankers available for oxygen transportation and is also procuring oxygen concentrators to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, chief secretary Niranjan Arya said on Tuesday.He said the number of tankers for transporting oxygen has increased from 22 to 38 and the supply of oxygen concentrators has also started now.Arya was reviewing the status of oxygen concentrators, oxygen tankers, and oxygen distribution in the state with officials through video-conferencing at the Secretariat here.He said the Centre is also expected to increase Rajasthan's oxygen quota very soon. The Union home secretary has assured the state of additional oxygen allocation and tankers from Gujarat's Jamnagar, Arya added.He said a plant with a capacity of 12,000 oxygen cylinders in Dariba is likely to be operational by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/covid19-rajasthan-adds-16-more-tankers-for-oxygen-transport-total-38-101620178464568.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Gangs from other states under scanner for duping Covid patients, families||The prevailing crisis in supply of oxygen, life-saving medicines, injections and equipment for treating Covid-19 has not only thrown open opportunities for hoarders and black marketeers, but also activated syndicates previously involved in phishing and other online cheating, police said. The new trend is that these online fraudsters dupe Covid patients and their family members by offering to deliver essential items.Pointing to how such incidents of online cheating have increased in the last 10 days, officers said they have reason to believe that gangs operating from Delhi-NCR, Jharkhand’s Jamtara, Bengal’s Purulia, and Mewat in Haryana are behind several of the crimes.They said most of the bank accounts to transfer the cheated money were being hired on a commission basis -- a common modus operandi of these gangs.Delhi Police said they busted one such gang on Monday, and arrested a 26-year-old man from Faridabad who was not only directly involved in cheating Covid patients and their relatives but also rented out his bank accounts to other gang members to transfer money.Pointing to the home town of the accused, Rohit Kumar Yadav, who is from Jharkhand, police said they were not ruling out his links with cyber frauds operating out of the Jamtara area in the state.“Yadav and his associates, who are yet to be caught, used to call people who were sending SOS messages for oxygen cylinders or life-saving drugs on social media, and trick them into depositing advance money for delivery of the goods. They collected between ₹2,000 and ₹4,000 but never delivered the items and subsequently ignored the victims,” said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Police officers said that apart from looking for targets posting SOS messages along with their contact numbers on social media, these gangs were also widely circulating their phone numbers online, claiming to be the suppliers of oxygen cylinders, medicines and medical equipment used for treating Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangs-from-other-states-under-scanner-for-duping-covid-patients-families-101620170493493.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police to freeze 95 bank accounts of Covid frauds||A day after Delhi Police said that they were joining hands with different agencies to prevent cyber criminals from duping Covid victims, investigators have identified 200 mobile phone numbers and initiated steps to freeze 95 bank accounts involved in some of the frauds.Police said they have coordinated with banks to freeze accounts so that the duped money is not withdrawn or spent, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.“We have also sent the 200 suspicious phone numbers to the Department of Telecommunications for mandatory KYC verification so that these numbers are not used anymore,” said Biswal.In addition, police have identified 33 unique transaction reference (UTR) numbers and 17 UPIs and online wallets used by the fraudsters to target victims, most of who fell prey in their desperation to find oxygen cylinders, concentrators, and medicines.“For the UTRs, UPIs and wallets, we have reached out to the National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) to block the payment so that the money can eventually be reversed to the victims,” said Biswal.As on Tuesday morning, Delhi Police registered 113 FIRs related to different kinds of crimes committed against coronavirus patients and their kin. Of these, 61 were related to cheating on the pretext of providing medicines or oxygen, and the rest were related to black marketing, hoarding or overcharging. Biswal said that 100 people have been arrested so far for their alleged roles in these crimes.Delhi Police, in association with the ministry of home affairs (MHA), already has a cyber helpline number, 155260, to help victims of online financial frauds recover their money, if they report the fraud in time.On Monday, police decided that apart from the complaints received on this number, even the online financial fraud complaints received on the police’s Covid helpline number, 011-23469900, were to be dealt in the same way, with a focus on helping victims recover the money.Police have said their analysis of some of the cheating cases has suggested that some phishing gangs from Mewat in Haryana and Jamtara in Jharkhand were also taking advantage of the situation in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-freeze-95-bank-accounts-of-covid-frauds-101620170258925.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Makeshift site at Delhi's Pusa road boosts jabs drive on Day 2||The expanded inoculation programme for people aged between 18 and 44 picked up pace in the national capital on Tuesday at 301 vaccination sites across 77 government schools, and at a large makeshift facility set up by a private hospital in central Delhi.Over 89,000 people received a shot of either Serum Institute of India’s Covishield or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Monday, after the numbers dropped to just over 1,500 on Sunday, with just one government site and a handful of private sites operating on the day.Tuesday’s vaccination numbers, which the government did not disclose till the time of going to press, are likely to be boosted by a temporary vaccination facility set up in 48 hours by BLK-Max Super Speciality Hospital at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) campus on Pusa Road.The makeshift facility currently has 20 vaccination sites, while 30 will be added later; these will allow the hospital to administer 10,000 jabs a day, officials said.Over 3,000 jabs of Covishield, at Rs.900 a dose, were administered at the centre on Tuesday.The doses were provided by Max Healthcare, which procured vials directly from the Serum Institute of India (SII).“The facility is spread out over a large area, and patient flows have been organised in a manner that ensures social distancing, with Covid norms being followed at all times,” the hospital said in a statement.Dr Abhay Soi, chairman and managing director, Max Healthcare, said, “I am happy to share that our team has been able to set up this facility in just about 48 hours with complete support from members of RSSB. We will scale up vaccinations in the coming days and try and reach out to as many people as possible.”While vaccinations also picked up in government schools that were converted into vaccination points exclusively for the 18-44 age group, people reported a lack of social distancing and delays for the second day in a row.Amrita Paul, 28, who went to a school in Sangam Vihar, said that although she booked a 9am slot, she got her shot only after 11am because of a delay in the delivery of doses.“I reached the centre at 8.45am and there was already a queue outside. Once the gates opened, people rushed in, but the vaccines hadn’t arrived. People kept standing in the queue, but got impatient as the day started to get hotter. However, once doses arrived and the tokens were handed out, it just took 10 minutes to get the shot,” she said.Some others, however, said the vaccination system was efficient. “We feel quite relieved now. It is amazing how efficiently resources are being managed to run vaccine sites in public schools smoothly,” said Deepak Vohra, a lawyer, who along with his wife Shilpa Vohra, a teacher, took the first dose of vaccine at a school in New Ashok Nagar.Meanwhile, uncertainty over supplies meant that vaccination sites run by private centres fell behind. There were only 65 sites run by private centres on Tuesday, according to the government’s Co-WIN portal, of which 20 were at the BLK site in Pusa Road. Private hospitals said they had no assurance from Delhi government on receiving doses, while the two vaccine manufacturers in the country turned down requests for supplies.“No vaccines are available from either of the companies,” said an administrator from Holy Family hospital. Sir Ganga Ram hospital previously said that Serum Institute of India told them that vaccine doses will be available only after six months, whereas Bharat Biotech said it would get back.Dr Narin Sehgal, Delhi secretary of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India), said, “We haven’t received any communication from the Delhi government as well.” The Delhi government has ordered 13.4 million doses, split into half Covaxin and Covishield.With inputs from Abhishek Dey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/makeshift-site-at-pusa-road-boosts-jabs-drive-on-day-2-101620169761635.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi RWAs ask L-G for nod to set up shot centres in colonies||Several resident welfare associations (RWAs) in Delhi have requested Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal to allow them to set up paid Covid-19 vaccination facilities in their colonies in a bid to extend the coverage of the jabs amid a spike in cases that has overwhelmed the Capital’s health care infrastructure.In a letter sent to the LG on Monday, the resident groups also asked for permission to begin “drive-in vaccinations”, as hs been started in Mumbai. HT has seen the letter.The Delhi government began vaccinating people aged 18 to 44 on Monday, across 301 government centres in 76 schools. Several private hospitals have also been offering paid vaccinations.“Most residents in our colony wish to get vaccinated but are scared of contracting Covid-19 due to the crowd at centres. Most of the residents are willing to pay for the vaccination facility and don’t mind paying a little extra if it is made available in our colonies,” the letter read.“We feel that if free vaccination camps are being held in government schools, paid camps can be held in residential colonies in association with RWAs. Most RWAs and residents will be willing to sponsor the paid vaccination for their staff – guards, helps, drivers, garbage collectors, etc,” it added.The letter was signed by the RWAs of around 30 localities, including Sainik Farms, Navjivan Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Hauz Khas Enclave, Chattarpur Enclave, Nizamuddin East, Green Park Extension, New Friends Colony, Mehrauli, and Defence Colony, among others.Officials at the L-G’s office did not respond to requests for comment.The RWAs said that they have prepared a list of beneficiaries. “RWAs will provide full support – arrangement of space, support staff, vaccine storage facility, and other requirements,” the letter read.They also suggested that the vaccines could be administered in neighbourhood clinics or nursing homes.The RWAs also said they would pay for doctors, nurses and ambulances for these proposed vaccination sites.Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjivan Vihar RWA, said, “Nearly all residents wish to take the vaccine, but their biggest fear is the risk of getting infected in crowded centres. Vaccination camps in their own colonies will encourage more residents to get vaccinated, resulting in maximum coverage in the shortest time leading to control of the disease at the earliest.”“Doorstep vaccination has been very successful in many countries as it obviates the risk of further spread of infection. RWAs can provide much-needed logistical support in tandem with the governmental agencies,” said Devalina Kohli, vice president of the Hill View Apartments RWA in Mehrauli.The L-G office did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rwas-ask-l-g-for-nod-to-set-up-shot-centres-in-colonies-101620168607649.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||DU suspends online classes till May 16 due to Covid surge||The Delhi University administration on Tuesday suspended all online classes till May 16 and rescheduled all final-year exams to be held in that period, owing to the severity of the ongoing Covid-19 surge in the Capital, after appeals from students and faculty members. The move comes days after the university deferred the final-year undergraduate examinations, which were to begin on May 15.“In view of sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, online teaching shall remain suspended till May 16, 2021,” read the order signed by DU registrar Vikas Gupta.Following this order, students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) also demanded the same for the varsity’s postgraduate students. Hundreds of JNU students are scheduled to appear for their end-semester exams this month. However, the university’s administration has made no announcement yet.Later in the day, the Union education ministry asked all central universities to postpone offline exams scheduled in May. “The online exams may however continue,” higher education secretary Amit Khare said in the letter to all centrally funded institutes on Monday. “The situation will be reviewed in the first week of June and appropriate decisions conveyed.”HT on April 29 reported that first-year undergraduate students of several DU colleges asked their principals to suspend all online learning activities for at least two weeks. Students of these colleges are now focusing on assisting those peers who missed their classes due to Covid or other reasons.“The administration should facilitate voluntary revision or doubt-clearing sessions (without attendance), which could be arranged between small groups of willing and healthy students and teachers, so that those who have missed their classes till now can cover the syllabus and are on an equal footing with their classmates by the end of the two-week class suspension,” said Kshitij Jain, a first-year student of St Stephen’s College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-suspends-online-classes-till-may-16-due-to-covid-surge-101620168298371.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||App data on beds, ground reality at odds in Delhi: Residents||People with Covid-19 seeking medical assistance have reported being confused by available bed data released on a realtime, with many turning up at facilities that were meant to have vacancies as per a government mobile app -- Delhi Corona -- but were in reality full.Around 3pm on Tuesday, the government’s Delhi application showed there were 1,515 Covid-19 beds and 56 intensive care unit (ICU) beds available.But people reported none were available. HT reached out to eight of the 65 hospitals where beds were apparently vacant as per the Delhi Corona app. Requests for beds were turned down in all of these hospitalsExperts and officials said this is happening mostly since hospitals are too stretched and have been unable to update their vacancies and occupancy data.Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of department (pulmonology) at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh said, “At this crucial time, which hospital will want to turn down patients? The problem is there aren’t enough ICU beds, so we are having to keep critically ill patients, who need ICU care, in wards. So, as soon as a bed gets vacated in the ICU, a patient from our ward moves in”.“This is happening because people get admitted to private hospitals expecting better treatment and care,” said Dr Maurya.The Delhi government did not respond for comment.Aditi Raj, a 27-year-old resident of south Delhi’s Saket, said she was looking for an oxygen bed for her sister on Monday after her oxygen saturation levels dipped to 82. She followed the information on the Delhi Corona app but was turned away from all hospitals where beds were reportedly vacant.“I tried at least five hospitals.The app showed there are 20 vacant beds in one hospital. When we went there, the administration told us that they have not had a vacant bed in the last two days. Is this the ‘real-time’ information that the government is providing to people? When families are already in the worst mental state, they are misleading us and wasting our time,” said Raj who finally admitted her sister to a private hospital in Greater Noida.A senior official of the Delhi government said the oxygen shortage also led several hospitals, including Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality and Batra hospitals, to reduce their bed capacity, which might not have been updated on the portal by the hospital administrations.“Amid the rising Covid cases, we are also facing a shortage of oxygen supply, which has thrown plans off gear. The responsibility of updating the status of beds in real-time is the job of the respective hospitals. Many hospitals are also refusing to admit critically ill patients because of this (oxygen) shortage,” said the official, asking not to be named.According to a letter written by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, Delhi has total 21,138 Covid beds, of which 16,272 are normal beds and 4,866 are ICU beds. Not all, however, are hospital beds. This number includes beds in Covid Health Centres and Covid Care Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/app-data-on-beds-ground-reality-at-odds-in-delhi-residents-101620167695467.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||High court asks centre to reply on plea seeking to strike down new NCT act||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked for the Centre’s response on a PIL that sought to strike down the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Amendment Act, which hands the state Lieutenant Governor greater power, that was passed in Parliament in March, and was notified last week.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Union ministries of law and home affairs, seeking their stand on the plea. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul accepted the notice on behalf of the ministries.The plea, by law student Shrikant Prasad, claimed that the Act, “redefines Delhi government as the Lt Governor” and curbs the Delhi Assembly’s power to conduct proceedings.“Further, the Act provides that the opinion of the L-G must be obtained before taking any executive action on decisions of the Delhi government, on such matters as may be specified by the L-G,” the petition has claimed.Prasad contended that the provisions of the Act are in contrast with the Supreme Court’s July 2018 order on the powers of L-G and the Delhi government. The apex court said the L-G will be bound to follow the aid and advice of council of ministers except in matters of land, police and public order.Prasad argued that the Act was only going to increase the suffering of the citizens of Delhi, who are already grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic and related problems of shortage of oxygen, essential medicines and beds.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-court-asks-centre-to-reply-on-plea-seeking-to-strike-down-new-nct-act-101620167340716.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Mohalla clinics a waste if not used during pandemic: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up the Delhi government for not using its Mohalla Clinics to augment the facilities for Covid-19 patients, saying that “it’s a waste of resources” if they are not being used, even as the government submitted that the clinics cannot handle serious patients.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said it was the best time for the use of these Mohalla Clinics, while also asking the Delhi government to explore using government and municipal schools for adding more facilities for the citizens.“What is the use of your mohalla clinic?... It’s a waste of resources… If you made this infrastructure.. what worth is it if it can’t be used for any purpose during the pandemic?” the bench asked.The observations come after senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, told the court that the Mohalla Clinics cannot be used as addition to the existing infrastructure as they are very small facilities and have one only one entry and exit point. He also said that the mohalla clinic cannot deal with the serious patients as it is meant for community service where private doctors come and see patients voluntarily for a couple of hours.Additional standing counsel Satyakam, for the Delhi government, added while testing is taking place in the Mohalla Clinics, vaccination cannot be done there as it may lead to crowding.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma for the Centre took a jibe at the Delhi government and said, “The situation has been like this for more than one year. The entry and exit should have been changed… You said that you have a world-class facility.” He also argued that in the last 10 months, the Delhi government had not bought a single ventilator.Mehra shot back, “I am happy that Centre is acknowledging that the Mohalla Clinics are good.” He also assured the court that they will speak with the civic bodies and explore the feasibility of using schools.The discussion took place on the suggestion by senior advocate Tushar G Rao, appearing for one of the petitioners, who said that the Delhi government can use its Mohalla Clinics.The court, during the hearing, also asked the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to create awareness among the public by releasing videos and graphics on Covid-19 symptoms, treatment, protocol, and equipments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mohalla-clinics-a-waste-if-not-used-during-pandemic-delhi-hc-101620166912692.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Amid oxygen supply crisis in Delhi, smaller hospitals hit hardest||A children’s hospital in south Delhi’s Kalkaji sent out an SOS on Tuesday morning, saying it had only two hours of oxygen supply left with at least 10 children on oxygen support and six on ventilator.Triton Hospital is among several mid-size and smaller hospitals or nursing homes which continue to face a supply crisis, with Delhi receiving roughly half of its daily liquid medical oxygen demand. Need for medical oxygen in the city has shot up in the wake of hundreds of people rushing to hospitals with severe lung infection, requiring oxygen support as an unprecedented wave of Covid-19 infections sweeps through the city.Most of these hospitals or nursing homes depend on oxygen cylinders for their supply, requiring up to 100 cylinders that need to be refilled at 14 designated vendors every day.The Delhi government sent supplies to Triton after several people shared a written appeal by the hospital on Twitter. “Fret not! We’ve got this. Have assigned 3 D-type cylinders from our SOS reserves maintained at Rajghat Reserve Point, to Triton Hospital. We will also assist the hospital re-establish their oxygen supply chain,” tweeted senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha.The Capital on Monday received 433 MT medical oxygen – lower than Saturday’s 454MT, which was the highest for a single day yet – even though the Supreme Court asked the central government on Sunday to ensure Delhi receives 700MT. With the city receiving over 400MT for three days in a row, bigger hospitals received supply with some time to spare. The smaller ones, largely dependent on oxygen cylinders, continued to face the crisis and resorted to pooling cylinders.By Tuesday noon, Delhi received 307MT, which includes 205MT that arrived through oxygen express trains, said a government official, who did not wish to be identified. The full figures for Tuesday will be summarised after midnight, the official said. A senior railway official said another 244MT oxygen was scheduled to arrive in Delhi on oxygen trains in the early hours of Wednesday.“On May 3, we received 433 MT oxygen against a demand of 976MT oxygen – which is roughly 44% of the total demand. Over past one week, Delhi received around 393MT oxygen per day on an average – which is around 40% of the total demand. This oxygen deficit is leading to distress situation in hospitals across the city. We have put in place an effective management system to deal with distress calls from hospitals. We have created SOS reserves,” said Raghav Chadha, who is in charge of the oxygen SOS management system in Delhi.He further said, “Yesterday (May 3), we received 41 SOS calls from hospitals. These hospitals collectively have 7,142 oxygen beds. It gives a sense of the scale of risk we are dealing with. All 41 calls were resolved. We sent total 21.3MT oxygen in response to the distress calls from the hospitals – which include Irene, Kukreja, Triton and Rainbow hospitals. In one case, an oxygen truck heading for one hospital – which still had some oxygen left in its reserves -- was diverted towards another that suddenly reported a worse crisis.”Among the hospitals that sent out calls for help was Indian Spinal Injury Centre. Early Tuesday morning the hospital said its stock will last only 30 minutes. “We got the supply in the nick of the time. We are always in a crisis like situation – our requirement is around 4.8MT, the government allocated us 3.9MT, and we have been getting around 1.83MT. And, in the last 10 days the number of sick patients has gone up, they need a lot of oxygen to maintain saturation,” said Jasleen Kaur, general manager marketing, Indian Spinal Injury Centre. She said that the government has been helping with the liquid oxygen supply but getting their hands on cylinders has been a challenge. The hospital need cylinders for the additional beds that do not have facility for oxygen pipeline as it is mainly an orthopaedic hospital.Govt sets up helplineThe Delhi government said on Tuesday that it has set up a new 24x7 emergency helpline and a call centre to attend distress calls from hospitals regarding oxygen shortage, even as it estimated that the supply was likely to increase over the next two days.In a statement, the government said that the new helpline is expected to bolster the current strategy of oxygen allocation among hospitals on a day-to-day basis aimed at “optimal utilisation of the given oxygen”.The statement further said that the government has deployed officials across several oxygen plants in other states to ensure hassle-free supplies.“The Delhi government has appointed three IAS officers and more than 20 call centre executives to ensure smooth functioning of Oxygen supply and distribution,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-oxygen-supply-crisis-in-delhi-smaller-hospitals-hit-hardest-101620166049474.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Amaltas in a season of loss||The tree is clothed in golden yellow, but of a very pale shade. Amaltas flowers are known for more glow, more flamboyance. This tree, here in Green Park, must be an exception.It is that giddy time when summer begins and Delhi avenues lit up with the blooming of the amaltas. But in this year of pestilence, when people we personally know are dying due to the coronavirus infection, the blossoming might not bring that same happiness. This evening, nobody stands under the tree. Nobody is to be seen on the road either, except for a masked guard outside a bungalow.Indeed, this year, one can’t go out to view the amaltas in bloom. The grief-stricken Capital is in curfew. You will miss the show at central Delhi’s Hailey Road, where the sleepy stretch of tarmac will soon be lined on both sides with dense bunches of amaltas flowers. You will not be able to experience what you had taken for granted in any other summer — all day long, flowers falling down on the pavement like a continuous snowfall, making the dusty ground look as if it covered by a golden mat.Nor will you be able to see the splendour of the alamtas at Amrita Shergill Marg. There, the blooming trees appear like a painting by an artist who has lost all her sense of proportion, and has gone overboard with golden-yellow smudges.Nor will you be able to make that noon-time trip to Second Avenue, the path that links Lodhi Road to Jor Bagh Road. There, just beyond Bharat Taxi Stand, a row of amaltas trees is splayed out into a dramatic sight. You feel as if you’ve entered a tropical forest of florescent yellow. In a week or so, the snaky branches will transform into impenetrable thickets of yellow that will spar with the unforgivingly hot sky.Gone this year, too, the pleasure of walking down Bungalow Road, in north Delhi. Its great treasure of amaltas flowers is swept away every morning by the municipal staff.And forget, too, about enjoying the amaltas at night, when its yellow colour becomes entangled with the gold of the street lamps, the branches twinkling like baby chandeliers.Meanwhile, here under this Green Park amaltas, a flower is falling dead every other moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-amaltas-in-a-season-of-loss-101620163158001.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||HC ultimatum on Delhi O2 crisis: ‘Lives at stake’||The Delhi high court on Tuesday put the Union government on notice for contempt of court after taking a strong view of the continuing oxygen crisis in the Capital, which was seeking at least 700 metric tonne (MT) in a day but has been making do with far lower quantities that, coupled with the Delhi government’s inability to transport oxygen, has pushed hospitals to the brink of a catastrophe.The city was set to receive at least 550 MT of supplies by the end of Wednesday, including two deliveries through “oxygen express” trains – one of these arrived in the morning with 205 MT and another was expected with 244 MT later in the day.But these quantities were still lower than the 700 MT projected demand, which the Supreme Court said must be met when it issued final orders on Sunday.On Wednesday, the high court pulled up the Union government for the continuing deficit. “We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way that you won’t supply 700 right away. We won’t hear anything except compliance,” the judges, justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, told the Centre’s lawyer, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma.In its order, the bench issued a show-cause notice for why contempt proceedings shouldn’t be initiated against the Union government and sought the presence of Piyush Goyal, additional secretary, ministry of home affairs, and Sumita Dawra, additional secretary, to be present during the next hearing on Wednesday. “Enough is enough. We mean business and give it by whatever means. ….We had said that contempt action against the officers will be the last thing on our mind. But that does not mean we cannot do it. That option still remains. Your officers will face the notice. We are not going to take this.”The most amount of medical oxygen Delhi has received in a day was on Saturday after the high court first warned of contempt proceedings. From 454 MT that day, the number marginally dipped over the next two days, leaving smaller hospitals that rely on more ad-hoc arrangements struggling for supplies.“On May 3 we received 433 MT oxygen against a demand of 976 MT oxygen – which is roughly 44% of the total demand. Over the past one week, Delhi received around 393 MT oxygen per day on an average – which is around 40% of the total demand. This oxygen deficit is leading to distress situation in hospitals across the city. We have put in place an effective management system to deal with distress calls from hospitals,” said Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha, who is currently in charge of the oxygen SOS management system in Delhi. A Delhi government statement later said it expects supplies to improve. “Today the oxygen supply should touch 450 MT and by tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the supply should be in the range of 500 MT... The Delhi government is working on strengthening supply chain management of oxygen,” said the statement.Hospitals have said that they are running at reduced bed strength in order to ration whatever oxygen they get among their existing patients, and most still face a tense wait for replenishments that often with only hours or minutes to spare.“We got the supply in the nick of time. We are always in a crisis like situation – our requirement is around 4.8MT, the government allocated us 3.9MT, and we have been getting around 1.83MT,” said Indian Spinal Injuries Centre’s general manager of marketing, Jasleen Kaur.At the court, the Union government and the Delhi government continued to spar over the crisis – with the ASG disputing the specifics of what the Supreme Court ordered.During one particular exchange, senior advocate Rahul Merha, who represented Delhi, said: “590 is what you have to deliver. With 420, citizens are dying”. To this, the ASG replied: “Let’s not get into rhetoric.”This particular exchange drew in a sharp remark from the judges. “This is not rhetoric. Is it not a fact? Sorry Mr Sharma. You may be blind, we are not. How can you be so insensitive? There are lives at stake,” the judges said. “…the Centre will quibble on these little things and let the people die by not supplying the oxygen. Mr Mehra is not saying this, we are telling you this. Are you living in ivory towers? You can put your head in the sand like an ostrich, we will not,” the judges added. “We are facing the grim reality everyday of people not able to secure oxygen beds, even ICU beds. Situation has come to this that hospitals have had to reduce beds offered by them because they are not able to service due to shortage of oxygen,” the bench said.The ASG disputed the 700 MT figure as what has been ordered by the SC, but the high court did not accept the contention. “We reject the submission that the Delhi government is not entitled to receive 700 MT per day in light of the present medical infrastructure... Even 590 MTs per day has not been delivered for a single day,” said the judges, while going on to point to specific parts of the order.In hearings that took place last week, the HC also pulled up the Delhi government for not preparing for the crisis by arranging for adequate number of cryogenic tankers, which emerged as one of the bottlenecks in expediting supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-ultimatum-on-delhi-o2-crisis-lives-at-stake-101620161591888.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||6th Punjab pay panel recommendations: 20% salary hike on cards for govt staffers||The 6th Punjab Pay Commission has recommended a two-fold increase in salaries of all employees over the previous pay panel, with increase in minimum pay from ₹6,950 to ₹18,000 per month, with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016. The pay panel headed by retired chief secretary Jai Singh Gill, which submitted its report to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday, has suggested substantial hikes in salary and other major benefits, and also substantial increase in allowances for government employees. The average increment in salaries and pensions of employees is expected to be in the range of 20%, with salaries in for a 2.59 times increase after merger of dearness allowance (DA) over the 5th pay commission recommendations, according to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office (CMO). The commission has also recommended abolition of all types of special pay and any add-ons in the basic pay by any nomenclature, besides rationalisation of the cabinet sub-committee in 2011 when pay scales were revised upwards following protests against the recommendations of the 5th pay panel. Finance dept to study report within two weeks The report, which was submitted to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday, has been sent to the finance department for detailed study and directions for placing it before the cabinet this month for further action. A senior official said the commission has tried to align basic pay structures with those in the central government. “There is a substantial increase at the initial level. The new scales will be implemented from July 1 as already announced and payment of arrears will have to be phased out,” he said, pegging the expected overall financial implications, including the arrears for the previous five years, at ₹35,000 crore. Though finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal after presenting his budget for financial year 2021-22 had stated that he factored in ₹9,000 crore for the pay and pension hike, there are serious questions about the ability to state to raise resources for bearing such a huge financial implication, particularly amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state, which has struggling to increase its revenue receipts and been reluctant to take measures for additional resource mobilization, does not have the financial wiggle room. The report has come at a time when the state’s economy is already deeply stressed and the financial situation is precarious with the Covid-19 pandemic hitting the tax and non-tax revenues of the state. The finance department will examine the various implications before submitting the report to the cabinet for further action. The Sixth Punjab Pay Commission, which was constituted by the previous SAD-BJP government on February 3, 2016, and reconstituted by the present administration a year later, took more than five years to submit its recommendations. Gill said the commission has submitted only the part one of its report. “We will now look at promotion schemes, health insurance and representations received from employees’ unions, various categories of employees and even individuals as per the terms of reference set by the state government,” he said, refusing to discuss the recommendations made in the report. Sanjha Mulazam Morcha convener Sukhchain Singh Khehra, who has been leading a protest for the past two years against the delay in pay revision, said they would not comment without studying the report. Fate of 2011 pay revision uncertain “The official statement talks about rationalisation of 2011 revision in pay scales. If they have based the new scales on those implemented from 2006, then many employees won’t gain much. In case the recommended scales are based on revision done in 2011, there will be complications relating to employees whose salaries were not increased at that time and they would seek parity,” he said. The CMO spokesperson said that a significant hike has been recommended in the report in pensions and dearness allowance, while fixed medical allowance and death-cum-retirement gratuity are recommended to be doubled under the scheme suggested by the pay panel. While fixed medical allowance has been recommended to be doubled to ₹1,000/- per month for employees as well as pensioners uniformly, the maximum limit of death-cum-retirement gratuity is proposed to be enhanced from ₹10 lakh to ₹20 lakh. Enhancement in ex-gratia grant rates in the case of death of government employee, as also in case of death in harness directly attributable to the duty performed, is another key recommendation aimed at benefitting government employees. The commission has also suggested doubling of design allowance to engineering staff and kit maintenance allowance to police personnel, with mobile allowance enhancement varying from ₹375 to ₹750. Burden of ₹3,500 crore per annum While implementation of the recommendations relating to pay and pension has been recommended from January 1, 2016, those relating to allowances are recommended from the date of notification by the government. The commission’s recommendations is likely to lead to an additional expenditure of ₹3,500 crore per annum with effect from January 1, 2016, said an official spokesperson. Another recommendation is that the present system of DA on central pattern should continue and dearness allowance be converted into dearness pay each time the index increases by 50%, to be counted for all purposes including retirement benefits. For pensions, the revision suggested by the commission is by the application of a simple factor of 2.59. Further, pension should continue to be paid at the rate of 50% of the last pay drawn, on completion of 25 years of qualifying service, as per the pay panel’s recommendations. Besides recommending a simple, transparent and easy to implement pay matrix for all Punjab government employees, the commission has suggested that old age allowance for pensioners and family pensioners, at the existing intervals of five years from the age of 65 years onwards, should continue on revised pension. It has also recommended commutation of pension to be restored to 40%. Though the existing classification of the categories of cities for HRA is proposed to be retained, with rationalisation in house rent allowance (by a factor of 0.8 of the existing rates and calculated as a percentage of basic pay, the commission has also recommended introduction of several new allowance categories, including higher education allowance in the form of lump sum rate for all employees acquiring higher qualification. Besides Gill, the commission had DS Kalha as member and SS Rajput as member secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6th-punjab-pay-panel-recommendations-20-salary-hike-on-cards-for-govt-staffers-101620158839520.html
05-05-2021||Other||Kapurthala SSP recommends departmental probe against DC’s reader||Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kanwardeep Kaur has written to deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal, recommending a departmental inquiry against a key official posted in the latter’s office who had allegedly threatened a cop. The move comes after an audio of the alleged incident surfaced on social media on April 29.In the audio clip, the DC’s reader, Narinder Singh Cheema, was purportedly heard threatening and pressuring assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kulwinder Singh to let some men join investigations in a criminal case lodged them. Cheema is further heard saying that a contempt petition will be filed against the ASI if he doesn’t allow the men to join investigations. To this, the ASI is purportedly heard saying that he was busy as there had been a death in his family, and that he would allow the accused to join investigations soon. Cheema is also heard accusing the cop of registering a case without proper probe. When contacted, Cheema said the men named in the case had been granted bail on the condition that they join probe within a week (April 27). The cop, Cheema said, was deliberately delaying the matter, so he called him.In the letter to the DC, the SSP recommended action against Cheema for allegedly misusing his official position. The SSP had earlier sought a report from Kapurthala deputy superintendent of police Surinderpal Singh on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kapurthala-ssp-recommends-departmental-probe-against-dc-s-reader-101620158659961.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mandis start winding up wheat procurement ops||Punjab’s food and civil supplies department and the mandi board on Tuesday began the process to wind up the wheat procurement for this season. As per a notice issued by the board, all mandis in six districts — Ludhiana, Sangrur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar and Mohali — will not function from Wednesday, while procurement across the state will come to a complete stop on May 10. So far, 121 lakh tonne wheat has arrived of which 120 lakh tonne has been procured and ₹19,007 crore disbursed among at least 7-lakh farmers. The arrivals are expected to touch 130 lakh tonne against previous season’s (2020) 127 lakh tonne and total disbursals are likely to cross ₹21,000 crore. The state department has already shut temporary mandis set up to spread out the procurement due to coronavirus. Mandis in Moga and Tarn Taran will not accept wheat after May 5, Bathinda after May 6 and Barnala, Mansa, Faridkot, Muktsar, Ferozepur, Nawanshahr, and Jalandhar after May 7 and Kapurthala after May 8. As against the previous season when the wheat procurement lasted for 40-45 days, this time the process took only 35 days as it started after 10 days’ delay on April 10. Due to late harvesting in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Fazilka, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts, the procurement is expected to continue till May 10. Also, the procurement this time was different from all the previous seasons as the Centre asked state procurement agencies to pay farmers through the direct benefit transfer scheme. Though, initially there was opposition from arhtiyas who earlier used to transfer the money into farmers’ accounts, the state government was able to pacify them by offering them a window in the public finance management system (PFMS) to monitor payments made to the farmers. “It was a tough season, as the new payment system was introduced at the last moment and it took us at least a week to streamline it,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, adding that earlier the agencies would deal with 30,000 active arhtiyas but this time they had to directly deal with 10-lakh farmers. LIFTING CONTUNUES TO BE SLOW As against arrival of 121 lakh tonne, only 84 lakh tonne wheat has been lifted so far. The officials of food department attribute the slow lifting of grain to shortage of labour and gunny bags. gfxWheat sheetTotal arrival 121 lakh tonneExpected arrival 130 lakh tonneProcured 120 lakh tonneLifted 84 lakh tonne||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandis-start-winding-up-wheat-procurement-ops-101620158362474.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Deadliest day in HP as Covid claims 48 lives, infects 3,824||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 3,824 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,10,945.It was also the deadliest day since the outbreak as 48 people succumbed to the contagion, highest number of fatalities in a single-day since the outbreak. The death count has now reached 1,647. The active cases in the state have climbed to 23,572, while the recoveries have reached 85,671 after 1,992 people recuperated.Kangra’s case tally breaches 20,000 markOf the new cases, 877 were reported in Kangra alone. The case count in the most populous district in Himachal has breached 20,000 mark.Kangra also has the more than 5,000 active cases, highest in the state.The second most populous district Mandi has recorded 802 fresh cases and is followed by Solan with 411 cases. Hamirpur recorded 340 cases, Shimla 323, Sirmaur 270, Una 258, Bilaspur 227, Chamba 158, Kullu 78, Kinnaur 54 and Lahaul-Spiti 26.State has recovery rate of 77% and death case fatality ratio of 1.5%.Highest 15 fatalities occurred in Kangra, 11 in Solan, six in Sirmaur, four each in Hamirpur and Shimla, three in Una, two each in Chamba and Kullu and one in Mandi.Kangra, the worst-hit district in the second wave, is on the top in terms of total case count with 20,447 followed by Shimla with 15,985 cases and Mandi 15,879.Solan’s case tally has reached 14,129, Sirmaur 8,337, Una 7,819, Hamirpur 7,340, Bilaspur 6,396, Kullu 6,144, Chamba 4,912, Lahaul-Spiti 2,001 and Kinnaur 1,856. Six more oxygen plants to come up in Himachal: CMChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said the Centre has sanctioned six pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants for the state. He was addressing a meeting of officers of Kangra through videoconferencing.The plants would come up at civil hospital Palampur; zonal hospital Mandi; civil hospital Rohru; civil hospital Khaneri in Shimla; Dr YS Parmar medical college and hospital in Nahan and regional hospital Solan. He said oxygen production has started in Dharamshala, Mandi and Shimla plants. A spokesperson said there was no shortage of oxygen supply and beds in the hospitals and efforts were being made to enhance the bed capacity and oxygen supply day by day. As of now, 3,346 beds were available in various health institutes of the state. The CM said that makeshift arrangements should be made in Paraur to provide additional 250 beds within next 10 days, which would be gradually increased to about 1,000 beds. Thakur said that private laboratories must be empanelled and requisitioned so that more RT-PCR tests could be conducted. Thakur said the government has also decided to provide incentives to various categories of doctors and paramedical staff on duty in Covid hospitals. He said that fourth and fifth year MBBS students, contractual doctors and junior/senior residents would be provided an incentive of ₹3,000 per month while nursing, GNM third-year students and contractual lab staffers would get ₹1,500 per month till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deadliest-day-in-hp-as-covid-claims-48-lives-infects-3824-101620158299390.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curfew extended in 4 J&K districts as 4,650 fresh cases reported||The J&K government on Tuesday extended curfew in four districts and brought Samba under restrictions. “The corona curfew in Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam and Jammu, which is there till 7am on Thursday, will stand extended till 6 am on Monday, May 10,” directorate of information and public relations said in a Tweet. “In addition, Samba district will also be under corona curfew from 7pm on Wednesday till 7am on Monday,” it said. The latest curbs came at the time when Jammu and Kashmir witnessed the record highest single day spike of 4,650 Covid infections, taking the overall cases to 1, 91,869 in the UT on Tuesday. The UT also recorded 37 fatalities, taking the total death toll to 2,458.Of the 37 deaths in the UT, 25 were reported in Jammu division and 12 in Kashmir. Officials said with 1,311 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 589 in Jammu district, 386 in Budgam, 352 in Baramulla and 240 in Pulwama.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 37,302, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593. Around 1,878 patients have recovered, including 1,247 from Kashmir and 631 from Jammu.As many as 1,52,109 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 79.27%. Meanwhile, Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole on Tuesday visited Reshipora village in Budgam to take stock of ongoing construction work of DRDO’s 500-bed Covid hospital. Pole said that work on the project is to be completed within 35 days and the hospital will have a facility of 125 beds as ICU and rest of the beds will have oxygen supply facility. J&K govt announces incentives for doctors, healthcare workersJammu and Kashmir administration has decided to extend the tenure of retiring doctors till the end of the year and also provide monetary incentives to all healthcare workers directly dealing with coronavirus patients.Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday approved the special financial incentives for Covid-19 warriors of the health and medical education department of J&K.“Although, the services rendered by these Covid warriors cannot be compensated, still the UT government has decided to incentivise their efforts,” Sinha said.Incentives are exclusively for those frontline workers who directly deal with Covid-19 patients. “The decision will benefit more than 17,000 corona warriors, including resident doctors, medical officers, paramedical/nursing staff, drivers and other employees,” a government spokesperson said.The incentive will be ₹10,000 per month for resident doctors, PGs and medical officers; ₹7,000 for nursing and paramedical staff, and ₹5,000 for drivers, sweepers and attendants.“The tenure of these incentives will be initially for a period of three months and will be paid from May 2021 onwards,” the spokesman said.In view of surge in Covid-19 cases and to give a fillip to available medical services at this crucial juncture, Sinha also granted extension up to December 31 in favour of the faculty members, consultants, doctors working in SKIMS, Soura and Bemina; government medical colleges and health department who are going to retire from May to November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/curfew-extended-in-4-j-k-districts-as-4-650-fresh-cases-reported-101620158245340.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive reaches a trickle for want of vials||Punjab on Tuesday could inoculate only 15,953 people, which is the lowest count for a day this month, and the vaccination drive is likely to slow down further with Centre asking the states to keep at least 70% of free vaccine doses reserved for the second jab. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal, said the state will get 15-lakh doses from the Centre for the 45-plus category in the first fortnight of this month out of which 70% vials need to be kept for those expecting a second jab. The state received 2 lakh doses of Covishield from the Centre on Tuesday afternoon. In a tweet on Tuesday morning, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged the Union health minister to urgently review and enhance Punjab’s allocation taking into account the high incidence of Covid infections. “Our vaccine stocks stand depleted at less than 50,000. Centre’s allocation for May 1-15 is only 6-lakh doses i.e. 40,000 a day,” said Amarinder. Health director Dr GB Singh said state’s demand for the second dose will increase in the next few days and it was very important to vaccinate those who have already got the first shot. Punjab is also likely to get in the third week of May the first instalment of over 3-lakh doses of Covishield from its booking of 30-lakh meant for the 18-plus category. “If our allocation for 45-plus category is not increased, we will have very limited stock left for the first dose. Punjab has 2,610 sites for vaccination,” said the health director. The state has also not booked Covaxine for its 18-plus category despite data showing the vaccine having more efficacy than the Covishield. The decision on not booking Covaxine was taken on the recommendations of state’s experts group on Covid-19 and vaccination, an official said. “Covishield is equally effective. Moreover Covishield is cheaper and its availability is going to increase in the coming days,” said head of Punjab’s experts group and former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar. Only 1,200 doses left in Amritsar The vaccination drive in Amritsar was badly hit as 22% of centres earmarked for the jabs remained shut on Tuesday. The district is left with only 1,200 Covishield doses and the health department officials say the stock is insufficient to run the drive even for one more day. As per the health department, only 2,907 people could be inoculated in Amritsar district on Tuesday. While many health centres couldn’t operate due to vaccine shortage, some community health centres remained non-operational after the community health officers went on a day’s strike over their long-pending demand of regular job. Till now, the district health department has administered 2,42,196 doses in Amritsar, including healthcare workers, frontline warriors and people above the age of 45. Of these, 55,212 have already taken their second jab. Drive only at 2 of 150 centres in Sangrur The Sangrur district has not received vaccine stock for the past four days, the vaccination drive is being run at only two sites in the district, senior health officials said on Tuesday. Sangrur assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh said stock of vaccines was collected from across the district and frontline workers were being inoculated at Sangrur and Malerkotla centres. “We are administering the second jab. The vaccination drive is going on only at two centres against 150-plus sites earlier,” he added. Many camps suspended in Bathinda, other districts Several vaccination camps were suspended in Bathinda and its adjoining districts on Tuesday for want of vaccine. People in large numbers had gathered at Bathinda Civil Hospital but the authorities did not have sufficient vaccine doses to cater to them all. Civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said against an average daily requirement of 2,300-2,500 doses, the district had only 1,700 vials. “Several camps were suspended today. Our team has gone to Chandigarh to get fresh stock of vaccine. Further vaccination programme will be decided tomorrow on the basis of availability,” he said. Mansa district had just 300 Covishield vials and the drive slowed down on Tuesday. Against the daily requirement of 1,000 doses, Muktsar had 1,250 vials, said civil surgeon Dr Ranju Singla. (With inputs from Mandeep Kaur Narula in Amritsar, Avtar Singh in Sangrur and Vishal Joshi in Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-drive-reaches-a-trickle-for-want-of-vials-101620158244111.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays production warrant against Lawrence Bishnoi||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday stayed production warrant issued by a Faridkot court against gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.The order was passed by the bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill, on the plea of the gangster.Bishnoi had challenged the April 22 order of the trial court, passed in an FIR dated February 18 that pertained to the murder of one Gurlal Singh who was allegedly shot dead by two unidentified persons. The gangster had claimed that he had nothing to do with the case as he had been behind bars since 2015. Bishnoi further alleged that the police of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are all out to eliminate him and had been implicating him in false cases. The HC had ordered that he be brought to Chandigarh from Rajasthan and then be handed over to the Haryana police, but that order had been stayed by Supreme Court on February 2, Bishnoi had told court, adding that the fresh order from the trial court would amount to violation of the apex court’s directions. The HC, while issuing notice of motion for May 17, stayed operation of the order on production warrant of the gangster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-production-warrant-against-lawrence-bishnoi-101620158239375.html
05-05-2021||Other||Centre notifies revised eco zone around Thane flamingo sanctuary||The Union environment ministry has notified a revised eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of 48 square kilometres (sq km) around the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS), spread across Mumbai suburban and Thane districts. The draft proposal, which was sent to the ministry by the Maharashtra government in March, was gazetted on April 30. The ministry has given a 60-day window to receive public comments on the notification.The move will increase the area earmarked for protection by the forest department, which had initially proposed to include just 34.06 sq km within ESZ. The state government had, in March, written to the Centre proposing to include an additional 14 sq km of land within ESZ.An ESZ is a buffer area created around a wildlife sanctuary or national park to reduce developmental pressures. The proposal has also increased the maximum width of the originally proposed buffer area to a maximum of 3.98km, as compared to 3.5km earlier. At its southern-most point near Vashi bridge, the width of ESZ is 0km, while at its northernmost point at Thane-Kalwa bridge, the width is 2km.Spread across 1,690.5 hectares (ha) across Mulund, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Kanjur and parts of Mandale village, TCFS is home to 12 true mangrove species, 39 mangrove associates, 167 species of birds including flamingos, 45 fish species, 59 species of butterflies, 67 insect species, among other mammals such as jackals. In May 2018, the state had declared it a flamingo sanctuary.“There is increase of about 14 sq km from the earlier notified ESZ of 34 sq km. Mangroves of Navi Mumbai area have been included in the current notification. It will go a long way in conservation of mangroves in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) region,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell).About 1,400ha of mangrove forests towards the Navi Mumbai side of ESZ were not originally covered in the ambit of the original ESZ delineation because they were already declared as reserve forests under the Indian Forest Act, forest department officials said. They are also covered under CRZ (coastal regulation zone). However, last February, the ministry recommended their inclusion in ESZ.Environmentalists, however, remained skeptical of the development. “The solution here is to declare TCFS as a wildlife sanctuary under the Wildlife Act. An ESZ notification won’t offer much protection as seen in case of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, where developmental activities are undertaken inches away from the boundary of the protected area,” said D Stalin, director, non-governmental organization (NGO) Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-notifies-revised-eco-zone-around-thane-flamingo-sanctuary-101620158239835.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt seeks PM help in replenishing state’s dwindling oxygen quota||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought the immediate intervention of both, the Prime Minister and the Union home minister, to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to the state, along with an additional allocation of 50MT liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from a nearby source. The CM sent separate letters to them, as the number of Covid patients on varying levels of oxygen support in the state went up to 10,000. With mounting caseload, the state was unable to increase beds for patients with moderate and severe symptoms due to oxygen availability constraints, he said, expressing concern over the “imminent loss” of lives. He said the central government had expressed its inability to even allow the local industry to undertake commercial import of LMO from Pakistan through the Wagah-Attari border. “Despite assurance about adequate supply from alternate sources, I regret to point out that this has not happened,” he said. Amarinder said the total allocation of LMO from outside the state was currently 195 MT but the state was not getting its daily allocated quota. The existing backlog from these facilities is 5.6 MT from Panipat, 100 MT from Dehradun and 10 MT from Roorkee. Pointing out that Punjab was given to understand by the Centre that there would be likely disruption of LMO supply Tuesday onwards from Panipat and Barotiwala, the CM said this would cause great stress on the limited oxygen availability in the state. The disruption should be avoided, he said, adding that, if necessary, the state must be compensated immediately from a nearby additional source. He further said the state was airlifting two empty tankers daily to Ranchi, with the filled tankers returning by road from Bokaro on a 50-hour journey. The state had requested for 20 additional tankers (conducive to rail travel) to bring LMO from Bokaro, but was told that only two would be provided, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-seeks-pm-help-in-replenishing-state-s-dwindling-oxygen-quota-101620158059317.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s grimmest record yet: 173 deaths, 7,601 cases in a day||Punjab on Tuesday witnessed the deadliest day of the pandemic yet with 173 deaths due to Covid-19. Also, the state also registered highest single-day hike in infections with 7,601 people testing positive in the last 24-hours, government’s media bulletin said. The earlier high for single-day deaths was 157, which the state had registered for two consecutive days on Sunday and Monday. Among the fresh virus-related deaths, Ludhiana and Bathinda registered 20 deaths each, followed by 16 each in Amritsar and Patiala, 12 in SAS Nagar, 10 in Sangrur, eight each in Muktsar and Jalandhar. Maximum 1,347 fresh cases were detected in Ludhiana, followed by 847 in SAS Nagar, 803 in Bathinda, 733 in Jalandhar, 674 in Amritsar, 640 in Patiala, 429 in Muktsar, 284 in Pathankot, 243 in Fazilka, 209 in Sangrur. Mohali with worst positivity rate SAS Nagar (Mohali) on Tuesday registered highest 32.89% positivity rate, followed by 22.58% in Bathinda, 21.11% in Amritsar and 20.33% in Pathankot. A total of 6,115 people were declared recovered from the virus on Tuesday whereas 8,034 patients are on oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-grimmest-record-yet-173-deaths-7-601-cases-in-a-day-101620157942898.html
05-05-2021||Other||24 firms hired for audit of SGPC’s religious, educational institutions||Months after controversy erupted over irregularities in appointment of auditors, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) hired 24 private companies to conduct financial audits of its religious and educational institutions. “The 24 firms would be working at district-level to conduct internal audits of gurdwaras and educational institutions. As of now, we have roped in these firms for the financial year 2021-22 for an annual charge of ₹49 lakh. In case these firms find any irregularities during audit, they will have to bring it to the notice of the SGPC headquarters. Every firm will have to submit its report by the 10th of each month,” said SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday. She added, “Every firm will work under the rules promulgated by the SGPC. In addition to the audit, the staff of educational institutions and gurdwaras will also be given training on computerisation of records.” An Akal-Takht-appointed panel that probed into the misappropriation of 328 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib had pointed out that timely computerisation of the accounts by the private firm hired for the purpose could have averted the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24-firms-hired-for-audit-of-sgpc-s-religious-educational-institutions-101620157939304.html
05-05-2021||Other||Petrol priced at ₹96.95/litre, diesel at ₹87.98 in Mumbai||Fuel prices in the city witnessed a surge on Tuesday. While the price of one litre of petrol increased to ₹96.95, diesel was available at ₹87.98 per litre. The hike in fuel prices has come after nearly 19 days. On April 14, petrol was available at ₹96.98 per litre and diesel for ₹87.96. From April 15 to Monday (May 3), petrol price remained at ₹96.83 per litre, while a litre of diesel was available at ₹87.81. Citizens have stated that the increase in fuel prices have come after the election results. With financial constraints, the fare hike will add to their woes, they said.“Fuel prices in the city were constant for some time. We were happy as a maximum number of people are travelling on their own vehicles to avoid contracting or spreading coronavirus. But the fuel prices in the city surged a day after the election results in other states. This is not fair as common people will suffer due to the hike,” said Vikhroli resident Aarti Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-priced-at-96-95-litre-diesel-at-87-98-in-mumbai-101620157758640.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab promotes 8 IPS officers as ADGPs||Punjab government on Tuesday promoted eight IPS officers of 1995 and 1996 batches as ADGPs and while reshuffling postings of 10 IPSs. As per the notification, while the 1995-batch officers promoted as ADGPs include Kapil Dev, Promod Ban, Mohd Faiyaz Farooqui, Amit Prasad and G Nageswara Rao, officers from 1996-batch include Vibhu Raj, Rajiv Ahir and LK Yadav. The notification says, “Kapil Dev and Rajiv Ahir who are presently serving on Central deputation will be entitled only to the notional benefits and the actual benefits would be admissible as and when they will join the state government.” Two IG rank 1995-batch IPS, Guatam Cheema and Paramraj Umranangal, who were also due to be promoted as ADGPs, could not get the promotion as criminal and department proceedings are pending against them. “In view of the recommendations of the screening committee as they are found unfit for promotion in the rank of ADGP, it was decided to keep their case for empanelment in sealed cover. The case will be opened after the conclusion of the proceedings pending against them,” reads the notification by the home department. After the promotions, the government also ordered transferred and reshuffling of 10 IPS officers. Rohit Chaudhary, who was special DGP, policy and rules, would now be special DGP, Punjab State Human Rights Commission, to fill the vacancy on superannuation of DGP Mohd Mustafa. Ram Singh, ADGP modernnisation, will now also have the additional charge of cyber crimes divisions and state crime records bureau whereas Promod Ban, IGP Ropar Range, will be ADGP, special crimes and economic offences. MF Farooquie, IG PAP Jalandhar, has been posted as ADGP, public grievances division, divesting Gurpreet Deo of this charge and Amit Prasad, IG counter intelligence, will now be ADGP, counter intelligence and OCCU. Vibhu Raj, IG vigilance bureau will now be ADGP, vigilance bureau, whereas LK Yadav will also be ADGP vigilance bureau. Kaustaubh Sharma, IG Jalandhar, will now also hold the additional charge of OCCU, Punjab, and Gurpreet Singh Toor, DIG Faridkot Range will now be DIG Ropar Range in place of Promod Ban, who has been promoted as ADGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-promotes-8-ips-officers-as-adgps-101620157641530.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin restaurateur helped feed needy Londoners during lockdown||As the second wave of Covid continues to cause menace in several parts of the world, a fourth-generation Indian restaurateur recently spoke about how he kept his Covent Garden premises open through the Covid pandemic to help feed thousands of needy Londoners.Instead of welcoming tourists, office workers and regulars to the 75-year-old Punjab Covent Garden restaurant, the team started cooking meals and delivering to thousands needy as well as provided supplies to food banks throughout London, local media reported.Restaurant owner Amrit Maan said: “I made a conscious decision not to close. For us, Covent Garden is a village, it’s a community. I just refuse to have the kitchens closed. It doesn’t make sense. It gives you hope.”When the lockdown started, Maan said he soon decided to use his kitchens for helping the communities in need. The restaurant, which specialises in North Indian cuisine, was founded by his great-grandfather Gurbachan Singh Maan and celebrated its 75th birthday this year.Talking about people who joined the cause as volunteers, Maan said: “There are people out there who are compassionate and courageous. I am dumbstruck by the incredible humanity and care of the volunteers.”He added, “You could sit at home and just shut the curtains and watch TV but I knew I was sitting on a blessed asset our kitchens are industrial kitchens. We have been helping the homeless for three or four years.”He even moved out of his family home to stay at the restaurant to keep his elderly parents safe during the first lockdown. Seven of the 40 staff stayed at the premises to help with the food aid. The team started making wraps for volunteers working with the charity “Under One Sky” to give to homeless people in London.“We were really blessed with the volunteers, they are an army of angels. With lockdown, there was nobody about and so some people were very hungry,” Maan said. Some of those people hadn’t eaten for days. They helped make 100,000 meals, while Maan started helping food banks and they’ve done about 50,000 meals for them. His team delivered urgent supplies to the food banks using their links with suppliers. Maan joined forces with other volunteers feeding the homeless and other needy communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-restaurateur-helped-feed-needy-londoners-during-lockdown-101620157640305.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||71% beds in Himachal Pradesh hospitals occupied, shows data||About 71% beds in the dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) and hospitals in Himachal are occupied and the remaining ones would be filled up soon if the cases continue to spiral, suggest the data obtained from the health department. Two hospitals in Shimla — Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDU) — are full to capacity. At Deen Dayal Upadhyay, there are 127 patients against its 90-bed capacity. “Right now, we have adequate stock of oxygen,” said medical superintendent Dr Ravinder Mokhta. Patients in critical care from Rohru, Chopal, Theog, and Rampur are also referred to DDU. “We are trying to accommodate every patient requiring treatment,” said IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janakraj Pakhretia. “More beds are being added to the new OPD block. We have also taken over the wards in medicine department,” he added. As per the data, the state has a total capacity of 1,967 beds in DCHCs of which, 1,397 were occupied as of May 4. Himachal has 28 DCHCs and dedicated Covid hospitals of which, IGMC, Shimla; Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda; and Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College in Mandi are tertiary centres. Among the patients admitted in the centres, 1,183 are on oxygen support and 43 on ventilator support. Meanwhile, the situation in the dedicated Covid care centres across the 12 districts is slightly better. Of the total 1,387 beds in these centres, only 286 (20%) are currently occupied. A government spokesperson said more than 90% of the people infected with Covid were in home isolation in the state and there was no need to panic as enough beds and oxygen were available. Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, deputy commissioner of Kangra, which is the worst-hit district, said the situation was bit grim there with 95% beds in Covid facilities occupied. “All 40 ICU beds at RPGMC, Tanda, are occupied and we are trying to add 25 more beds. Also, another 25-bed facility has been created at Rajiv Gandhi Government Ayurvedic College, Paprola,” he added. Twenty-five beds will be added to the facility every day, he said, adding that 40 beds will also be set up at Fortis Hospital on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/71-beds-in-himachal-pradesh-hospitals-occupied-shows-data-101620157639266.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hate-fuelled black assailant hits Sikh man with hammer in US||A Sikh man was attacked with a hammer by a black assailant who shouted at him “I don’t like you” and “You’re not the same skin” at a hotel in Brooklyn here, prompting a prominent New-York based advocacy group to call on investigators to examine if the assault was a hate crime incident. Sumit Ahluwalia, 32, of Astoria has said his assailant was fuelled by racial hatred, according to a report on New York Daily News website. Ahluwalia said the man, a black, assaulted him on April 26 at his workplace, the Quality Inn in Brownsville. He said the man came into the lobby of the hotel at around 8am and started shouting while the front desk lady asked him if he needed help. Ahluwalia stepped into the lobby to speak with the man and to seek the hotel security guard. At that point, the assailant “started running towards me, very fast, and he put his hand in the pocket — I thought, ‘He’s pulling out a gun’’’, the report said. Pleading with the man, the victim said, “What happened? You’re my brother.” The attacker responded “You’re not the same skin,” Ahluwalia said, adding that the man then “banged on my head with the hammer so hard.” The assailant then screamed, “I don’t like you,” and ran away, according to the report. It said the victim “couldn’t feel what happened with me” and was eventually taken to an emergency room. “I couldn’t sleep. I had a big bump on my head. I could fall — feeling dizziness, and the next morning I went to the doctor,” he said, adding that five days later, he was still feeling anxious and fearful. “I didn’t do anything… I don’t deserve this. I’m a hardworking guy, wake up in the morning 6 a.m. and go home at 7 pm,” he said. Police have released pictures of the suspect, who was still being sought. Advocacy group The Sikh Coalition said its legal team is providing free legal services to Ahluwalia. “We have already been in direct communication with law enforcement and demanded that investigators examine the real possibility that bias was a motive,” it said, adding that anyone with information about the incident should contact the New York Police Department. The incident comes as the US has witnessed a recent wave of anti-Asian hate crimes during this pandemic. Eight people, including four Sikhs, were killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hatefuelled-black-assailant-hits-sikh-man-with-hammer-in-us-101620157399401.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||More Covid fatalities in Majha’s urban belt||Amid the second Covid, the Majha region—comprising four districts Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot—has been witnessing more fatalities in urban areas, according to the health department data from April 30 to May 3.Experts attribute it to congested areas and overcrowded markets in the cities. They also term less testing in rural areas as compared to the urban pockets as another reason behind the gap.Out of 53 deaths reported from April 30 to May 3 in Amritsar district, 47 were from urban areas, mostly Amritsar city. Amritsar, which is the largest and most populous city of the region, has so far reported 998 deaths, which is the highest among other districts of the region. 54% population of the district lives in the urban areas.Amritsar assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh said: “Due to congested areas and markets, mostly in Amritsar city, the positivity and death rate is higher in the urban pockets. There are small houses where large families reside. In many such cases all family members are being tested positive.”Another reason, he said, is that the population in the rural areas show reluctance to get themselves tested. “We have launched a campaign to make the people of the rural areas aware, especially the elderly, to go for a test if they are symptomatic. People above 40 in the rural areas should get themselves tested instead of taking medicines from quacks,” he said. In Gurdaspur, 10 deaths have been reported from April 30 to May 3 of which six are from villages. Of the 13 deaths during the period in Tarn Taran district, six are from urban areas. This despite the fact that 87% population of the district is from the rural area.In Pathankot, 19 deaths were reported in the past four days and most are from urban areas. The district has 53% rural population.Tarn Taran senior medical officer Dr Swaranjit Dhawan said: “Most of the people from the rural areas are not showing their willingness to get tested for Covid. We believe that deaths in the villages are underreported as many of them prefer to get themselves treated from quacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-covid-fatalities-in-majha-s-urban-belt-101620157219299.html
05-05-2021||Other||Have issued fresh orders for probe against Param Bir Singh: Maharashtra govt to HC||Fresh orders have been issued for conducting two preliminary inquiries against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, the Maharashtra government informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday. The development comes about a week after Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey recused himself from conducting the probe.Representing the state, senior advocate Darius Khambata informed the division bench of SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale that the government issued the new orders on Tuesday morning. Khambata was responding to a petition filed by Singh – who presently holds the post of commandant general at Maharashtra home guards – challenging the April 1 and April 20 orders of the state government that directed Pandey to inquire whether the former Mumbai Police chief had violated provisions of the All-India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968, as well as into the allegations made by police inspector Anup Dange that the senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officer’s brother had demanded ₹2 crore for getting him reinstated after he was suspended on disciplinary grounds.Khambata submitted that the petition had become infructuous as the Singh had challenged the decisions to entrust the inquiries to Pandey, but the DGP has recused himself from the probe and now fresh orders have been passed for the inquiries.The senior advocate added that the petition filed by the senior IPS officer was also not maintainable for it essentially involves service-related issues and Singh should have moved the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) for challenging the inquiries, and not the HC.Senior advocate Navroz Seervai, who represented Pandey, endorsed Khambata’s submission that the petition before HC was not maintainable. He added that the petition has made totally false allegations against the DGP.In his petition, Singh claimed that Pandey had advised him to withdraw the March 20 letter, levelling corruption and extortion charges against the then home minister Anil Deshmukh and in return offered to close the inquiries against him.Singh’s counsel, advocate Sunny Punmiya, however, urged the court to adjourn the hearing on the petition till Thursday on the grounds that senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Abad Ponda, who lead him in the matter, were not available today.Though the judges found substance in the objections raised by Khambata and Seervai and opined that the issues involved in the petition could be adjudicated by CAT, they decided to adjourn the hearing. They, however, refused to take it up on Thursday, and posted Singh’s petition for further hearing on June 9, observing that there was no urgency in view of the statement made by Khambata.On March 20, three days after he was shunted out from the post of Mumbai Police commissioner, Singh had written a letter to the Governor, the chief minister and others, alleging that Deshmukh had summoned assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sanjay Patil and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Raju Bhujbal to his house and told them to collect ₹100 crore every month from establishments in Mumbai.Acting on a bunch of petitions, including the one filed by Singh and another by activist Jaishri Patil, HC on April 5 had directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct preliminary inquiry into the allegations. The CBI director was ordered to decide on further course of action on the outcome of the inquiry. Accordingly, after the preliminary inquiry, CBI on April 21, registered an offence against Deshmukh and also conducted raids at his residences.3-member panel to conduct inquiries The state government has formed a three-member committee, headed by senior Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer Debashish Chakrobarthy, to conduct the preliminary inquiries against Singh, home department sources said. A senior IPS officer from the state police and an expert on legal matters, are likely to be the other two members of the committee. A 1986-batch IAS officer, Chakrobarthy is additional chief secretary (planning). He is known to be an upright officer. Chakrobarthy will inquire whether there was any dereliction of duty on Singh’s part in not apprising the government about the Antilia explosives scare. He will also probe the corruption allegations made by Dange. (Inputs from Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/have-issued-fresh-orders-for-probe-against-param-bir-singh-maharashtra-govt-to-hc-101620157158589.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||In south Punjab, 60% Covid cases being reported from villages||In the last two weeks, more coronavirus infection and mortality cases are being reported from villages of southern Punjab districts.The trend has sent the health authorities in a tizzy as the rural segment from south Malwa, particularly Mansa and Bathinda districts, have a strong representation in the ongoing farmer agitation on Delhi borders. Health authorities say around 60% of cases are being reported from villages as there has been a poor response from villagers to the vaccination drive.On Tuesday, Bathinda reported 20 Covid deaths, the highest in a day since the pandemic outbreak last year. Also, the district recorded the highest number of new cases at 806, taking the active cases to 5,376.In-charge of Covid mortality cases in Bathinda Dr Sukhjinder Singh Gill said 11 of the 20 dead were from villages and nine from the city.Doctors say patients coming from villages are found to be suffering from lifestyle comorbidities, including obesity and diabetes, that deteriorates their condition when contracted with coronavirus.“For the last few days, Bathinda district has a daily average of 600 patients and more than half of them are from the rural segments. A majority of village patients contact health department after their medical condition deteriorates,” said district Covid officer Dr Ramandeep Singla.Villages are visiting hospital when they are at the advanced stage of level-2 treatment, or say when they need ventilator support. “This trend is a cause of concern as Bathinda villagers have a frequent movement to and from Delhi borders due to farmers’ agitation,” said Singla.Mansa civil surgeon Dr Sukhwinder Singh said the rural population has been opposing vaccination and even testing. “Medical teams visiting villages for vaccination camps, awareness campaigns or sample collection often face resistance from villagers. We had to take police protection on various occasions. Villagers are not ready to take life-saving jabs and it is contributing a sharp surge in Covid cases from rural areas of the district,” he added.In the last two days, Mansa reported news 381 cases out of which 217 were from the rural belt.Health officials in the region say villagers having Covid symptoms are taking self-medication or medicines prescribed by local medical practitioners.Muktsar chief medical officer Dr Ranju Singla said timely testing can lead to timely treatment. “Villagers have started rushing to hospitals. But in most cases, they come at the later stage when the infection has severely impacted their health,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-south-punjab-60-covid-cases-being-reported-from-villages-101620157099365.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor vends, grocery stores to remain open in Punjab on weekdays||Amid protests by shopkeepers in different parts of the state against its directive to keep shops selling non-essential goods shut to check the spread of Covid-19, the Punjab government on Tuesday amended its order to allow liquor vends and shops selling groceries, fertilisers etc to remain open. However, taverns will remain shut. The home department, in an order, stated that grocery stores, PDS outlets, retail and wholesale liquor vends and shops selling fertilisers, seeds, pesticides, agriculture/horticulture implements, industrial material and hardware items are allowed to open till 5pm except during the weekend curfew. It also said the movement of persons on foot and bicycle for the permissible purposes will be freely allowed. The state government’s decision to keep shops selling non-essential goods has not gone down well with shopkeepers who are protesting in different parts of the state to demand the withdrawal of these restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liquor-vends-grocery-stores-to-remain-open-in-punjab-on-weekdays-101620156861217.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 2 weeks, 158 cases on, containment restrictions lifted from Dugri||Bringing respite to residents, restrictions were lifted from Dugri Urban Estate Phases 1 and 2, which were declared containment zones two weeks ago amid a spike in cases from the areas, on Tuesday. After lifting restrictions, authorities have setup micro-containment zones in Mohalla 5,8 12 in Dugri Phase- 1 and Blocks E, F and G in Dugri Phase- 2. These are areas from where nearly 400 cases have been reported so far.In the last two weeks, the health department had logged 581 Covid cases from the two containment zones. The decision to convert the populous area into containment zones was taken on April 19 after 65 fresh cases were reported from the two phases. Subsequently, the health department had launched a massive testing drive, in which 9,574 samples were collected, said senior medical officer (SMO) Avinash Jindal. The restrictions had invoked the wrath of many residents who said the whole area had been converted into a garrison, just because a few people had tested positive for Covid . Teachers living in the area had complained that school authorities were pressing them to report for work, despite their area of residence being declared a Covid zone. Businesses in the area also reported significant financial loss.It was not all smooth sailing for the health department officials as well as in some places residents did not open the gates for the testing teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-weeks-158-cases-on-containment-restrictions-lifted-from-dugri-101620156859962.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||20 succumb to contagion in a day in Ludhiana||The district recorded yet another high of 20 deaths and 1,347 coronavirus infections on Tuesday with a 28-year-old man becoming the youngest person to succumb to the contagion. The district’s Covid tally, which was 50,000 at the beginning of the week crossed the 60,000-mark in seven days, touching 60,135. The death toll climbed to 1,451 while the number of active cases mounted to 10,316.The majority of Covid victims were men while four of the deceased were below the age of 40. Sixteen men — a 75-year-old resident of Prem Vihar, a 72-year-old resident of Jagraon, a 67-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar, a 64-year-old resident of Janta Nagar, a 62-year-old resident of Kailash Nagar, a 66-year-old resident of Chandigarh Road, a 64-year-old resident of Janta Nagar, a 60-year-old resident of Pama village, a 58-year-old resident of Lohara, two 57-year-old residents of Jammu Colony, a 51-year-old resident of Barewal, a 50-year-old resident of Akash Nagar, a 40-year-old resident of Sahnewal, a 33-year-old resident of Doraha and a 28-year-old resident of Mahajan Vihar — were claimed by the virus. A 76-year-old woman of Haibowal Kalan, a 62-year-old woman of Guru Nanak Nagar, a 46-year-old resident of Tajpur Road and a 40-year-old resident of Giaspura also succumbed. As many as 129 deaths have been reported in the last week with the district touching grim milestones on a daily basis. The number of daily deaths has been in double digits since April 24.The rising number of cases has outstretched the hospital infrastructure, making it a struggle to find beds in hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20-succumb-to-contagion-in-a-day-in-ludhiana-101620156681444.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Virus in villages: Higher Covid toll in rural Punjab rings alarm bells||With the rural areas of the state witnessing four-time higher case fatality rate (CFR) as compared to cities, the state health department has directed the district health authorities to keep a tab on the elderly and patients with co-morbidities in home isolation. A large number of deaths in rural areas are being attributed to the patients getting self-treated at home and not coming to hospitals.According to the orders, medical officers have been asked to prepare a list of the elderly and comorbid patients of their areas and take feedback on their health condition by calling them. “Report any breach of home isolation or refusal to get referred to higher facilities as soon as possible to the SMOs and keep contacts of SHOs of the police stations concerned to involve them for the hospitalisation,” reads the communication sent to medical officers.Former director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and head of expert group of Punjab government on Covid management Dr KK Talwar said: “We have adopted a new strategy for patients in home isolation with more focus on their surveillance. Reluctance in getting tested and late reporting has been the reasons behind high CFR in rural areas, but with the new system, we are hopeful to bring down,” said Talwar. Second wave deadlier in rural areas The second wave of Covid-19 has proved deadlier in the rural areas as villages have registered 2.8% CFR as compared to 0.7% in urban areas. “Deaths are more in the rural areas this year. The reason behind high CFR is that in the rural population is contributing to 23% of the total caseload in the second wave, whereas 77% of the cases belong to urban segments,” said state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. According to the health department, the CFR in rural areas at the first visit to the health facility is high. 83.92% of patients visited the hospitals when their condition deteriorated, 0.11% with moderate symptoms and only 7% with mild symptoms, the health department data revealed. Villages report 35% of total deaths in Patiala Patiala: In the past two months, rural areas have reported 35% of total Covid deaths in the district. Of the total 268 fatalities between March and May 3, the rural areas of the district saw 94 deaths. Villages have reported 3,453 (21%) positive cases of the total 16,043 infections in the district in the past two months. Civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the number of deaths and cases are increasing in rural areas. “Such trends were not witnessed during first wave of the Covid-19 last year, as the deaths reported in villages then were negligible,” he said.A doctor at a rural dispensary said people living in villages are visiting the health centres at an advanced stage. “Condition of many patients had already deteriorated when they come to us and we have no option but to refer them to Rajindra Hospital,” he said. In the past 24 hours, Government Rajindra Hospital reported 38 deaths, of which 12 were from Patiala district. Of the 12, seven belonged to rural areas.In Sangrur, 97 deaths have been reported from rural areas of the district this year. Of these three patients died in home isolation, according to a data collected by the district health department. Till now, the district has reported 372 deaths due to the virus. Of these 152 were from the villages. UK strain behind surge in Doaba JALANDHAR: In Jalandhar 60% of the total Covid deaths have been reported from rural areas since February. Health officials attribute this to UK strain, which was found in Phillaur and Nurmahal areas, considered a rural belt of the district. Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said more Covid deaths are being reported from rural areas of the district as people were taking medicines from local practitioners and were reporting late to the hospitals. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar civil surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor said: “We have increased contact tracing of Covid patients. People in rural go for self medication resulting in more fatalities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-in-villages-higher-covid-toll-in-rural-punjab-rings-alarm-bells-101620156679300.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||225 O2 cylinders meant for black marketing seized in Lucknow, 10 arrested||Continuing their crackdown on black marketing of oxygen and Covid medicines, the Lucknow police on Tuesday arrested 10 people and recovered 225 oxygen cylinders from four areas, said senior police officials. With this, a total of 290 oxygen cylinders, meant for being sold illegally, have been seized in Lucknow in the past 10 days. In a recent catch, Lucknow police arrested two people-- Karan Bhardwaj and Nekram Pal-- and seized 115 jumbo oxygen cylinders from their possession in Janakipuram. Similarly, two people identified as Vishnuji Gupta and Vikas Kumar Shukla were arrested from Gudamba area and 87 oxygen cylinders, including 46 jumbo size cylinders and 41 small cylinders, were recovered from them. Inspector of Gudamba police station Fareed Ahmad said an amount of ₹1.03 lakh collected by the black marketers was also recovered. Separately, two persons – Ikram Ali and Ayush Shukla – were arrested in Gomti Nagar extension with 18 oxygen cylinders, including 10 jumbo size cylinders and eight small cylinders. Police said the duo was carrying the cylinders for black marketing by procuring receipt of nitrogen gas filled in it. Four persons were also arrested in Naka area and five oxygen cylinders were recovered from them. UP additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar said the state police were carrying out a drive against black marketeers across the state. He said as many as 110 people have been arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders, life-saving medicines, injections and oximeters in 13 districts across UP. In total, 830 Remedesivir injections, 1256 oxygen cylinders, 531 oximeters as well as over ₹52 lakh procured through black marketing have been recovered, said another senior state police official. He said the largest recovery was made in Lucknow where so far 290 oxygen cylinders, 371 Remdesivir injections, 535 oximeters meant for black marketing were seized from different persons since April 15. Similarly, five cases were reported from Kanpur, four from Gautam Buddh Nagar, three from Ghaziabad, two from Meerut and one from Prayagraj, Barabanki, Hapur, Bareilly, Hardoi, Jhansi, Varanasi and Moradabad, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/225-o2-cylinders-meant-for-black-marketing-seized-in-lucknow-10-arrested-101620156259126.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||Keep your vibrations high to beat anxiety and stress: Experts||Stress and anxiety levels are at an all-time high as the new Covid-19 wave has taken people by shock and surprise. The sudden spike in cases amongst the near and dear, medical conditions and mortalities are causing huge stress to everyone at some level. Psychologists, mental health experts, medicos and yoga gurus are flooded with distress calls from people seeking help to overcome their acute anxiety. “The intensity of stress and anxiety amongst people are at highest level. In last lockdown people had stress but right now the fear and grief are both at an all-time high. Since everything happened so very swiftly that the people were unable to cope with,” said Dr Manju Agarwal, professor of psychology and dean student welfare of Amity University. With her husband recovering from Covid-19, after hospitalisation, Dr Agarwal herself has faced it. “It was a tough phase, so along with giving the best possible treatment, I continued meditating, kept my energies high and regularly sent him good vibes. It’s very important to keep your vibrations high with right meditation and transfer it to others facing anxiety and battling Covid,” she said. Dr Agarwal shares importance of giving space to those in grief, talk to them on phone and let them pour their emotions out in the time when we can’t hold their hand and hug them physically. She warns people to stay away from negative news, WhatsApp groups and go for a digital detox.According to homoeopathic practitioner and Vipassana follower Dr SK Jain it’s time to keep optimistic and spread positivity. “Though there are some medicines that we prescribe in homoeopathy, but again it’s all about seeing good things that are happening around us. I know a lot of people are falling ill but we need to see that nearly 98.5% are recovering — most of them in home isolation while others after hospitalisation. We attract what we think so it’s important to meditate and watch light entertainment content, so we remain de-stressed and make others happy too,” he said. To help people tackle the stress during Covid-19, Art of Living has introduced three new free courses — for developing immunity against the infection, for people currently under isolation and for rejuvenation of patients recovered from the infection. Tanuj Narain, a senior teacher at Lucknow, explains, “To reduce anxiety the Vagus Nerve needs to be activated that nullifies the fight or flight response triggered during stress. Bhramari Pranayam, Nadi Shodhan Pranayam and the Straw Breath Pranayam are helpful in reducing the effects of anxiety. Every emotion corresponds to a specific breathing pattern within us. In Pranayam we apply the reverse engineering — by altering the breathing pattern our emotions can also change. All experts focused on feeling good, interacting with family members, friends and acquaintances to make them feel de-stressed and happy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/keep-your-vibrations-high-to-beat-anxiety-and-stress-experts-101620156139428.html
05-05-2021||Other||K’taka ministers didn’t respond to oxygen SOS calls: Volunteers||Bengaluru: At least 10 hospitals in Bengaluru on Tuesday made desperate calls for help from the state government and others, stating that they were fast running out of oxygen. As of 7pm on Tuesday, only one hospital had claimed that they had received supply, while others were still struggling to source oxygen.The desperation was a continuation of the stressful events that unfolded on Monday when five hospitals in the city ran out of oxygen. In one of the hospitals – Arka Hospital in Yelahanka – two persons died due to oxygen shortage.Volunteers in Bengaluru who arranged for oxygen for these hospitals on Monday said that the government and ministers did not respond to the emergency calls, leaving volunteers to scramble for oxygen cylinders.“Yesterday (Monday) was the first time, our city experienced an oxygen crisis like what was witnessed in New Delhi. But the government and its ministers were not available throughout the day. It was volunteers who arranged for oxygen,” said Saqib Idreez, a volunteer, who helped two hospitals get oxygen on Monday.According to him, the panic calls began around the afternoon when he got a distress call from a woman who wanted an ICU bed. “When I asked her, she said that the hospital she is admitted, was running out of oxygen. We realized that there was a bigger problem than the one case, so we called up the hospital,” said Idreez.When Idreez and other volunteers contacted the hospital, they claimed that their supply of oxygen was running out and they have stock only till 5 pm. Soon the volunteer group began making calls and also asked the hospital to provide a letter stating the concern.In response, Dr Srihari Shapur, medical director of the hospital wrote a letter which read: “This is to inform you that we are running out of oxygen supply, we are unable to collect oxygen care for the patient. We have been informing since 01/05/2021, 6:00 pm. We will shortly run out of oxygen by 03/05/2021, 5 pm. Kindly arrange for beds in different hospitals. We regret this situation. And request you to co-operate in view of patient well-being.”Idreez said that they made multiple calls to BBMP officials to talk about the issue, however, there was no response. Later, we were told that the deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan had tweeted saying his office will dispatch oxygen supply. “In the meanwhile, we were getting similar calls from two other hospitals. Since the DCM had offered oxygen to Medex, we shifted our attention to the other two hospitals,” he said.While they were procuring cylinders from the other two hospitals, we got a call from Medex saying they were running out of oxygen. “We were surprised because the DCM had offered to help. Then we called up his office and the men there kept saying the stock is on the way, but nothing reached. So, we decided to arrange cylinders ourselves and we managed to get around 15 of them, which gave the hospital some time,” said the volunteer.But even in the late evening when no supply came, a volunteer from the group made calls to the Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar. “We thought he would help, but instead he asked us to go to BBMP and fill the required forms. We told him that it was an emergency and explained the situation, but he kept telling us to go through BBMP. As he continued to argue, he cut the call,” said Idreez.On Tuesday, at least five hospitals including Safa hospital, Mediscope hospital, Rajarajeshwari Nagar medical college, had placed emergency requests for oxygen. As the numbers were increasing Mercy Mission, a collective of volunteers and other volunteers were scrambling for cylinders from whichever centre or homes they could find them.Medex was about to get a refill from Hosur in Bengaluru’s outskirts late at night and others were provided cylinders by the volunteers. “The one thing we realized was that the government hasn’t taken the oxygen crisis seriously. When we spoke with them, they were acting as if the hospitals were blowing the situation out of proportion. They haven’t learnt anything from what happened in New Delhi,” said a volunteer on the condition of anonymity.Deputy chief minister Narayana and health minister Sudhakar didn’t respond to Hindustan Times’ calls for their version on the incident. A BBMP official on the condition of anonymity said that there was no shortage of oxygen in the state and there was a problem with storage, especially at the smaller hospitals. “Many hospitals, especially the smaller ones, don’t have enough storage facilities. They are mostly storing oxygen in small cylinders, and they have a requirement to refill multiple times in a day, this is leading to a shortage,” he said.However, on Tuesday, the high court had pulled up the State and Central governments for the lack of oxygen supply in the state. “The requirement of the state is 1,467 metric tonnes and you have increased it only to 865 metric tonnes from existing allocation… Are you not aware that people have died in the state due to non-availability of oxygen,” a division bench of Chief justice Abhay Oka and justice Aravind Kumar asked the central government’s council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-ministers-didn-t-respond-to-oxygen-sos-callsvolunteers-101620155959660.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||20,000 oxygen concentrators, 350k Remdesivir doses expected soon in Maharashtra||After receiving a good response for the expression of interest for oxygen concentrators, pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants, oxygen storage tanks and liquid medical oxygen, the state government is expecting the delivery of the medical equipment to begin by the end of the week. The procurement is expected to cost the state government ₹700 crore.Amid the acute shortage of the oxygen and Remdesivir injections during the pandemic, the state government had floated global bids last week for the procurement of 25,000 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), 4,000 oxygen concentrators, 250 PSA plants, 20 liquid oxygen storage tanks and anti-viral drug Remdesivir. The international players were given three days to respond, to which Indian suppliers dealing in international products have responded.“We have received 38 bidders for oxygen concentrators, nine for PSA plants, one for LMO supply and a good number of bidders for the storage tanks. We have been talking with the players day-and-night and expect the delivery in three days. We are evaluating products by the doctors and have also been keeping our embassies in various countries in the loop,” said Aseem Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation.Public health department minster Rajesh Tope said that the state is expecting delivery of 20,000 oxygen concentrators, 27 storage tanks and 350,000 Remdesivir doses shortly.Another official from the relief and rehabilitation department has been put the bidding process on war footing for procuring the oxygen-related equipment amid the acute shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20000-oxygen-concentrators-350k-remdesivir-doses-expected-soon-in-maharashtra-101620155718482.html
05-05-2021||Other||Bengaluru: 2 patients die due to oxygen ‘shortage’||Bengaluru Two Covid-19 patients died in Bengaluru’s Arka Hospital on Tuesday allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, the hospital management said. The incident highlighted the growing scarcity of critical supplies amid the raging pandemic in Karnataka and especially its capital Bengaluru. Dr Manju Aditya, director of the hospital, said he had raised an SOS call on shortage of oxygen on Monday night. He added that by 3 am on Tuesday, the hospital managed to get the supply of around 15 cylinders. “During the time of low oxygen (stock), two patients died. Both were severely infected by Covid-19,” Dr Aditya told Hindustan Times. “We asked in vain for help. We went to neighbouring hospitals and managed to arrange 10 cylinders from them,” he said, adding that there was no supply of oxygen at the plant from where the hospital gets its supply. The incident came a day after at least 24 Covid-19 patients died in Chamarajanagar district, about 175 km from Bengaluru, allegedly due to lack of oxygen. At least five private hospitals in Bengaluru have raised SOS calls for oxygen supply since Monday night. The hospitals that raised the SOS on Monday and Tuesday include Medax, RajaRajeshwari hospital, Sree Saiprasad among others.With only “stop-gap” arrangements from the government, private hospitals find themselves with full occupancy and no critical medical supplies, to treat Covid-19 patients, according to managements of at least three such establishments. Meanwhile, Mandya district in-charge minister KC Narayana Gowda on Monday evening said there was a severe shortage of oxygen in the district, about 99 km from Bengaluru. Amid reports of deaths due to shortage of oxygen, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has come under sharp criticism for not increasing preparedness of essential medical supplies like oxygen, hospital beds, life-saving medicines and even space to cremate the rising number of dead. After the incident in Chamarajanagar, Yediyurappa met oxygen manufacturers and suppliers on Monday to fix the teething issues in distribution. But various hospitals claimed that they were yet to get any real assistance from the government. Priyank Kharge, former minister and Congress legislator from Kalaburagi, a border district that is one of the worst-impacted regions in the state, on Tuesday said that several oxygen suppliers were profiteering from the pandemic. “While Kalaburagi hospitals are gasping for oxygen & people are dying due to shortage in supply, a private oxygen plant in district has been profiteering by sending O2 cylinders to Maharashtra while @BJP4Karnataka Govt sleeps throughout pandemic,” Kharge said in a post on Twitter. Gaurav Gupta, chief commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday sought the help of people to upgrade public healthcare infrastructure. “Calling out for your support in procurement of oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and NIV ventilators for BBMP healthcare facilities,” he posted on Twitter. The state government has also been accused of ignoring the warnings of imminent second wave of pandemic by the state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bengaluru-2-patients-die-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101620155658487.html
05-05-2021||Other||‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy dies due to Covid-19 at 87||Chennai: Eighty-seven year old social activist K R Ramaswamy, popularly known as ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy died in Chennai on Tuesday after battling complications of Covid-19. He had been admitted to the city’s Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and was on ventilator support. Ramaswamy, a self appointed traffic regulator, for hours used to direct traffic near the Madras high court in the 1990s from where commuters began calling him ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy. Later, he walked into courtrooms and became a regular filing petitions against road traffic norms, encroachments, unauthorised buildings, and erection of hoardings. In Tamil Nadu, which is notorious for its banner culture of sycophant cadre putting up huge cutouts and hoardings of their leaders only for it to be torn down by ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy. He’s fearlessly tore down posters in front of homes of powerful former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi. He didn’t spare the hoardings in front of AIADMK and DMK party offices. “His fight against big digital hoardings and banners was phenomenal,” says Jayaram Venkatesan who founded the anti-corruption movement, Arappor Iyakkam. “He fought both on the road as well as in court to get it banned at one stage. His other cases on encroachments, granite scam will always be remembered. He inspired many youngsters to become active citizens.” He has been arrested several times and has grabbed eyeballs when he would sit or lie down on a main road in protest. He has filed more than 200 public interest litigations (PILs) for the larger good. One of his PILs, led the court to direct the city police to reverse its decision on converting the NSC Bose Road (near the court) into a one-way. He moved court stating that the police were taking an easy way out by not regulating traffic and converting a broad arterial road into a one-way. He also got fish carts, that were causing road accidents, banned. For all his mighty work, he was a frail man dressed in white shirt, khaki trousers under which his catheter was strapped, oversized spectacles and always carried a bundle full of petitions in his hands and in his pocket. In 2018, a Tamil biopic of him was released in cinemas. Until his health deteriorated, he was active following several cases. Politicians and public mourned the loss of the activist who brought several changes for the better in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-ramaswamy-dies-due-to-covid-19-at-87-101620155539826.html
05-05-2021||Other||As cases surge, city faces acute drug shortage||Bengaluru The raging Covid-19 pandemic has led to an acute shortage of antiviral medicines, medical shop owners said, adding to the rapidly deteriorating healthcare infrastructure in Bengaluru which is among the worst impacted regions in the country.Medical shop owners said that several antiviral medicines like Fabiflu, favipiravir, Tamiflu, Fluvir among others are normally available in abundant supply in local chemists.“If a distributor had 100 sheets (of medicines), the demand for antiviral medicines have gone up by a 1,000 times,” MK Mayanna, a medical shop owner and president of Bruhat Bengaluru Chemists and Druggists Association, said.The forum consists of around 3,500 members who run such stores in and around the city.mid reports of shortage of medical essentials, shopkeepers said, citizens are stocking up on these medicines to treat cold, cough and other symptoms attributed to Covid-19. “The government has taken control over supply of several medicines and distributors just don’t have any of it,” Nandan, ownerof Devi Medicals in Jeevan Bhima Nagar in east Bengaluru, said. He added that it made little sense for the government to take over the supply of critical medicine to control profiteering and black marketing.However, black marketing has become rampant in Bengaluru, if recent arrests over hoarding of Remdesivir, a drug used to treat critically ill Covid-19 persons are any indication.Families of critically-ill patients told HT that they have paid between ₹10,000 to ₹60,000 per vial to get Remdesivir.“The poor cannot spend their life savings to arrange it (Remdesivir and other drugs). In spite of drug stores having stock of Remdesivir, they have to wait till the drug controller sends them a request to supply it to hospitals. The government appointed only one to two officials for such a huge responsibility and this has led to black marketing of Remdesivir,” Yunus Nawab, a city-based lawyer, said. After making frantic calls to friends and relatives, it took Nawab more than two days to get Remdesivir for his mother who was admitted in a private hospital.“I have a report that it (Remdesivir) is being sold in black and to other states. There will be a detailed enquiry into this and all you will have to face the consequences. I won’t spare anyone,” Yediyurappa reportedly told a few officials during an emergency meeting convened by the chief minister on Tuesday.According to the report, he said, there was evidence to show the involvement of several people in blackmarketing of these drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cases-surge-city-faces-acute-drug-shortage-101620155539141.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Messages on Covid adoption illegal; follow due legal process for adoption: Experts||Responding to multiple viral social media messages, concerning the adoption of children whose parents have allegedly died of Covid-19, the state government on Monday issued a clarification stating that such attempts at adoption are illegal and can attract punitive action under the Indian Penal Code, the Care and Protection of Children Act (2015) as well as the Centre’s Adoption Rules (2017). The Maharashtra Women and Child Development Department also urged citizens to follow the due legal process for adoption in such cases and to report matters to the Centre’s 1098 helpline or the State Adoption Resource Agency’s helpline at 8329041531.“Deaths of both the parents due to Covid-19 are causing serious problems... which are exacerbated by the fact that such children are sometimes not accepted by relatives. On the one hand, the issue of such children is taking a serious turn and the picture on social media shows that some miscreants are using this issue as an opportunity to sell each other’s children. For this, various emotional posts are being posted on social media like Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, Twitter etc. and a picture is being created that children are available for adoption,” the Women and Child Development Department said in a statement issued Tuesday.For example, one such widely circulated message read, “If anyone wishes to adopt a girl, please feel free to contact 09711104773 (Priyanka). One girl is 3 days old and another is 6 months old, they have lost their parents recently due to covid. Please help these kids get a new life, spread the word.” HT tried to reach out to the number but was met with a constant busy tone.Commenting on the matter, IA Kundan, secretary, Women and Child Development Department, said, “We are aware of such messages going around on social media platforms. But, so far we haven’t received any official complaint. To raise awareness among people, we have posted about the guidelines on the website and social media pages of women and child development. It is punishable offence to indulge in such illegal adoptions.”Yashomati Thakur, woman and child welfare minister said that the state government has taken suo motu cognisance of the cases of the children becoming orphans by losing their parents due to the pandemic. “The cases of children becoming orphans have gone up during the pandemic. We have asked the district collectors and Child Welfare Committees (CWCs) at the district level to look into them immediately to extend their support. Legal adoption is a must, otherwise, it may be very dangerous for the future of the child. We have appealed to the relatives of such children to come forward and bring it to our notice so that all kind of help is provided to them,” she said.The minister said that she has convened a meeting this week to discuss this issue and discourage people from directly adopting such children without following the legal process. “Some people may have knowingly or unknowingly resorted to illegal ways of adoption, it would not be tolerated. There are legal, psychological issues involved with the parenting of such children that need to be addressed accordingly,” she said.Thakur said that the orphanages in Maharashtra are in very good condition and every care is taken to through dedicated welfare officers for these institutions.Manisha Birasis, assistant commissioner, woman and child development department, said that legal adoption was very important to give the child its right of biological parents and legal powers coming therewith. “The direct adoption may lead to trafficking. We have witnessed such cases in the past and have registered criminal cases under the Indian Penal Code and Juvenile Justice Act. We have initiated action through cybercrime cell after we came across such an attempt through a Facebook post for the adoption of two children who had lost their parents of Covid-19. The adoption should be done only through CARA and by following the legal process,” she said.Birasis said that at least 20,000 genuine applicants are waiting in Maharashtra for adoption. “The applicants go through the procedure of the home study, ability to adopt, review by the expert panel before they are made eligible for the adoption. The illegal adoptions also deprive the children from these eligible parents who are scrutinized through a set procedure,” she said.The department has also launched a helpline (8308992222 and 7400015518) with the help of Save The Children India for counselling and helping orphan children. The helpline will also extend support to the children whose parents have tested positive for Covid-19 and need help for time being.Birasis said that besides the adoption, the department has a scheme called Balsangopan Yojana which financially helps the parents, single parents, relatives looking after orphan children with the monthly assistance of ₹1,125. “The children are thus maintained in the family without going to the orphanage or adoption and it’s the basic principle of the JJ Act,” she said. The issue isn’t isolated to Mumbai alone. Earlier this week, Delhi’s Commission for Protection of Child Right (DCPCR) appealed to people on social media to call on their helpline number and report cases where children need essential supplies, have lost their parent(s), or are struggling to support themselves due to the illness. The Delhi child rights body said that requests for adopting children orphaned amid the pandemic have also started pouring in.“The DCPCR has come across many instances on social media (Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp), where the people who have information about the orphan children are encouraging people to adopt these children. In some cases, they post updates that the child or children have been adopted. I am sure that some of these are out of innocence and ignorance of the law governing adoption. However, they may also be cases of trafficking and sale-purchase of children. Either way, deserve to be inquired into to get to the depth of the matter,” DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu wrote to the Delhi police this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/messages-on-covid-adoption-illegal-follow-due-legal-process-for-adoption-experts-101620155538561.html
05-05-2021||Other||Bomb inside ice cream ball explodes, two children hurt in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: Two children, aged five and two, suffered injuries in north Kerala’s Kannur district on Tuesday, after a crude bomb, hidden inside an ice cream ball which the children picked up inadvertently for playing, burst, police said. The children took up the ball from a vacant plot of land adjoining their house and took it for playing but when they tried to open, it exploded, police said, adding condition of one of them was serious. The incident occurred in Muzhakunnu police station. Certain pockets of Kannur district are notorious for violent clashes between the CPI(M) and RSS cadres and many lives were lost in three-decade long rivalry. In party villages crude bomb-making is a routine affair to check political opponents. To avoid detection many hide crude bombs in vacant plots and houses and many such freak accidents were reported from the area, police said. Police have launched a search operation in area to find hidden crude bombs, if any, and detained the owner of the plot. “We have detained the owner of the plot and two others in connection with the incident,” said a senior police officer. Two weeks back, a CPI(M) supporter lost both his hands while making a crude bomb in Kadirur. Last September, an accused in TP Chandrasekharan murder case also sustained serious injuries when a bomb which he was assembling went off accidentally. Chandrasekharan, who floated a new party after leaving the CPI(M), was hacked to death by a group of CPI(M) workers in Vadakara in 2012. Most of the accused in the case were later sentenced. His widow K K Rema got elected to the assembly in the just-concluded elections. At least 200 party workers of both, CPI(M) and RSS, were killed in past three decades in recurring political clashes in north Kerala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bomb-inside-ice-cream-ball-explodes-two-children-hurt-in-kerala-101620155479066.html
05-05-2021||Other||After Kerala win, Left to draw up fresh national plan against BJP||Thiruvananthapuram: Taking a leaf out of emphatic victory in Kerala, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) will take a fresh initiative to build an alternative against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at national level, said party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan on Tuesday in the state capital. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) won 99 out of 140 assembly seats in the state on Sunday, bucking a four-decade-old political tradition of oscillating the Congress and CPI(M)-led fronts alternately. In the Left surge, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) drew a blank in Kerala. Talking to reporters after the party secretariat meeting, Vijayaraghavan said the new government will be sworn in after the LDF meeting on May 17. “Due to pandemic situation, strict restrictions are in force. Let the situation ease a bit, there is no hurry,” he said, adding the LDF will observe a victory day on May 7. Workers have been asked to lit lamps in their homes observing Covid -19 protocol.He said “historic victory” in Kerala has given a fresh impetus to secular and democratic forces in the country and the party will take initiative to build a new alternative against communal forces. “Our victory and high vote share are historic. It is a victory of the Left and secular forces. This victory has national relevance also,” Vijayaraghavan said, adding the victory was clinched in trying times. He said all opposition parties, including the Congress and BJP, had teamed up against the government and many central agencies had pitched their tents in the state and intimidated officials and others but their designs fell flat with people’s mandate. He said the loss in Kerala will hasten the fall of the Congress in the country. Vijayaraghavan added that the Congress tried its best to weaken secular forces in Kerala and its national leaders were also part of it, while referring to Gandhi family’s intense campaign in the state. “The Congress and BJP were in a race to raise baseless allegations against the government. At one point both were talking in single voice. They also tried to sabotage some of the welfare programmes. People have given them a befitting reply,” he said.Meanwhile, outgoing opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged a CPI(M)-BJP nexus to weaken the Congress in Kerala. “A close look at the results show in many seats NDA vote share has gone down. Most of these votes have shifted to the LDF camp. We suspect it a part of a conspiracy of the BJP’s pet “Congress-mukt” campaign,” he said in Thiruvananthapuram. BJP state president K Surendran has denied Chennithala’s claims, saying the Left successfully injected a fear psychosis among minority communities that led to consolidation of their votes in its favour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-kerala-win-left-to-draw-up-fresh-national-plan-against-bjp-101620155418572.html
05-05-2021||Other||Stalin, Palaniswami chart new path with healthy political ties||Chennai: Edapaddi Palaniswami and MK Stalin are charting a refreshing and respectful political rivalry in a state that has witnessed bitterness, animosity and violence for more than 50 years between their Dravidian predecessors. After the May 2 results ended the AIADMK’s 10-year rule and brought back the DMK, Palaniswami graciously accepted defeat and wished Stalin on Twitter, the platform for new-age politics. Stalin reciprocated by seeking Palaniswami’s ideas and cooperation. “Democracy is a fusion of both ruling and opposition parties,” Stalin said. This was unheard of during previous regime changes in Tamil Nadu. A prime factor is that the two new leaders have no personal animosity unlike the history of rivalry between DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi and MG Ramachandran (MGR), and later J Jayalalithaa. It began when the matinee idol and popular leader MGR split from the DMK in 1972 and founded the ADMK (later renamed AIADMK) ending the MGR- Karunanidhi friendship and successful partnership in films and politics. MGR won the first election in 1977 after launching his party and continued to remain chief minister until his death in 1987. “Their personal vengeance gave rise to politics of hatred in Tamil Nadu,” says former journalist Durai Karunanidhi. “Both of them wanted to abolish each other’s parties. DMK foisted false cases against MGR and after he came to power, MGR managed to keep a Chanakya-like Karunanidhi away from electoral victory until his death. Yet, they were on speaking terms; they would participate in common public events.” MGR and Karunanidhi had together attended the wedding of Tamilisai Soundararajan, the daughter of Congress veteran Kumari Ananthan. She is now a BJP leader and governor of Telangana and lieutenant governor of Puducherry. Videos from her wedding show MGR, who was then chief minister, and Karunanidhi sitting together, speaking and laughing. After MGR’s death, Jayalalithaa took over the reins, became the state’s opposition leader, as Karunanidhi returned as chief minister in the 1989 elections. Jayalalithaa inherited the rivalry, which increased after an infamous incident in the assembly when the DMK was two months into its third term. Violence broke out between the two parties and DMK’s present organising secretary Durai Murugan is accused of hitting Jayalalithaa and she came out of the assembly weeping and dishevelled. In 2001, in less than a month after Jayalalithaa became chief minister, a then 78-year-old Karunanidhi was arrested over corruption charges. In a midnight drama, police woke him up at 1.45am, roughed him up and took him into custody, all the while with Karunanidhi shouting, ‘kolapandranga’ meaning “they are killing me”. “He spent a week in prison, that’s all Jayalalithaa wanted. She didn’t pursue the case,” says DMK veteran and MP TKS Elangovan. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa never saw eye-to-eye and avoided assembly proceedings with each other. “Jayalalithaa has expelled AIADMK cadre when she heard reports of them speaking to DMK cadre,” said Durai. Elangovan narrates that though AIADMK MPs and MLAs would speak to him when they were together in Delhi in parliament or outside, the same members wouldn’t dare to be seen with him in Chennai. “We would fly back from Delhi to Chennai together and chat together on-air but from the minute we land, they will stop speaking and won’t even walk next to me,” says Elangovan. “That’s how much they feared Jayalalithaa.” The change perhaps started with Stalin who attended Jayalalithaa’s swearing-in in 2016 even as several DMK MLAs boycotted it. Karunanidhi complained that Jayalalithaa insulted his son in the seating arrangement as he was seated in the 16th row. The following day, Jayalalithaa clarified that it wasn’t intended and if she was informed of Stalin’s attendance, she would have relaxed norms and seated him in the front row. The erstwhile hardened stances began to wither after Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 after she was re-elected for a second term earlier that year. After a long-drawn succession battle, Palaniswami became chief minister and helmed the AIADMK along with O Panneerselvam. “Though the ruling and opposition debated and criticised each other, they came out of the assembly speaking to each other similar to the Delhi culture and respectful politics began to peek in Tamil Nadu,” says Durai. It was beginning to bring back a healthy political culture that was seen even between former chief ministers-- Congress’s K Kamaraj and DMK founder CN Annadurai. Palaniswami gave audience to a Stalin-led delegation in his chamber because they wanted to submit reformations -- a scene perhaps common in other states such as Kerala where ruling and opposition leaders travel and work together, but not in Tamil Nadu. Ministers led by Pannerselvam visited Karunanidhi’s residence when his health was deteriorating. It hit a rough spot when the AIADMK government cited new environment rules and denied permission for Karunanidhi, who didn’t die in office, to be buried alongside former chief ministers and his Dravidian mentors and rivals in Chennai’s Marina beach in August 2018. DMK went to court and the AIADMK allowed it after the Madras high court’s approval in a special late-night hearing. Palaniswami justified that it was the state’s inability due to policy. It was also a time when the Palaniswami-led government was seen as being subservient to the BJP at the Centre which Stalin has consistently criticised. “Stalin doesn’t seem to be the one to carry personal vengeances and Palaniswami and Panneerselvam are soft too,” said Durai. Stain went to Palaniswami’s Chennai residence for his mother’s memorial service in October 2020 just before both leaders would begin a high-octane campaign mocking each other. On Tuesday, a few DMK workers tore down banners of an ‘Amma canteen’ in Chennai, launched by Jayalalithaa in 2013 and replicated across the country to serve budget meals for the poor. “Our leader (Stalin) asked for the board to be fixed back; the two workers have been arrested and expelled from the party,” said M Subramanian, former Chennai mayor and newly elected MLA. Such actions and their exchanges post campaigns even as they trade important places as chief minister and opposition leader indicates that the new-generation leaders are overturning decades of hate politics built on personal vengeance into a healthy atmosphere. However, Stalin, in his election manifesto has stated that the DMK would form a special court to try corrupt ministers. He has submitted two complaints to governor Banwarilal Purohit against Palaniswami, Paneerselvam and other top ministers on graft charges. Stalin has also promised to speed up investigations into Jayalalithaa’s death. It remains to be seen how the DMK would pursue these two promises which would earn the wrath of the new opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalin-palaniswami-chart-new-path-with-healthy-political-ties-101620155359118.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaccination for second dose for 45+ restarts amid confusion||After a gap of four days, vaccination drive for the second dose for those in the 45+ age group restarted on Tuesday, leading to chaos and long queues as thousands rushed to several centres. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will continue to vaccinate the 45+ age group for the second dose and 18-44 age group for the first dose on Wednesday too. There is a possibility that the vaccination for the first dose for above 45+ may start from Thursday, however, nothing is finalised, said BMC officials. Vaccination centres, including BKC centre, Shatabdi Govandi, ESIS Mulund, BARC, Kurla Bhabha, ran out of stock before noon, which the BMC officials claimed, was because they did not receive any stock from the Central government. They said vaccine doses from the reserve quota were used for the 18-44 age group. The BMC expects to have a substantial amount of vaccine doses by Tuesday midnight. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are likely to get 150,000 vaccine doses by Tuesday night and they will be used for the vaccination drive on Wednesday. However, we will continue vaccinating citizens above the age of 45+ for the second dose on Wednesday and first dose for the 18-44 age group.” Several citizens above the age of 45 also went to get their first dose but were sent back by the authorities. Firuza Dastoor, an Andheri resident, said, “My parents and I were scheduled for a second dose. My parents have been eligible for the second dose for the past one week, but have not been getting it despite going to the vaccination centre thrice. Finally, on Tuesday we went to SevenHills hospital for the fourth time and got the doses. Our experience at SevenHills was good.” Another Andheri resident Vicckey Ajwani said, “I had taken my first dose of Covaxin a month ago and my second dose was scheduled 28 days later in the last week of April. However, I had to go to Cooper Hospital multiple times to figure out when and how I will get my second dose. This is not the experience one would want for vaccination. Also, there is always a risk of getting exposed to the virus considering the long queues and large crowds at the vaccination centres. It was only after a lot of struggle and multiple calls that I got my second dose.” Meanwhile civic authorities made operational the first drive-in vaccination centres in the city at Dadar in a parking lot. According to BMC officials, it got good response there. Senior citizens and specially abled will be vaccinated at the centre. According to BMC’s data, 417 citizens were vaccinated in 227 cars on Tuesday at the drive-in vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccination-for-second-dose-for-45-restarts-amid-confusion-101620155358475.html
05-05-2021||Other||Chennai scrambles to find ICU beds as Covid cases soar||Chennai: As Covid-19 cases rise in Tamil Nadu with the highest caseload in Chennai, people were struggling to find beds with oxygen support and ventilators in time. As per 5.30 pm data from the state government’s Covid bed status on its website, among the five government hospitals in Chennai, only nine oxygen supported beds were available out of 1,823 while all 919 ICU beds were occupied. “On an average, we are admitting 150-200 patients per day and most of them are in critical condition. Discharges are 70-90 in a day… we are extending oxygen lines,” said Dr E Theranirajan, dean, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), the largest public hospital in Chennai treating Covid-19. The hospital has now formed a four-member committee to exclusively monitor consumption of oxygen. “The team will monitor and plan how to conserve oxygen in the wards,” said Theranirajan. The hospital is also planning to add 20,000 kilo litre oxygen from other blocks, to meet the demand for Covid-19 treatment. “We are working with the technical team as well as the oxygen team to be able to conserve it even as we increase the oxygen points,” Theranirajan added. ICUs in most private hospitals in the city are full and the struggle is to find beds in either government facilities or smaller private hospitals. “It’s a very bad situation,” said a doctor of a private hospital. “More patients are critical in the second wave. In the first wave, even those with mild, moderate symptoms were hospitalised, but now they’re in home treatment. Our ICU is full and there are 12 patients on the waitlist. We use 3,500 metric cubes of oxygen every day for more than 250 patients on oxygen support. We are worried about managing oxygen so that it is not replenished,” the doctor added. Archanaa Seker, who volunteers for a group Chennai Cares formed to help people find drugs and beds, said it took them more than eight hours to find an oxygen supported bed for a 65-year-old man with comorbidities in Chennai last week. The patient’s oxygen levels were 89 at 11 am last Tuesday and began to drop. The group called 108 ambulance service operated by the government and which had oxygen support and the family went to a private and government hospital where there were no beds before reaching RGGGH. “They had to wait for a few hours at the hospital before he got a bed with oxygen support. At 11.30 pm, he was struggling to breathe but his treatment had started,” said Seker. The patient died in the hospital on Tuesday. “The hospital had rightly escalated his treatment at every stage, but despite being on high flow oxygen his health deteriorated,” said Seker. “The struggle for beds is showing us many sides of why the situation is grim in Chennai. It’s not just a shortage of resources but lack of information. Who is going to guide you? Where do you go first if you are told you need to be on a ventilator? It’s also the first time we are pushing people to use the government system whether it’s for treatment or the 104 helpline to avail beds because the system is in place,” Seker added. On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu reported 21,228 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total active caseload in the state to 123,258. Chennai accounted for 6,228 of the total new cases, taking its active case count to 33,222, according to state health department. The state also reported 144 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, which took the toll due to the pandemic to 14,612. Meanwhile, health authorities said it has been more challenging as compared to the first wave. “We are increasing hospital beds with oxygen and ensuring oxygen is sustained as cases are increasing and we have sought inputs from Kerala on their management,” said a health official, who did not wish to be named. Tamil Nadu is going through a transition from the AIADMK-led government to the newly elected one led by DMK chief MK Stalin. A day after victory, chief minister-elect Stalin held two review meetings with the state’s chief secretary, health secretary among other top bureaucrats on the Covid-19 situation on Monday and Tuesday. “After the meeting we introduced new restrictions,” an official said. Late Monday night, the new restrictions such as 50% workforce in government and private offices from May 6 to 20 were announced. “Don’t think of this as restrictions imposed by the government but as the restrictions that people put on themselves,” said Stalin in a statement. “Only by turning this into a people’s movement can we break the chain,” he added. Experts said that though Tamil Nadu has a better public health system and administration compared to other states, it is getting overwhelmed. “If you see the curve in the second wave, it’s a steep rise,” said virologist Jacob John, former director of the ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology. “The spread is three-four times faster because of the variants, which is most concerning,” John added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chennai-scrambles-to-find-icu-beds-as-covid-cases-soar-101620155298489.html
05-05-2021||Other||Shortage of vaccine doses irks senior citizens in Thane||Senior citizens awaiting their second dose are now having their appointments cancelled as the vaccination drive for those above 45 years of age have been called off in Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai since Saturday. All three civic bodies are waiting for vaccine doses; especially the Covaxin. For the last two weeks, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has not been getting doses of Covaxin, whereas Thane and Navi Mumbai last received Covaxin on April 25. For 56 years old, Rama Iyer from Vrindavan Society in Thane, this is the last week for her to get vaccinated with the second dose of Coviaxin. “We have tried visiting vaccination centres last week, but to no avail. My daughter spoke to our regular physician who assured us that we could wait for another week, despite the schedule to get vaccinated. However, the government should ensure that there is enough stock for those who have taken the first dose.” There are many senior citizens like Iyer, who are awaiting the arrival of Covaxin for their second dose. “I have been calling hospitals in Thane, Navi Mumbai and Mira Road for the last two weeks. I am not a tech-savvy person and my children live in another city. Hence, I rely on my neighbours to help me find vaccination centres. Two weeks ago there were two centres in KDMC that had Covaxin but I was not aware of it. By the time I got to know, they were short of vaccines. There is a continuous appeal from authorities to get vaccinated but there is no help or support on how to go about the vaccination process,” said Hemant Shah, 64, resident of Dombivli. Prashant Patil, secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kalyan chapter, informed, “People need not panic as they can wait for two weeks from the time frame for the vaccine. For both vaccines, there is enough time suggested and the authorities are also working to get additional doses as soon as possible.” Moreover, a few senior citizens are on high medication, hence the doctors have suggested Covaxin. Prachi Choudhary, a resident of Navi Mumbai who helps senior citizens with the vaccination process, said, “I have a list of 140 senior citizens waiting to get vaccinated; among these, we have prepared a separate list of those who need the second dose as they are a priority. However, the shortage of supply is proving to be a hindrance. Covishield was available in most places until last week and many went ahead with walk-in vaccinations for the same.” Various citizen organisations are working towards helping senior citizens get their doses as per schedule, especially for second doses. “Once the hospital gets the vaccine stock, we are plan to start the immunisation drive. Housing societies could join us in this mission and help their members get vaccinated,” said Kasber Augustine, resident of Thane. Over 23,000 people in Thane city have taken Covaxin, of which 17,000 are yet to get the second dose. “We received Covaxin on April 25 and we had six centres open the next day. Post that we have not received any doses of the vaccine. Sunday onwards we have only been focusing on those between 18 and 44 years of age,” said a senior officer from Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). Similarly, KDMC has not received Covaxin doses for the last two weeks and no doses are available for those above 45 years of age in the last four days. Abhijit Bangar, commissioner, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), said, “We are expecting more vaccines on Wednesday. As of now, the vaccination process has been stalled for 45 years and above age. We received Covaxin last on April 25 and Covishield on Thursday.” Meanwhile, Thane district officials are also unable to meet the demand for vaccines. A senior officer said, “There is a shortage all over the state. We are not getting the desired number of vaccines. The ones that we get have to be equally distributed in all civic bodies, municipal councils as well as rural areas. This is a difficult task, especially, considering the population in urban areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-vaccine-doses-irks-senior-citizens-in-thane-101620155238476.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Oxygen tankers to be fitted with GPS to monitor their movement||All tankers being used to carrying liquid medical oxygen in Maharashtra will be fitted with Global Positioning System (GPS) devices for monitoring their movement. Nearly 250 tankers are presently being used to transport medical oxygen in the state. Of them, 125 tankers have GPS installed in them. GPS will enable the transport authorities and the Food and Drug Administration(FDA) to track the movement of liquid oxygen in the state. It will help them in better management of oxygen supply to the hospitals. Maharashtra transport commissioner Avinash Dhakane stated on Tuesday that all the tankers will be fitted with GPS systems in a few days.Further, a control room for the monitoring of movement of liquid oxygen in the state has been set up and will be used to track the tankers after GPS is installed.“We have nearly 250 tankers that are used for transporting medical oxygen. The installation process in half of the tankers have been completed and the process is on. The control room is already set up and will be used to track all movements of tankers after GPS has been fitted in all vehicles,” said a senior transport department official. The GPS devices are being installed in the tankers by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA). The organisation has raised ₹10 lakhs for the installation. “We have tried to do our best as this is a small contribution towards enabling the transport department to monitor oxygen tankers movement on a single dashboard. This will help save the lives of patients by providing them lifesaving oxygen on time,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president, FADA.Liquid medical oxygen in tankers is being moved by road and railways in the state. The Central and Western Railway have transported liquid oxygen tankers by Roll On Roll Off (RORO) flat wagons from Visakhapatnam and Gujarat to Nagpur, Nashik and Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai. The tankers were then transported to oxygen plants in Nagpur and Nashik and moved to government and private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-oxygen-tankers-to-be-fitted-with-gps-to-monitor-their-movement-101620155178478.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s vaccine wastage 0.22%: Cong demands apology from Javadekar||After the figures released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare revealed that Maharashtra’s rate of vaccine wastage was one of the lowest, the Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant demanded an apology from the Union minister Prakash Javadekar over his claims that the state wasted more than 500,000 vaccines.Maharashtra’s vaccine wastage rate has dropped to 0.22% while some other states have reported it as high as 7-8%.In its press release on Monday, the Union ministry stated that out of 16.36 million doses of vaccines supplied to Maharashtra, the wastage was 0.22%. Against it, other states and Union territories like Haryana (5.72%), Assam (7.7%), Lakshadweep (9.71%), Tamil Nadu (8.83%), Uttar Pradesh (3.54%), Gujarat (3.61%) reported high wastage of the vaccine. Six of the states have also reported it in minus, but the state authorities have contested computing saying it is because of errors in keeping account of the received stock.On April 7, Union minister Prakash Javadekar had said that the Maharashtra government was playing politics over the allotment of vaccine stock. He also alleged that it should first reply about the high wastage of vaccine. “Maharashtra Govt should not play politics over-vaccination. Here are the facts: Total number of COVID vaccine supplied to State till date - 1,06,19,190 ; Consumption - 905,3,523 (of which 6% wastage - over 5L) Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280. Dosage available - nearly 23 lakhs,” he had tweeted.His remarks had sparked the political slugfest and Congress and Nationalist Congress Party leaders had said that in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states the wastage was more than that reported in Maharashtra.On Tuesday, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that Javadeklar should apologise to the people of Maharashtra for his lie. “Javadekarji’s falsehood has been exposed by the Central government’s press note as the wastage is not 6% and is just 0.22%. The Union minister has insulted Maharashtra by spreading wrong information for the sake of politics,” he said.Sawant also cited a report prepared by Ashok University on Covid-19 in which it has been stated that the vaccine given to the state by the Centre were in not in the proportion of the population and the cases.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “On one hand public health minister Rajesh Tope says that Maharashtra has trained manpower in the healthcare sector and they can ramp up daily inoculation to 1.2 million doses, why there was the wastage of 600,000 doses. In percentage, it may be less, but the wastage of such a huge stock when there was an acute shortage, is not acceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-vaccine-wastage-0-22-cong-demands-apology-from-javadekar-101620155119163.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Morning walk allowed in parks during Chandigarh lockdown||A day after weeklong partial lockdown was announced in Chandigarh, the administration on Tuesday allowed people to go out for morning walk in parks, which will remain open from 5am to 9am. The detailed order issued on Tuesday also specifies that street vendors will be allowed to operate till 5pm. While restaurants will remain closed for patrons, takeaway is allowed till 5pm and home delivery till 9pm. The administration on Monday had announced suspension of all non-essential services, including closure of shops selling non-essential items, for a week from 5pm on May 4 till 5am on May 11. Weekend lockdown and other existing restrictions will also continue during this period. While there will be no restriction on interstate movement, those entering Chandigarh without Covid negative report or vaccine certificate will be subjected to random testing. Visitors entering government offices may also be required to produce vaccination certificates or Covid negative reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/morning-walk-allowed-in-parks-during-chandigarh-lockdown-101620154639705.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid scales new height in Chandigarh tricity as 2,211 test +ve||With 2,211 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the tricity hit yet another record, surpassing 2,201 cases registered on April 23.Since crossing the grim milestone of 2,000 daily tally for the first time on April 22, the tricity has recorded 2,000+ cases as many as nine times in 13 days.Meanwhile, 29 people succumbed to the virus, also a record that was first set on April 28. As on Tuesday evening, 19,134 cases remain active across the tricityWith 847 cases and 12 deaths, Mohali district accounted for the bulk of the Tuesday’s Covid-19 tally, followed by 780 cases and 11 casualties in Chandigarh, and 584 cases and six fatalities in Panchkula district. For Panchkula, it was the highest number of cases in a day, while Mohali reported a record 12 deaths for second consecutive day and third time in a week.Just four days into May, the tricity has logged 8,170 cases and 88 deaths, as compared to 43,145 cases and 311 deaths throughout April. Curbs in 54 more areas in Chandigarh After setting records for two consecutive days, the number of cases in Chandigarh saw a dip, but the situation remains grim. Among those dead are a 34-year-old man from Sector 34 and 37-year-old woman from Sector 38.The daily positivity rate rose to 25%, which means of every four people sampled, one had the infection.Amid the rising numbers, the UT administration has declared 54 more micro-containment zones in the city. The areas are spread across Sectors 8, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 45 and 46 besides Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Behlana, Khuda Lahora and Dhanas. The administration has also stationed two officials of the Chandigarh Housing Board at the INOX oxygen plant in Solan’s Barotiwala to ensure smooth supply of oxygen to government hospitals and private refilling vendors in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, as Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, has exhausted its bed capacity, the administration has directed Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, to accommodate all patients from Chandigarh, irrespective of their zones. Don’t deny admission to critical patients: Mohali DCAmid a steep spike in critical cases and deaths in Mohali, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has asked private hospitals in the district not to refuse hospitalisation to such patients. “L3 patient (those needing ventilator) may be accommodated on L2 beds (with oxygen support) till the next discharge from L3 facility, subject to the approval of patient’s attendant,” said Dayalan, while adding that admission in a lower facility and being under medical supervision may give the patient some chance to recover. With good samaritans coming forward with the offer to set up Covid Care Centres, Dayalan said the facility should have at least 50 beds, and such people can contact the civil surgeon to get the certification for the site. He also authorised hiring of three funeral vans in each subdivision to help the families in distress. Vax for 45+ at 12 sites in Panchkula todayAmid confusion over vaccination sites that has left many senior citizens running helter-skelter in Panchkula, the district administration announced that jabs will be given to the 45+ age group at 12 sites on Wednesday. These sites are Polyclinic, Sector 26; Government Dispensaries, Sector 12A (covaxin) and 21; Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4; Subdivisional Hospital, Kalka; Community Health Centre, Nanakpur; Command Hospital, Chandimandir; and Primary Health Centres in Surajpur, Old Panhckula, Morni, Barwala, and Hangola.The timings are 9am-11am for those in 70+ age group, 11am-12:30pm for 50-69 years, and 12:30pm-2pm for 45-49 years.Meanwhile, those in the age group of 18-44 will be vaccinated at six sites, only after online appointment: Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Government Dispensary, Sector 25; Government Ayurvedic Dispensary, Sector 9; Community Health centre, Raipur Rani; and Primary Health Centres in Pinjore and Kot.The administration also said that it has received 174 calls on the helpline number (0172- 2590000) launched for Covid-19 on May 1. “Most of the callers inquire about delay in test reports, or seek medical advice,” said an official. Even Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta launched a helpline (9041344828) at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 on Tuesday. It will be run by Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-scales-new-height-in-chandigarh-tricity-as-2-211-test-ve-101620154339195.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Covid spread in ‘empty’ women’s cell takes Tihar admin by surprise||At least 57 of the 444 women prisoners lodged in the women’s jail in Tihar have tested Covid-positive in the last one month, according to prison officers privy to the development who added that the spread of the infection was far quicker than seen in jails holding male prisoners.Sub-jail number 6 holds only women prisoners and is far less populated than the barracks and jails meant for men. While jail number 6 has just 444 inmates, a men’s jail like sub jail number 1 has over 2,000 prisoners. Other jails have around 1,000-1,300 inmates.The officers quoted above also said that of the five prisoners who died of the infection last week, one was a woman inmate -- Kahkashan, 41; she died on Aprl 29 -- who was admitted to the GTB hospital.Currently there are 49 active cases in the women’s jail, the officers said.There are 16 sub jails under Tihar prisons where nearly 20,500 prisoners are currently lodged. Prison officers said that there are 253 active cases in the prisons system at the moment.Besides 49 women, 204 male prisoners lodged in 16 different jails at Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli campuses have got the infection.There is only one jail for women at the Tihar campus.An officer, who asked not to be named, said, “For some reason, the infection spread rapidly in jail number 6 (women’s jail). We have created a Covid-19 ward inside the women’s jail. Any women prisoner who shows symptoms are not only quarantined or isolated but their health is also monitored at a special ward that has been set up inside jail 6. There are oxygen cylinders too in case of any emergency. Still if anyone is critical, we immediately refer them to hospital.”Last week, the prison administration stopped sending new prisoners directly to jail number 6. Unlike male prisoners who are isolated or put in quarantine within the same complex for at least 14 days, the new women prisoners are first sent to Mandoli jail for 14 days before being brought to Tihar. At Mandoli campus, too, in the last one month, 12 women prisoners have tested positive but many of them recovered or were released after treatment. There are only two active cases of infection in the women’s cell at Mandoli.The prison administration wrote to the Delhi government last week to consider releasing prisoners on parole and special bail, like last year when over 6,000 inmates were released after the pandemic broke out in March.The jail officials said it was important to decongest the prison since there were almost double the number of inmates inside Tihar than the jail’s capacity.Delhi government officials said they were looking into the request.Until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. In fact in February, there was not a single active case, as the overall positivity rate for Covid-19 in Delhi dropped to 0.17%.As Delhi is going through the fourth wave of the infection now, the positivity rate is hovering around 30%. In February, not a single member of the jail staff was infected.With over 20,500 prisoners at the moment, Tihar holds the highest number of inmates in its history. Experts such as former law officer Sunil Gupta and Ajay Verma have suggested that the government either set up temporary jails in school buildings or release some prisoners who are not a threat.In March last year, the 6,000 prisoners who were released to decongest the prison surrendered over February and March this year to complete their sentences after remaining outside the jail for nearly 11 months||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-spread-in-empty-women-s-cell-takes-tihar-admin-by-surprise-101620153999603.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||More mini Covid care centres to come up in Chandigarh||Getting a positive response from private associations and non-government organisations, the UT administration on Tuesday permitted two more bodies to set up mini Covid care centres. So far, the administration has allowed five organisations to set up such facilities.Yashpal Garg, the nodal officer for mini Covid care centres, also allotted the Infosys Red Cross Sarai, Sector 12, to Sri Guru Granth Sahib Society to urgently set up a 100-bed Covid care centre with oxygen facility. On Monday, the society had started a 50-bed centre at Bal Bhawan in Sector 23.Meanwhile, the other four organisations—Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, Competent Foundation and Bharat Vikas Parishad, and Be Sure Buddy Private Limited—will be setting similar centres at Badminton Hall, Government Girls Sr. Secondary School, Sector 8-B; Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24; and Aurobindo School, Sector 27A, respectively.The centres will provide doctors, nursing staff and patient-care attendants, who will be available round the clock. Qualified persons will be designated as managers to run the centres.Garg said, “We have put a new condition that at least 80% of beds have to be oxygenated. We will tie up with a vendor to refill them at the same rates being charged from GMCH-32.”Meanwhile, the municipal corporation (MC) has also decided to offer its community centres to set up mini Covid centres. MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We have been receiving several requests from people for setting up the centres, so we have decided to open up community centres for the purpose.”Any individual, organisation, NGO, religious organisation, corporate, firm or trust can come forward for setting up a mini Covid care centre for asymptomatic positive patients.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “If the crisis deepens, all three hotels run by CITCO will be converted into Covid hospitals.”“I have been receiving many calls, offering funds for Covid management. My request to donors is to give items like oxygen cylinders, concentrated ventilators, etc, instead,” added Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-mini-covid-care-centres-to-come-up-in-chandigarh-101620154098993.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Summer break in Chandigarh’s government schools from May 10||The UT education department has announced the summer vacation for teachers from May 10 to June 8.May 8 and 9 will also be holidays, so the last working day for the teachers will be May 7. The decision comes after a long wait and is being appreciated by the teachers: in 2020, the educators had to take online classes even during the summer vacation, which they will not have to this year.Principals and heads of schools, however, looking after admissions and preparing the Class-10 results will attend school as per requirement. Teachers who will be deputed on Covid duty by the Chandigarh administration will also have to carry them out.President of UT Cadre of Educational Employees’ Union, Swarn Singh Kamboj, said, “Those teachers who are deputed on Covid duty should be given a few extra days off. The department should also provide some support to those teachers on Covid duty in containment zones in case they fall sick.”Meanwhile, city’s private schools will mostly declare summer vacations as per schedule towards the end of May. They will reopen around the second week of July and a call will be taken regarding offline classes for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/summer-break-in-chandigarh-s-government-schools-from-may-10-101620153919566.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||College, varsity students in Chandigarh advised to vacate hostels||The higher educational institutions of Chandigarh, including Panjab University (PU), have been asked to advise their students to vacate the hostels and return to their homes in the wake of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.The decision regarding this was taken in a meeting held recently, which was chaired by the education secretary, UT administration, and attended by director higher education (DHE), deputy director of PEC, PU dean students’ welfare (DSW) and various heads of colleges.In this meeting, it was suggested that students with cogent reasons may be allowed to stay on in the hostels. Around 300 students occupy hostels in various colleges in the city. However, many of these college students are in the process of shifting to their hometowns.At PEC, of the 300-odd hostellers, only a few remain on campus at present. Also, over 700 students are residing in PU hostels, of which 650 are research scholars.Record of hostellers to be submitted with DHEThe heads of institutions have been asked to take the decision with respect to each student. They have also been advised to maintain a proper record of all hostellers—their names, class, residential address, Aadhaar number—and submit the information to the DHE or to the additional secretary, technical education, by May 4.Covid-19 testing of staff and students staying in hostels has been advised to the institutions. PU has been advised to coordinate with UT director, health services, regarding the testing. Moreover, the heads have been directed to ensure that Covid appropriate behavior is followed at all times.In fresh guidelines issued by PU on April 30, the varsity advised that only those residents/students who have the most essential work related to research should stay on in the hostels. The students were also asked to seek guidance from their chairpersons/supervisors in this regard. In recent days, a few PU hostellers have been found to be Covid-19 positive.PU DSW (women) Sukhbir Kaur said, “Our advice is that, since the infection is spreading fast, those students who do not have any urgent work should return to their families for their own safety and the safety of the others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/college-varsity-students-in-chandigarh-advised-to-vacate-hostels-101620153799457.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Complaints against mining officer ignored for 3 yrs, says Ropar MLA||A day after the arrests of a woman mining officer and her two aides in a bribery case, Ropar MLA Amarjeet Singh Sandoa claimed that in the past three years, he wrote at least ten letters to the authorities concerned, including the chief minister, complaining about the rampant corruption by the officer, but no action was taken against her.The vigilance bureau on Monday arrested Ropar mining officer Simarpreet Kaur Dhillon, also having additional charge of Mohali stone crushers, mining guard Pal Singh and clerk Aman while taking a bribe of ₹25,000 from the owner of a crusher at Anandpur Sahib. The arrest was made at the district mining office in Phase 7, Mohali.All three were produced before a court on Tuesday, which sent them to three-day police remand.MLA Sandoa said Dhillon used to take bribes from stone crushers in Ropar area on a monthly basis, and if anybody failed to make the payment, she used to seal their units. Her aid Pala Singh used to collect the money. “I have written at least 10 letters to the authorities concerned complaining about her corruption, but no action was taken against her,” he said.Sandoa alleged that she used to take the money in the name of minister and director of the mining department.Last month, Mubarakpur Crushers Association lodged a complaint with the principal secretary (mining) against Dhillon alleging that she along with mining contractors demanded monthly payments from all screening plant and crusher owners in the form of ‘goonda tax’.Association’s vice-president Ranjit Singh Teja said that Dhillon had created terror in the area and was considered the most corrupt person in the department. In December last year, when crusher owners refused to pay her money, she sealed all the screening plants and crushing units in the area. “We were not even able to work,” he said.In 2018, the woman officer had made news after lodging a police complaint against then general manager of the industries department, Tehal Singh Sekhon, for allegedly misbehaving with her. The complaint later turned out to be false. Sekhon retired last year.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ajay Kumar, Mohali vigilance bureau, said, “We are checking her properties and have raided her residence in Sector 51, Chandigarh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complaints-against-mining-officer-ignored-for-3-yrs-says-ropar-mla-101620153739704.html
05-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt's plan to import oxygen from abroad hits hurdle||The Delhi government’s plan to import 18 cryogenic containers from Bangkok and 21 oxygen generation plants from France has hit a roadblock due to “technical and administrative” reasons, senior government officials said on Tuesday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a plan to import these on April 27, as the crippling shortage of medical oxygen came into focus. The state has now put the plan on the back-burner, according to officials who asked not to be named.“The procurement of the tankers has been delayed due to some technical and administrative issues. It is taking longer than what we had anticipated,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. The officials, however, did not elaborate on what these technical and administrative issues were.This comes at a time when the Centre has failed to ensure the supply of 700 metric tonne (MT) quota of medical oxygen to the national capital, and the Delhi government has been unable to arrange for cryogenic tankers to pick up supplies, both of which continue to remain key hurdles in ensuring an adequate amount of the medical essential, as hospitals send out desperate appeals for uninterrupted flow to save critically ill patients.Now, to meet the growing oxygen demand in the city, the Delhi government has written to the central government, asking for 50 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants for Delhi, even as it continues to look for viable options of sourcing tankers from within India.On Sunday, the central government told the Delhi high court that, on April 26, the Delhi government wrote to the Centre saying it plans to import three cryogenic tankers from Thailand and requested its help to lift those tankers through Indian Air Force aircraft. But, it said that they “never heard anything” from the Delhi government after that, and awaited the request with specific details (like the date of airlifting, bill of loading, etc.) so that the air force planes can be allocated to bring the cryogenic tankers from Bangkok.“Till date, the Central government has not received any communication regarding the import of containers,” it told the court.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter.A second senior Delhi government officer said the administration is now looking at sourcing tankers from within the country.“We have made several attempts -- some have been successful, while others have failed. We have been able to procure at least five tankers on our own so far. The central government has given seven. Apart from this, the oxygen suppliers are also arranging tankers on their own. Many companies are also helping us,” said the official.In an email to HT, oxygen supplier Linde South Asia said it was using 18 tankers (2,000 gallons each) which can transport 8.65 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). It is also using 5 T-75 ISO tankers that transport 20MT of LMO. It further said it has also converted a number of liquid argon and liquid nitrogen road tankers into liquid oxygen service to boost the supply chain.“Linde was the first to suggest the idea of renting ISO tanks from the international market to de-bottleneck the LOX (liquid oxygen) supply chain. In collaboration with our sponsors Tata Steel and ITC, Linde has been bringing such rented ISO tanks by air into the country… In collaboration with Indian Railways, Linde has further set up a railway delivery system for high speed delivery of LOX from Eastern India to Delhi. This has been tried for the first time in this country, and till Monday, 2 such rakes each capable of carrying 120 MT LOX and 1 rake capable of carrying 80 MT LOX have already been deployed and more will be deployed in the days to come,” the company said.Oxygen plants at Delhi hospitalsSenior government officials said that two of the four PSA oxygen plants being set up by DRDO are going to be operational by Wednesday. Apart from this, in 10 days, Delhi has set up PSA oxygen plants in at least four state-run hospitals, taking the total number of Delhi government hospitals having oxygen generation plants to five.These hospitals are Burari hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital, Lok Nayak hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini and Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital.The plant at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital was set up on Tuesday and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said it will be operationalised from Wednesday. It is one of the four small-sized oxygen generation plants donated by France. The other three have been used at BLK Hospital, Haryana Super Specialty Hospital and state-run Ambedkar Hospital.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the defence ministry said two of the four plants to be set up by DRDO have reached Delhi and are being installed at AIIMS (main) and RML hospital, respectively.While these two will be ready by Wednesday, the other two will be set up by May 10. These are to be installed at AIIMS Trauma Centre, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital (RML), Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College and one at AIIMS, Jhajjar, Haryana. There are all hospitals run by the Union government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-plan-to-import-oxygen-from-france-hits-hurdle-101620152668132.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks Chandigarh’s reply on Covid bed occupancy data||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Tuesday has directed the Chandigarh administration to apprise the court by Friday as to why it is not putting out details of bed occupancy in the public domain.During the resumed hearing of a plea initiated by the HC to monitor Covid-19 management by two states and Chandigarh, senior advocate Anupam Gupta had told the court that certain directions were issued by the Union home ministry on Covid-19 management, but it appears that UT has not implemented the same. As per the same, each state had to put out in public domain details of bed occupancy in government/private hospitals, availability of oxygen, drugs, vaccine and vaccination centres, remdesivir and tocilizumab.The court was also told that availability of beds in various government and private hospitals is limited. As a result, some patients have to stay at home. In the eventuality of needing oxygen support, they have to purchase the same from the open market. However, it is not easily available.UT’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain had assured the court that in case of any such problem, the SDM of the zone concerned in every sector shall be asked to step in to help the patients who are on oxygen support at home. One dedicated zone-wise phone line shall be allocated and widely publicised by way of broadcast on radio, television and assistance of telephone companies, he had said.The court directed that SDMs be asked to pitch in to monitor the situation and in case there is disobedience of court orders, it would take punitive action.The UT has also told the court that it has added 121 beds to its 692-capacity to deal with Covid and also sought 20 more ventilators from the Centre against the existing strength of 126. Current quota of oxygen to UT is 20 metric tonnes and Centre would be requested to increase it, in case more demand is reported, the court was told.The report given before the HC reveals that in PGIMER Covid facility, there are only 77 patients from Chandigarh. Maximum number patients (104) are from Punjab, 59 from Haryana, 22 from Himachal Pradesh, 20 from Uttar Pradesh, 14 from Delhi and 19 patients from other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-chandigarh-s-reply-on-covid-bed-occupancy-data-101620153619008.html
05-05-2021||Other||Tackling the oxygen crisis: As people gasp, waiting time to install O2 plants goes up||The state government is approving applications seeking to set up oxygen plants on a priority. But due to the ever-increasing demand, the waiting time to install plants has gone up. This is due to a dearth of technical experts and skilled workforce required to set up such plants. Till April the state government had approved 54 applications seeking permission to set up oxygen plants. On state government’s request, the micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector has come forward to set up Oxygen plants. It is also willing to assist the government in setting up medical oxygen plants in 47 districts of the state which have been sanctioned by the PM under the PM-Cares Fund, set up last year to collect donations to battle Covid-19. “The demand for technical experts and skilled workforce required to set up Oxygen plants has increased manifold across the country, including Uttar Pradesh, since March-April. As the demand has gone up, skilled workforce is scarce,” said Pankaj Kumar, president, Indian Industries Association. “The waiting time to start a project (oxygen plant) has gone up by two-and-a-half months. Companies in the business of installing oxygen plants are flooded with orders,” said Manmohan Agarwal, senior vice-president, IIA. The IIA has requested the state government to set up a help desk dedicated only for oxygen plant projects and make available latest technology for setting up these plants. The MSMEs of Uttar Pradesh have also requested the state government to make available to them the DRDO’s latest technology relating to liquid oxygen plants. “The DRDO has the latest technology of liquid oxygen plants. We have requested the state government to make available this technology to us and required skilled workforce to set up oxygen plants,” said Kumar. Most oxygen plants being installed in the state are directly sourced from companies in the business of installing oxygen plants. “There are around seven or eight big companies that install readymade oxygen plants. These companies assemble oxygen plants on-site,” said Atul Bhushan Gupta, vice-president, IIA. “Now, due to manifold increase in demand of Oxygen plants there is a waiting time of two-and-a-half months if you place an order today for installing a plant,” Gupta added. “Another way to install an oxygen plant is to procure all parts and material required yourself. But only those who have full knowledge about oxygen plants can adopt this method. It also time consuming,” said Gupta. Also, individual efforts are also being made. Industrialist RK Chaudhary of Varanasi has donated an oxygen plant to Deen Dayal Upadhaya Government Hospital. The plant has a capacity to generate 650 litres of oxygen per minute. “The plant was purchased from Airox Technologies Pvt Limited, Aurangabad. It has started operating from April 29,” said Chaudhary. Rohit Maheshwari, owner of the Maheshwari Gas Pvt Ltd, Meerut, started operating his plant from last week. It has the capacity to refill around 1,000 jumbo oxygen cylinders daily. Meanwhile, the IIA is also in the process of procuring 12 oxygen plants from Russia with the help of state government. “Negotiations will start soon to purchase 12 oxygen plants from Russia,” Kumar said. What happened to the 42 O2 plants sanctioned in 2018?Uttar Pradesh could have easily warded off the present crisis, had not the government’s 2018 plan to set up oxygen plants in 42 government hospitals across the state, hit a bureaucratic hurdle. In the 2018 budget, the government had sanctioned ₹200 crore to set up oxygen plants in 42 government hospitals across the state, each plant with a capacity of 2000 MTD. The completion year was 2019. Among these hospitals, four were in the state capital, including Jhalkari Bai, Civil Hospital, Bhaurao Deoras Hospital and Thakurganj Hospital. But the project is yet to take off after a controversy over the health department’s tendering process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tackling-the-oxygen-crisis-as-people-gasp-waiting-time-to-install-o2-plants-goes-up-101620153378346.html
05-05-2021||Other||WhatsApp-armed youth create awareness among Sonbhadra tribals||A group of volunteers associated with Banwasi Seva Ashram, in Myorpur area of Sonbhadra, is trying to create awareness among locals, including tribals, through WhatsApp to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The group is also trying to give pointers on what to do and what not to in case someone begins to show Covid-19-like symptoms. The volunteers try to promote home remedies to keep Covid-19 at bay. The awareness drive has been launched at the initiative of the Banwasi Seva Ashram’s senior functionary, Shubha Bahan, said Jagat Vishwakarma, who is leading the team of volunteers. A WhatsApp group has been created for every 10 people possessing android phones in around 15 villages in remote areas. Each group has a volunteer. Each volunteer has circulated these home remedies, Vishwakarma said. Vishwakarma said that home remedies include taking steam, gargling thrice with lukewarm water and a pinch of salt, applying pure mustard oil on nostrils, chewing mulethi (Glycyrrhiza glabra), clove or misri (rock sugar) in case of sore throat, making a decoction of large cardamom, cinnamon and black pepper with spices and taking it twice daily. Every member of the house should take decoction in these days. Further, people are advised not to roam outside the house in case of fever, cold, cough or sneezing, and to avoid crowded places. If you have a cold, cough, fever, diarrhoea, vomiting, weakness, redness in the eyes, headache, difficulty in breathing, consult a doctor without wasting time. Without consulting doctors, do not take medicines. Keep paracetamol at home and take it in case of fever. It can be taken at an interval of eight hours. If fever remains for more than 24 hours, consult a doctor and have yourself tested, he added. The literate youths read out the message for the elderly and appeal to them to follow the advice. Volunteers have forwarded the remedies on WhatsApp groups in villages, including Jigan Tola, Ahir Budhwa, Manrutola, Kudpana, Faripan, Purvi Deohar, Manbasa, Jharo, and Jharo Khas, Majhauli. Volunteer Raghunath Bhai said, “We also demonstrate how to take steam after boiling water in a mid-size bowl.” The volunteers appealed to the people not to fall in trap of exorcists in case of ailments. Only take medicines by consulting doctors, they exhort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/whatsapparmed-youth-create-awareness-among-sonbhadra-tribals-101620153198406.html
05-05-2021||Other||Thane Police chief Phansalkar transferred||Thane Police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar was on Tuesday transferred to the post of Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Ltd’s managing director. Suresh Kumar Mekhla, joint commissioner of police, Thane, has been given the additional charge of the city’s police chief. Phansalkar, who is an additional director general, was promoted to the director general rank last week and was transferred accordingly following the promotion. A 1989 batch officer, Phansalkar had taken charge as Thane police commissioner on July 31, 2018. He had previously worked in Thane in 2008 as a deputy commissioner of police. Phansalkar, known to be a polite and down-to-earth officer, had a good control over the city during the lockdown period. Last September, he was infected with coronavirus while performing his duty and was admitted for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-police-chief-phansalkar-transferred-101620153199016.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid oxygen clinics for hsg societies?||To provide quick and timely care to symptomatic patients with oxygen requirements, the public health department has recommended setting up of Covid oxygen clinics in large housing societies, which can be manned by neighbourhood doctors. Adult residents, who are mostly home owing to the state-wide lockdown, can also volunteer. The idea is stabilising home-isolated patients in need of oxygen, until they get a bed in a hospital. The public health department has observed that only 9-10% infected patients require hospitalisation. The remaining patients can be provided care in home isolation or nearby Covid Care Centres (CCC). With most facilities having run out of beds, the public health department has mooted a unique concept of a ‘community model’ that will help reduce the burden on the already overwhelmed healthcare facilities. Currently, over 650,000 active Covid-19 patients are under treatment. To provide care and timely treatment, there is a need to establish one Covid-19 clinic per 25,000 people. Along with this, there would be a need for oxygen supply under a medical personnel. With this in mind, Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer of the department, has submitted a ‘macro management’ proposal to the state health ministry for better handling of Covid-19 patients with local help. “These centres can run around-the-clock with the help of nearby doctors or members from the Indian Medical Association. Many college-going students, teachers and retired persons who are mostly home owing to the state-wide lockdown can work as volunteers. As this clinic will be established per 25,000-30,000 people at the level of electoral wards, home-isolated patients who will need oxygen, will be greatly benefitted until they get their bed,” said Dr Awate. The decision about admission in this clinic will be taken based on the minimum required tests done of all home-isolated patients. Suggestions have also been put forward to convert two-four-bedded small hospitals, day care and clinics to such make-shift centres. Citizens can be informed about it through social media. “When the infection burden is low, these teams can be trained online, and their doubts and difficulties can be addressed. Various local organisations such as Rotary and Lions clubs among others, local doctors’ organisations, police officers, business persons and locally influential people can be involved in the management of these centres. The management will help reduce the current burden on hospitals significantly,” he added. Dr Awate has also suggested establishing village CCC for mildly symptomatic patients, who don’t have the space for isolation. “Village CCC can be established at the level of sub-centre or other central locations of bigger villages such as marketplace and gram panchayat building, among others. This way, 30-50 CCCs of 10-20 beds each can be started in each block,” he said. These centres can be run by local private doctors, staff nurses, anganwadi and ASHA workers. “We have submitted the proposals to the health ministry. We are waiting for the final approval,” he added. Dr Deepak Baid, former president, Association of Medical Consultants, didn’t agree with the suggestion. He claimed a similar suggestion was made last year by the BMC, but the doctors opposed the concept. “A patient with low oxygen saturation doesn’t only need oxygen, but depending on their health, there are other requirements too. Who will provide such medication to patients? This is not a medically fit suggestion and should be avoided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-oxygen-clinics-for-hsg-societies-101620153138990.html
05-05-2021||Other||Oxygen leak at Palghar hosp, fixed in time||A leakage in the valve of an oxygen jumbo tank was reported in the government-run Revera Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) in Vikramgadh, Palghar on late Monday evening. Fortunately, another Nashik type oxygen leakage disaster was averted after the alert medical staff acted on time. Twenty-two Covid-19 patients – 11 men and 11 women – died of oxygen deprivation in Nashik on April 21 after an oxygen tank leak led to the malfunctioning of ventilators and oxygen support equipment at Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital. Confirming the incident, Dr Ramdas Marad, nodal officer and medical superintendent of Rural Hospital, Jawhar said, “There was a leakage in the tanker and there were 90 patients on oxygen. My medical staff immediately connected spare oxygen cylinders so that the oxygen supply is constant. We have 150 oxygen cylinders in our hospital and that came in handy.” The leakage was reported in a valve in the jumbo oxygen tank installed in February. “We also informed the technician of the agency who installed the jumbo tanker. They arrived within an hour and the leakage was fixed,” said Dr Marad.The 250-bed government hospital has 302 Covid patients admitted, of which 90 are on oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-leak-at-palghar-hosp-fixed-in-time-101620153138365.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 2,554 new cases; active cases dip||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 2,554 covid-19 cases and 62 deaths, taking the tally to 661,175, and toll to 13,434. For the second day in a row, Mumbai reported less than 3,000 cases. On Monday, Mumbai had recorded 2,624 cases, lowest since March 17, when it reported 2,377 cases. The testing was much low compared to previous days. Mumbai on Monday conducted 29,706 tests, lower than the average number of tests it conducted daily in April, at around 50,000. The active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai are down by 38.9% since mid-April. Over the past week, Mumbai has reported an average of 3,500 Covid-19 cases per day. Active cases have now dropped to 56,465, from the highest of 92,464 in mid-April, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The decline in number of cases has also improved availability of Covid beds in Mumbai. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said, “Our city has 7,409 Covid beds vacant today, including 100 ICU at 6:13pm.” Of the 12,183 oxygen beds, 2,428 are available; of the 7,082 non-oxygen beds, 4,348 are available; 14 ventilator beds are available out of 1,467 total ventilator beds, and 86 ICU beds are available out of 1,423 available ICU beds, Chahal said. The daily positivity rate has decreased by more than half. On Tuesday, it was 8.5% as opposed to 18-19% reported mid-April. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,542,859 tests with an overall positivity rate of 11.89%. Positivity rate is the number of positive cases reported as a per cent of total number of tests done. The growth rate of Covid cases in Mumbai is 0.58%, and the doubling rate has increased to 116 days, up from as low as 35 days reported in April. Doubling rate is the number of days hypothetically needed for the present number of cases to double, based on the growth rate of cases over seven days. The highest growth rate in Covid cases has been reported in North Mumbai, in wards corresponding to Borivli, Andheri East, Bandra East, and Kandivali. The lowest growth rate has been reported in Marine lines and Girgaum area of South Mumbai, Chembur, Mulund and Vikhroli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-2-554-new-cases-active-cases-dip-101620153078934.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||21 Maha dists a worry; strict curbs in six||The state on Tuesday recorded 51,880 new Covid-19 cases, even as 15 districts, including Mumbai and Thane, showed a drop in the number of cases, while 21 continued to record a high number of cases. The state reported 891 deaths; 240,956 people were tested. The state government in order to contain the Covid-19 virus has imposed a strict lockdown in six districts where the cases are increasing. In this lockdown, everything, except medical facilities, will remain closed and people can only venture out for medical emergencies. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “If we compare today’s situation to that of two weeks ago, we have witnessed a decline in the number of cases. We have been able to bring down the numbers in 15 districts, but the cases continue to rise in 21 districts. Our main target is to bring down these numbers.” The state government has imposed a stricter curfew in six districts—Baramati, Sangli, Satara, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur and Beed – which have been witnessing an increase in Covid-19 cases. Tope justified stricter lockdown saying it was needed to bring down the cases. “There is definitely a lockdown in place, but this will be stricter,” said Tope. Due to the spike, these districts have been facing a shortage of hospital beds, ventilators as well as medicines like Remdesivir. Currently, the state needs approximately 40,000 oxygen concentrators, of which 20,000 will be provided to the state. Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said the problem is twofold in these 24 districts. “It has been observed that people there are very casual and some even don’t wear masks. For them, even lockdowns don’t matter. The second factor is this current mutant is highly infectious and it has been transmitting at a breakneck speed,” said Gilada. Tope also said the positivity rate dropped to 22% from 27%. “Our recovery rate of 84.07 % has been the highest in the country and better than that of the country which stands at 81%,” said Tope. The state has demanded an additional 200 metric tonnes supply of oxygen as 78,884 patients were occupying oxygen beds, while 24,787 were in intensive care units (ICU). The state procured 900,000 vaccines from the Central government on Tuesday which were used to vaccinate citizens above the age of 45 years, while the state has issued orders for purchasing 1,800,000 vaccine doses for those in the 18-44 years age group. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 641,910, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 71,742. There are currently 641,910 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 109,531 patients, followed by Nagpur with 64,554 active patients. The death toll has now reached 71,742, with Mumbai leading with 13,434 deaths, followed by Pune with 9,770.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/21-maha-dists-a-worry-strict-curbs-in-six-101620153078324.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Man stopped for flouting lockdown norms, kidnaps cop in his car, arrested||A 21-year-old student of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) from Sewri has been arrested by the police as he allegedly kidnapped a policeman in his car after he was stopped at a nakabandi for not wearing a mask and stepping out of home unnecessarily during the lockdown. The incident took place when the student, Cyrus Saldhana, had stepped out in the wee hours of Monday and was returning home.The police stopped his car during the nakabandi at the Milan Junction on the freeway as he was not wearing a mask. When constable Kundansingh Thakar, 41, asked him why has he ventured out during lockdown, Saldhana could not give a satisfactory answer.Following this, the police decided to take action against him. Thakar sat in his car and asked him to drive the vehicle to the police station.“The accused instead of driving the vehicle to Govandi police station took the freeway bridge and stopped the car only near Wadala station, covering a distance of almost 8 kilometres. Thakar informed his colleague and Saldhana was arrested on charges of kidnapping,” said Balasaheb Kedare, senior inspector of Govandi police station. The police have booked Saldhana under sections 365 (kidnapping a person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined), 353 (obstructing public servant from discharging his duty) 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Saldhana was produced before a court and remanded in magistrate custody, said Kedare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-stopped-for-flouting-lockdown-norms-kidnaps-cop-in-his-car-arrested-101620153018345.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram residents allege long wait time on helplines||Amid the shortage of beds and increasing SOS calls on social media, many Gurugram residents have alleged that various helpline numbers issued by the district administration are not useful and have long waiting lists. The complaints were made for different portals like checking Covid test reports, bed trackers and allotments, and general helplines among others.Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Sector 39, said, “We are five in a family, including myself. We had developed Covid-19 symptoms and got our tests done four days later, on May 1. We are still waiting for our reports. We had tried reaching the persons concerned on the link: https://onemapggm.gmda.gov.in and were told that we can download a copy of the report, but I didn’t even get the OTP. I tried the helpline number as well, but either it was busy or the executives there guided us back to the portal with very less information.”Another resident, requesting anonymity, said, “I had registered for a bed at the district administration’s portal on April 26 for my uncle, whose oxygen level had been dropping continuously. We tried everywhere but were unable to find a bed for four days, even after registering on the portal. I just received a call, informing me that I will be directed to a hospital, but I did not get any response after that... My uncle died on Monday.”Vinay Singh, who was looking for an oxygen bed for a relative on Tuesday evening, said, “I have been trying to contact all possible helpline numbers since the morning, but did not get any help. Either some of the numbers were switched off or busy or the executives said they will get back to me. We don’t have time, so now we are trying to get a bed through social media.”Out of 43 hospitals in the district, no oxygen, ventilator or ICU beds were available in Gurugram as of Tuesday night, as per the district portal.Meanwhile, Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said despite shortage of beds, the bed management team in the district has been continuously monitoring the situation, and directing patients to the hospitals. “We understand there is a shortage of beds and delay in response, but all requests on different portals are being directed to the respective teams, especially for bed management. We have also requested patients’ families not to wait to find beds till the situation gets critical, and they must directly approach hospitals. Our bed management team is also continuously monitoring patients,” Panwar said.Munish Sharma, nodal officer for bed management, Gurugram, said, “We were able to update the portal real time even a week ago, but now, with the rise in the cases, patients are seen waiting outside hospitals as beds are being occupied immediately. We have asked hospitals to check which patients actually need hospitalisation. It is not that we cannot increase the bed supply, but everything is dependent on the oxygen supply, which is also being increased gradually.”Gurugram reported 4,475 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths on Tuesday. There are 37,708 active cases in the district, and the recovery rate is 72.33%, while the fatality rate is 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-allege-long-wait-time-on-helplines-101620152178296.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Vegetable prices to be shared with residents to curb overcharging in Gurugram||Following complaints of vegetables and fruits being sold at inflated prices since a lockdown was imposed, the Haryana State Agricultural Market Board (HSAMB) has set a price list and will provide residents with a platform to report overcharging. Officials said that a wholesale and retail price list will be released on Wednesday morning and the same will be shared with RWA groups and on social media platforms.HSAMB officials dismissed concerns over low stocks and said that vendors are hiking prices to make a quick buck amid the lockdown. Officials said they received several complaints and teams were sent to Basai Road and Sector 4 to check for instances of overpricing. “Teams for inspection have been constituted by HSAMB and they visited few retailers, local vendors, and shopkeepers in a few parts of the city today for taking a stock of the on-ground situation. On Wednesday, the teams will be initiating enforcement measures across the city through random checks as well as checking tip-offs from residents and RWAs about vegetables and fruits being sold at inflated rates,” said Vinay Yadav, secretary, HSAMB.Officials said that the price list will have the maximum and minimum prices of at least 25 common fruits and vegetables per kilogram. It will also mention contact details for residents to lodge complaints of overcharging by vendors, local shopkeepers or other retailers.The district administration also issued a release late Tuesday, stating that action will be taken against violators , under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, if food and essential items are sold at a price higher prices. Officials said that a hyper mart in Sector 48 was penalised on Tuesday.HSAMB comes under the ambit of the district administration in Gurugram.“The lockdown has been imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The public will not be disturbed by the availability of essential commodities in any way. There is complete monitoring of black marketing by the district administration, while essential items such as packed company items cannot be sold at rates higher than maxium retail price (MRP). The district administration will deal strictly with those who do so. Buyers should also take care and complain about the rates charged above MRP on 9999097004,” said Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.The city has been under a lockdown since Friday night. Initially, the state government announced a weekend curfew in nine districts of Haryana that had the highest number of Covid-19 cases, including Gurugram. On Sunday, the government announced a lockdown for the entire state till May 10 morning.Due to the lockdown and their inability to venture outdoors, many residents are relying on local vendors and shopkeepers for fruits and vegetables.Tanuja Kumar, a resident of Sector 53, said that she purchased onions from her local vegetable seller at ₹60 per kilogram, more than double the market rates. As per the price list of HSAMB, a copy of which is with HT, the maximum retail price for onions is ₹17-22.“Even though my local vegetable seller is selling items at steep prices, the fact that I cannot venture outdoors due to the lockdown leaves me with little choice but to rely on him for daily fruits and vegetables. It has started affecting my family’s daily expenses. If the state government decides to extend the lockdown, I will have to look for alternatives,” said Kumar.Yadav said that the rationale behind issuing a price list and circulating it among residents is to inform them about the actual prices of vegetables and fruits and to determine whether they are being sold at the correct prices or inflated rates. “Although we are yet to receive any formal complaint in writing, we have been verbally informed by a few residents, RWAs, and officials of the inflated rates at which fruits and vegetables are being sold in different parts of the city. Our teams will be initially concentrating on such locations and then act on any new complaints received from residents,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/veggie-prices-to-be-shared-with-residents-to-curb-overcharging-101620152118328.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha to resume vaccination for 45+||After three days of vaccinating fewer than 100,000 adults, including the newly-added category of 18-44 years, Maharashtra received 900,000 doses of vaccines on Tuesday afternoon from the Centre and is set to resume its vaccination for 45 years and above starting today.“Till Monday we were left with only 25,000 to 30,000 doses under the national vaccination drive being run by the Centre for 45 years and above population and hence most of the centres were shut. This is despite Maharashtra’s capacity of vaccinating up to 800,000 beneficiaries a day. Only this afternoon, we have got around 900,000 doses of Covishield from the Centre, which will now be distributed across districts to resume the drive again,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday.Maharashtra also hit a milestone of administering the first jab of 100,000 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group whose vaccination began from May 1. The state has vaccinated 45% of the 45+ age group, since the inoculation began from April 1, the health minister said. “We have also covered 100,000 beneficiaries under the 18-44 age group in four days and covered 45% of the total population that comes under 45 years and above the age group. Till date, the state has vaccinated 16.5 million of beneficiaries from 45 years and above age group,” Tope said on Tuesday.Maharashtra is also one the states with the lowest vaccine wastage in the country, according to figures released by the union ministry on Tuesday. Out of the 16.36 million doses of vaccines supplied to state till date, its wastage was only 0.22%. Compared to Maharashtra, Haryana had a wastage rate of 5.72%, Assam of 7.7%, Lakshadweep of 9.71%, Tamil Nadu of 8.83%, Uttar Pradesh of 3.54% and Gujarat of 3.61%. The national vaccination drive was started on January 16 among priority categories which initially included health care and frontline workers and was extended to include senior citizens above 60 years. In all, 2.4 million citizens have been vaccinated in Mumbai alone.Several centres across the state were shut for the third day in a row causing worry among senior citizens who are up for their second jab of either Covishield or Covaxin. On Tuesday, only 26,944 were vaccinated in Mumbai, for instance. The state’s highest one-day inoculation figure was 534,228 doses, administered on April 26. Since then, its numbers have steadily dropped to 47,613 on May 2 and 78,759 on May 3, according to figures on the CoWIN portal.According to a release issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on May 1, the state would receive 2,327,510 doses (1,750,620 of Covishield and 576,890 of Covaxin) from the Centre for the first fortnight in May.In addition, it will receive 1.8 million doses from Serum Institute of India (which manufactures Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (which has made and produces Covaxin) and has received only 300,000, with which it was able to begin the third phase of the inoculation drive (18- 44 years) in a limited way (five centres in each district).“We have also issued purchase orders of over 1.87 million doses (1,381,581 doses of Covishield and 489,150 of Covaxin) for this month for the drive started for 18-44 group. With 300,000 doses the drive was started on May 1 and district administrations have been asked to cover seven days with the existing stock. By that time, we are expecting to get the rest of the stock ordered by the state,” Tope said.“As the stock is received, we immediately dispatch them to the respective districts so that the drive need not be discontinued. From tomorrow, the drive is expected to be resumed at most of the centres,” a senior official, privy to the development, said.The government set a target of completing the drive for all adults in six months and wanted to procure 15 million every month but both the firms — SII and Bharat Biotech — have said that their production will increase in the next two months, after which the supply to the state will be more regular. “They have said that their production is expected to increase in June and July and they will be able to increase the supply of the state subsequently,” said a senior official, privy to the development.Tope said, “The state government wants to buy the entire stock of 120 million doses in one go but are struggling to get the doses due to its unavailability in the market.”Expanding the nationwide drive, the Centre threw open vaccination for all adults from May 1, asking the states to inoculate the 18-44 age group by procuring doses from the open market.According to the state government figures, 60 million of its population comes under the age group of 18-44 and thus will require 120 million doses to get them immunized from the virus. It has already declared to provide free doses of the vaccine for all the adults at government run centres. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. For this, it has estimated a spending of ₹6,500 crore.“Vaccination drive of the state got a setback as the Centre is unable to supply vaccines in adequate quantity. We had prepared and ramped up the drive to inoculate over 500,000 a day and wanted to increase it further but going by the supply getting from the Centre it may not happen in the near future,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Last month, union minister Prakash Javadekar had said that Maharashtra government was playing politics over the allotment of vaccine stock. “Maharashtra Govt should not play politics over vaccination. Here are the facts: Total number of COVID vaccine supplied to State till date - 1,06,19,190; Consumption - 90,53,523 (of which 6% wastage - over 5L) Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280. Dosage available - nearly 23 lakh,” he tweeted on April 7.As per the Central government’s figures, Maharashtra’s wastage of vaccines – which could occur on account of multiple factors such as not having access to a beneficiary after a vial has been opened (once opened, vials need to be used immediately given the temperature requirements) – comes to 35,992 doses.On Tuesday, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that Javadekar should apologize for his earlier claims. “Javadekarji’s falsehood has been exposed by the central government’s press note as the wastage is not 6% and is just 0.22%. The union minister has insulted Maharashtra by spreading wrong information for the sake of politics,” he said.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “Public health minister Rajesh Tope says that Maharashtra has trained manpower in healthcare sector, and they can ramp up daily inoculation to 1.2 million doses. Then why is there wastage of 600,000 doses? In percentage it may be less, but the wastage of such a huge stock when there was acute shortage, is not acceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-resume-vaccination-for-45-101620151938291.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Dive into the past: Tilak tank swims into the future with a 100-year heritage of sports service||The Lokmanya Tilak swimming tank in Pune was an old stone quarry with some natural springs when it was inaugurated on April 30, 1922. In its centenary year, Punekars recall some fond memories of the tank that has trained many swimmers. The Tilak tank hosted crowd-puller water polo matches that were so popular that they were advertised outside colleges in the city. “This tank came into being for the erstwhile Deccan Gymkhana which was established in 1906. The gymkhana officials dreamt of sending Indian athletes to the Olympics,” said Amit Golwalkar, secretary of the Tilak tank. A meeting about this dream was held at Deccan gymkhana with its members and Sir Dorabjee Tata who wanted to send Indian athletes to the 1920 Antwerp Olympics. With the help of leased land belonging to Shirole Patil a colony was built to cover the cost of constructing an Olympic size pool. The old stone quarry was used to get the stones to build this colony of bungalows surrounding the gymkhana, thus using the quarry to create the swimming pool. The mine had natural water and on the day of Gudi Padva on April 30, 1922, it was inaugurated by NC Kelkar, who was the then president of Poona Municipality. “The water was green in colour and initially people were afraid of getting into the deep end, but the attraction of swimming in an Olympic size pool was so much that parents would come along to see their children swim,” said Kalpana Agashe. Kalpana was around 4-years old when her father and her elder brother taught her how to swim. She went on to become a national swimming champion and later a coach for Vimlabai Garware school and now has her own students. “Whenever it rained, students would avoid coming to tank since it was open to air and had crude steps and border. That was the time for all the water lovers, coaches’ juniors and seniors to play volleyball with the half team in water and others on sides, or even hold relay swims. We had a lot of fun,” Agashe said. But what attracted a lot of people to the tank were the water polo matches which had the most audience during that time. “I was part of water polo and I remember that posters would be put outside colleges to advertise these matches and the Tilak tank would be fully surrounded from all sides, with people shouting, ‘shoot the ball’,” recalls Golwalkar. For veteran swimmer and coach Sham Karandikar, Tilak tank has some fantastic memories. “I was coaching at the tank for 25 years from 1977 to 2001 and used to swim regularly. The green water of the pool would often make people cringe at going into the deep which was around 7 feet or more and then there was a diving area of more than 15 feet deep. There was even a cement slide that students often enjoyed, some of the parents would be afraid of sitting on the steps then as there were many snakes in the crevices, but the love for swimming made people come every day. This was one of the biggest pools of 100 metres length,” said Karandikar. The current Tilak tank is an upgraded version of the earlier version which housed an olympic size pool of 50 metres with eight lanes and charged only ₹2 as fees. Now, the tank has 1,500 permanent members and a floating population in the summer which bring in around ₹60 to 70 lakhs in revenue. Latest upgradations The pool has been upgraded and offers a variety of sizes; an Olympic size of 50 metres and eight lanes, a mini short course, a newly built 25 metres pool with eight lanes, a baby pool of 25 metres with four lanes and a special walking pool of 20 metres by three metres for aqua therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dive-into-the-past-tilak-tank-swims-into-the-future-with-a-100-year-heritage-of-sports-service-101620144617859.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Crowds, vendors on footpath outside Market Yard defy Covid norms||Even though Market Yard authorities have applied various restrictions within the premises, huge crowds continue to gather outside the gate, as vendors gather to sell vegetables.When HT visited Market Yard, it came across two contrasting scenes – a sea of people gathering near hawkers in front of gate number 1; and covering once you enter inside the market, there are fewer traders and customers.Market Yard is closing one access lane every day.“The huge numbers of hawkers sitting on Shivneri road footpath are putting us on the back foot, even after implementing curbs. From Wednesday, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), municipal commissioner and Pune Police are going to conduct inquiries about hawkers who have encroached on this footpath,” said Madhukant Garad, administrator and secretary, APMC, Market Yard, Gultekdi Pune.In the past as well, APMC have tried to bar hawkers from standing on the footpath.“There are many who are from the Pardhi community who to fight if you conduct an inquiry,” Garad added.Within the premises, a huge crowd gathers on Monday and Friday, with Market Yard closed on the weekends.“Tuesday to Thursday there is a very decent crowd in Market Yard, with 50 per cent shops closed and all rules followed. Only on Monday and Friday social distancing norms are not followed by the buyers,” said Rupesh Paygude, who runs a vegetable retail shop in Warje.Vegetable vendor Sanjay Dhote, who was standing on the footpath said, “APMC should have allowed us to stand inside then on the footpath. Where should we go to sell the vegetables, if not on the footpath.”Since April 20, Market Yard has not allowed hawkers within the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/crowds-vendors-on-footpath-outside-market-yard-defy-covid-norms-101620141258869.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Vaccinations for 45+ expected to resume from May 5 as vaccine stock arrives||PUNE After a lull of almost four days, vaccination for beneficiaries aged 45 years and above, will kick-start again from May 5. Pune rural, on Tuesday, received 40,000 doses of Covishield and additional doses of Covaxin as well. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope in Mumbai also said that the state received nine lakh doses on Tuesday.“These doses will be sent to various districts of Maharashtra. This stock will last for two days,” Tope said, speaking to reporters in Mumbai.On Tuesday, 761 beneficiaries above the age of 45 years were inoculated in Pune rural. No beneficiaries were given any jabs in this age group in PMC and PCMC on Tuesday.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that there are vaccine doses likely to come from the centre.On Tuesday, 2,575 beneficiaries between the ages of 18 to 45 years were inoculated. Of these, 1,321 beneficiaries in Pune rural, 668 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 586 in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) received the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccinations-for-45-expected-to-resume-from-may-5-as-vaccine-stock-arrives-101620140537517.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Covid lockdowns cause drastic drop in accidents on Pune-Mum eway||PUNE Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the series of curbs and at least two complete lockdowns since 2020, vehicular movement on the Pune -Mumbai expressway has reduced. As a result, the number of accidents on the expressway has also dropped for 2020 and 2021, as compared to earlier years. As per data shared by the Highway State Police, Pune division, in January to April 2021, saw a total of 62 accidents took place on the eway, with 29 commuters losing their lives. In all of 2020, the e-way saw a total of 203 accidents with 81 fatalities. Last year, during lockdown, the e-way was open only for vehicles providing essential goods and services. This year, only commuters with proper an e-pass issued by the police can use the e-way.Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent, of Police, highway police, said, “Several initiatives have been taken on the expressway to reduce the accidents.One of them is taking action on speeding vehicles. At various spots police are deployed and round-the-clock vigilance is kept on the e-way for emergencies. Also, heavy vehicles are told to compulsorily travel in the left lane at a slow speed. Those not following the rules are penalised,” “We mainly focused on speed and seat-belts on the e-way to curb the accidents. Also the response time of our team increased during this period,” he added. Tanmay Pendse, an activist working for the safety of people using the expressway, said, “Due to the strict restrictions imposed in the state and the overall Covid situation the traffic is less on the highway this year. Also the highway police team has helped curb accidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-lockdowns-cause-drastic-drop-in-accidents-on-pune-mum-eway-101620139277426.html
