06-05-2021||Gurugram||Fire at supermarket in DLF Phase-4||A fire broke out at a supermarket in DLF Phase-4 on Thursday afternoon. No injury or casualty was reported, said officials. IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire officer, said, “Around 3.50pm, we received a call regarding a fire at supermarket named Supermart 1 in a six-storey building in DLF Phase-4. Seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the fire, which was controlled after two hours.” He said that no casualty was reported from the building as due to the lockdown, there was no one present in offices in the building. “Prima facie, it seems that the fire started due to a short circuit in the supermarket, but the detailed reason will be known later once a report is filed,” the official said. In the past month, around four different incidents of fire have been reported from different parts of the district. In April, fire outbreaks were reported from Sadar Bazaar and Nathupur in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-at-supermarket-in-dlf-phase4-101620325555611.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Ambulance strike called off, but operators remain unhappy with hiked rates||Ambulance operators in the city called off their strike on Thursday after the district administration hiked the fares for private ambulances, officials said. However, the administration did not hike the fares as demanded by the operators, due to which they have threatened to go on strike from Friday if the rates are not revised again.The deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, said that as per the hiked rates, fixed charges of ₹500, ₹750 and ₹1,000 have been set for distances up to three kilometres, between three and seven kilometres, and farther than seven kilometres, respectively. An additional charge of ₹25 per kilometre may be levied if the distance increases, he said.Officials clarified that the distance is calculated at the time of booking and that charges cannot be levied as per the next higher slab.According to Garg, now that the charges have been fixed, operators and drivers found demanding more will face strict action, with the cancellation of their registration as well as licences on the cards.However, as per the rate list submitted by the Private Ambulance Association (PAA) to the district administration, a copy of which is with HT, the operators are demanding ₹3,500 for small vehicles for a distance up to 15 kilometres, with ₹16 per additional kilometre, while for larger vehicles, they are demanding ₹5,000 and ₹35, respectively. For advanced cardiac life support ambulances (ACLS), the association is demanding ₹5,500 for distances up to 15 kilometres, with ₹50 per additional kilometre, besides the charges for doctors and staff.Vipin Kumar, the former president of the PAA, said, “If the district administration agrees to our rates, then we will ply ambulances. Else, we will protest and sit on strike from Friday. We will not agree to run on losses. Why should we?”The association comprises 39 operators, who have 250 ambulances in the district.Salina Macknight, the vice-president of PAA, said that the kilometres should be calculated from point to point and waiting charges for freezer ambulances should be set at ₹500 per hour. “For ACLS ambulances, the waiting charges should be ₹1,000 per hour. Oxygen charges would be extra and if anyone wants a doctor, then their charges would also be additional,” she said.The association had been on a strike since Tuesday evening and on Wednesday, met officials in Chandigarh, who agreed to revise the fares, following which Prabhjot Singh, mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Haryana, in an order, stated that it is necessary to fix the rate of hiring charges of ambulances to be used by people for transporting the patients and directed the deputy commissioner to act on it. “All deputy commissioners are to call a meeting with owners of private ambulances and union to decide rates. It is decided by higher authorities that rates decided by deputy commissioners will prevail,” he had said.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner, said that they had received the order and that the final rate list was sent. “We are trying to resolve the issue so that people do not suffer and can get timely help,” he said.The district administration, in its order on Thursday, noted that private ambulance drivers/service providers are charging exorbitant rates from the citizens for transporting the patients within or outside the state. Due to this, an additional financial burden is being borne by citizens during the crisis of Covid-19, which is a matter of serious concern, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambulance-strike-called-off-but-operators-remain-unhappy-with-hiked-rates-101620325554968.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Khattar directs admin to ramp up Covid measures||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday directed the district administration to ramp up Covid-19 management preparation with the cases expected to spike over the next few days, as the state has predicted that the peak of the current wave might occur by May 15. In Gurugram alone, the active case count is likely to touch 40,000, the highest in the state. “Regular auditing of oxygen, availability of beds and medicines in the hospitals should be done so that the future and present strategies regarding demand and supply can be made in advance. A district level monitoring team for monitoring oxygen supply and demand in every hospital across the state should be constituted at the earliest,” said Khattar in a statement issued by the state administration. On Thursday, Khattar held a review meeting on Covid-19 preparedness with districts on strategies to control the transmission. “CM has assured that oxygen supply will be resolved, and uninterrupted supply will be ensured,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner. According to the CM, the state’s oxygen quota is 257 metric tonnes (MT), and a request has been made to the central government to further enhance this quota to 300 MT. He directed deputy commissioners to ensure that the unloading of the tankers should be done within the shortest time so that the oxygen supply chain in the hospitals remains intact. Khattar also directed to shift the step-down patients to Covid care centres to provide timely treatment to critical patients. Special screening camps have to be held in rural areas following the prevalence of infection in villages. Currently, the state’s positivity rate of 37% is the second-highest in the country. Even the weekly average positivity rate of Gurugram is around 28%, which makes it the fifth worst-hit district in the country. On Thursday, the district reported at least 3737 cases, taking the active case count to 39,682. The death tally reached 550 with the confirmation of 13 deaths. At the state level, at least 14,840 new cases and 117 deaths were reported. The active case count stands at 115,842 and it is likely to reach up to 140,000 as per the projections made by the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khattar-directs-admin-to-ramp-up-covid-measures-101620325553372.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||142 cops tested positive over past week||As many as 142 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week while on duty, officials said on Thursday, taking the total number of affected police personnel to 500 in the last month and a half.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the personnel deployed in Covid-19 duties are not going home to ensure their families are protected. “The families that have been infected are being taken care of and all facilities have been provided in the isolation centre, which is in Police Lines in the city and Manesar,” he said.Officials said that of the 142 who tested positive — that includes two assistant commissioners of police — only 10 have recovered. Most of the personnel who tested positive were deployed at markets, oxygen refilling stations and on patrol duty. Rao said, “The officials who required immediate medical help were admitted (to hospitals) and others are isolated at homes and isolation centres. We have already converted two barracks into a quarantine ward for the police personnel.”There are nearly 6,500 police personnel in the city, most of whom are deployed in containment zones. Personnel have been directed to immediately report any symptoms to ensure they are tested and isolated, said officials. So far over 1,200 police personnel have tested positive for the coronavirus disease since the outbreak in March 2020.Rao on Thursday conducted a ground inspection at 70 checkpoints and arranged food and beverages for the personnel. He also directed that tents be set up for officials to rest, amid soaring temperatures and the threat of Covid-19. “I interacted with the teams and have asked them to inform me if anything is needed. Our prime concern is their health as they have exposure to the public and require regular monitoring,” said Rao.Each team has been given a thermometer to regularly check their temperature and doctors on call are booked for consultations. Rao said that all family members of police personnel have been asked to contact the department for their needs. “The lockdown poses great burdens on front-line police personnel, given capacity constraints and the social context of enforcement. To ensure social distancing and to keep oneself safe is very difficult,” he said.Rao said that the police have received 1,052 calls on their Covid-19 helpline and have helped save the lives of 20 Covid-19 patients. Also, 164,734 people have been penalised since April 1 for not wearing face masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/142-cops-tested-positive-over-past-week-101620325495775.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Cops sought to maintain order at vaccination sites||As many citizens continue to face challenges in availing of their second vaccine shot at government health centres due to long queues and lack of social distancing norms, the health department has written to the police department for handling the crowd at vaccination centres.“A letter has been written to the police department seeking at least two police personnel for every vaccination centre to manage the crowd. If required, we will ask the police to increase the deployment,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Since private hospitals are no longer administering doses, people who were supposed to take their second shots have been diverted to government health centres. Notably, with the inoculation of at least 6,347 residents on Thursday, the district crossed the 500,000 mark of administering doses in the district.The government centres have limited staff and are inoculating vaccine beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years as well as those above 45 years.Sunny Sarid, a resident of Sushant Lok 1, after noticing a rush at health centres, decided to wait for the next two to three weeks to take his second shot. “Standing in the crowd of 200 people is like exposing yourself to coronavirus infection. I took the first shot in Medanta Hospital, but now, the hospital is no longer vaccinating people. To take the second dose, we visited two government vaccination centres which had a crowd of more than 200 people, with none of them following social distancing norms,” said Sarid.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a review meeting held on Thursday directed that the vaccination sites should be set up either in big halls or in open so that it should be ensured that the risk of infection spread is lessened and also that the Covid-19 protocol and norms are followed at the sites. Khattar said that soon, Haryana would be getting 350,000 vaccine doses.To streamline the process, the district health department will hold vaccinations at 37 health centres on May 7, with nearly 300 doses to be given at each site to people aged 18 to 44, based on online reservations. At 31 centres, people above 45 years can get their second dose by direct walk-in, according to the district health department.“At least 70% of the dose will be reserved for walk-in vaccine beneficiaries and 30% through online appointment for people above 45 years of age,” according to the details shared by the district health department.“Out of the 31 health centres, at least four in Mullahera, Manesar, Bhondsi and Badshahpur will give a second dose of Covaxin, while the remaining will give Covishield,” said Yadav.On Thursday, at least 2,751 people aged 18 to 44 took the jab, of which only 210 received the shot in private hospitals. For those above 45 requiring the second dose, the health department inoculated at least 3,090 people, while private hospitals gave vaccine shots to 101.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cops-sought-to-maintain-order-at-vaccination-sites-101620325495188.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||350 beds to be ready by next week, more may be added when oxygen supply increases: Admin||Officials of the district administration said that 350 beds to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients, equipped with ventilator support, will be made operations in a week and that more such beds may be set up once the oxygen supply to the district increases.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner for Gurugram district, said, “There are three facilities, which will be almost up and running within a week. First, the Municipal Corporation of Manesar, in collaboration with Indian Air Force, is working to convert 150 rooms into a hospital, the second is a 100-bed facility that is being built at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, and the third is another 100-bed facility that is being built by Hero in Sector 27. All these three will be functional within a week.”As of 8pm on Thursday, eight oxygen beds were available in one of 43 hospitals, as per the district’s Covid-19 web portal. No intensive care unit (ICU) beds or ventilator beds were available, as per the portal. The city has 1,522 oxygen beds, 550 ICU beds and 198 ventilator beds. On Thursday, Gurugram reported 3,737 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 39,682. Deaths of 13 positive patients were also reported from the district. Of the total active cases, 2,452 patients are hospitalised and 172 are at district Covid care centres. Over 37,000 positive patients are in home isolation in the district.For the past few weeks, Gurugram has been reporting over 3,000 cases daily. Officials said that of these cases, around 10% require hospitalisation.Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer for Gurugram, said, “The trend that we have witnessed since the start of the pandemic is that 90% patients recover in home isolation itself and only 10% require hospitalisation, but still, work is being done to ensure enough beds are available for patients in case of another wave.”Besides the three facilities proposed to start operations in the next week, more beds are being set up at a women’s college in Sector 14. However, this would be pressed into service later after sufficient infrastructure is made available, said officials.The deputy commissioner said that the primary constraint in increasing the number of beds is the low supply of medical oxygen. At present, Gurugram is allotted a quota of 40 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen supply per day, whereas the demand is for 60 MT of oxygen per day.“If the oxygen supply improves faster, then within the next seven days, we should be able to start the function of these 350 beds. Most of these will be for moderate cases, as severe cases will require proper hospitalisation. Our oxygen supply is increasing gradually since the chief minister himself took charge of the district. We should be getting more supply from the state over the next four days, after which the functioning of these extra beds should be even more smooth,” Garg said.To address the shortfall in oxygen supply, the state is airlifting cryogenic oxygen containers to Rourkela, which will help increase the supply to the district as well.Meanwhile, with projections being made that Haryana will see the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 by May 15, the district administration has also started preparing for the spike. The deputy commissioner said that various measures, including setting up of Covid care facilities by resident welfare associations (RWAs) and starting helplines for patients, among others, are being done.“Within two days, we will be launching a portal from which patients in home isolation can apply for direct delivery of oxygen. We have also empowered the RWAs to set up small isolation centres within their communities for which we are procuring oxygen concentrators and cylinders. We are also trying to establish a treatment protocol for home isolation patients to ensure that their condition does not escalate, and they do not have to go to the hospitals. Some cases will be reported, but the maximum can be controlled,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/350-beds-to-be-ready-by-next-week-more-may-be-added-when-oxygen-supply-increases-admin-101620325494566.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Admin to provide oxygen cylinders to RWAs for setting up Covid care centres||To offset the pressure on hospitals that are burdened with the rising number of seriously ill Covid-19 patients, the district administration has decided to provide oxygen cylinders and concentrators to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) that are setting up Covid care centres within their condominiums.Officials said that they are reaching out to various stakeholders so that oxygen cylinders and concentrators can be made available to city residents through the RWAs. The city is getting around 45 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen at present, against a demand of 60 MT, said officials.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that while they have streamlined the oxygen supply to hospitals to a great extent, the next step was to reduce pressure on the hospital system and this would be done by helping the RWAs set up small Covid care centres. “We will rationalise the oxygen supply and around 150 cylinders will be given to RWAs daily, which are taking care of Covid-19 patients. We are also looking to source oxygen concentrators soon, which shall be given to these RWAs so that the patients can be treated at home or Covid care centres locally. This will reduce pressure on hospitals,” said Garg.Dharmender Jha, president, Rosewood City RWA, Block D, said, “The decision of the district administration to help the RWAs by providing concentrators and oxygen cylinders would help the patients isolated at home. We would set up a small Covid care facility that can cater to patients who need oxygen support.” The district administration also launched a token system on Thursday for the distribution of oxygen to Covid-19 patients in home isolation, said Garg. Earlier in the day, the state government on Thursday also asked the deputy commissioners to create a system for providing oxygen supply to all Covid-19 patients and especially those with co-morbidities, who need oxygen at home.In a related development, the district administration on Thursday also notified rates for essential items, particularly edibles, to ensure there is no black marketing of daily use items. On Wednesday, the Faridabad administration had also notified rates of essential commodities to prevent hoarding.Deputy commissioner Garg said that directions have been issued to shopkeepers that they should not sell essential commodities more than the maximum retail price. He also directed wholesalers and retailers to display the rate list prominently. “If any shopkeeper is overcharging, then the customers can lodge a complaint and action would be initiated,” he said.Earlier on Wednesday, Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, had notified the rates of edibles and essential commodities. “We will not tolerate any hoarding or overcharging of food and other essential items. Action would be taken against such violators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/admin-to-provide-oxygen-cylinders-to-rwas-for-setting-up-covid-care-centres-101620325494014.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Tokens to help those in home isolation get oxygen refill||In a major relief to Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation and need oxygen support, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday launched a token system to help individuals get oxygen easily, without standing in long queues. The corporation set up three counters for this purpose at the MCG office in Sector 34, the old MCG office near Sadar Bazar and Sector 42, where residents can avail of tokens.Gurugram on Thursday received 45 metric tonnes of medical oxygen from the plants in Panipat, Bhiwadi and Faridabad, said officials.Officials said they decided to set up the token system and fix oxygen allocation for hospitals after complaints of irregularities in the system. Haryana chief minister on Sunday had also directed the administration to streamline the oxygen distribution system.Jitender Yadav, administrator, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Gurugram, who took over the additional charge of MCG on Thursday, said that 90 tokens have been demarcated to be issued to city residents for getting their oxygen cylinders refilled from Star Gas in Manesar. “Initially, these centres will issue 30 tokens each, but the number would be increased depending on the availability of oxygen. We will also make this facility available online, but the number of tokens will depend on the availability of gas,” said Yadav.To get a token, people will have to submit an RT-PCR test report, Aadhaar card details, address proof and a doctor’s prescription. “The token system will ensure that people will not have to stand in long queues,” said Yadav.Another step taken by the MCG to streamline oxygen distribution on Thursday was to rationalise the distribution of oxygen to large hospitals and assign distributors to two major oxygen refilling plants. “We have a list of 80 hospitals, out of which around 40 have been asked to get oxygen from their previous distributors through Kalinga and SR oxygen filling plants. Twenty hospitals have been asked to send their vehicles to the Max Air plant. This alignment of hospitals had a positive impact on Thursday and things will improve further,” said Yadav.The job of filling gas for individual cylinders and smaller hospitals has been assigned to Star Special Gases at Sector 7 in Manesar, said officials.In another move to resolve the problems being faced by city residents due to the spread of Covid-19, the corporation also set up a control room that will operate round the clock. This call centre will work in three shifts of eight hours each, with three employees managing the work during each shift. The corporation can be contacted at 9821395170 and 9821395171.“This call centre will hear the issues being raised by city residents as well as elected representatives and raise it with the departments concerned to get it resolved,” said Yadav, who was given the additional charge of MCG on Thursday after the Vinay Pratap Singh, the MCG commissioner, tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/tokens-to-help-those-in-home-isolation-get-oxygen-refill-101620325493340.html
06-05-2021||Other||All UP courts to observe summer vacation from May 10 to June 4||Amid rise in Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad High Court on Thursday issued a notice preponing the summer vacation of the High Court and the Subordinate Courts in the state from May 10.The vacation period, earlier scheduled from June 1 till June 30, 2021, has been advanced to begin from May 10 until June 4, 2021.The circular said, “Summer vacation in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad as well as its Lucknow Bench and its subordinate courts be preponed and observed from 10.05.2021 to 04.06.2021 in lieu of 01.06.2021 to 30.06.2021 and the calendars be treated modified accordingly.”Earlier, taking into account the COVID-19 second wave, the Supreme Court has advanced the summer break of the Supreme Court from May 10. It will reopen after the summer break on June 28.Likewise, several other states had also preponed summer vacations due to rise in Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-up-courts-to-observe-summer-vacation-from-may-10-to-june-4-101620324173869.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||Poor show in Ayodhya, Kashi, Mathura in panchayat poll big setback for BJP||The panchayat election results have come as a setback for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has failed to perform as per the expectations against its archrival Samajwadi Party at most places in Uttar Pradesh.What has left its leaders worried is party’s performance in Ayodhya, the religious town, which has been at the centerstage of politics ever since the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017. Not only in Ayodhya the BJP has also lost to its rivals, the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), in Varanasi and Mathura, respectively.Both Varanasi and Mathura are high-profile religious destinations of the state with much political significance.Varanasi’s loss is also significant as Prime Minister Narendra Modi represents this historic city in Lok Sabha, feel many.In Ayodhya, where construction of Ram Mandir is going on, the BJP managed to win only in eight wards out of 40. The Samajwadi Party bagged 24 seats of the Zila Panchayat member.The BSP and others have been able to win in four wards each while the Congress scored zero. Various reasons are being attributed to BJP’s poor performance in Ayodhya where the party won all five assembly seats in 2017 election.“Local BJP leaders are distraught. All these years they have been completely sidelined. Even in panchayat elections which are completely localised, local workers were ignored. Even recommendation of candidates by party MLAs were ignored by the state leadership,” said a senior functionary of the party in Ayodhya. “Local BJP leaders are helpless. They do not have any say in any issue,” he added.The Covid-19 pandemic has also contributed to the BJP’s loss in panchayat polls in Ayodhya and in other places, insists political observer. “Most of the deaths in Covid are due to failure of the system. Acute shortage of beds in government and private hospitals, treatment in private hospitals turning out of reach of common man and black marketing of lifesaving drugs also contributed to the BJP’s debacle not only in Ayodhya but in other parts of the state,” said a senior VHP leader of Ayodhya. “Even I was not able to arrange a single Oxygen cylinder for anyone. Now, how am I going to face people whose genuine request for an Oxygen cylinder or a bed in hospital I could not fulfill,” said an RSS functionary of Ayodhya. “The mismanagement in pandemic and ignoring local party leaders and workers will also have its repercussion in forthcoming assembly elections in the state which are scheduled after early next year,” said Awadesh Kumar Singh, president, Sri Saryu Vikas Samiti, Ayodhya.Singh, who is associated with the RSS, had filed a writ in Lucknow high court against acquiring of land in Manja Barhata, Ayodhya, for installing statue of Lord Ram. Farmers of the region are opposing the project.It may be pointed out that at Deepotsav celebrations in 2017, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced to install 251 feet statue of lord Ram in Ayodhya. Kashi results also not hearteningIn Varanasi, the multi-crore Kashi Vishwanath corridor project and PM Modi’s representation of the historic city in Parliament did not help the BJP in panchayat polls.Out of 40 sets of Zila Panchayat members, the BJP could win on only seven while Samajwadi Party bagged 15 seats.While the Congress won five, the BSP four, the Apna Dal (Sonelal) two, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) one, six seats went to Independents.Out of eight assembly seats, BJP won six and one each went to its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) and the SBSP. However, SBSP is no more the BJP’s ally. “Selection of candidates has been a prominent reason behind BJP’s poor performance in panchayat polls in Varanasi,” said Anupam Shukla, social activist. “A local party worker having connect at the grass root level, who may or may not have been very active in party organisation, should have been given the ticket,” Shukla added.“But such workers were ignored. As panchayat polls are completely local elections based on local politics, including caste and muscle power, selection of proper candidates is important to win the election,” he asserted. Poor management in pandemic is also a reason for party’s poor performance on semi-rural seats, he pointed out. BSP show in Mathura Mathura, famous for Lord Krishna’s temple complex, is another religious destination where BJP’s rival outperformed it in the panchayat polls. The city is in news now-a-days due to the litigation in district court over the temple complex issue which shares its boundary with a mosque. Here, BJP was able to win only in eight wards out of 33. The BSP outperformed all other parties by winning in 13 wards. While candidates supported by the Rashtriya Lok Dal won in eight wards. Out of five assembly constituencies in Mathura district, the BJP won in four in 2017 assembly polls.BJP leader and Bollywood actor Hema Malini represents Mathura in Lok Sabha. “Like in previous panchayat elections, the BSP has retained its stronghold in this local election also. As compared to last election, BJP’s performance has improved. But being a ruling party in the state, its performance should have been better,” said local layer Vijay Pal Singh. Now, these Zila Panchayat members will vote for Zila Panchayat chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/poor-show-in-ayodhya-kashi-mathura-in-panchayat-poll-big-setback-for-bjp-101620324173239.html
06-05-2021||Other||Young group reaching out to needy patients in Sangam city||PRAYAGRAJ: A group of youths has come forward to help both Covid and non-Covid patients, especially in the old city, at a time when even near and dear ones are reluctant to attend to the ill. The group uses all available resources to help patients and their attendants and tries to instill confidence among them to fight the disease. The youths have formed WhatsApp groups to share information about needy patients, availability of resources and man force for delivering necessary items to them. The group pools resources and takes help from local leaders, corporators and eminent citizens to help patients soon after receiving a distress call. Zeeshan Rehmani, the founder member of the group, said he and some of his friends were shocked at a large number of deaths all of a sudden. It was not hard to realise that second wave of Covid-19 was extremely dangerous. Soon there were reports of patients dying without receiving necessary basic help for treatment. Many of the patients were from poor families and were unable to arrange for medicines etc. With the objective of helping poor patients and their attendants, a group was formed over 20 days back. Many youths from different localities of the old city volunteered to join. A Whatsapp group was created with the name of Covid-19 help in which members were added. Volunteers share information about poor patients in their localities, their condition and needs through Whatsapp groups. Most of the time patients are short of oxygen, medicines, transport and even money and attendants. However, with a large number of patients and meager resources, those in critical condition or lacking money are helped on priority basis. “Some oxygen cylinders were donated by people who got them for treatment of their kin earlier while some cylinders were taken from welders on rent. Those in immediate need are given empty cylinders and sometimes poor attendants are also helped in taking the cylinder to plant to get them filled,” Zeeshan shared. Another member of the group Mohd Usman said besides oxygen cylinders, medicines, transport and other necessary facilities were being arranged by the group which has over 100 members in different localities. “We have pooled resources and sought help from others to help patients. Our motive is to reach out to patients who are financially weak and have no kin to attend them”, Usman said. The group has till now helped a large number of patients residing across old city and even reaches out to people in narrow lanes and bylanes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/young-group-reaching-out-to-needy-patients-in-sangam-city-101620322973137.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 177 deaths, 14,840 fresh cases||Haryana on Thursday reported 177 coronavirus-related deaths taking the cumulative toll to 5,137 while 14,840 fresh infections pushed the tally to 5,73,815, according to the health department's daily bulletin.The fresh deaths include 23 from Rohtak, 22 from Hisar, 19 from Fatehabad, 13 from Gurgaon, 11 each from Bhiwani and Jind, 10 from Sirsa and 9 each from Faridabad, Karnal and Kaithal districts, the bulletin said.The districts that reported a big spike in new cases were Gurgaon (3,737), Faridabad (1,537), Sonipat (1,046), Hisar (1,193), Karnal (621), Sirsa (607), Panipat (792) and Mahendragarh (1,083).The number of total active cases in the state is 1,15,842, the bulletin said.The Covid positivity rate on Thursday was 29.92 per cent, which is quite high. The cumulative positivity rate was 7.48 percent, the bulletin said.As many as 4,52,836 patients have so far recovered, it said.The recovery rate is 78.92, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-haryana-records-177-deaths-14-840-fresh-cases-101620320150796.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Plane with Covid-19 patient onboard makes belly landing at Mumbai airport||A medical flight which was on its way to Mumbai from Bagdogra with a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient onboard made an emergency belly landing in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai after a wheel of the aircraft separated from its body and fell on the ground at Nagpur airport during takeoff after it had made a stopped for refueling.This video captures the crucial moments after belly landing of the ambulance flight on foam carpet in Mumbai after it lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur.All onboard are safe.Kudos to the crew & ground professionals.⁦@DGCAIndia⁩ ⁦@CSMIA_Official⁩ pic.twitter.com/b7fgBef1x4Mumbai airport officials were seen spraying foam on the runway to prevent fire as the pilot made a belly landing and did not use the landing gear in the flight, an official familiar with the developments told HT. There were no reports of any injuries or casualties. The flight was carrying 2 crew members, 1 relative and 1 doctor along with the Covid-19 patient.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri lauded the airport officials for their quick response and shared the video via a tweet. "This video captures the crucial moments after belly landing of the ambulance flight on foam carpet in Mumbai after it lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. All onboard are safe. Kudos to the crew & ground professionals," Puri said. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport authorities in a statement said that the officials reacted fast and foamed the runway where the flight had landed. “A full emergency was declared for a non-scheduled Beechcraft VT-JIL aircraft on route from Nagpur to Mumbai. The flight carrying 02 crew members, 01 patient, 01 relative and 01 doctor did a belly-landing at CSMIA at 21:09 hrs,” airport authorities said in a statement.“The airport's emergency response team including the fire and rescue responders, follow-me vehicles, CISF, medical team amongst many others was activated instantly and on standby to provide immediate assistance to ensure the safe evacuation of the passengers. As a precautionary method, CSMIA also foamed RWY 27 in order to avoid the aircraft catching fire,” the statement further said. The main runway 27 at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport will remain unavailable till 2am on Friday due to this incident. Following the landing airport authorities were also seen spraying coolants onto the aircraft to prevent any untoward incident. The Covid-19 patient was later taken to Nanavati hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/plane-with-covid-19-patient-onboard-makes-belly-landing-at-mumbai-airport-101620322135228.html
06-05-2021||Other||In PM’s Jayapur, village head loses panchayat poll||Srinarayan Patel, 60, village head of Jayapur (Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first adopted village), lost the recently concluded panchayat election. BJP-supported Patel was defeated by one Rajkumar Yadav, 50, who also claimed support of the BJP. While Yadav bagged over 840 votes, Patel could secure only 600. “I am thankful to all voters for electing me as village head. I will ensure development in Jayapur,” said Yadav. However, Patel said: “Yadav has never been associated with the BJP. I am a BJP worker.” He added: “I accept the people’s verdict. Though I lost the election, I will keep working for the people of Jayapur that has seen unprecedented development during my tenure (last five years).” “Interlocking on many paths and concrete work on other paths in the village were done. All streets in the village are pucca. Toilets were constructed in each house, solar lights installed on streets and the village also got two branches of nationalised banks,” he said highlighting his achievements. Several other developmental works were carried out in the village ever since it was adopted by the Prime Minister in 2015 under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojna, Patel said, adding that Jayapur has now become a well known village in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-pm-s-jayapur-village-head-loses-panchayat-poll-101620322433654.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid blues: LU experts to counsel students, others||Lucknow: The counselling and guidance cell of Lucknow University has decided to extend counselling services to students of the university and affiliated colleges as well as other people in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the state. According to experts, students are suffering from fear of losing their near and dear ones due to Covid-19 as majority of the people either have symptoms or spend their time taking care of family members. “Students are transfixed in negative thoughts which is taking a toll on their own physical and mental health . There seems a dire need to counsel students to convert this unwanted situation as an opportunity to upgrade themselves physically, mentally, ,emotionally and spiritually,” said Madhurima Pradhan, director, counselling and guidance cell. Teachers of psychology department and coordinators of counselling and guidance cell had volunteered to spare time to counsel students and others who felt like talking to a counsellor, said LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastav. The counsellors will maintain confidentiality and ethical guidelines while dealing with students. The service will be available six days in a week as per schedule given on LU website under facility of counselling and guidance cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-blues-lu-experts-to-counsel-students-others-101620322433052.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Police squad to ensure NIBM, Kondhwa areas stick to curbs||Pune: The police have formed teams that move on autorickshaws in Kondhwa- NIBM areas to check unnecessary public movement on streets. Police personnel in vans have been stationed to keep citizens indoors.The initiative was started last week following complaints from residents of people seen loitering on roads. The police in vans stationed at important chowks on Kondhwa-NIBM road tell citizens not on necessary errands to leave the place.“When the city is under lockdown, some citizens in this part of the area are seen stepping out for unnecessary reasons. We want the police to take action against them and help break the chain of corona infection,” said Ashraf Shaikh, resident of NIBM.Another NIBM resident Sagar Pillay said, “Salunke Vihar is witnessing huge crowds in the morning where social distancing and mask violation is taking place with impunity. Police patrolling has to be intensified to check the crowd.”Kondhwa police inspector Sardar Patil said that patrolling has been increased across the area. “We are taking action and urging citizens to stay indoors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-squad-to-check-loiters-on-roads-in-nibm-kondhwa-areas-101620322133043.html
06-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman with brain tumour denied treatment; husband, in-laws booked||Police have booked a farmer and his three family members for dowry harassment and neglecting the treatment of his wife after she recently succumbed to a brain tumour.The accused, Deepinder Singh, was booked on the complaint of his wife’s brother, Manjit Singh, a resident of Kotli village, Payal. Manjit told the police that his sister Satvir Kaur, 43, married Deepinder 11 years ago. Through the course of their marriage, he and his family had been harassing her for dowry. When they did not fulfil his demands, he stopped her treatment for brain tumour, which eventually led to her death on Wednesday.“We have booked Deepinder, his father, Manjit Singh, and two relatives Jaskaranjit Singh and Rajwinder Kaur under Sections 498-A (dowry harassment) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. They will be arrested soon,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, who is investigating the case for Payal police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-with-brain-tumour-denied-treatment-husband-in-laws-booked-101620322013607.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist touches grim Covid death toll of 10,000 till date||PuneOn Thursday, Pune district touched the mark of 10,000 deaths due to Covid since the pandemic started last year. As per authorities, Pune district reported a spike with 9,731 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours and 79 deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours.Of 79 deaths reported on Thursday, 42 were in Pune rural, 34 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Three deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 451,668 Covid cases and 5,788 deaths till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 218,369 cases so far and a total of 1,530 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 229,323 total cases so far and 2,624 deaths due to the virus.In Pune district, there are a total of 899,360 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 774,178 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 10,000 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 115,182 active cases in Pune district.As per the state health department, 63,842 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 4,227,940 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 85.54%.Across Maharashtra, 62,194 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 853 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%.The state health department stated out of 28,661,668 laboratory samples, 4,942,736 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 17.25% patients till Thursday.Currently 3,826,089 people are in home quarantine and 29,406 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-touch-grim-covid-death-toll-of-10k-till-date-101620321953088.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three drug addicts arrested for murdering Ludhiana teen in snatching attack||Police have solved the April 29 murder of a 17-year-old boy with the arrest of three drug addicts, who had stabbed him to snatch his mobile phone in Giaspura.The accused – Harvinder Singh of Gurmel Nagar, Gurmeet Singh of Jamalpur village and Tej Ram of Mundian Khurd – were arrested near Lohara Canal bridge on Thursday while they were lurking in search of another snatching victim.According to police, on April 29, they had stabbed Amandeep Singh, a student of Class 11 and resident of Giaspura, to snatch his mobile phone while he was returning home from a morning walk with a friend. After fighting for life for two days, the teenager had succumbed to the injuries on May 1, following which a murder case was registered against unidentified accused.“During the probe, we started zeroing in on drug addicts involved in snatchings and thefts, and found that the trio was active in the area. Therefore, police remained on the lookout and arrested the accused on Thursday,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja.A total of four mobile phones, a motorcycle and a sharp edged weapon were recovered from their possession. “All accused are aged between 18 and 20, and are school dropouts. They were under the influence of drugs and desperate for money, so they did not hesitate to stab the boy for a quick buck,” the ADCP said.Harvinder is already facing trial in four cases of theft, assault, trespass and murder. Gurmeet Singh is also booked in two cases, while Tej Ram has one FIR lodged against him. The recovered motorcycle was stolen on the intervening night of April 24 and 25, the police official said.All accused are facing charges of murder since the teenager died on May 1. They will be produced in court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-drug-addicts-arrested-for-murdering-ludhiana-teen-in-snatching-attack-101620321593868.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana adds 1,257 fresh Covid cases, 19 deaths||In no respite from the pandemic, the daily deaths on Thursday remained significantly high for the 10th consecutive day, as another 19 people lost the battle to Covid-19. At 1,257, the number of fresh cases was also over 1,000 for the sixth straight day.Reaching 62,578 within two days of crossing the 60,000 mark, Ludhiana’s caseload now includes 11,022 active cases, a record number since the pandemic started and highest in Punjab. Second on the charts, Jalandhar has 6,614 active cases in comparison.In just six days of May, Ludhiana has logged 7,992 cases and 114 deaths, against April’s tallies of 20,176 and 232, respectively. Worse, May’s figures have already crossed the 7,294 cases and 115 deaths through March. Over 1,800 patients are fighting the virus at isolation wards of various government and private hospitals in Ludhiana, while the majority are recuperating under home isolation.Two people, aged 45, were the youngest to succumb to the virus on Thursday.The male deceased included an 82-year-old from Basant Avenue, a 78-year-old from Tagore Nagar, a 74-year-old from Dholewal, two aged 72 and 65 from Haibowal Kalan, a 72-year-old from Datha village, a 69-year-old from Basant Avenue, two aged 65 from Dugri and Chandigarh Road, a 64-year-old from Guru Angad Dev Colony, a 61-year-old from Dharaur village, a 58-year-old from Kanganwal, a 55-year-old from Mullanpur, a 47-year-old from Sarabha Nagar and a 45-year-old from Guru Ram Dass Colony.The women, who succumbed to the virus, were a 75-year-old from Rahon Road, a 65-year-old from Gill village, a 54-year-old from Phullanwal and a 45-year-old from Haibowal Kalan.The health department on Thursday issued another advisory, urging people to stay indoors for their safety.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia said it was unfortunate that despite state-wide restrictions, people were violating rules and venturing out without masks. She urged residents to stay indoors as far as possible and take precautions to stem the pandemic.Strictest restrictions needed to save lives: AshuAt a virtual meeting with various MPs and MLAs, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said strictest restrictions were needed for a certain time period to save lives.During the meeting, attended by MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu and Dr Amar Singh, and MLAs Amrik Singh Dhillon, Surinder Dawar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Lakhbir Singh Lakha and Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Ashu said some families had even lost two to three members within a few days, which was disheartening and worrisome.The MPs and MLAs advocated strictest measures as several hospitals ICUs were almost 100% full and the daily positivity rate was rising steadily.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, SSPs Charanjit Singh Sohal and Gursharandeep Singh Grewal and civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill were also in attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-adds-1-257-fresh-covid-cases-19-deaths-101620321413546.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid killing more people in Ludhiana city’s peripheral areas||The deadly second wave of Covid-19 has wiped away more lives in the townships on the outskirts of Ludhiana city if the case fatality ratio (CFR) is any indication. While the city currently has a CFR of 2.2%, indicating two deaths among every 100 cases, the death rate is higher in its peripheral areas, where nearly five out of every 100 infected people have died (4.8%) – far ahead of the state average of 2.4%.The lack of testing is being seen as one of the reasons for the higher fatality rate across the rural and urban blocks of Raikot, Samrala, Jagraon, Khanna and Payal. Despite awareness drives and numerous initiatives, residents here remain averse to getting tested on priority and often reach the hospital only after complications begin to surface, say experts.As of May 5, Ludhiana city has recorded 57,044 Covid cases since the pandemic broke out in March last year and 1,265 people here have died. On the other hand, out of the 4,277 residents testing positive in the peripheral areas, 205 have succumbed to the virus.Khanna leads the toll at 59, followed by Raikot with 48 deaths, while 43 people have died in Jagraon. The number of deaths in Payal and Samrala is 36 and 19, respectively.“We are witnessing the same reluctance for tests among the residents as seen during the first wave of pandemic. Instead of coming out for RT-PCR tests, even symptomatic people are relying on self-medication. Stigma attached to the virus could be one reason for this,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at DMCH and a member of the Covid task force of the state government.“More and more patients are arriving at the hospital only after their condition severely deteriorates. This is not only leading to more casualties, but also fast transmission of the virus,” said Dr Mohan, who, along with deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, recently conducted a survey of the Covid pockets in Galib Kalan, Sidhwan Bet, Jagraon, Macchiwara and Samrala block following high prevalence of cases there.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia said the health department was working on conducting surveys in villages to detect symptomatic patients. “These teams will work in coordination with the village sarpanches, so that patients can be identified and isolated. We also plan to intensify testing and focus on enhancing vaccination in rural areas,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-killing-more-people-in-ludhiana-city-s-peripheral-areas-101620321233744.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospital sees increase in deadly fungal infection among Covid-19 patients||A city hospital has reported an increase in the number of cases of a rare fungal infection triggered by the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the cases of the viral infection has increased exponentially in the city. Six patients with the rare infection mucormycosis were admitted to Sir Ganga Ram hospital over the last two days. In December last year, the hospital had seen 10 cases of the fungal infection in patients with Covid-19 or those who had recently recovered from it in a period of fifteen days. If not detected early, the infection – Mucormycosis also known as black fungus – can kill half the patients. Others might lose eye-sight or have to get their jaw bones removed if the infection spreads. It is an opportunistic infection that happens in mostly immune-compromised Covid-19 patients such as those with diabetes, kidney disease, or those who have had transplants. “We are again seeing an increase in the number of the dangerous fungal infection triggered by Covid-19. Last year, this deadly infection had caused high mortality with other suffering from loss of eye sight, removal of nose, and jaw bone,” said Dr Manish Munjal, senior ENT surgeon at the hospital. Doctors say that use of steroids in the treatment of Covid-19 patients might weaken the immune system of the already sick patients resulting in the black fungus. “Use of steroids in treatment of Covid-19 infection in addition to the fact that many Covid-19 patients have diabetes as co- morbidity could be one of the reasons for this rise in black fungus infection again,” said Dr Ajay Swaroop, Chairman, Department of ENT at the hospital. “Early clinical suspicion on symptoms such as nose obstruction, swelling in the eyes or cheeks and black crusts in the nose should immediately prompt a biopsy and start of antifungal therapy as early as possible,” Dr Munjal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospital-sees-increase-in-deadly-fungal-infection-among-covid-19-patients-101620320873994.html
06-05-2021||Other||Succour through WhatsApp: Youth group aids needy with O2, medicines||It was 1 AM when Kareli area resident Hamza’s phone rang. An upset Mohd Shahid, who also lived in the locality, was calling for help as his father was sinking for want of oxygen. Achhe Khan, 65, had tested positive for Covid-19 and his oxygen level was falling fast. Having failed to arrange for an oxygen cylinder, his family had lost all hope. Suddenly, Shahid thought of Hamza and sent out an SOS.Immediately, Hamza informed Zeeshan Rehmani about the condition of Achhe Khan, who posted a message in a newly formed WhatsApp group. Within half an hour, Mohd Usman, another group member, arranged for an empty oxygen cylinder and even helped Achhe Khan’s relatives in getting it filled. A few hours later, Achhe Khan’s oxygen saturation level rose to acceptable limits.Rehmani, Usman and Hamza are just some of the members of a WhatsApp youth group, ‘Covid-19 help’ that swung into action that night and helped save the life of Achhe Khan. The group has over 100 members living in different localities of the city.Meanwhile, Sayed Mohammad, Anas, Ali Usmani, Guddu and many others have a similar story of how these young do-gooders helped them at a time when help was required the most. These are just some of the people who have been helped by this group with medicines, oxygen cylinders, transport etc.This group of youths has come forward to help Covid-19 patients and others, especially in the Old City area, at a time when even near relatives are reluctant to attend to patients. Members use available resources to help patients and their attendants and try to instil confidence among them to fight the disease. Till date, the group has helped around 100 patients residing across the Old City and has even reached out to people living in narrow lanes and by-lanes to provide assistance.Through the WhatsApp group information is shared about needy patients, the availability of resources and the manpower needed for delivering the necessary items to them. Soon after receiving a distress call, the group pools resources and takes the help of local leaders, corporators and eminent citizens for providing help to patients. Zeeshan Rehmani, the founder member of the group, said that he was shocked at the sudden surge in the number of deaths. Soon, reports began pouring in of people dying for want of basic help in getting treatment. Many were from poor families and unable to arrange for medicines, etc. “It was then that the idea of forming a WhatsApp group came to mind and along with my friends, I formed the ‘Covid-19 Help’,” Rehmani said. He formed the group some 20 days back and many youths from different localities of the Old City volunteered to join the group and assist in providing help to the needy. Volunteers in the group keep information about poor patients in their localities and share information about their condition and their needs through WhatsApp groups. Mostly, patients are short of oxygen, medicines, transport and even money and attendants. However, with a large number of patients and few resources, those in critical condition or lacking money are helped on a priority and are given immediate help. “Some oxygen cylinders were donated by people who had them, while some cylinders were taken from welders on rent. Those in immediate need are given empty cylinders and sometimes poor attendants are also helped in taking the cylinder to the plant to get them filled,” Zeeshan said. Another member of the group, Mohd Usman, said that besides oxygen cylinders, medicines and transport, other necessities in saving lives are being arranged by the group. “We have pooled resources and sought help from others to help the needy. Our motive is to reach out to patients who are financially weak and have few or no kin to attend to them,” Usman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/succour-through-whatsapp-youth-group-aids-needy-with-o2-medicines-101620319852898.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees marginal dip in number of Covid-19 cases, deaths||Karnataka reported 49,058 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Wednesday, recording a marginal dip of 1,054 cases from Tuesday. The daily death toll also dropped slightly compared to Wednesday as the state recorded 328 deaths. Karnataka’s total cases reached 1,790,104 on Wednesday and the death toll touched 17,212, according to data released by the Karnataka government.Karnataka is among the states which has more than 1 lakh active cases and continues to observe a rising trend in daily cases, Union health and family welfare ministry said on Monday. Karnataka currently has 517,075 active cases. Bengaluru Urban continued to remain as one of the hardest-hit districts with 332,732 active cases. Mysuru and Tumakuru reported more than 16,000 active cases while Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Dakshina Kannada, Hassana and Kalaburagi also reported more than 10,000 active cases.Bengaluru Urban also reported the maximum number of deaths in the last 24 hours. It reported 7,145 deaths followed by Mysuru 1,272 deaths and Ballari with 838 deaths. The case fatality ratio in the state is currently at 0.66%. The positivity rate in the state currently stood at 29.83%. Karnataka also reported 18,943 recoveries taking the total number of recoveries to 1,255,797.A member of Karnataka’s Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, Dr Giridhara R Babu said that the state will have to extend lockdown in order to break the chain of transmission, news agency PTI reported. Strict lockdown like measures have been enforced in the state to stop the surge of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-marginal-dip-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-deaths-101620317569143.html
06-05-2021||Ranchi||CM inaugurates 528-bed temporary Covid centre at RIMS||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday inaugurated a 528-bed temporary Covid centre at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) through video conference.Of the 528 beds, 327 oxygenated beds have been set-up in the multi-level parking on the premise, 73 ICU beds in the Oncology department and 128 oxygenated beds in the old building, an official said. The inauguration of a new Covid centre is part of the health department’s initiative to increase beds as caseload continues to mount in the state despite lockdown. “The maximum load is on medical colleges in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. The government is keeping an eye on the situation and making arrangements as required,” CM Soren said after the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cm-inaugurates-528-bed-temporary-covid-centre-at-rims-101620317632800.html
06-05-2021||Ranchi||Double challenge: Providing livelihood to migrants and protecting villages from Covid-19||With large scale inflow of migrant workers in wake of lockdown or restriction imposed by many states in the country, Jharkhand is in for double challenge --providing livelihood to the returnees and protecting villages from Covid spread, officials said.In a bid to provide livelihood to the migrant workers according to their choice, state rural development department has started a survey through Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) like the skill mapping drive of previous year. In this survey, surveyors are also seeking migrants’ choice of work so that they could be engaged accordingly.State rural development department director Aditya Ranjan said, “We started the survey about a week ago. Our objective is to map skill of the workers and understand their wish for work so that they could be provided jobs accordingly. Hordes of schemes are being run by rural development department and JSLPS. We will try to induct them under these schemes.”He said, “After mapping of their skills, we will also offer them further opportunity to sharpen their skill under skill mission. Many people would also get job under it.”Ranjan said they had also conducted similar kind of skill mapping drive last year and they have a detailed data of it. “We will merge the current and previous year’s data to identify how many fresh migrants moved out from state for jobs,” he said. The department is also working to engage people in MGNREGA works. State urban development department officials said they were expecting large number of people would also get jobs under Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri for Kamgar) Yojana (MSY), a 100-day job guarantee scheme for urban unskilled workers.Skills of 5.30 lakh migrant workers had been mapped last year and a database of them had also been prepared so that they could be provided jobs according to their skill set.Jamesh Herenj, member of Right to Food Campaign (RFC), alleged that skill mapping would hardly help in providing job. “The government also carried out skill mapping drive last year. It now has a figure of how many people are skilled in how many works. However, the government could not create jobs according to their skills in past one year,” he said. Apart from livelihood, the Jharkhand government is also concerned about protecting villages from the spread of Coronavirus in backdrop of migrant workers returning home.Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday directed officials to speed up the Covid vigilance in rural areas, as large number of migrant workers are returning home. Even though state government has made mandatory of one-week institutional quarantine for migrant returnees, it doesn’t have any figure how many migrants have returned to Jharkhand till now.Lakhs of migrant workers have returned to Jharkhand since first week of April this year after cases of Covid-19 started to soar in the country. But, state control room for migrant workers could contact mere 6,720 workers stranded outside Jharkhand.An official of the control room said, “Trains and other means of transportation have not been suspended this time. Therefore, many people have returned without consulting us. So, we cannot provide you the figure how many people returned to Jharkhand till now.”He said they have received 2,554 calls since first week of April, while 6,720 people were contacted, who are stuck outside and want to return.The government, in its order for migrant workers on Wednesday, has observed that there was an exponential increase in Covid-19 cases in the state during the last fortnight. It was anticipated that the large-scale inflow of migrants back to their respective villages might pose a considerable threat in spread of the disease in rural areas, it said. A senior official of state health department, who requested not to be quoted, said, “The recent government order is for the migrant workers, who are returning now. Identifying the workers who have already arrived is not an easy task. However, we are trying to cover them in special test drive. A mega Covid test drive was conducted across Jharkhand on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/double-challenge-providing-livelihood-to-migrants-and-protecting-villages-from-covid19-101620317572813.html
06-05-2021||Other||Leaves cancelled for police personnel||PATNAThe state police headquarters has asked district and range police chiefs not to grant any leave to the personnel, saying their presence was necessary for effective implementation of the Covid-19 lockdown that will be in place in the state till May 15. While routine leave applications have been cancelled, no new applications will be entertained, except for medical reasons or other emergenciesAdditional director general (police headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said 85% of the state police personnel had taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and of them, around 65% have been administered the second dose too.“In the second wave of Covid19 this year, 955 members of Bihar police are infected as on today,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leaves-cancelled-for-police-personnel-101620317453383.html
06-05-2021||Other||Lalu back in action, to hold virtual meeting with party MLAs on May 9||PATNAAfter a gap of almost four years, RJD chief Lalu Prasad will have an interaction, albeit virtual, with party MLAs on May 9 during which he will discuss the Covid-19 situation in Bihar and other party matters. The former Bihar chief minister, who was convicted in multiple fodder scam cases and incarcerated since December 23, 2017, was released from jail last week after completing bail procedures and had stayed for few days at AIIMS, New Delhi, where he had been undergoing medical treatment for several ailments . A few days back, he shifted to his eldest daughter’s residence in the national capital. Sources said Prasad, along with younger son and Bihar’s leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, also in New Delhi, would hold the meeting virtually. “The RJD chief would be taking feedback from party legislators about the Covid situation in the state and initiatives taken by the MLAs to help people after resurgence of Covid cases in the last few weeks. Political matters would also be discussed,” said Sanjay Yadav, a close aide of Tejashwi. The RJD president, after coming out of jail, has already become active on his Twitter account, taking potshots at the Nitish Kumar government over the alleged poor health services in the state and rising Covid cases. “In Bihar, there is not only scarcity of beds, vaccine, oxygen, injections but also of medicines for simple fever. Our chief minister will not say anything on it,” said Lalu in one of his tweets on Thursday. Party leaders said the RJD chief’s release from jail has already galvanised the party workers. “We are excited about the meeting called by Laluji. Whatever instructions he gives, we will follow,” said senior party leader Shyam Rajak.In the 2020 assembly polls, the RJD-led grand alliance had bagged 110 seats while the NDA got a simple majority in the 243-member House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lalu-back-in-action-to-hold-virtual-meeting-with-party-mlas-on-may-9-101620317452708.html
06-05-2021||Other||Patna reels with 3,665 new cases and 29 deaths Army docs to step in to support ESIC hospital for Covid patients||PATNABihar on Thursday reported 15,126 new infections and 90 deaths during the last 24, taking the cumulative cases to 5,53,803 of which 1,15,151 were active cases. Patna witnessed an explosion in cases with 3,665 people testing positive, the highest so far in a day, and reported 29 deaths during this period, taking the total death tally to 891. Gaya with 752 cases, Muzaffarpur (736), Nalanda (535) and West Champaran (533) were among the other leading contributors. With the state capital being the hot bed, the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital at Bihta was set to add another 100 beds from Friday after promise of help from the Army. The hospital has been struggling with logistics issues in the management of Covid-19 patients, with 15 of its 40 doctors having tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. “The army personnel have assured us of providing 50 doctors and around 20 paramedics from Friday to support us add another 100 beds at our hospital. With this, the total number of beds available for management of Covid-19 will go up to 250,” said Dr Manmohan Mishra, medical superintendent of the ESIC hospital on the outskirts of Patna. Depending on manpower support from the state government and the army, the number of beds may later be scaled up to 200, allowing a total of 350 patients at our hospital, he said. The 500-bed ESIC hospital is grossly underutilised, operating as it was with 150 beds when all major hospitals in Patna are displaying house full board due to heavy spike in cases in what is being referred to as the second wave of the pandemic. The ESIC currently has no manpower support to run an intensive care unit (ICU) with ventilator support, important for the management of Covid-19 patients. “We have just one senior resident from the department of anaesthesiology and one from the department of medicine. They are just not enough to manage ICU. Besides, of the 40 doctors, almost 20 are from the non-clinical disciplines like anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pathology, etc. They, too, have been deployed as consultants to oversee the junior and senior residents deployed at our hospital,” said Dr Mishra. Besides, 15 of our 40 doctors at the hospital have tested positive for Covid-19, forcing them to be under home isolation, he added. The ESIC hospital has received some support from the state government, which has deputed around 40 doctors and 113 paramedics. Earlier, the Bihar government had on April 13 sought assistance from the army to fully operationalise the ESIC hospital. The next day, a two-member team from the defence ministry had met Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, to assess the requirement to fully operationalise the ESIC hospital for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The defence team had then agreed in principle to extend help to the state government by providing 50 doctors to fully operationalise the 500-bed ESI hospital. The Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) had stepped in to manage the 500-bed hospital during the first wave of the pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-reels-with-3-665-new-cases-and-29-deaths-army-docs-to-step-in-to-support-esic-hospital-for-covid-patients-101620317393343.html
06-05-2021||Other||HC seeks govt affidavit on Covid crisis, oxygen gap||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Thursday asked Bihar’s chief secretary to file a detailed affidavit with regard to lack of infrastructure in hospitals, men and equipment, testing, availability of medicines and oxygen, disposal of bio waste and black marketing in a tabular form by Friday, when it will hear the matter again. The court was particularly concerned about oxygen availability and sough to know why the state was unable to lift the quantity allocated by the Centre and what was being done to ensure that full allocation was lifted. Appearing for the Bihar government, senior counsel Vikas Singh said that against the demand of 300 metric tonnes (MTs) of oxygen, the state had been allocated 210 MTs, but so far the state was able to lift 154 MTs only due to lack of tankers for transportation of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). “We are engaging private parties for transportation of oxygen. Jharkhand has also given six tankers and the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) three. We are also trying other means to augment supply. Once we are able to lift the allocated quota, we will seek more from the Centre. Transportation is a problem, which the government is trying to sort out. The state is also generating around 40 MTs of oxygen,” he said. Additional solicitor general (ASG) KN Singh, however, informed the court that the Centre had so far provided 13 tankers to the state government for transportation, though it was the state’s responsibility to lift the allocated supply. “Tankers used for other purposes have also been deployed for transportation of oxygen. Besides, the state also uses its own tankers,” he said. The bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar made it clear they were interested in results. “We are not here to govern. We are not the government. We are here only to see that governance is done. We are conscious of our duties. At this point of time, we don’t want to form any opinion. We have sought a detailed affidavit from the chief secretary and want the state to coordinate for transportation of oxygen,” it said. As soon as the hearing began at 11 am, the new bench headed by the chief justice said the state was not able to transport even the allocated quota of oxygen and sought a detailed reply in the afternoon regarding present requirement as well as projected future requirement, besides status of tankers deployed for transportation.. “As far as oxygen is concerned, what we have gathered from the previous proceedings is that the stand the state has taken is at a variance . While the state put the allocated quota from the Centre at 194 MTs initially, it was later revised to 164 MTs. The state has not been able to transport even that much. The figures supplied with regard to oxygen quota from various companies earlier also don’t match,” the bench said. The bench also wanted to know if there was blackmarketing and hoarding and who was taking action against them. “We have to save every human life, because if we fail to do that, we will be failing in our constitutional duty,” the bench said. On Tuesday, the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah had made strong observations against the inept handling of the Covid crisis and went to the extent of saying that “All of us feel ashamed for what we have done”, but refrained from passing any order, which was reserved for May 6. However, on Thursday, the bench was changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-govt-affidavit-on-covid-crisis-oxygen-gap-101620317392800.html
06-05-2021||Pune||18-plus beneficiaries develop online alerts to get vax slot faster||Pune: It was a great relief for Sumedh Vanarse on Thursday, when he finally got a slot for vaccination. “Since the registration for vaccine opened up for above 18 years, I was trying to get an appointment for vaccination. However, the slots on Co-WIN app used to be filled within seconds. So, my friend and I decided to get help from social media groups and create slot alerts on the government’s Co-WIN website. Finally, today I got an appointment at Aundh Hospital for vaccination to be done on May 7,” said the 34-year-old techie. Though the vaccination drive for 18-plus group started from May 1, shortage of vaccines led to opening of only two vaccination centres and limited appointments. Even as centres have been increased to six, many are unable to book appointments due to heavy rush of beneficiaries. Hence, many have switched to social media alerts. For example, a group has been formed on Telegram mobile app named “U45 Pune” in which alerts of slot openings are given. Also the link to book the schedule is provided for beneficiaries to click and book slot. Another website “www.vaccinateme.in” has been started by Healthifyme organisation. Applicants can get state and district wise slot details and book appointment to get the jab. Kedar Dandage, who needed to book vax slot for his 19-year-old son, said, “I have been refreshing the Co-WIN app for last 5 but with no avail. Then we set mobile alerts through one of the website, which gives us an alert about slot opening. However, on the Co-WIN website, search for a Centre and slots are booked in seconds. The government should increase vaccination centers as it will lead to more slots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/18plus-beneficiaries-develop-online-alerts-to-get-vax-slot-faster-101620316852714.html
06-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand's Covid caseload climbs to 2,63,115; 5,770 fresh cases reported||Jharkhand on Thursday reported 141 fresh Covid-19 fatalities taking the death toll to 3,346, while 5,770 new positive cases pushed the tally to 2,63,115, a health department bulletin said.Inaugurating a 528-bed makeshift Covid hospital in Ranchi, which was built in just 12 days, Chief Minister Hemant Soren expressed his government's commitment to take all steps to deal with the emerging scenario. The state currently has 59,532 active cases.Altogether 5,804 patients recovered from coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of cured people to 2,00,237, the bulletin said.As per the bulletin, the recovery ratio for Jharkhand is 76.10 per cent as against the national average of 82 per cent.Of the fresh fatalities, Ranchi district recorded the highest at 41 followed by East Singhbhum at 27 and Dhanbad at 10. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts.A total of 35,486 samples have been tested for Covid- 19 in Jharkhand in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.Meanwhile, the administration has decided to set up institutional quarantine centres with full facilities in all 10 blocks of Dhanbad district for housing migrant workers returning from other states, an official said.To check further spread of the virus, the Jharkhand government on Wednesday had announced that all migrant workers returning to the state will have to undergo Covid tests on arrival and a mandatory week-long quarantine.So far, migrant workers were being allowed to go home from railway stations and bus stands after Covid tests and only those found positive were detained. But now, all would be quarantined for a week."Even though a migrant labourer tests negative in Rapid Antigen Test, he or she will be kept for seven days at a quarantine centre. Seven days later, the person would be again screened. If the test report comes negative, the labourer will be released," Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Umashankar Singh said.In case the test report comes positive, the person would be sent to a Covid hospital, he said.The DC said that all circle officers have been directed to set up two institutional quarantine centres having facilities for testing, food, beds, water, continuous supply of power and other basic amenities round the clock.Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday digitally inaugurated a 528-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Rajendra Institue of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Ranchi.Of the 528 new oxygen beds, 327 were set up at RIMS multi-storey parking lot, 73 at the Oncology department and 128 at the old building of the institute.Soren said that 108 more beds will be set up with the help of NTPC, the country's largest energy conglomerate.On Wednesday, the chief minister had digitally inaugurated 250 beds at a dedicated Covid health centre at Koderma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhands-covid-caseload-climbs-to-2-63-115-5-770-fresh-cases-reported-101620315587715.html
06-05-2021||Other||4th doctor arrested in PCMC cash-for-admission to Covid centre case||PUNE: A fourth doctor has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for accepting money to admit a patient at the Pimpri-Chichwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) Covid-19 facility located at the Auto Cluster in Pimpri.The fourth arrested doctor has been identified as Dr Jyotsna Dandage, a medical practitioner in her 30s, who works at the Covid centre.The three arrested earlier were identified as Dr Praveen Jadhav, Dr Sachin Kasbe, and Dr Shashank Rale.Dr Jadhav was arrested along with Dr Kasbe and Dr Rale who work at Padmaja Hospital in Chinchwad.“Dr Jadhav and Dr Kasbe had an understanding about bringing patients to the Auto Cluster. Dr Kasbe took the amount from the patient, kept his share and gave the rest to Dr Jadhav. Dr Jadhav asked Dr Dandage to admit the patient to the facility and gave her ₹10,000 for it,” said Sagar Kavade, assistant commissioner of police, Pimpri Division of Pimpri Chinchwad police.Dr Dandage was produced in court along with the three others on Thursday. All four doctors have been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4th-doctor-arrested-in-pcmc-cash-for-admission-to-covid-centre-case-101620316072677.html
06-05-2021||Other||1 killed, 1 injured as gangs clash on Sinhagad road||PUNE A man was killed while another was grievously injured after a group of men were attacked late on Wednesday night by another group, over local rivalry, in Raikar Mala, Sinhagad road.The deceased has been identified as Sham Sontakke (24) and the injured as Yogesh Chavan (20), who is also the complainant in the case. Sontakke, Chavan and their friends decided to drink alcohol and were heading towards an open ground in Raikar Mala. That is when a group of five-six men, who have had fights with them earlier, arrived and started attacking the group with blades and rods, according to the complaint.The police are on the lookout for the group of assailants. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws was registered at Sinhagad road police station.67-year-old found bludgeoned to death in CampPUNE: A 67-year-old pavement dweller was found bludgeoned to death in the Modikhana area of Camp on Thursday.The man was identified as Ismail Sayyed (67) and had made a hut to sleep under along a footpath. He was found dead inside it.“Someone has used a blunt object to hit him in the head. It seems to have happened late last night. He picked scrap to make a living and lived on the street,” said senior inspector Ashok Kadam of Lashkar police station.The man had blunt force injuries on his head when he was found. While his hut is not under CCTV coverage, there are two cameras that cover the entryway to the spot. The police are checking footage from both the cameras.A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered at Lashkar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-killed-1-injured-as-gangs-clash-on-sinhagad-road-101620314632627.html
06-05-2021||Pune||MCCIA body distributes Covid equipment worth ₹100 crore under “Mission Vayu”||Pune: The Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response (PPCR) managed by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has implemented two phases of “Mission Vayu” by donating 7,800 oxygen concentrators, 875 BiPaP ventilators, and 50,000 pulse oximeters across India. “Mission Vayu” is one of the civic-led initiatives to support the healthcare infrastructure and tackle the pertaining oxygen shortage across India. It is anchored by various corporate partners and foundations, including Singapore-headquartered investment firm Temasek and Temasek Foundation. The three-phased project with an estimated investment of ₹100 crore has been planned, implemented and executed in less than 10 days since its launch. The costs are jointly shared by Temasek, Temasek Foundation, ACT Grants, the Swasth Alliance and 1,000+ donors and members of PPCR. Air India, Singapore Airlines, Olam International, Amazon India and Kerry Logistics have supported the logistics of airlifting these essential equipment from Singapore to India for “Mission Vayu” phase 1, 2 and 3. In the first phase, 550 BiPaP ventilators and 7,500 oxygen concentrators were airlifted from Singapore and donated to the worst-affected districts of Maharashtra, Delhi and other affected areas. The second phase was launched to ensure medical supplies for patients in remote places. 325 units of heavy duty BiPaP ventilators, 51,000 oximeters, over 20 ventilators were distributed to hospitals, trusts and support groups in states largely affected by the Covid crisis, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Karnataka. With rising critical cases and subsequent shortage of life-support equipment, PPCR has now launched phase 3 of “Mission Vayu” to donate 500 additional units of heavy-duty BiPaP ventilators to hospitals, trusts, social organisations, support groups, and district administrations across India. With requests pouring in across India, it will help ensure timely intervention and support to the patients nationwide. Sudhir Mehta, lead and coordinator, Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response and president, MCCIA, said, “We are grateful to our partner organisations, members and donors, for making this possible. For more than a year, we have continued to supplement efforts to mitigate the adverse effects of the pandemic and we pledge to support it going forward as well. Extending our efforts and supplies all over India is the need of the hour and we shall continue to do so, to the best of our abilities.” PPCR platform set up at MCCIA is a volunteer group of members of civil society who came together to minimize the impact of the Covid outbreak in Pune city and its surroundings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mccia-body-distributes-covid-equipment-worth-rs-100-crore-under-mission-vayu-101620314212576.html
06-05-2021||Pune||APMC, PMC conduct anti-encroachment drive on Shivneri road||Pune: To curb footfall on Shivneri road near Market Yard, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) carried out an anti-encroachment drive against roadside vegetable hawkers on Wednesday and Thursday. “The two-day exercise helped to check public movement in the area as residents flouted lockdown norms and were seen not following social distancing and wearing masks. We have decided to conduct such drives twice in 15 days as we have observed that the hawkers return after a few days. A squad of 10 persons will keep a check on encroachers,” said Madhukar Garad, administrator and secretary, APMC Gultekdi Market Yard Pune. Currently, APMC is not allowing hawkers to sell vegetables within the premises. “We have allowed 50 per cent wholesalers to run their shops on the premises. We will reopen other points of sale only after lockdown restrictions ease,” Garad said. “Only 50 per cent hawkers were seen on footpath today and no vendor after 11 am, unlike previous days,” said Prashant Hiremat, resident of Shivneri road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/apmc-pmc-conduct-anti-encroachment-drive-on-shivneri-road-101620313612492.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 62,194 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai's daily caseload falls to 3,028||Maharashtra's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 4,942,736 on Thursday as 62,194 more people tested positive on the day, making it for the first time since May 1, that more than 60,000 people were found positive for Covid-19 in a single day, a health department bulletin showed. The related death toll, meanwhile, increased by 853, taking the total death toll to 73,515.On Wednesday, the western state saw 57,640 fresh infections and 920 fatalities, the second-highest death toll in a single day. On April 28, 985 deaths were reported.Also Read | Maharashtra breaches 900-death mark for second timeIn terms of recoveries, 63,842 more people defeated the virus on Thursday, taking total recovered cases to 4,227,940, the bulletin showed. The number of active cases, meanwhile, has risen to 639,075. Number of samples tested for the day witnessed a marginal fall, as 277,086 tests were conducted on the day as against 279,200 on May 5. The total number of samples tested thus far stands at 28,661,668.The state's capital city of Mumbai, meanwhile, registered a sharp fall in its new cases, with 3,028 more people testing positive, down from 3,882 on Wednesday. The death toll reached 13,580 with 69 more fatalities in the metropolis. Thus far, 668,085 residents of the city have tested positive for the viral disease.Among other worst-hit districts, Pune's infection tally stands at 899,360 while that of Nagpur is at 452,434. The respective death tolls of the two districts are at 9,942 and 5,439.Maharashtra, whose caseload is the highest in the country, is among 12 states with more than one lakh active cases, among five with more than 1.5 lakh active cases. In his address to the state on Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned that a "third wave is coming" and hence, people need to be more careful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-62-194-new-covid-19-cases-and-853-deaths-101620312966534.html
06-05-2021||Other||Mumbai woman travelling on bus to Pune for son’s wedding robbed of jewellery, cash by co-passenger||PUNE A woman form Mumbai was robbed of jewellery by another woman who met her on a bus to Pune on April 28, and offered a sweet that is suspected to have been laced with a sedative.The 50-year-old complainant has been identified as Sunita Sugriv Jadhav, a housewife residing in Sion Koliwada, Mumbai. She was travelling to Pune on a state transport bus.“She was coming to Pune to attend her son’s haldi ceremony on April 29 and the wedding on the day after that. She was carrying jewellery and cash for that purpose,” said assistant police inspector Harish Thakur of Bundgarden police station, who is investigating the case.The bus started from Mumbai at 9:30am and reached Pune after four hours.The complainant was offered a pedha, which she suspects was sedative-laced, by another woman who appeared to be 45-50 years of age, according to her complaint.“The woman got off at the point where the bus stopped for a break and bought three pieces of the sweet. She ate two and offered one to the complainant. The complainant ate a small piece and refused the rest as it did not taste right,” said API Thakur.The complainant then started feeling dizzy and her tongue started feeling heavy, according to her complaint.The co-passenger appeared to be concerned and took the woman to the gate of Sassoon Hospital. However, by this time, the woman had lost most of her consciousness. The woman told her that she was getting a hospital paper made in order to get an x-ray. However, she took off with the complainant’s bag instead.A case under Sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, with intent to commit an offence) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-woman-travelling-on-bus-to-pune-for-son-s-wedding-robbed-of-jewellery-cash-by-copassenger-101620312892605.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab appoints 2 nodal officers to ease tax exemption on Covid relief imports||The Punjab government on Thursday said that two nodal officers have been appointed to facilitate the individuals or organizations in getting tax exemption on any COVID relief imports into the state from abroad.Giving details, a spokesperson of the Punjab government said, "In order to fight the challenge of coronavirus pandemic more effectively and to facilitate the flow of aid from outside India, the Government of India has provided exemption from customs duty and integrated tax on goods for COVID relief imported into the country."He also said that the same concessions could be availed for such imports if they were sent free of cost from outside India and are distributed free within India.The spokespersons added, "For claiming these exemptions anyone could approach the nodal officer appointed by the state government viz. Mr. Kumar Rahul (IAS) contact no. 9876164787, email: mdnrhmpunjab@gmail.com and sha.phse@gmail.com and Mr. Ravneet Singh Khurana (IRS C&IT), contact no. 9560954405, email: gst.audit@punjab.Gov.in""Any person who wants to send goods for COVID relief from outside India for free distribution in India may contact these officers," he said.Pertinently, Punjab Agri Export Corporation Limited (PAGREXCO) has been authorized as the nodal agency for the import of such material in this regard by the state government.Further, any entity in Punjab who wants to import free of cost goods for COVID relief for free distribution in India could apply on the following portal: https://taxation.punjab.gov.in/imports/."Once authorized by the government any individual or organization could import such goods without any tax during these turbulent times. The move has been initiated by the Punjab government to solicit the participation of the general public in the management of resources for fighting the COVID menace on one hand and to provide a single-window for all such clearances in this grave hour of crisis, on the other," said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-appoints-2-nodal-officers-to-ease-tax-exemption-on-covid-relief-imports-101620309278916.html
06-05-2021||Pune||PMC plans bigger chimneys to address overloaded crematoria||Pune: The electric crematoriums in Pune are in need of urgent maintenance by the civic authorities due to non-stop operation as many bodies arrive for last rites. The chimneys at crematoriums are getting blocked due to smoke particulate getting stuck in the duct either leading to furnace failure or spread of smoke inside crematoriums, according to Pune Municipal Corporation officials. The civic body plans to install bigger chimneys to replace the existing ones to mitigate the crisis as part of its environment-friendly mission of smoke reduction. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol has taken up the issue with PMC administration after environmentalist Vishwambhar Choudhury made an appeal to enhance the breathing capacities of chimneys by carrying out necessary scrubbing of pipes and recommended installation of bigger and new chimneys as the existing ones are one decade old. Dr Choudhury had shared a Facebook post about the smoke emanating from crematorium chimney affecting the environment. Shrinivas Kandul, PMC electric department head and incharge of crematoriums said, “The 13 electric crematoriums in the city are facing overload since the past one year and their maintenance is long due causing regular breakdowns. It is also letting out toxic smoke into the atmosphere, causing inconvenience to nearby residents. We are taking steps to address these issues.” The official said regular cleaning of chimney pipes is done to check smoke released in the air. Mohol said that the civic body will work on the recommendations made by Dr Choudhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-plans-bigger-chimneys-to-address-overloaded-crematoria-101620312533049.html
06-05-2021||Other||22-year-old woman arrested for killing 3-year-old boy in Market Yard area||PUNE A 22-year-old woman has been arrested for killing a three-year-old boy in the Market Yard area.The woman and her husband live in the labour camp at a construction site in Vastu India, Market Yard. The murder is suspected to have happened at 7am on May 1. The deceased child was identified as Chaken Verma (3), who also lived in the labour camp with his parents.The woman was upset about conversations between her husband and the child’s mother, according to the complaint in the matter.The child’s father, Avghesh Verma (27), lodged a complaint against the woman.The child was playing under a tamarind tree in the labour camp when the now-arrested woman picked him up and took him to the construction site.She took him to water that had pooled into a ditch that was dug to construct a lift in the under-construction building. The woman then threw the child in the pool after which he is suspected to have drowned, according to the police.A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered against the woman at Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22yearold-woman-arrested-for-killing-3-year-old-boy-in-market-yard-area-101620312532430.html
06-05-2021||Other||0.5 million railway tickets cancelled in March-April||PUNE Due to the statewide lockdown and various strict restrictions imposed on public transportation, 0.509 million passengers have had their railway tickets from Pune cancelled. Ticket charges of ₹38 crore has been refunded to these passengers in March and April. Since mid-Marchm, Covid cases have been rising in the state and city, and gradually, passengers also started cancelling tickets. The RTPCR test is mandatory for passengers coming, or going, to other states from Pune. “I had booked ticket to travel to my hometown Nagpur from Pune in April. However, due to the statewide lockdown restrictions, I cancelled the ticket and now I will go after couple of months,” said Sameer Waghchoure. Due to a poor response by passengers, several trains are been cancelled by the Pune railway division. These include - Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special train and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains originate from the Pune railway division and have been cancelled due to occupancy of less than 15 per cent. 224 passengers fined for not wearing masksPune Railway Division has decided to fine passengers without masks, given the rush of passengers at the railway station traveling to various destinations across the country. Since the order was declared by the Railways on April 18, so far, a total of 224 passengers have been fined ₹64,130.“The rush has increased at the Pune railway station, so it is necessary to keep passengers safe. As per Covid protocol, all passengers should wear a face mask, maintain social distance and strictly follow safety rules for their own safety. A fine of ₹500 was levied on violators and we have fined 224 passengers and collected ₹64,130 till now,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune Railway Division spokesperson. Welcoming this move of the Railways, Harsha Shah, president of the Railway Pravasi Group said, “The railway station is a place where crowding will be there, but our own safety is in our hands. If passengers do not wear a mask while traveling, they should be fined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/05-million-railway-tickets-cancelled-in-marchapril-101620312292387.html
06-05-2021||Other||FIR against 13 for social media posts on Shivaji, CM, Pawars||PUNE The Pune Police have lodged a case against 13 persons, including one who was arrested, for posting objectionable and controversial content on historical figures and political personalities. While the person arrested has been accused of posting objectionable content about a historical figure, 12 others booked in the case were charged with posting messages about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and NCP president Sharad Pawar. Following his arrest, Swarup Pralhad Bhosale (35), a resident of Sai Complex in Bhilarewadi, Pune, was remanded to police custody by the Pune court on Thursday for three days, according to assistant public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More. Bhosale was arrested at 8pm on Wednesday. “We arrested him from Pune. He had made some sexual comments about Shivaji Maharaj on Twitter. The others booked in the case have made posts on various social media platforms about political leaders and have made caste-based comments to incite divisive feelings,” said senior inspector Dagdu Hake of the cyber-police station in Pune. The group of booked people, however, are not working together as they all have made comments and posted content about various topics, as per the police. “This does not seem to be a collective effort. We will be looking at the extent and role of each of them before deciding the next arrest,” said PI Hake. The FIR was lodged based on a complaint filed by Akash Chandrakant Shinde (24), a private contractor and vice-president of the Yuva Sena in Pune. “I had been keeping track of posts made by some accounts based on 51 screenshots collected two-three months ago. Their posts were earlier innocuous, and we ignored them. Recently the comments got very offensive and sexual in nature. Some of these people are in politics, some are social workers, and some are on the internet simply as trolls. One of the men from Jalna ran a Facebook group and a page where he posted offensive pictures and content. We decided that it is time to register an FIR,” said Shinde. A case under Sections 153(a), 295(a), 469, 499500, 504, 505(2), and 34 of Indian Penal Code, along with Section 67 of the Information Technology Act has been registered at the cyber-police station against the 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-13-for-social-media-posts-on-shivaji-cm-pawars-101620311512441.html
06-05-2021||Other||Vikram Bhave, accused in Dabholkar murder case, granted bail by HC||PUNE Vikram Vinay Bhave (37), arrested in May 2019 in the case involving the murder of Narendra Dabholkar, has been granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Thursday. Bhave was arrested along with advocate Sanjeev Punalekar in May 2019 based on an alleged confession statement recorded by Sharad Kalaskar, accused of being one of two who arrived on a motorbike on the morning of August 20, 2013, on Omkareshwar bridge and shot Dabholkar dead.While Punalekar was granted bail on July 5, 2019, Bhave was denied bail by a lower court, after which an appeal was made to the Bombay High Court in September 2020. Since his arrest, Bhave has been lodged at Yerawada Central Jail.The judgement was reserved on March 23 and issued on Thursday by a bench of Justice SS Shinde and Manish Pitale.Bhave’s bail was denied by the lower court once in January 2020 and once in September 2020. “The impugned orders dated January 21, 2020, and September 15, 2020, are quashed and set aside. The bail applications of the appellant are allowed in the following terms,” read the order by the Bombay HC.The case is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Bhave was accused of helping the two assailants conduct a reconnaissance of the area where Dabholkar was known to take his walks, and to provide logistical support.Advocates Subhash Jha, Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, Vasant Bansode, Ranjit Nair, and Harekrishna Mishra represented Bhave in the HC, while assistant public prosecutor SD Shinde represented the state of Maharashtra, and advocates Sandesh Patil with DP Singh represented the CBI.The bail was granted on nine conditions, including payment of a personal bond of ₹1,00,000 and two solvent sureties in the like amount.Bhave will have to mark his presence at Deccan police station every day for a month between 8am and 10am. For the second and third month after his release, Bhave will have to appear in the police station twice every week, on Monday and Thursday. Starting the fourth month, he can visit the police station once a month on Monday between 10am and 12 noon, according to the court order.The court also asked Bhave to submit his passport and not move out of the police jurisdiction. The order also states that Bhave is prevented from making contact with other accused in the case, which includes his former employer Punalekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vikram-bhave-accused-in-dabholkar-murder-case-granted-bail-by-hc-101620310072352.html
06-05-2021||Kolkata||Have been asked to meet BJP top leadership in Delhi: Tathagata Roy after row over tweets||BJP leader Tathagata Roy on Thursday said his party's top brass has called him to Delhi at the earliest, a day after he criticised some of the measures taken by the saffron camp's decision-makers ahead of the assembly elections.The BJP pocketed just 77 seats in the just-concluded Bengal polls, with the TMC having bagged 213 constituencies. The saffron party had set a target of winning over 200 seats.Taking to Twitter, the former governor of two northeastern states -- Tripura and Meghalaya -- said, "I have been asked by the party's topmost leadership to come to Delhi ASAP. This is for general information."Roy, during his interaction with reporters on Wednesday, had claimed that "unwanted elements" from the TMC was inducted into the BJP ahead of the assembly polls, and leaders having no idea or understanding of Bengali culture and heritage were made to helm the election campaign in the state.On the migroblogging site, he also wrote, "In the depths of my frustration I think of my icons Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay. How they had suffered and compared to that what is my suffering!.....Such thoughts, such suffering will not go in vain. Never!"In a no-holds-barred diatribe aimed at state BJP minders and the Bengal unit chief, he further tweeted, "Kailash-Dilip-Shiv-Arvind (KDSA) foursome have dragged the names of our respected Prime Minister and Home Minister through mud and have sullied the name of the biggest political party in the world. Sitting atop Agarwal Bhavan of Hastings (W Bengal BJP's election headquarters)."On Tuesday, Roy, known for his controversial remarks and tweets, had said that three new female entrants in the BJP from the tinsel town, who got defeated by big margins, are "politically stupid", raising several eyebrows."What great qualities were these women possessed of? Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh & Co must answer (sic)," he had tweeted.Reacting strongly to Roy's jibe at his industry colleagues, Kanchan Mallick, an actor who fought on a TMC ticket and won the Uttarpara seat, "It is insulting for them even though they belong to my rival party," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/have-been-asked-to-meet-bjp-top-leadership-in-delhi-tathagata-roy-101620308659047.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Restaurateurs’ challenges: Struggle for e-passes, orders||Just when the restaurant industry was starting to regain ground lost in 2020, the second wave of Covid-19 has brought in a new set of challenges. Restaurateurs are facing several hurdles including a struggle to get e-passes for staff, and a drop in orders due to apprehension among customers. “The major challenges are availability of passes for staff movement to deliver and come to work,” says Amit Bagga, co-founder of Daryaganj. Echoing similar sentiments, Kazem Samandari, founder L’Opera, shares, “Is the second wave going to be a short-term phenomenon, what type of restrictions will be enforced, what will be the mood of the population, etc? These are some questions everyone is asking.”On the delivery front, the eateries have been receiving a mixed response from customers. ““Our home deliveries, which were 15% of sales till last month, are slightly lower, but we expect them to increase now,” says Bagga. Same is the situation for burger delivery joint, Burgerama as co-founder Kabir Bose opines that the entire restaurant industry has been through a hard year and the second wave has delivered another huge blow to the recovery, and adds that there has been a small drop down in the sales. Another co-founder of the brand, Vivek Prakash says, “We have seen a slight dip in number of orders but we are sure now that Navratras are over this will bounce back”. However, co-founder, Viraaj Badhwar, says, “There is of courses a general sense of fear with how bad the situation is but we take great pride in being able to add just a little bit of joy to our customers lives during these hard times.”Restaurateurs have also noticed a change in order preferences. Mayur Gupta, chef and founder, Curry and Co, says, “Orders for main course dishes have gone down, but chaats and rolls are still doing well.” And, as Samandari observes, “In these times...you will concentrate on absolute essentials... We do understand this and will accompany our customers during these challenging times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restaurateurs-challenges-struggle-for-e-passes-orders-101620309654678.html
06-05-2021||Other||Hyacinth in Katraj lake persists; greens fear aquatic life will go extinct||PUNE Despite the efforts of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to clear the Katraj lake of hyacinth, experts and environmentalists fear local fish species will go extinct in the water body if the scenario persists.The lake covers an area of 29 acres and is currently completely covered by hyacinth. “The otherwise eutrophic lake inside the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park is getting polluted water from nearby areas. This is harmful to the aquatic fauna and the nature surrounding the lake,” said Dr Raj Kumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research centre. This man-made lake was constructed during the Peshwa era and is situated in south of Pune. It is a combination of two lakes, with the first acting as the sedimentation tank, from where water flows into the Katraj lake. “Dams on both the lakes have gates at the bottom, which are used to release excess water into the Ambil odha (stream),” Dr Jadhav explained. “These days the water quality of Katraj lake is severely degraded due to polluted water from surrounding areas directly entering the lake. The lake is silted and covered by vegetation,” said Dr Hemant Ghate, retired professor of Zoology, Savitribai Phule Pune University. Ghate added, “The biological quality of water has changed so much that we have lost native species of fish like Puntieus Deccaniensis, which was first found in Katraj Lake in the 1970s. This was a small fish, two inches long, but now the fish is gone. This is because of the hyacinth which is exponentially growing due to the untreated sewage in the lake. Sewage provides phosphate and nitrogen for the hyacinth to grow.” On April 2, deputy chief minister and Pune district’s guardian minister, Ajit Pawar, directed the municipal officials to remove the hyacinth and desilt the lakes. A 2019 study by Renu Arora and Prof Milind Gidde, department of environmental education and research, Bharati Vidyapeeth (deemed university), had stated that the lake needs proper management and a treatment process. “Removal of weeds by a natural process is important. The diversion of the drainage line is important. There is a need to place aerators in the lake that may help to control the fish death rates, because they are at an extinct level. If some precautions are taken, the aquatic life of the lake will survive,” the study stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyacinth-in-katraj-lake-persists-greens-fear-aquatic-life-will-go-extinct-101620309472203.html
06-05-2021||Patna||Lalu Yadav to chair virtual meeting with RJD MLAs, review Covid situation in Bihar||Former Bihar Chief Minister and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) President Lalu Prasad Yadav will chair a virtual meeting with party MLAs on May 9 to discuss the Covid situation in the state.The meeting will also be attended by the Leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav.According to an official statement, the legislators will discuss the ravaging surge of coronavirus cases in Bihar at the meeting. Tejashwi Yadav will be reviewing the health facilities being provided to Covid infected patients in various districts of the state, it added.The party has also directed its MLAs to assist people in their respective areas, the statement added.The meeting comes days after Lalu Yadav was granted bail by the Jharkhand High Court.The RJD chief was convicted in the case of fraudulent withdrawal from Dumka Treasury, one of the cases related to the fodder scam, and served three years in Birsa Munda jail.Lalu Prasad Yadav was admitted to Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) as he was undergoing medical treatment even when he was in custody and remained there days after he was granted bail on April 17.For the better arrangement of the health care facilities in all districts of Bihar, Tejashwi along with other party MLAs have recommended using MLA funds, read the official statement to the press.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Bihar has 1,13,480 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-yadav-to-chair-virtual-meeting-with-rjd-mlas-review-covid-situation-in-bihar-101620307992106.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Centre reduced Maharashtra's oxygen supply by 50 MT, claims health minister Tope||The Centre has reduced the supply of liquid medical oxygen to Maharashtra from Karnataka by 50 metric tonnes (MT), a move which will have severe impact on treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.He said the issue of reduction in liquid medical oxygen supply to Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of active cases in the country, should be raised with the Union health ministry.Speaking to reporters here, Tope said, The Union government today reduced the allocation of liquid medical oxygen from Karnataka by 50 metric tonnes."It will have severe impact on the ongoing treatment of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra. It is necessary to raise the issue with the Union health ministry and other officials concerned."He said the state government is setting up Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen plants to increase production of the life-saving gas used in treatment of serious coronavirus patients."Maharashtra is currently consuming 1,750 MT of (medical) oxygen, he said.The only ray of hope for the state is installation of 28 PSA plants. The state has given orders for 150 PSA plants which will commence in the coming days, he said.Tope said liquid medical oxygen is among the key tools needed to deal with the pandemic.If oxygen supply is not resumed, we will face serious shortage. We will have to get more oxygen from the Centre in this period (till PSA plants start functioning), he said.PSA is a technology that is used to separate gas species from a mixture of gases under pressure.A fortnight ago, 22 Covid-19 patients died in a civic hospital in Nashik after oxygen supply to them was disrupted due to a leakage in the storage tank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-reduced-maharashtra-s-oxygen-supply-by-50-mt-claims-health-minister-tope-101620308276416.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||In line of duty: Kind gestures help delivery boys||As we follow the protocol of ‘stay home and stay safe’, many are out and about, including delivery personnel, risking their lives to ensure that our essentials and meals get delivered timely at our doorstep. And a few good Samaritans in the city are trying to provide them some relief in the course of their work, albeit with necessary safety precautions.“I’ve kept a crate of small packaged drinking water at the main gate of our house. So whenever there’s a delivery boy at the door, I ensure they take one along. That’s the least I can do,” says Suhani Gulati, a resident of Punjabi Bagh.Some others have taken the traditional route to quench thirst of delivery men in this scorching heat. One such individual, Prateek Sachdeva from Pitam Pura, says, “We’ve stopped stepping out and as we’ve a joint family, some or the other member is receiving deliveries every other day. So, my mother has kept an earthen pot of water for the riders. Earlier we used to keep old plastic bottles but have now replaced them with takeaway paper glasses for safety.”For some, giving out tips is their way to help riders. “Since our delivery agents are working so hard, I try to tip them extra by paying the round-off amount. This way, I’m able to avoid monetary exchange and he gets to earn little extra,” shares Kritika Daksh Mehra, a resident of Saket.And not just consumers, but some restaurateurs too, are making effort for comfort of delivery personnel. Mayur Gupta, who owns an eatery in south Delhi, has placed tables and chairs for riders. “Many delivery boys have to wait for their order, so they can sit for a bit,” he says.Such efforts are being duly acknowledged as well. Kapil Chauhan, a delivery boy with a food aggregator, feels the pandemic has made customers respect their job. “Ab hume frontline worker jaisa feel aata hai. Kaafi ‘thanks’ bolte hai log, jo pehle thoda missing lagta tha,” he says. His sentiments are echoed by another delivery agent, Sukham Singh, who shares, “Pichle saal tak bura lagta tha, log hume hi Covid samajhte they, seedha sanitiser spray karne chale aate they. But ek saal mein kaafi badlav dekha hai. Ab sabse pehle paani offer karte hai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-line-of-duty-kind-gestures-help-delivery-boys-101620309115558.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 situation in city likely to see multi-storey flyover at Nal Stop miss completion deadline||PUNE Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation’s (Maha-Metro) plan to ensure the multi-storey flyover at Nal Stop on Karve road will be ready by June has been scuppered by the Covid-19 situation in the city.Hemant Sonwane, general manager, Maha-Metro said, “The flyover work is going on in full swing, but, due to the Covid-19 situation, there will be a delay in completing the work. At present, the reinforcement of the pier caps is in progress.”With a majority of the Pune Metro labour workforce having returned to their native places, work has slowed down.Maha-Metro and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials held a joint meeting in December 2020, at which the deadline of June 2021 was declared. The PMC sewage department had also given permission to Maha-Metro to lay storm-water drainage pipes on both sides of Karve road.Abhijit Dombe, executive engineer, PMC’s road department, said, “Last year, people faced lots of problems during the monsoons. Work is in its final stages. Maha-Metro has assured us the work will be completed before the monsoon begins.”PMC has also given permission to Maha-Metro to dismantle a pedestrian bridge on Karve road.The proposed flyover will come up with 13 pillars, three of them in the middle of Nal Stop square. The top tier of the flyover will be for the metro rail, while the lower tier will cater to vehicular traffic. The flyover will start after SNDT chowk on Karve road and pass over Nal Stop chowk, descending onto the next square. It is 572 metres in length and 6.1 metres wide. The corporation contributed ₹30 crore and Pune Metro ₹26 crore for this flyover project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-situation-in-city-likely-to-see-multi-storey-flyover-at-nal-stop-miss-completion-deadline-101620308812249.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh logs 26,780 new Covid-19 cases, 353 more deaths||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 14,501 on Thursday with 353 more fatalities, while 26,780 new cases pushed the infection tally to 14,25,919, an official said."In the past 24 hours, 26,780 cases were reported while 28,902 people have recovered. There are currently 2,59,844 active cases in the state and the number of those who have recovered stands at 11,51,571," Additional Chief Secretary, Amit Mohan Prasad, told reporters.He said the state recorded 353 deaths in the past 24 hours.Prasad said since April 30, when there were 3,10,783 active cases, the number of such cases have come down by over 51,000 as recoveries have increased. Over 2.25 lakh tests, including 1.12 lakh RTPCR tests, were conducted in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday he said.So far, over 4.22 crore samples have been tested in the state, Prasad said. The state government has started a campaign to conduct Covid-19 tests in 97,000 villages of the state.."The campaign for testing and screening has been started in 97,000 villages," Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said while addressing a review meeting.The work for Covid-19 vaccination is going on properly and over 1.32 crore doses have been administered, the CM said.Noting that the vaccine wastage was 0.39 per cent, the chief minister stressed that it should be brought down to zero per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-logs-26-780-new-covid-19-cases-353-more-deaths-101620300798152.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||Lockdown must be extended for 2 more weeks in Karnataka, says expert||A health expert on Thursday suggested extension of lockdown by two more weeks in Karnataka, saying the state is yet to reach peak though it has been reporting over 50,000 cases. "At least in two weeks we will see a peak in Karnataka," Dr Giridhara R Babu, who is a professor and head of Life Course Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, told PTI. Babu, who is a member of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid, said the case detection is presently erratic because the testing numbers have reduced, especially in Bengaluru. "I will not give a clear indication on the number of cases during the peak, but irrespective of the testing, we will see the peak in the next two weeks," he said. Hailing the decision of the state government to impose lockdown from April 27 to May 12, Babu citing an estimate by IISC, said the state has saved 5,800 lives. "Lockdown has helped in reducing the number of deaths, according to the models by IISc Professor Sashikumaar Ganesan. So, I recommend that the lockdown be extended by at least two weeks," Babu opined. He added that there will be an increase in fatalities at least 10 to 14 days from the date of cases being reported. On the measures to be taken in view of surge in infections, he said triage could be a game changer in the fight against Covid. According to Babu, there should be more screening and triage centres with oxygen supply all over Bengaluru where the Covid cases are high. "These (Triaging centres) should be set up every five kilometres. By doing this kind of enhanced triage by using existing manpower, we can tide over the crisis," he claimed. While daily infections and active cases in the state are rising alarmingly, the fatalities too are spiralling. On Wednesday alone, there were 346 deaths taking the total deaths so far to 16,884. Bengaluru was the main contributor of Covid cases in Karnataka with 23,106 infections and 161 fatalities on a single day taking the total infections and deaths to 8,63,380 and 7,006 cumulatively. The city had 3.13 lakh active cases as on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lockdown-must-be-extended-for-2-more-weeks-in-karnataka-says-expert-101620307963619.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||UP government issues fresh directions to combat second wave of Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh government announced a slew of measures to combat the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with Team-9, formed by the Uttar Pradesh government to deal with the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, and issued fresh directions in order to stop the spread of the virus.The chief minister asked the team members to ensure that medical equipment in hospitals are being monitored constantly. He also asked team members to ensure that medical oxygen supply to home isolation and non-Covid-19 patients should go on unhindered. Adityanath also asked Team-9 to ensure that a system be put in place for on-demand delivery of medical oxygen to home isolation patients.“There should be no shortage of cylinders. Arrangements should be made to supply on-demand oxygen to home isolation patients. Create a system for this. Home isolation patients should not have any problem at all,” the chief minister told officials during the Covid-19 review meet. The government also said that Reliance Industries and Adani Group will supply oxygen tankers to the state and it has also ramped up measures to ensure continuous supply of medical oxygen.The state government has also decided to work on war-footing to expedite availability of beds, manpower, medical equipment, oxygen and medicines to double the present capacity. Police personnel have been ordered to effectively apply partial Covid-19 curfew in the state. They have also been asked to help people who are travelling medicine or emergency needs.In view of the Ramzan month, the government will communicate with religious leaders to make sure that religious duties are followed in view Covid-19 preventative measures. Community kitchens have also been arranged to feed the hungry and the needy in times of crisis.The chief minister expressed hope that the state will combat the second wave as there has been a reduction in the number of daily cases and deaths. The government said that the state is conducting 200,000-250,000 tests per day on an average and will also ramp up testing to detect cases.It highlighted that despite the number of tests contact tracing has to become more effective so that the chain of transmission can be broken. Vaccination of people aged between 18-45 years is going on in the seven districts which have reported high amounts of active cases and positivity rate and the drive will be expanded in a phased manner in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-government-issues-fresh-directions-to-combat-second-wave-of-covid19-101620306232389.html
06-05-2021||Bhopal||Covid: Madhya Pradesh govt extends ongoing 'Janata Curfew' in state till May 15||The Madhya Pradesh government announced on Thursday that the ongoing ‘janata curfew’ imposed in the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has further been extended till May 15 with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan commenting the spread of the disease can only controlled if the chain of transmission is broken. The curfew was earlier supposed to end on May 7.Addressing a virtual meeting on the ‘Kill Corona-2 Campaign’, Chouhan said, “The only way to control Covid-19 is by breaking the chain of transmission. Therefore, I request that everything in the state should be stopped till May 15. The janata curfew should be followed strictly. We cannot keep everything closed till eternity. But we can’t also open it if the positivity rate goes beyond 18%.”Chouhan urged the residents living in both rural and urban areas of Madhya Pradesh to follow the curfew strictly for a few more days and also take a pledge to stay inside their homes.आज मैं आपसे आह्वान कर रहा हूं कि 15 मई तक हम सबकुछ बंद करें। कड़ाई से जनता कर्फ्यू का पालन हो। मैं चाहता हूं आने वाले दिनों में जनजीवन सामान्य हो जाये। इसलिये कुछ दिन हम कड़ाई कर लें: CMThe chief minister said weddings and other public gatherings should not take place this entire month as they have proven to be super spreader events and all public representatives should motivate people to not organise such events.Chouhan also urged all political parties in the state to end their differences and work together against this crisis adding differences can be dealt with later.Madhya Pradesh has so far recorded 624,985 Covid-19 disease cases and 6,074 more deaths, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The recoveries in the state are nearing 530,000 while active cases have climbed to 89,244.Also Read| Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 tally nearing 625,000; 12,319 new cases reportedOn Wednesday, 12,319 cases, 71 deaths and 9,643 recoveries were seen. As many as 66,283 samples were tested and the cumulative figures are at 8,058,819, the bulletin showed.Also Watch| ‘Close down everything’: Madhya Pradesh govt extends ‘Janta curfew’ till May 15﻿﻿During Thursday’s meeting, CM Chouhan pointed out the number of new cases in MP are coming down and around 12,000 cases are being reported on a daily basis. The recovery rate has climbed to 85.13% while the positivity rate has dropped to 18.5% from 25%, he added.Highlighting the achievements of the state in the fight against the pandemic, the chief minister said till April 21, Madhya Pradesh was at the seventh position across India in terms of transmission but it has now come down to the 14th spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid-madhya-pradesh-govt-extends-ongoing-janata-curfew-in-state-till-may-15-101620304501774.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: GADVASU to remain closed till May 13||In the wake of rapid surge of Covid-19 cases, GADVASU’s offices and departments will remain closed from May 7 to 13. While online exams will be conducted as per plan, any offline exams scheduled during this period will be postponed, stated the order issued by vice-chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh.Online classes and emergency services at veterinary clinical departments will continue by involving least required manpower/staff.Students of master’s and PhD programmes will be allowed to visit the campus only with prior permission of the head of department (HOD).Teachers will also need the HOD’s permission before attending office and will not allow any visitors, besides ensuring proper social distancing and sanitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-gadvasu-to-remain-closed-till-may-13-101620303892425.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police deploys 440 SUVs as ambulances for Covid patients||Following reports of shortage and complaints of overcharging by private ambulances, Haryana Police have temporarily pressed into service 440 sport utility vehicles (SUVs) for free transportation of Covid-19 patients. These vehicles will be called COV-HOTS, short for Covid-19 Hospital Transport Service. Also read: PM Modi undertakes ‘comprehensive’ review of Covid-19 situationDirector general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said that each police district will get 20 Toyota Innova SUVs for this purpose. “These vehicles are being provided free of cost after complaints of either shortage or overcharging by private ambulance service providers,” he said. 126 COV-HOTS are on the road As many as 126 COV-HOTS vehicles have already been pressed into service. Of them, 26 SUVs have been given to the Hisar range, while 20 are with Gurugram police commissionerate and Rohtak range. At least 10 SUVs have been given each to Faridabad and Panchkula commissionerate, 12 each to Ambala and Karnal ranges and 16 vehicles to Rewari south range. Seventy SUVs will reach the districts on Thursday and the remaining 244 will be delivered by Sunday evening, the DGP said. Dial 108 or police control room number Yadava said these vehicles are exclusively for transporting Covid patients. Persons in need can dial 108 or the police control room number of the district to which they belong for free transportation from their homes to hospitals or vice-versa. To ensure that police personnel driving these vehicles are not exposed to any infection, they will wear masks, gloves and PPE kits while on duty. Heavy penalty proposed for overcharging Three days ago, the Haryana government directed the regional transport authorities (RTAs) to impose a minimum fine of ₹50,000 on private ambulance drivers or owners if caught overcharging. An advance life support (ALS) ambulance can be hired at the rate of ₹15/km and basic life support (BLS) ambulances cannot charge more than ₹7/km for transporting patients in any emergency, including accidents. The state health department wrote to the transport commissioner on Monday about how private ambulances are fleecing patients. The penalty for overcharging includes cancelling of the driving licence of the ambulance driver. The department has directed that RTAs can also cancel the registration certificate of the ambulance or impound the vehicle and impose a penalty starting from a minimum of ₹50,000 in case of non-compliance of instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-deploys-440-suvs-as-ambulances-for-covid-patients-101620301972122.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Dance tutor arrested for sexual harassment of teenager in Pune||PUNE: A 40-year-old dance tutor was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for alleged sexual harassment of a young woman in a house in Hinjewadi area on Wednesday. The arrested was identified as Sandeep Jagdish Pardeshi (40) of Warje Malwadi. Pardeshi used to visit the house of a business owner couple to teach their four-year-old daughter. A complaint was lodged by a 31-year-old woman who owns the business with her husband, according to the police. “The couple had found him through online search. He had started working for them on February 15 and was going to their house between 6pm and 7pm every day ever since,” said sub-inspector Ravindra Muddal of Hinjewadi police station. The complainant and her husband were hosting an 18-year-old girl from their native place in Patna, Bihar. “She had come to spend vacation time with them. The man used to call her to the bathroom under the guise of giving him talcum powder and then sexually harass her,” said PSI Muddal. The teenager had not told her hosts what Pardeshi was doing until May 4 when she revealed the events of the past days. “The complainant, in whose house the girl was living, asked the teacher to not come on May 5 and spoke with the girl. On May 6, they decided to catch him in the act,” said PSI Muddal. On May 6, the man allegedly went inside the bathroom and kept the door ajar. He then asked the teenager to bring him talcum powder while stripping his pants, according to the complainant. However, instead of the teenager, the 31-year-old complainant opened the bathroom door to find him in a compromising position, according to her complaint. Pardeshi allegedly ran away from the house and was arrested by the police later on Thursday. A case under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dance-tutor-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-of-teenager-in-pune-101620301072292.html
06-05-2021||Bhopal||Former MP CM Nath seeks ₹4 lakh assistance for Covid-19 victims' kin||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in the state was "scary", and demanded that the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government provide an assistance of ₹4 lakh each to the families of those who died of the viral infection.In a letter to Chouhan, Nath noted that over six lakh Covid-19 cases have been reported in the state so far since its outbreak last year and a large number of people have died due to the disease."The coronavirus situation in the state has turned scary," the senior Congress leader said.Many families have become helpless and have no source of income now as their head or earning members have succumbed to the viral infection, the leader of opposition in the state Assembly said.He said there is a provision in the state that in the event of natural calamities, the kin of each victim are provided an assistance of ₹4 lakh under the revenue book rule 6(4)."Therefore, fatalities due to Covid-19 should also be treated as deaths due to natural calamity. For this, it is necessary to amend this rule so that the family of a person who died of Covid-19 can be extended an assistance of ₹4 lakh to mitigate their problems," Nath said.This will help a large number of families whose head or earning members have died due to Covid-19, he added.On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh reported 12,319 new Covid-19 cases and 71 fatalities, raising the infection count to 6,24,985 and the death toll to 6,074, as per official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/former-mp-cm-nath-seeks-rs-4-lakh-assistance-for-covid-19-victims-kin-101620299506889.html
06-05-2021||Jaipur||Nationwide lockdown only option left to check Covid-19, says Gehlot||Endorsing Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's call for a nationwide lockdown, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said it can help in breaking the chain of Covid-19 if planned properly.There is already a shortage of oxygen, medicines and other equipment, and the country might soon face a shortage of medical staff as well, he warned."I fully endorse the call given by @RahulGandhi ji that national lockdown is the only option left. For more than one year – our doctors, medical staff have been performing under excessive workload for the nation. We have lost many of them," the chief minister said."The second wave is staring us in the face- Experts and doctors believe that how much ever we prepare we are already facing shortage of oxygen, medicines and other equipment, soon we may run short of medical staff as well," he added in a series of tweets.A lockdown planned properly to avoid hardships and misery to the poor and the migrant workers may be helpful in breaking the chain of the virus, Gehlot added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/nationwide-lockdown-only-option-left-to-check-covid-19-says-gehlot-101620297992878.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four Gurugram youngsters killed as truck rams into car||Four youngsters from Gurugram were killed when a speeding truck rammed into their car while they were returning from a function near Nanda village in Rewari on Wednesday night. Police said Tarun Kumar, 24, Rahul, 25, Rajbir, 26, and Devakar, 27, died on the spot. Their friend Deepak, who was also in the car, received injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Rewari. Also read: Centre’s oxygen allocation ‘arbitrary’, Delhi tells Supreme CourtA police spokesman said that the accident took place when the youngsters were returning to Gurugram from Mahendragarh after attending a pre-wedding function. “A speeding dumper rammed into their car and four of the five occupants died on the spot. The dumper driver fled the spot. Devakar and Tarun were the only children of their parents and studied at Delhi University, while the other two victims were doing private jobs,” the spokesman said. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the absconding dumper driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-gurugram-youngsters-killed-as-truck-rams-into-car-101620297051911.html
06-05-2021||Patna||5 companies of police force deployed to implement strict lockdown, says Bihar Additional DGP||We have given five companies of police force to Bihar's capital to implement the lockdown strictly to curb the Covid-19 infection across the state, said Additional Director General of Police, Jitendra Kumar on Thursday."We have given five companies of police force to Patna to implement lockdown strictly. We have also instructed them to minimise officials in offices and send them on ground to enforce lockdown," the Additional DGP Bihar told ANI.He also said that in order to stop the black marketing to the Covid-19 medicines, Economic Offences Unit of the state is taking necessary steps."Economic Offences Unit is taking necessary steps to tackle black-marketing of medicines. We have registered three cases in Patna, seized 50 oxygen cylinders and arrested four people into this matter," Kumar said further.The state government on March 4 imposed lockdown in the state till May 15. The decision of the Chief Minister came after Patna High Court on Monday asked the state government to control the Covid-19 situation and declare a lockdown or it will have to pass an appropriate order.Earlier, the Bihar government has imposed a night curfew in the state till March 15. Bihar Chief Minister has also announced free Covid-19 vaccine to all above 18 years of age.Meanwhile, the number of fresh Corona cases continued to rise rapidly in the state. A record number of 14,836 cases were reported on Wednesday while, 169 people scummed to the diseases in the last 24 hours.With this, the number of casualties due to the pandemic has gone up to 2,987.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-companies-of-police-force-deployed-to-implement-strict-lockdown-says-bihar-additional-dgp-101620294106719.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, expresses gratitude for supply of oxygen||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and expressed his gratitude for the supply of oxygen amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the national capital. "I express my gratitude on behalf of the people of Delhi for the supply of 730 MT of oxygen yesterday. I request you to supply the same amount of oxygen daily to Delhi," Kejriwal said in a statement.For the first time, Centre supplied 730 tons oxygen to Delhi y'day. Delhi requires 700 tons. We're thankful to Centre, Delhi HC & SC. With their efforts, we received 730 tons of oxygen. I request everyone with folded hands to not bring down the supply, we'll be thankful: Delhi CM pic.twitter.com/T81bbumxzjDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, says, 'I express my gratitude on behalf of people of Delhi for the supply of 730 MT oxygen yesterday. I request you to supply the same amount of oxygen daily to Delhi' pic.twitter.com/sR4UY6myu3Earlier in the day, the Centre told the Supreme Court that it has complied with its order and has ensured a supply of 730 metric tonnes (MT) to Delhi for treating Covid-19 patients.The apex court was also told that the demand of 700 MT oxygen by Delhi is much in excess of the scientifically determined amount needed by the national capital. Providing excess oxygen to Delhi will invariably reduce the supply to other states in northern India that are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the court.The Supreme Court was hearing the Centre’s appeal against Delhi high court's order of issuing contempt notice and seeking the personal appearance of its officials for non-compliance of its directive on the supply of oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients in Delhi.Earlier on April 23, Kejriwal had informed PM Modi about the oxygen crisis across the national capital. Raising alarm that a "big tragedy" may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals, Kejriwal had said that the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Army. Kejriwal appealed to PM Modi to take strict action to contain the situation due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, else "there will be a tragedy".Delhi on Thursday recorded 19,133 fresh Covid-19 cases and 335 deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 1,273,035 and 18,398 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin.Several hospitals in the national capital have been flagging crisis of oxygen, beds and medicines on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-expresses-gratitude-for-supply-of-oxygen-101620293605908.html
06-05-2021||Patna||Bihar lockdown: Auto drivers begin home delivery of fresh vegetables in Patna||Bihar government’s cooperative department has partnered with the state auto drivers’ association for quick home delivery of fresh vegetables in Patna. The service began on Wednesday.Subhash Kumar, CEO of a green vegetable vendors’ association said the need for the tie-up was felt due to continued delays in distribution of vegetables booked online. He says the online booking facility started on April 30 and it received great response but no reliable method of quick delivery was proving to be the biggest hurdle in its continuation. “Many of old orders are still pending,” he said.The auto drivers’ association members have begun the deliveries at a time when the city is under total lockdown, making the service effective and valued.Rajkumar Jha, general secretary of the All-India Road Transport Workers Federation in Bihar, said this work has provided auto drivers a much needed source of earning. “As the city is under total lockdown, auto drivers have no passengers,” he said.The cooperative department has offered to open bank accounts in the cooperative bank for the drivers involved in the programme. It is planning a direct money transfer to these accounts, he added.Jha said the delivery facility could also be launched in other cities of the state if the experiment succeeds in Patna.Vijay Dhari, president of the federation said it has also proposed home delivery of other essentials like food grain, oil, milk and eggs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-lockdown-auto-drivers-begin-home-delivery-of-fresh-vegetables-in-patna-101620295552091.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||EC defers byelections to Mandi LS, Fatehpur assembly seats||Due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission has deferred the byelections to the Mandi parliamentary constituency and Fatehpur assembly segment in Himachal Pradesh. The seats had fallen vacant following the death of incumbents Ram Swaroop Sharma and Sujan Singh Pathania in March and February, respectively. Also read: Delhi Police raids hoarders of medical oxygen and medicines in Bihar, Jharkhand“According to the provisions of Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the vacancies are required to be filled, through by-elections within six months from the date of occurrence of vacancy, provided that the remainder of the term in relation to the vacancy is one year or more,” the EC notification said. The authorities, however, reviewed the matter and decided to put off the byelections till the situation improves and conditions are conducive. “A decision will be taken at an appropriate time after getting inputs from the states concerned and assessing the pandemic from the mandated authorities,” it said. The byelections were to be held to fill three vacancies in the parliamentary constituencies of Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh. Besides, eight assembly constituencies, namely Kalka and Ellenabad in Haryana; Vallabhnagar in Rajasthan; Sindgi in Karnataka; Rajabala and Mawryngkneng (ST) in Meghalaya; Fatehpur in Himachal Pradesh; and Badvel (SC) in Andhra Pradesh, were to go the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ec-defers-byelections-to-mandi-ls-fatehpur-assembly-seats-101620295491979.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Over 7 kg radioactive uranium, worth ₹21.3 crore, seized in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra ATS has seized over 7 kg of natural uranium worth about ₹21.30 crore and arrested two persons in this connection, an official said on Thursday.The substance is "highly radioactive and dangerous to human life", the ATS official said quoting a report of an analysis conducted by the BARC.Acting on specific information, the Nagpada unit of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) had apprehended a 27-year-old Thane resident, Jigar Pandya, with some small pieces of the valuable substance on February 14 this year, he said.Pandya was allegedly trying to sell it illegally and was in search of a possible customer, he said.During his interrogation, the ATS team got information that the uranium pieces were given to him by one Abu Tahir Afzal Husain Choudhary (31), a resident of Mankhurd in the eastern suburbs here, the official said.The ATS subsequently nabbed Choudhary from the premises of Kurla Scrap Association in Mankhurd and seized 7.100 kg of natural uranium from his possession, he said.The seized uranium was sent to the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) at Trombay for analysis, he said.The report received from the research center mentioned that the substance was natural uranium, which is "highly radioactive and dangerous to human life", he said.The ATS on Wednesday registered a case under provisions of the Atomic Energy Act-1962, based on a complaint by the regional director, central region, Atomic Minerals Directorate of Exploration of Research, Nagpur, he said.The two accused were on Wednesday produced before a local court which remanded them in the custody of the ATS till May 12, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-7-kg-radioactive-uranium-worth-rs-21-3-crore-seized-in-maharashtra-101620294608922.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 19,133 new Covid-19 cases, 335 deaths in one day; positivity rate below 25%||Delhi on Thursday recorded 19,133 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 335 deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 1,273,035 and 18,398 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 20,028 patients recovered on Thursday, taking the total recoveries in the national capital past 1.16 million while the active cases have climbed to 90,629, the bulletin showed.Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate on Thursday went below 25% and stands at 24.29%. Nearly 78,800 tests were conducted on Thursday of which 14,251 are rapid antigen tests and the remaining 64,529 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests, the health department’s bulletin showed. The number of patients under home isolation in Delhi are at 50,562 while containment zones have gone past 49,000 (49,123 exact), the bulletin added.The health infrastructure of the national capital continues to suffer from the shortage of oxygen amid an unprecedented rise in cases and deaths. Several patients of the Covid-19 disease who were at a critical stage, have lost their lives as hospitals are unable to procure supplies of the life saving gas on time.COVID19 | Delhi records 335 deaths, 19,133 new infections and 20,028 recoveries in the last 24 hours; active cases 90,629 pic.twitter.com/X96AQP0yZdTo address this shortage, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on April 27 that the Delhi government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. However, the imports have been delayed due to technical and administrative reasons, senior government officials told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.The daily requirement of oxygen in Delhi was at 700 metric tonnes (MT) which has now gone up to 976 MT. On Wednesday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led Delhi government urged the Centre to regulate the distribution of cryogenic tankers across India and provide 187 tankers to Delhi in order to meet its daily oxygen requirement.Also Read| Delhi sees over 1,349% jump in Covid-19 containment zones in past 1 monthMeanwhile, 68,205 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease on Thursday, taking the cumulative figures to 3,552,037. With the third phase of the vaccination drive underway where doses are being administered to those in the age group of 18-45, CM Kejriwal claimed on Wednesday that Delhi is not getting sufficient vaccine doses. He added if the doses are provided in sufficient quantities, the entire population of Delhi can be vaccinated in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-19-133-new-cases-335-deaths-in-one-day-positivity-rate-at-2429-101620292547368.html
06-05-2021||Patna||Bihar caps private ambulance rate to stop profiteering during Covid crisis||Amidst reports of profiteering by private ambulances, in demand due to more and more Covid-19 patients requiring hospitalisation in the state, the Bihar government has finally fixed the rate ambulances can charge from people in distress.Now, the maximum any air-conditioned ambulance can charge is ₹2,500 for 50 kms (both to and fro) with an additional ₹25/km to be payable for distance covered beyond 50 kms. For small cars and other ambulances, the fixed rate will be between ₹1,500-2,100 for 50 kms and ₹18/km for distance covered beyond 50 kms.Director in chief, health services, Dr Navin Chandra Prasad said any violation will invite action under the provisions of the Bihar epidemic disease, Covid-19 regulation 2021.“Following a review by a joint committee of health and transport departments, the rate for ambulance service has been fixed. The ambulances must have life saving drugs and basic life support system along with trained health staff,” said the government order.The government has also authorised all civil surgeons and superintendents of medical college hospitals under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to ensure procurement of goods, services and manpower for the next three months in a bid to ride over the manpower crisis.For those involved with healthcare at various levels, honorarium per day shift has been fixed. For specialist doctors (PG and diploma), the honorarium per day, per shift will be ₹7,000 and ₹5,000 respectively, while for MBBS it will be ₹4,000. For BSc (nursing), General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) and Auxiliary nurse midwife (ANMs), the per day honorarium will be ₹2,500, ₹1,500 and ₹1,000 respectively.In other measures to mitigate the crisis, leaves of all police officials and personnel was cancelled to ensure their full attendance. In an official notification issued by Bihar Police Headquarters, police officials have been instructed to monitor lockdown strictly throughout the state. The state government imposed a complete lockdown till May 15.Meanwhile, the number of fresh Covid cases continued to rise in the state with a record number of 14,836 cases registered on Wednesday apart from 169 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of casualties due to the pandemic has gone up to 2,987.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-caps-private-ambulance-rate-to-stop-profiteering-during-covid-crisis-101620292611250.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||'Moral fabric dismembered': HC on hoarding, black marketing amid Covid-19 surge||The Delhi High Court Thursday said the moral fabric of people has been "dismembered" to a great extent as instead of coming together to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, they are engaging in hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders, medicines and concentrators."We are still not understanding the gravity of the situation and that is why we are not coming together. Which is why we are seeing instances of hoarding and black marketing. Our moral fabric has been dismembered to a great extent," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said.The observation came in response to a suggestion by a lawyer that medical professionals who have retired, medical students or nursing students can be tapped to provide assistance in the prevailing situation when there is shortage of personnel also not just medicines, equipment and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moral-fabric-dismembered-hc-on-hoarding-black-marketing-amid-covid-19-surge-101620291332625.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees over 1,349% jump in Covid-19 containment zones in past 1 month||The national capital has witnessed a staggering 1,349 per cent jump in the number of its Covid-19 containment zones in the past one month, with South Delhi accounting for the maximum 21,172 such zones out of the total 47,704, according to official figures.Northeast Delhi has 600 containment zones closely followed by East Delhi (504) which has the lowest number of such zones.Delhi had 3,291 containment zones on April 6. The number shot up to a staggering 47,704 -- an increase of over 1,349 per cent -- by Tuesday.According to data from the city government's revenue department, south Delhi has the maximum number of 21,172 containment zones -- nearly 45 per cent of the total -- followed by central Delhi (7,114), New Delhi (4,946) and southwest Delhi (3,238).Out of the 11 districts in the national capital, seven have less than 3,000 containment zones. These are North Delhi (2,801), West Delhi (2,525), Southeast Delhi (2,027), Northwest Delhi (1,487), Shahdara (1,290), Northeast Delhi (600) and East Delhi (504).Since the beginning of the pandemic, Delhi has had a total of 65,527 containment zones, with South Delhi recording 22,546, the highest in the city. Of these, 17,823 have been de-contained.There are 42,244 active containment zones in the city.In compliance with the Union Health Ministry regulations, an area or building is marked as a containment zone when three or more COVID-19 positive cases are reported there. To prevent further contamination, more stringent restrictions are imposed in these areas.Delhi recorded 20,960 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday and 311 related fatalities which pushed the total number of cases in the city to 1,253,902 and the death toll to 18,063.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-over-1-349-jump-in-covid-19-containment-zones-in-past-1-month-101620291464309.html
06-05-2021||Patna||Bihar govt suspends leaves of police officials due to Covid-19 crisis||Bihar government on Thursday suspended leaves of all police officials and employees in view of the Covid crisis.In an official notification issued by Bihar Police Headquarters, police officials have been instructed to monitor lockdown strictly throughout the state."In view of the Covid crisis, leaves of all officers and employees have been suspended. Leaves to be granted in special circumstances on a case-to-case basis," headquarters informed.In an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government has imposed a complete lockdown till May 15. Meanwhile, the number of fresh Corona cases continued to rise rapidly in the state. A record number of 14,836 cases were reported on Wednesday while, 169 people scummed to the diseases in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of casualties due to the pandemic has gone up to 2,987.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-suspends-leaves-of-police-officials-due-to-covid-19-crisis-101620290566900.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Created war room to monitor Covid-19 situation: Mumbai mayor||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday said the current death rate of Covid-19 in Mumbai is lower than the previous year, adding that a war room has been created to monitor the coronavirus situation in the city. "The current death rate is lower than the last year. We have created a war room to monitor the Covid-19 situation in the city. We're informing people about the availability of hospital beds through the war room," said Pednekar.Earlier on Tuesday, the Mumbai mayor stressed the importance of getting more and more people vaccinated to equip them to deal with a potential third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).She has also appealed to the citizens not to crowd at vaccination centres, saying social distancing norms must be followed. "For the third wave, it is essential to vaccinate more and more people. I thank PM Modi for opening vaccination for people between 18-44 years of age," she added.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received a fresh stock of one lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses on Tuesday night. "Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation received a fresh stock of one lakh vaccine doses last night and it will resume vaccination of people above 45 years at BMC's and government vaccination centres," the BMC informed.Mumbai on Wednesday reported 3,879 fresh Covid-19 cases and 77 deaths, taking the count of daily infections in the city to 6,65,299 and the death toll to 13,547, a BMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/created-war-room-to-monitor-covid-19-situation-mumbai-mayor-101620284930017.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC declines Deshmukh's plea for interim protection from CBI||The Bombay high court on Thursday declined to give any interim protection to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh from any coercive action by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Court directed the former minister to move the vacation bench of the high court on the basis of the urgency of the case if needed, reported news agency ANI.Adjourning Deshmukh's petition challenging the CBI FIR against him in the corruption row, the Court asked CBI to file a reply to the plea in four weeks. The next hearing in the matter will be after the summer vacation of the court, reported the news agency.Also read: Mumbai cop Sunil Mane remanded in judicial custody in Mansukh Hiran murder probeAllegations of corruption and misconduct were levelled against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh accused Deshkmukh of "malpractices and "malpractices". He said that the minister also asked suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai restaurants and bars.The allegations against Deshmukh came to the surface during the probe into the security breach incident that took place in February near Antilia. Following the allegations and the Bombay high court's direction to CBI to start an inquiry, the minister resigned from his post within 15 days of the allegations. The court also directed the agency to register an FIR in case of discovery of any cognizable offence.CBI conducted raids at four premises of Deshmukh on April 24 after registering an FIR against him in the corruption matter. The agency found incriminating documents and digital devices during the searches, ANI quoted sources as saying.Also read| Allegations against ex-Maharashtra min: CBI submits interim probe report to courtDeshmukh on Monday moved the Bombay high court to quash an FIR registered against him by the central investigation agency over the corruption row and also pleaded for interim protection from any coercive action taken by the agency.The Maharashtra government also filed a petition before the Court seeking to remove some portions from the FIR registered by the CBI. The state government said that some portions of the FIR registered by the agency against Deshmukh were intended to "destabilise" the Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-declines-deshmukh-s-plea-for-interim-protection-from-cbi-101620284993519.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||'Oxygen produced in Karnataka should be reserved for our state': Siddaramaiah||Former Karnataka Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said that the oxygen produced in the state should be reserved for the state only, amid the acute oxygen crisis faced by the country due to the rampant surge in coronavirus cases.Taking to Twitter, the Congress leader claimed that Karnataka's allocated oxygen quota by the central government is less than 50 per cent of the state's demand.He tweeted, "Oxygen produced in Karnataka should be reserved for our state only. The allocated oxygen share for Karnataka is less than 50 per cent of the actual demand."Siddaramaiah also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase the oxygen supply to the state and said, "I urge PM to increase the supply of oxygen based on the actual demand."The government of Karnataka on Wednesday set up a Commission of Inquiry to probe into the death of 24 patients at a district hospital in Chamarajanagar reportedly due to a shortage of oxygen earlier on Monday.Praising the state government's decision, Siddaramaiah tweeted, "I welcome the decision taken for the judicial investigation regarding Chamarajanagar hospital Oxygen shortage incident. Guilty should be punished."Highlighting the death of four people at SNR Hospital, Kolar also due to oxygen shortage, Siddaramaiah said, "I also urge the government to initiate a judicial investigation regarding the deaths reported in Kolar, Bengaluru, etc due to Oxygen shortage."As the country witnesses a massive rise in coronavirus cases, several reports of patients' death have surfaced due to the shortage of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/oxygen-produced-in-karnataka-should-be-reserved-for-our-state-siddaramaiah-101620287532595.html
06-05-2021||Kolkata||Newly elected MLAs of West Bengal sworn in||The swearing-in ceremony for the newly elected legislators in West Bengal got underway on Thursday morning, with pro-tem speaker Subrata Mukherjee administering the oath of office and secrecy to the MLAs.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee attended the ceremony for a short while before leaving for the state secretariat.The entire programme was held following Covid-19 protocols, an official said.At least 143 MLAs -- most of them from the assembly constituencies of Kolkata, North- and South-24 Parganas, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Howrah, Hooghly and Jhargram -- are set to take oath on Thursday.Seventy-four of them would be sworn-in during the first half of the day, and the rest in the second half.So far, senior TMC leaders including Partha Chatterjee, Shashi Panja, Madan Mitra, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay and Nirmal Majhi have taken oath in the state assembly.No BJP representative, however, took part on Thursday.The oath-taking ceremony will continue till Saturday.The TMC has swept the just-concluded West Bengal assembly elections, bagging 213 seats, while its bitter rival, the BJP, managed to pocket 77 constituencies.One seat has gone to the ISF, which contested under the symbol of Rashtriya Secular Majlis Party, and another to an Independent member.Elections in Jangipur and Samsherganj were countermanded following the death of two candidates.By-poll to Khardaha assembly seat, where late TMC nominee Kajal Sinha won by a margin of over 18,000 votes, would also be held later, an election official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/newly-elected-mlas-of-west-bengal-sworn-in-101620287541239.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Gargi College students help differently abled, underprivileged women||Even the pandemic hasn’t been able to douse the spirit of students of Delhi University’s Gargi College, who have always gone an extra mile for women empowerment. Paving a way to uplift the marginalised sections of the society through their acts of compassion, around 90 girls of Gargi College are imparting digital vocational training in making masks, pouches, bags and the likes from discarded cloth waste as part of Enactus’ Project Rachna, to empower the rural women.Supporting the rural women in such tough times, these students have managed to successfully reduce 341 kgs of cloth waste and contribute to the financial independence of 36 women. “The creative team teaches the rural women to make products like folders, masks, pouches, scrunchies from cloth by recycling and upcycling the raw materials. Another team markets and sells their products through various digital platforms and distributes the proceeds among the women, to uplift their social status,” says Adya Sukhija, a first year student of BA (Hons) Business Economics.Not one to get bogged down by the challenges of the lockdown, the students are giving their best to benefit the rural women by using technology. Charu Arora, a second year student pursuing BCom (Hons) says, “We have conducted a few online sessions and are working on introducing new product ideas for the rural women. Some students have even shot some DIY videos and sent to the women to continue teaching them during these difficult times. Apart from this, we are providing help by marketing the products made by them. And recently, using money through a grant, we provided an LED TV to some women who have partial auditory impairment, to help them make the products through the visual media.”Adding value to the lives of the underprivileged and the differently-abled women, these self motivated youngsters have been contributing to the cause whole heartedly. “For me, the motivation to support the cause comes from the positive difference it generates. When I see the women create something beautiful out of someone else’s cloth waste, it feels like an achievement. To give an object which is perceived as a discard, a beautiful form, and a new shelf life is moving. Seeing the professional growth of these women makes me realise the importance of being independent myself,” Avineet Kaur, a final year student of BCom (Hons). And Sanjana, a final year student pursuing BCom (Hons), adds: “When I went to train these women, they were so enthusiastic that despite their household work they took out time and worked hard to finish making the products and achieve targets on time. Their consistency and loyalty towards their work has taught me a lot about life and discipline.”In the presently rocky market place, due to the havoc of pandemic waves, the students are aiming to secure the future of these rural women. “Due to Covid-19, their community has lost pre-existing market, and are struggling to boost their sales. Therefore, our vision is to upgrade the virtual demand of the products made by them,” says Nitya Maniktala, a second year student of Political Science (Hons). And Shunyam Gupta, a second year student of BCom (Hons) adds, “Once the lockdown ends and the situation becomes better, we will resume setting up seasonal stalls at corporates and markets across Delhi like in Greater Kailash and Dilli Haat. The women working under this project have become adept at making eco-friendly products such as folders, diaries, sling bags, rugs etc which sell really well!”And the women who have benefitted from this project are grateful to the students for their efforts. “The money we have earned has not only helped us in making ends meet but also enabled us to buy gifts for our children. Seeing them happy makes me satisfied as well,” says one of the rual women, on condition of anonymity.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/campuscalling-gargi-college-students-help-differently-abled-underprivileged-women-101620287514753.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Low on vaccine stock, Mumbai’s BKC centre inoculating only 18-44yr olds today||A day after it reported crowding and many senior citizens had to be turned away, Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) Jumbo Vaccination Centre stopped inoculation for 45+ age group and said it will only give first doses to those in the 18-44 age group, with prior appointment.BMC officials confirmed that vaccination for 45+ age group will remain shut at the centre as it has already slotted beneficiaries as per the availability of vaccine doses. In fact, availability of vaccine has remained an issue despite BMC receiving more than 100,000 vaccine doses in the past 48 hours.Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC vaccination centre, said, “Vaccination for 45+ is shut as there is inadequate supply. Yesterday, we got 8,000 doses and it is not enough.”The BMC put up a board outside BKC Jumbo centre on Thursday saying, “Vaccination will only be available for beneficiaries with today’s appointment for Covishield in the age group of 18 years to 44 years between 9am and 5pm.”Also Read | Maharashtra breaches 900-death mark for second timeTechnical glitches also stalled work elsewhere. In a tweet on Thursday, the BMC said, “The new vaccination centre at Transit Camp in Dharavi could not be activated today due to technical glitches. Citizens with slots booked there are requested to go to Urban Health Centre. It will be taken up on priority.”Long queues were observed at several other vaccination centres in the city, including Dahisar Jumbo Centre, NESCO jumbo centre, Rajawadi Hospital, and KEM Hospital. The BMC has issued a list of 75 vaccination centres where vaccination for 45+ is being done for first and second dose on Thursday. However, Covaxin is being given only to those requiring second dose. Vaccination of 18-44 age group is on at five vaccination centres where 2,500 citizens will be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/low-on-vaccine-stock-mumbai-s-bkc-centre-inoculating-only-18-44yr-olds-today-101620286251458.html
06-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal to use quacks as first line of defence against Covid-19||The West Bengal government will use the state’s 275,000 quacks as the first line of defence against the second wave of Covid-19, which has registered a 5- 8 times jump in rural Bengal over last year’s peak. The state health department will soon issue dos and don’ts for their handling of Covid-19 patients.“We can use this workforce. We can name them ‘Swasthya Suraksha Bondhu’ instead of calling them quacks,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said referring to the unqualified rural healthcare workers who are often consulted by villagers for minor ailments in absence of qualified doctors.Daily count of Covid-19 cases in Bengal has shot up more than 20 times since March 27, when the eight phase state assembly elections took off. Number of positive cases in rural Bengal too have gone up significantly, triggering concerns.“Even when the state was witnessing the peak of the first wave in October 2020, the cases in rural Bengal were under control. But now, cases have shot up almost 5 - 8 times in the districts which have more than 50% rural population,” said a senior official of the state health department.On October 22, 2020, West Bengal reported 4,157 cases- the highest daily spike in the first surge. On that day, districts like Birbhum, Murshidabad, Hooghly and Nadia reported 82, 110, 225 and 194 cases respectively.On Wednesday, when West Bengal reported 18,102 cases and 103 deaths, the same districts reported 722, 500, 986 and 869 cases respectively, a rise of 5 – 8 times.These are among the districts that produce the maximum paddy in the state and have more than 60% rural population.“We have been utilizing our ASHA workers in the fight against Covid. Now we have planned to use the quacks as they are spread in almost all villages and blocks. It is a huge work force which we want to rope in because villagers visit them regularly for treatment. The state health department is coming up with a guideline in the form of dos and don’ts for this purpose,” said the official.They could also be given crash course training by the block and sub-divisional hospitals, if necessary, on how to handle Covid-19 patients and what to do if they come across patients whose condition was critical.The decision was taken in a meeting held by chief minister Mamata Banerjee with the chief secretary, home secretary, health secretary and district officials to take stock of the Covid-19 scenario in the state on Wednesday.An NGO working on capacity building of quacks said they can be utilised with proper training in areas with dearth of registered doctors."This is a welcome move as these rural informal health care workers are the first point of contact for more than 70% villagers. We have been working on their capacity building since 2007 and have found that they are very efficient and sincere and can be utilised with proper training in rural areas, where there is a dearth of registered doctors. We have trained some of them in three districts when the first Covid wave broke out in 2020," said Dr Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, a public health researcher and the secretary of Liver Foundation, West Bengal.The state had earlier used ASHA workers to identify patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARI) and Influenza like Illness (ILI) in a door-to-door campaign and also to spread awareness against Covid-19.Joydeb Halder, a quack practising in one of the islands in the Sunderbans welcomed the government’s decision and said: "The number of patients with fever and cough and cold has increased over the past few months. I don't allow anyone to enter my chamber. I hear from them about their symptoms and give them medicines. Also I tell them to visit the nearest hospital in Gosaba if the fever and cough and cold don’t go away even after taking medicines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-to-use-quacks-as-first-line-of-defence-against-covid-19-101620285651026.html
06-05-2021||Jaipur||Group of ministers constituted in Rajasthan to suggest measures to tackle Covid||A group of ministers has been constituted in Rajasthan to suggest measures to break the chain of coronavirus in the state.The group of five ministers was constituted during a meeting of the council of ministers on Wednesday night. “The council of ministers has constituted a group of 5 ministers, stressing the need to take more stringent steps to break the chain. The group of ministers will give suggestions on Thursday considering possible steps," an official release here said.The group comprises UDH Minister Shanti Dhariwal, PHED Minister BD Kalla, Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasra and Minister of State for Health Subhash Garg.During the meeting of council of ministers, there was a common view that marriage functions should be postponed and only court marriages should be allowed in case it is very necessary,In the meeting, detailed discussions were held on the coronavirus situation, purchase of oxygen concentrators and supply of Remdesivir injection and other medicines.The meeting was told that the state currently requires 615 metric tonnes of medical oxygen as per the number of active cases while the availability is only 351 metric tonnes.If the rate of infection remains the same till May 15, the oxygen requirement will be around 795 metric tonnes. Also, 26 additional tankers are required in the state for lifting of oxygen, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/group-of-ministers-constituted-in-rajasthan-to-suggest-measures-to-tackle-covid-101620280407624.html
06-05-2021||Kolkata||MHA sends 4-member team to West Bengal to look into post-poll violence||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday said that a four-member team led by an additional secretary-rank officer has left for West Bengal to look into the post-poll violence in the state. "The team will assess the worsening violence situation in Bengal and will submit a report to the Union home ministry," officials said.On Monday, the MHA had sought a detailed report on the violence from West Bengal government and asked it to take necessary steps to ensure such incidents stopped "without any loss of time". The ministry also issued a reminder to the government in this regard on Wednesday.Also Read: Bengal police deny rape allegation as post-poll violence continuesAt least 14 people have been killed in various political attacks and clashes that broke out in the state after the assembly results were declared on May 2. Out of these, two were TMC workers whose bodies were recovered in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts on Wednesday.According to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling Trinamool Congress was responsible for the violence that was being carried out against opposition political workers in the state. The party has also accused TMC workers of setting a BJP office on fire.TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, meanwhile, has said the the BJP was 'torturing people' despite its defeat. “We know that the BJP and Central forces have tortured people. But even then, I will urge everyone to maintain peace and not resort to violence. If there are any allegations, approach the police. Till we take the oath, law and order are not in our hands. Despite its defeat, the BJP is torturing people,” she said.Also Read: MHA seeks report on post-poll violence in BengalThe BJP also accused the West Bengal Police of raping two women and molesting several others in the state’s Birbhum district in the aftermath of the post-poll violence. The police has refuted all allegations.“The posts repeatedly shared on Twitter and Facebook by a specific political party since Monday, alleging that two women were raped in Nanoor and many more were molested, were examined by us. These are fake news. We carried our investigations and talked to BJP leaders at these locations. Even they are not aware of such incidents,” Birbhum superintendent of police Nagendra Nath Tripathi, who was made the district incharge during the polls by the Election Commission, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mha-sends-4-member-team-to-west-bengal-to-look-into-post-poll-violence-101620278615458.html
06-05-2021||Patna||Bihar battles Covid-19: ₹9.60 lakh fine collected on lockdown day 1||Bihar Police collected over ₹9.60 lakh in fines on the first day of the 10-day long lockdown in the state for violation of Covid-19 containment regulations. Most were fined for roaming on streets without valid reason. Seven persons were also booked in five separate cases of violations.The Bihar Police seized 448 vehicles and collected ₹8 lakh in fine from the motorists, while ₹1.64 lakh was collected from over 3,300 people caught for not wearing a face mask, as per the figures released by police headquarters.Bihar police started penalising residents for not wearing mask since April 1. So far, ₹65 lakh has been collected in fines from 130,318 residents, found without a mask. The police have also registered 104 FIRs and arrested 144 people for lockdown violations.Similarly, 150, 344 vehicles have been seized till date, resulting in fines totalling ₹4.29 crore, said additional director general (ADG) police, (Headquarters) Jitendra Kumar.He said most lockdown violations related to pillion riding on two-wheelers, more than three passengers in four-wheelers, venturing out without valid reason, among others.Cases under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread disease dangerous to life), 270 and 271 (disobeying quarantine rules) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act have also been filed against violators.The Bihar government announced lockdown after state’s health infrastructure was paralysed under the burden of rising Covid-19 cases in the second wave of Covid infection beginning the month of April. The lockdown order became effective on May 5 and will remain in force till May 15. Of the total 538,677 Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar so far, the state has 113,479 active cases as on Tuesday. It has also recorded 2,987 Covid deaths till now. Patna has been the worst affected district with 115,183 cases and 862 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-battles-covid-19-rs-9-60-lakh-fine-collected-on-lockdown-day-1-101620278689735.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 patients in home isolation can now apply for oxygen online||Amid the growing demand for oxygen due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government on Thursday said that all persons requiring oxygen for home isolation can apply on http://delhi.gov.in with a valid photo ID, Aadhaar card details and Covid-19 positive report.Based on stock and availability, the District Magistrate (DM) will issue a pass to the patient stating the date, time and address of the oxygen dealer. "Each district has been assigned one re-filter for accessing its lump sum allocation and the respective District Magistrates have been directed to supervise the management of distribution of cylinders from the refillers to various recipients as per the allocations in the Annexure-4 of the afore referred order," said Office of the Divisional Commissioner, Covid data management cell in a statement.The DMs shall ensure that adequate number of office personnel are assigned to scrutinize all the incoming applications and issue the e-passes quickly as time is of essence in such cases. This may be accorded top priority, the order further read.Delhi Government says all persons requiring oxygen for home isolation can apply on https://t.co/a9JS34ui8y with a valid photo ID, Aadhaar card details and COVID positive report pic.twitter.com/QVbx4LXpj4The order further stated that the DMs shall ensure that the dealers regularly get their cylinders refilled from the designated refilling plants.Earlier on Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed officials in charge of managing Covid-19 patients in home isolation to make sure they get connected to a doctor within 24 hours of being diagnosed.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry on Wednesday said that two medical oxygen plants have been installed at AIIMS and Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Dellhi with PM-CARES fund. The plants were airlifted from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu and installed in the capital on Tuesday on a war footing, it further said.Delhi on Wednesday reported 19,953 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours according to the health bulletin. While 338 people have died due to the infection, 18,788 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation-can-now-apply-for-oxygen-online-101620277063758.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||AJL case: Special judge censures senior advocate for personal remarks||A special judge handling money laundering cases at the Panchkula district courts has expressed displeasure over remarks made by senior advocate RS Cheema, stating that he tried to “overawe” the judicial process. Cheema, a criminal lawyer and former advocate general of Punjab, represents Associated Journal Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper, in the illegal plot allotment case that also involves former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Also read: Chaudhary Ajit Singh, former Union minister, dies of Covid-19The proceedings being carried out concern money laundering allegations being probe by the enforcement directorate. The hearings are taking place virtually, and it was on May 3, when the reported incident took place as special judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg was discussing the next date for hearing for filing a supplementary challan. The order states that Cheema pleaded for the next hearing to take place in July in view of Covid surge and his age, and made “uncalled-for personal remarks” against Garg, stating: “Aap is matter mai itna personal interest kyun dikha rahe ho (Why are you taking such personal interest in the case), by fixing such short date in May itself?”‘Attempt to overawe judicial process’According to the order, the judge said that such type of aspersions are “not expected” of a counsel of his stature and such an attempt to “overawe the judicial process” is “not appreciable”. Garg also cited the Supreme Court directions on conducting proceedings in all criminal cases and complaints against former and sitting MPs and MLAs on urgent basis. “The accused and their respective counsels were duty bound to respect the mandate of law and the proceedings conducted in accordance therewith. Needless to say, the undersigned and the court officials were also risking their lives in the wake of the threat of the pandemic to discharge the duties entrusted by law,” the order said.Later, the court adjourned the matter for July 5, but recorded: “This goes without saying that the court highly values the peaceful and cordial relations between the Bench and the Bar. There is no intent to belittle the effort of any party or the learned counsels representing them, but at the same the law casts a duty upon the presiding officer to uphold the majesty of law to further the cause of justice on which our Constitution lays so much emphasis.”The money laundering probe was initiated after the CBI registered a corruption case in 2016 for the alleged offences committed by Hooda when he was the CM in 2005. The Congress leader is accused of illegally allotting a plot to AJL in Panchkula. The CBI court, which is also presided over by the same judge, had recently framed charges against Hooda in the case.When contacted, RS Cheema said he doesn’t want to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajl-case-special-judge-censures-senior-advocate-for-personal-remarks-101620276890073.html
06-05-2021||Jaipur||IAS, RAS officers in Rajasthan to contribute towards Covid-19 vaccination drive||IAS and RAS officers in Rajasthan have come forward to give financial support for the Covid-19 vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 years in the state.While Indian Administrative Officers (IAS) will give three-day salary, Rajasthan Administrative Officers (RAS) will give two-day salary for this purpose.Representatives of IAS and RAS associations apprised the chief secretary about the decision on Wednesday.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has asked people to contribute towards the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ias-ras-officers-in-rajasthan-to-contribute-towards-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101620275783605.html
06-05-2021||Pune||State, Centre should sit together, find solution on Maratha quota: BJP MP||BJP MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said on Wednesday that the Maharashtra government and Centre should decide the way forward after the Supreme Court earlier in the day declared reservation for the Maratha community in the state as unconstitutional. Talking to reporters here, he said both the previous BJP government and the present MVA government had put forth the case for Maratha quota strongly before the court, and appealed people to maintain calm. "The previous BJP-led government enacted the law and the High Court also validated it. The present state government also put forth its side in the court aggressively," Sambhajiraje said. "But despite all these efforts, the SC gave this verdict, which is unfortunate for the Maratha community but we have to accept and respect it," he said. The BJP MP, however, asked how other states could violate the 50 per cent cap on reservation. "The state and the Centre should decide the way forward over the issue. All the experts should sit together and study why other states can get quota (over 50 per cent) and not Maharashtra," he said. The state government should immediately offer increased seats to the Maratha community in educational institutes for which it would not need the court's permission, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-centre-should-sit-together-find-solution-on-maratha-quota-bjp-mp-101620275805487.html
06-05-2021||Noida||Noida likely to set up 50-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital by Saturday||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Noida Authority on Thursday said it is setting up a makeshift hospital that will have 50 beds with oxygen support for patients and the facility is likely to go functional by May 8."Setting up a makeshift hospital that will have 50 beds with oxygen support for patients and the facility is likely to go functional by May 8," said Noida Authority.The hospital is coming up in the stadium in Sector 21 of the city, the Authority said.This comes amid the devastating shortage of hospital beds and medical oxygen due to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases.Earlier on Wednesday, the 500-bed Covid-19 hospital of DRDO commences operation in Lucknow.The hospital has 150 are ICU beds with ventilator facilities and 350 beds are with oxygen facilities.Uttar Pradesh is one of the worst-hit states in the country. The state reported 31,165 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking an active tally at 2,62,474.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-likely-to-set-up-50-bed-makeshift-covid-19-hospital-by-saturday-101620275422739.html
06-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 2nd wave drives AIIMS Patna’s oxygen requirement by 4 times||The demand for oxygen at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has gone up more than four times in two months from 2,000 kilo litres in February-March to 9,000 kilo litres a day amid the country-wide shortage of the life saving gas to treat Covid-19 patients, said hospital superintendent, Dr CM Singh.“We have requested our oxygen supplier in Kolkata for daily replenishment of stock to have sufficient liquid oxygen available in the 30,000-kilo litre capacity oxygen tank at our institute,” said Dr Singh. The Centre has allocated Bihar a daily quota of 214 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, but it was able to lift only 167 metric tonnes because of logistic issues.Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital said the oxygen demand was never so high even during August last year, when Covid-19 cases had spiked during the first wave of the pandemic. “This clearly points to the increased requirement of oxygen among Covid-19 patients during the second wave,” he said.At the peak of the first wave, Bihar registered 4,071 cases on August 11 which is little more than 25% of the 15,853 cases registered on May 1 this year during the second wave of the pandemic.The AIIMS has so far admitted over 5,000 Covid patients since March 22 last year, when it reported the first case at its institute. 90 days later on July 10, it was declared a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. It had resumed full OPD and general services only on February 15 this year.Of the total 538,677 Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar so far, the state has 113,479 active cases as on Tuesday. It has also recorded 2,987 Covid deaths till now. Patna has been the worst affected district with 115,183 cases and 862 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-covid-19-2nd-wave-drives-aiims-patna-s-oxygen-requirement-by-4-times-101620275628922.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Over 67,000 more people administered Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi||Over 67,000 people were vaccinated against coronavirus in a day in the national capital, according to data shared by the government on Thursday.As per the data, 47,086 people in the 18-44 age group got vaccinated till 9.30 pm on Wednesday.A total of 5,230 people in the 45-59 age group were vaccinated, while 1,629 people, aged above 60, received the first dose of vaccine.As many as 1,571 frontline workers and 591 healthcare workers were also given the first jab on Wednesday.Over 11,200 people received the second dose of the vaccine during the same period, the data showed.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had last week said a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against coronavirus within the next three months.He had said that everybody aged above 18 would be administered Covid-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-67-000-more-people-administered-covid-19-vaccine-in-delhi-101620275381576.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to provide Covid-19 test results within seven hours: Deputy CM||Providing results of Covid-19 tests within 7 hours is being done in KC General Hospital in Malleshwaram and this will be expanded to the entire state, deputy chief minister and state Covid-19 ministerial task force head, Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana, said on Wednesday.Speaking to reporters after reviewing the Covid situation in Malleshwaram, he said, providing reports of Covid tests and Bengaluru Urban (BU) code number generation will be made to happen within 7 hours.As per the procedure, once the laboratories upload the positive test result on the ICMR portal, it should generate the Bengaluru Urban (BU) code number."Earlier it used to take 72 hours to get results after the reach of samples to the laboratory. Now, this has been reduced to 7 hours. This enables early detection of the infection and to start treatment before the infection advances," Narayana explained.He further said that measures will be taken to do the blood tests of those who are in home isolation, adding that blood tests will help to know the condition of the infected patient and to find out the inflammatory markers.Stating that oxygen produced in the state will be completely utilised within the state itself, he informed that currently, there is a supply of 850 MTs of oxygen to the state and if the demand for oxygen increases further, arrangements will be done to get it from other states or from other countries.On antiviral drug Remdesivir, he said: "It will be useful only in the primary stage of the infection. But, when the infection is more this antiviral is of no use.""About 30-40% of the infected are getting admitted to hospitals even though they do not require, because of anxiety. So steps will be taken to reduce the anxiety of the patients. Hospitals are told to keep enough stock of consumables like masks, PPE kits, oximeters, medicines, etc."With regard to a query about the situation in Ramanagara, he said, that an oxygen storage facility and an oxygen generation plant of 1000 liters/minute would be set up in the district hospital. "Also, a discussion is in progress about establishing oxygen generation plants in four other taluk hospitals of the district with the aid of CSR funds. This would resolve the dependency of hospitals on oxygen suppliers and manufacturers."As of now, the number of active cases in the district is around 3000. Generally, 10% of this, i.e. about 300 patients need hospitalisation, whereas the district is equipped to handle 30% of the existing number of cases, Narayana, who is also the district in-charge minister, clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-provide-covid-19-test-results-within-seven-hours-deputy-cm-101620272576274.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow boys are burying abandoned bodies of Covid-19 patients||Mahesh Chandra Agarwal, 84, a resident of Rajajipuram in Lucknow died due to corona last Sunday but there was no one around to conduct his last rites. His daughter browsed social media and contacted a 23-year-old, who along with his friends offered to cremate Agarwal’s infected body with dignity.Abhishek and his friends - Karunesh Pathak, Sunny Sahu, Shashank Shukla, Ramesh Tripathi and Raghav Kumar wore personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and took the body to the cremation ground where they performed Agarwal’s last rites.“Had they not been here, the last rites of my father would not have been performed. At a time when relatives are running away from a corona patient, they are risking their lives to help others. I have no words to express my gratitude,” said Mahesh’s daughter Kanta Agarwal (52).Abhishek is one among several others in the city who are helping out the needy during the unprecedented crisis with free food, medicines, oxygen cylinders, ambulance service when the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the disease has paralysed health infrastructure causing deaths and despondence.Abhishek said instances of ill-treatment of patients dying of the coronavirus made him take up the responsibility to give dignity to the dead.“I was really sad when I heard that in Jaunpur, an elderly man was forced to carry the body of his wife on a bicycle for hours because villagers did not allow the funeral fearing coronavirus.” He says he called his friends that day and told them that he would cremate those abandoned by their relatives or community due to fear of Covid infection.“I asked my friends if they would like to join me, and all agreed. We collected some money, purchased PPE kits, face shields, gloves, masks, head covers, shoe covers, and sanitisers. We floated our number on social media and got going. Till now we have cremated 12 such bodies,” he said.Abhishek and his team can be reached on 8887987566. He says he and his friends don’t charge a penny for cremations. “I just want to remind everyone that every dead body deserves dignity. As human beings, we cannot let a virus dictate terms to such an extent that we start disrespecting dead people,” he said.Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday recorded the biggest single-day jump of 357 Covid-19 deaths including 38 from Lucknow, taking the toll to 14,151. Lucknow also reported the highest number of Covid cases-- 3,004 out of the 31,165 fresh cases reported across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-boys-are-burying-abandoned-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-101620268668057.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees record 182 Covid-19 deaths; over 8,000 daily cases||Punjab on Wednesday saw another record 182 fatalities from Covid-19, bringing the toll to 9,825, while 8,015 fresh coronavirus infections, the biggest single-day spike, took the tally to 4,07,509, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 61,935 on Tuesday to 63,007 Wednesday.Of the latest fatalities, 21 were reported from Bathinda, 19 each from Ludhiana, Patiala, and Sangrur, 18 from Amritsar, and 10 from Fazilka.On Wednesday, Ludhiana registered the maximum number of cases in the state at 1,186, followed by 1,056 in Mohali, 932 in Amritsar, 838 in Jalandhar, and 696 in Patiala.A total of 6,701 coronavirus patients were discharged during the day after recovering from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 3,34,677, according to the bulletin.There are 240 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 8,457 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 75,10,673 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Meanwhile, UT Chandigarh recorded 817 fresh infections, bringing the tally to 46,793.The death of 14 more persons took the toll to 532, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases was 8,363, according to the bulletin.A total of 610 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 37,898, the bulletin said.A total of 4,23,313 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,75,400 tested negative while reports of 74 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh administration rejected the request of opening liquor vends and hardware stores on the pattern of Punjab.The administration on Monday had ordered the closure of shops selling non-essential items starting at 5 pm on May 4 till 5 am on May 11, as part of additional curbs amid spiralling Covid-19 infections,  The Punjab government has allowed the opening of liquor vends and some other shops during the weekdays till 5 pm.The administration on Wednesday decided to show the availability of hospital beds in the city on its website.It also set up a dedicated helpline number for medical oxygen as per the directions of the government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-record-182-covid-19-deaths-over-8-000-daily-cases-101620268204311.html
06-05-2021||Noida||Noida, along with Ghaziabad, adds 23 new Covid-19 deaths, over 3,000 daily cases||Ghaziabad recorded 13 more Covid fatalities, while neighbouring Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) reported 10 as the two western Uttar Pradesh districts together logged 23 deaths on Wednesday, official data showed.The death toll reached 288 in Ghaziabad and 271 in Gautam Buddh Nagar with a cumulative 559 fatalities in the two neighbouring districts, according to data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.In terms of new cases, Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 1,703 fresh infections during the period as its tally mounted to 49,256. Its active cases reached 8,341, the data showed.Ghaziabad reported 1,373 new cases that pushed its tally to 45,073 and active cases to 6.692, it showed.A total of 1,414 patients in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 999 in Ghaziabad were discharged after treatment during the period while the overall recoveries in the districts reached 40,644 and 38,093, respectively.Gautam Buddh Nagar's mortality rate stands at 0.55% and recovery rate at 82.51% while these figures for Ghaziabad were recorded at 0.63% and 84.51%, respectively, according to the statistics.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 2,62,474 from 2,72, 568 on Tuesday as the overall recoveries climbed to 11,22,669 and the toll surged to 14,151 on Wednesday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-along-with-ghaziabad-adds-23-new-covid-19-deaths-over-3-000-daily-cases-101620267832802.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||Three arrested in Bengaluru for black marketing of Covid-19 hospital beds||The central division of the Bengaluru Police on Wednesday unearthed a case of black marketing of hospital beds amid the Covid-19According to the DCP central Bengaluru, three persons have been arrested in connection with the case.This comes amid the devastating shortage of medical supplies, drugs, and other necessary equipment due to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases.Over the last few days, black marketing of the anti-viral drug Remdesivir and oxygen cylinders was rampant.Earlier in the day, four persons were arrested for fraud and malpractice in the allotment of beds on the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) portal in Bengaluru."We have registered two cases that have been shifted to the central crime branch (CCB) for further investigation. We are also checking if the software has been misused at any point," said the police commissioner of Bengaluru City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/three-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-black-marketing-of-covid-19-hospital-beds-101620267491836.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Anatomy of Capital oxygen crisis: 5 things Delhi govt didn’t get right||Amid a raging fourth wave of the Covid-19 cases, Delhi, in the past 15 days, has been hit by an unprecedented medical oxygen crisis. While several Covid-19 patients have died waiting for beds with oxygen support, the family members of at least 32 say they died inside hospitals due to oxygen shortage.The Delhi government says it continues to face oxygen shortage because of inadequate allocation and supply by the central government, but the crisis also seems to have been caused by its own failings, such as the inability to manage logistics or the absence of an allocation plan to hospitals.There is a demand-supply imbalance. There is a demand-supply imbalance. “We need 976 MT of oxygen, but it was only yesterday that we started getting more than 500 MT. On April 19 and 20, when the oxygen crisis first began to unfold in the city, Delhi used to receive only 241 to 355 MT every day,” said a government spokesperson.Communications sent by the Delhi government to the Centre, as seen by HT, showed that the city administration projected a demand for 700 MT per day till April 28, and revised its demand to 976 MT based on its bed augmentation plan on April 29. The Centre, however, began to increase Delhi’s quota of oxygen on a piecemeal basis from April 21, when it first raised it from 378 MT to 480 MT; then on April 30 to 490 MT; and then on May 1 to 590 MT.But the crisis is not one of demand-supply alone. From supply chain management to distribution within Delhi to better preparation to robust information exchange with citizens, experts said there were several steps the Delhi government should have taken to manage the crisis better.SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENTOfficials and company representatives said that the biggest problem--the lack of cryogenic tankers--became worse because Delhi started looking for tankers only from mid-April.“By then, most of the tankers available with transporters in north India were booked by states such as Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Other states had predicted that there would be a clamour to grab tankers as the demand for oxygen first grew, and then spiked suddenly. Delhi kept its focus on demanding extra allocation from the Centre without giving much thought about the transportation bit,” said KK Yadav, a transporter in Faridabad, who was approached by the Delhi government between April 17 and 19.Besides, the Delhi government’s announcement of procuring 18 cryogenic tankers from Bangkok was also a non-starter due to “technical and administrative issues”. A government spokesperson said it has now sourced seven tankers from the Central government, apart from procuring around five on its own. “Some industrialists and other states have also helped in providing tankers, but it is not enough. The high court has said it is the Central government’s responsibility to ensure oxygen reaches Delhi’s borders.”A senior government official said a big challenge is to reduce the turnaround time of containers because at least 100MT was being sourced from over 1,500km away . “It is only over the past two days that Oxygen express has been pressed to full service for Delhi to reduce the turnaround time. The Centre should have done it from a week before,” said the official.A central government official, however, said the railways were ready with rakes for several days but the Delhi administration could not arrange for tankers to lift the oxygen.DISTRIBUTION NETWORK INSIDE DELHIDelhi had no daily hospital-wise allocation plan for oxygen until a week ago. Earlier, the hospitals had contracts with oxygen suppliers. But, this arrangement went haywire with the sudden surge in demand for oxygen. On April 22, the government decided it will start giving daily schedules of allocation to every hospital. But, it was a rudimentary plan which did not work well.It was only on April 29, when the crisis was at its peak, that the Delhi government issued an order prescribing quantities of oxygen to be used by each hospital in Delhi. This order also came after the directions of the high court.On the basis of this, now Delhi government increases and decreases the oxygen supply to different hospitals depending on the total quantum received in the city on any day.And while hospitals started sending SOS to the government from April 18, it was only on April 22 that the administration set up a helpline number, with a senior IAS officer in-charge of it, to coordinate with all medical facilities and address their demands and grievances.CITIZEN FACILITATIONDelhi does not have a verified central helpline number for people to meet their oxygen requirement, or get admitted to hospitals. It has not spread awareness about phone number or addresses of the 14 oxygen cylinder refillers in the city, and most people are managing their individual demands through crowdsourcing on social media or by word of mouth.The Delhi government said that work on a centralised system was going on, but did not give a timeline of when it will be operational.On April 28, when scores of people were waiting outside refillers for 6-10 hours for oxygen, the Delhi government issued an order clarifying that people will get to refill their cylinders in Delhi only with their own ID card, the patient’s ID card, and a doctor’s prescription for medical oxygen.Uma Tyagi, whose 48-year old husband died of Covid-19, said her son and daughter waited outside two separate refillers for eight hours to get one cylinder. “My son was turned away because he did not have the documents. Nobody told us what papers were required. My daughter somehow managed one, but my husband died hours after that cylinder got over,” she said.The state health department has now asked all district magistrates to deploy teams round-the-clock at refilling plants or retail establishments to check documents and to ensure adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.PSA PLANTST Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said even if the central government failed to install PSA oxygen plants within the past one year, nothing stopped the Delhi government from being proactive and getting things done on its own during the entire run of the pandemic. The Delhi government has 11 hospitals under it, and the Centre is installing PSA oxygen plants in seven of them.“The internationally required number of beds per 100,000 population is 300, India has only 50. So, we were anyway working at one-sixth efficiency of health care management. When a crisis comes, even the one-sixth becomes one-60th. About 20% of air is oxygen, the raw material is everywhere. It is only a matter of converting it into medical oxygen by using huge plants,” John said.On April 27, the Delhi government announced that the city will import 21 PSA plants from France, but that remains on paper till now, which is why the Delhi government is now looking to DRDO for more such plants. In a letter to the Union health ministry, the Delhi government on Sunday sought 50 oxygen generators to Delhi instead of just four, as per the existing plan.LATE CALL FOR HELPDr Amit Singh, associate professor at Centre for Infectious Disease at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, said Delhi could have planned better during January-February, when cases had plummeted after the third wave. Even during the fourth wave, the administration’s response to the crisis was delayed on almost all aspects -- putting in curbs, going into lockdown, seeking the Centre’s help, and planning for augmentation of beds and oxygen.To be sure, several states in India are guilty of the same lapses.“We could have planned better considering all other countries had a second wave. When it comes to planning about beds, oxygen etc., it all depends on predictions of how much the intensity of the second wave is likely to be. Because of lockdown during the first wave, we did not see as many fatalities, so we should have prepared for a fivefold increase in intensity, and calculated the percentage of people who need ventilator and oxygen support,” said Dr Singh.“The lockdown should have been earlier (when the positivity rate was going up), but that can only be done if you envisage through data that there is going to be a huge wave,” he added.Talking to reporters, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi government will continue the lockdown based on the situation of the Covid-19 cases in Delhi. “Right now, the citizens of Delhi themselves want this lockdown to continue to stop the spread of this virus... We are continuously monitoring the oxygen situation. Yesterday, we received 43 SOS calls regarding oxygen. I know that there were some unfortunate incidents but right now, we are working round the clock to ensure that no fatality in Delhi happens due to lack of oxygen,” he said.“But our only hope is that the central government will provide Delhi with its full quota of oxygen. During this tough time, we have also received massive support from the Supreme Court and the high court. I am hopeful that in the coming days the situation will improve,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anatomy-of-capital-oxygen-crisis-5-things-delhi-govt-didn-t-get-right-101620260846250.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||‘Exempt Delhi ATC staff from breath tests', says controllers’ guild||Shortage of manpower is plaguing Delhi’s Air Traffic Control (ATC) with at least 21% of staff are either down with Covid-19 or are in isolation. In the wake of the increasing Covid-19 cases detected among the controllers, the controllers’ guild has written to the Airports Authority of India (AAI), requesting it to suspend breath analyser tests that enhance the risk of infection.According to officials in Delhi ATC, as many as 85 of the total 402 air traffic controllers are either Covid-positive or are in quarantine.“While at least 55-60 controllers used to work in a shift earlier, the strength has now reduced to 35-40 controllers. In order to deal with any crisis, we do have at least 10-12 controllers as back up at all times. The situation is somewhat under control as the air traffic movements per day have fallen to around 700 from 1,000,” said an official who asked not to be named.The letter from the controllers’ guild read that the machine used for the breath analyser test did not have the potential to transmit the virus but the environment in which the test is conducted needs to be given due consideration. “The BA test is conducted in a small closed room for air traffic controllers (ATCOs), while undergoing BA test, mask is removed and exhalation is done in BA test machine. This process can release droplets inside room, which may affect subsequent officer undergoing BA test,” read the letter dated April 25.JB Singh, general manager, corporate communications, AAI, declined to respond on the request made by the guild to do away with BA tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exempt-delhi-atc-staff-from-breath-tests-says-controllers-guild-101620260497568.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi adds 150 more beds for Covid patients||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) added 150 more beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, taking the total number of beds in the main hospital building to 241. The additional beds are on the second and sixth floors of the ward block of the hospital.Of the total 241 beds, 193 were occupied as on Wednesday night, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app. The hospital has 294 beds at the hospital’s trauma centre, which had been converted to a complete Covid-19 treatment centre last year. In addition, there are 489 beds in its cancer centre in Jhajjar.Delhi has 21,805 beds earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection across city hospitals, where the occupancy on Wednesday night was 92.7% as per the Delhi Corona app.The Delhi government plans to set up 1,200 makeshift intensive care unit beds once Delhi starts receiving more oxygen from the central government’s quota.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday also said that its newly constructed Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka will start 500 oxygen beds by next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-adds-150-more-beds-for-covid-patients-101620258804778.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt seeks cylinder donations to create common oxygen pool in all district||Each of the 11 districts in Delhi will now have a common oxygen pool of 20 cylinders to start with, while those wanting to donate cylinders can do so at the Raj Ghat depot of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), senior Delhi government officials said on Wednesday. The move is aimed at giving easy access to oxygen to the 50,000-odd Covid patients undergoing treatment in home isolation.The government, through an order, allocated 11 DTC bus depots to create a pool of oxygen cylinders in each district. Each of these depots will be linked to the district magistrate (DM) of that zone, the order said.Delhi, according to government officials, currently needs 976 MT oxygen per day. The allocation to the capital is only 590 MT, which the Supreme Court has ordered, must be increased to 700 MT.Hospitals,meanwhile, continue to send out appeals for uninterrupted flow of oxygen to save critical patients.“NGOs, religious organisations and individuals are doing a lot on their own. We request them to donate it (cyclinders) to the Delhi government... To donate, citizens can call on the helpline -- 23270718,” a senior government official said about the facility at the Raj Ghat depot. He asked not to be named.The district magistrates concerned will be responsible for the judicious distribution of cylinders among Covid patients in home isolation as well as hospitals having an urgent requirement of oxygen, stated the order.“Also, DMs have been authorised to create a buffer stock of 10% cylinders to meet any SOS calls, till the pool is expanded to fulfil the requirement of all individuals. The common pool will be boosted in a phase-wise manner through procurement, donations as well as those seized during searches of hoarders and black marketeers. The oxygen filled cylinders will be provided to Covid patients in home isolation and hospitals in return of empty ones,” the government order said.Two DTC depots are providing buses to carry medical oxygen cylinders to hospitals in emergency situations, said a DTC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-seeks-cylinder-donations-to-create-common-oxygen-pool-in-all-district-101620258596274.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Supply eases but no respite for small hospitals in Delhi||With Delhi receiving 555 MT of medical oxygen on Tuesday – a significant improvement from the average 445 MT per day recorded between May 1 and 3 – the oxygen crisis in the city eased a bit with bigger hospitals saying they are receiving more quantities of oxygen per delivery, which led to fewer alarm calls. Smaller hospitals, which mostly depend on cylinders, however, continue to struggle.The quantity of oxygen received by Delhi still remains lower than 700 MT, which the Supreme Court has asked the central government to earmark for Capital, in the light of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases that has left the health care system overburdened.“Delhi on Tuesday received 555 MT oxygen – the highest so far. It has come as a relief in a severe crisis situation even though our requirement at this point is 976 MT... But there has been a lot of ad-hoc arrangements from oxygen plants,” said Raghav Chadha, vice chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board, who is monitoring the day-to-day oxygen supply process in the capital.Dr DS Rana, chairperson of Sir Ganga Ram hospital, said the hospital was receiving two or three large refills every day. “Oxygen situation is much better than before, we do not have to raise alarm every two to three hours like before. If the government gets as much oxygen as needed, the situation is likely to improve,” Rana said.The hospital was sent a 10 MT tanker, but could not use the oxygen as the connector port of the tanker was not compatible with the one in the hospital. The hospital, however, has sufficient oxygen for now.“The situation has improved. This is directly related to the amount of oxygen that Delhi gets. On the days that Delhi received a little higher amount of oxygen, we weren’t on the edge,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital.Smaller hospitals continued to struggle as they had to queue up at the 14 designated refilling stations for replenishing their oxygen cylinders.“I think the oxygen situation is better today, but we face a challenge because of our filling station. The government keeps changing our vendor and our current vendor has no system in place. I have been personally waiting in the queue since 3pm, and I do not know when I will get a refill because the station now says that their stock is over,” said Dr CM Bhagat, medical director the Bhagat Chandra Hospital, Dwarka.Chadha expressed hope that the Centre will develop more systematic ways to ensure oxygen supply to Delhi.“Also, it should not be like Delhi ends up receiving a decent amount of oxygen as a reaction to the high court pulling up the central government,” he said.On May 1, 2 and 3, Delhi received 454 MT, 447 MT and 433 MT oxygen respectively – an average of 445 MT per day, with the entire process under the scrutiny of both the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court. Between April 21 and 30, Delhi received 353 MT oxygen per day on average.While the Centre has failed to ensure the supply of 700 metric tonnes (MT) quota of medical oxygen to the national capital, the Delhi government has been unable to arrange for cryogenic tankers to pick up supplies – both of which continue to remain key hurdles as hospitals send out desperate appeals for uninterrupted flow to save critically ill patients.“We received 48 oxygen-related SOS calls on Tuesday. All of them were resolved. We supplied 36.40 MT oxygen from out SOS oxygen reserves. These hospitals collectively have 4,036 occupied oxygen beds,” said Chadha.Government records showed, of the 48 distress calls, 20 were addressed with cylinders, 13 with liquid medical oxygen, and 15 pertained to streamlining supply and distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supply-eases-but-no-respite-for-small-hospitals-in-delhi-101620258312650.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||3 arrested for passing off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders||Police searched a scrap godown in outer Delhi’s Alipur, and arrested three men for passing off empty fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders, and selling them at exorbitant rates. Police said they seized 532 empty fire extinguishers -- painted black and fitted with nozzles to make them look like oxygen cylinders -- from the godown.“Liquid oxygen is filled in a cylinder at a pressure of 300 bars (1 bar = 100,000 Pa). Oxygen cylinders are made of tough metal, and are tested as per the protocol before they are deemed fit for use and refilling. But fire extinguishers do not need that much pressure. If a fire extinguisher is used for refilling oxygen, it may burst because of the high pressure and cause danger to human lives,” said Delhi Fire Services (DSF) chief Atul Garg.Apart from the empty fire extinguishers, 26 oxygen cylinder nozzles, two electric grinder machines used for removing the red paint of fire extinguishers, three silver spray paint cans, and other items, were also seized||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-arrested-for-passing-off-fire-extinguishers-as-oxygen-cylinders-101620257876179.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply to be affected for 3 days in various parts of Delhi||Water supply will remain affected in various parts of the national capital for the next three days as a result of Haryana releasing less raw water into the Yamuna, the Delhi Jal Board said on Wednesday.The DJB said in a statement that the supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants was hit due to a reduction in the release of raw water into the river, which has consequently pulled down the water level at Wazirabad pond. At present, the level at Wazirabad pond is 667.2 feet against a normal of 674.5 feet.“Water supply in parts of central Delhi, north Delhi, south Delhi, west Delhi and Cantonment areas will remain affected in the morning and evening for the next three days. The situation is likely to persist till the pond level improves to normal,” DJB’s statement read.On average, the DJB supplies 900 MGD (million gallons daily) water, with demand peaking at 1,100 MGD in summer months.DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Saturday said the depleting water levels in the Yamuna is leading to a shortage of drinking water in several parts of Delhi, and may also affect hospitals in the city in the coming days. He urged Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to release more raw water into the Yamuna so that sufficient drinking water is available in the national capital.The water from Wazirabad pond is drawn for treatment at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal treatment plants. The Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants are supplying 228 MGD of drinking water currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-to-be-affected-for-3-days-in-various-parts-of-delhi-101620257619345.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||AAP demands 187 cryogenic tankers for Delhi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday urged the Union government to regulate the distribution of cryogenic tankers across the country – the way in which it regulates the supply of medical oxygen – and said that Delhi should be provided 187 tankers to meet its daily medical oxygen requirement.“India has 1,631 cryogenic tankers to transport total production of around 8,500 MT oxygen across the country. This the central government has told the Delhi high court. By our calculation, 1,631 tankers are capable of catering to transportation of 23,000 MT oxygen. So, there is no dearth of tankers in the country, but evidently a factor of mismanagement. Delhi is not an industrial state. Even the high court has noted that. So we don’t have sufficient tankers. But several other states which have the tankers are learnt to have reserved it for themselves,” Raghav Chadha, AAP’s national spokesperson said.Chadha, who is also a Delhi MLA, further said, “Cryogenic tankers are now national assets. Central government regulating supply of oxygen in the country without regulating the distribution of tankers does not make sense. Tankers should also be distributed among states proportionally in accordance to their oxygen needs at a given point of time. We request the central government to regulate distribution of cryogenic tankers across the country and allot 187 tankers to Delhi.” The Delhi government, which asked for 700 metric tonne (MT) per day, now says its requirement has gone up to 976 MT.Piyush Goyal, additional secretary in the home ministry, told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the shortage of containers is the key problem and “production of oxygen is not a problem”, during a hearing on review petition by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-demands-187-cryogenic-tankers-101620257212290.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Antivirals, oxygen biggest draw in Delhi's Covid black market||A flourishing black market of medicines and medical devices has come up ever since the ongoing Covid-19 wave has overburdened the health care system, leading to desperate calls for hospital beds, oxygen, antiviral injections, and devices such as oxygen concentrators, flowmeters, and pulse oximeters.In the last three weeks, the police have busted at least 75 cases and arrested more than 90 people who were either hoarding these items or selling them at exorbitant rates.An HT analysis of these cases shows that remdesivir is still the most sought-after medicine across the city, and it is being sold at anywhere between Rs.25,000-50,000 for a single vial while the original price is between Rs.899-3,490 depending on the brand. Investigating officials, who have arrested people for hoarding and selling the medicine, said that the relatives of many Covid patients are ready to pay any amount for it because it is hailed on social media as a “magic cure”.The demand for this antiviral drug is such that there have been at least three cases of nurses stealing it from hospitals to sell it at high prices.“On Tuesday, we arrested a contractual nurse from a prominent hospital in south Delhi. She had stolen the remdesivir injection vial from the hospital, forged the records to show that she had given it to patients, and later passed it on to her contacts to sell it. She does not have a record but was lured by greed. She and her gang were selling the medicine for ₹70,000 each,” said a senior police officer privy to the investigation. He added that they found enough buyers even at that price.The cases also show that most of the people arrested so far for such crimes are those connected to hospitals -- a doctor, security guards, nurses, lab technicians -- or are medical salespersons, chemists, and drivers who work for private ambulance and cab services. In their interrogation report, the motive, as mentioned by the police is usually the same -- “earn quick money.”One investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said that, barring a few, most of them do not have a previous criminal record but “wanted to earn quick money”.After remdesivir, other sought-after items sold in the black market for profit are oxygen cylinders, concentrators, and flowmeters.The cases show that both filled and empty cylinders are in high demand. Police have seized at least 220 cylinders, 225 concentrators, and 82 oxygen flow regulators.A police officer from the New Delhi district, who busted a case recently, said: “Oxygen concentrators are expensive. Not everyone can hoard in bulk, and sell it later. So, some people are trying to make profits quickly by selling small oxygen canisters. We arrested a medical supplier who was selling oxygen canisters for Rs.5,100 when the price of the canister as mentioned on the can was only Rs.400. That man had recently sold an oxygen concentrator for around Rs.1,25,000, more than twice its price.”At a time when several fraudsters have been found luring relatives of Covid-19 patients, police are calling numbers circulating in WhatsApp groups, or posing as decoy customers outside hospitals. In one such operation, a team from the New Friends Colony police station arrested two men on the road outside the Escorts and Holy Family hospitals.“The price of a 10-litre oxygen cylinder is around ₹6,000. These two men had bought a cylinder from their contact in Haryana for Rs.25,000, and planned to sell it for Rs.63,000. They were looking for needy people when we arrested them,” said an inspector who was part of the operation.And it isn’t just medicines or medical items. Ambulance drivers, too, have been caught overcharging people to transport Covid-19 patients or bodies. On Wednesday, police shared two cases in which a driver had charged ₹6,000 for a 5km ride to transport a Covid-19 patient between Deep Chand Bandhu hospital and Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.In another case, an ambulance driver charged Rs.20,000 for a 10km ride from Jaitpur to AIIMS. Police said these were ambulance cabs, and not those with life support systems.Deputy commissioner of police Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the police’s spokesperson, said in all police districts, teams have been assigned tasks to trace people who are taking advantage of the pandemic by hoarding items, selling them at higher prices, or cheating the people desperately looking for medical help.“Our teams are sending decoys and calling such people offering to sell medicines. Our teams are also posted outside hospitals. We will book them under stringent sections. We have registered at least 75 cases against at least 91 people. We are proactive, and will act sternly,” Biswal said.He said people can complain on the police helpline 011- 23469900||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/antivirals-oxygen-biggest-draw-in-delhi-s-covid-black-market-101620256467499.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: When the grief is raw||She is young and living through intense grief in this season of collective loss. Protiti Bhattacharyya, 22, a history student in the University of Hyderabad, kindly agrees to share a glimpse of her current life. Connecting on WhatsApp video from her house in Delhi’s West Kidwai Nagar, she is sitting on the chair that belonged to her father.You lost your father and grandmother last month.Baba had Covid and had been on the ventilator for a few days. The news of his death came in the way of a solemn phone call from the doctor, one of his colleagues from the same hospital he worked in. Ma has respiratory issues and so does my elder sister who lives in Noida, so I saw it as my responsibility to do the needful. I only cried once, when I had to recognise him at the morgue. Thampu (grandmother), who had the symptoms but had tested negative, died in her sleep a few days later at home, which meant that this was a very intimate death as compared to how baba left. I went to the same cremation ground that I’d gone to for my father. While the staff hadn’t been too cooperative the last time (maybe because I was alone and more importantly, an unaccompanied woman), they were extremely empathetic the second time. I felt like I was a regular, familiar in the most grotesque of settings.How are you coping?I have people who have constantly checked up on me, friends who’ve sent me jars of peanut butter and tacos. All I want is to bury my head in someone’s chest and sob. Ma is diagnosed with Covid as well, which has made all of this tougher.How are your days?I’m addicted to my morning walk accompanied by my colony dogs and the morning phone call with my boyfriend. Sticking to yoga has helped me breathe better. I made bhindi ki subzi yesterday. Getting back to (online) classes has helped with structuring days better and also to take my mind off things. My professors, classmates, friends and didi have been my pillars of strength. Heartbreak does not cut it any more, my heart is severed and shattered in so many pieces that I don’t think I’ll ever be whole again.What are your hopes from the coming months?I hope we are all able to lead more meaningful lives, and I never want to take life and my time with someone for granted ever again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-when-the-grief-is-raw-101620250820792.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC wants an oxygen distribution blueprint||The Delhi high court on Wednesday said it appears that the Delhi government was not taking enough steps to create a buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in the city, and asked the administration to take the help of IIT-Delhi and Delhi Technological University (DTU) to prepare a blueprint for its storage and distribution in the city.Wednesday’s observation and direction by the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli came after a lawyer, appearing for one of the petitioners -- in pleas by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra and several hospitals seeking directions for better facilities and the continuous supply of oxygen -- said that large static cryogenic tanks for storing LMO were available, and could be installed to create a buffer of the life-saving medical essential.“We direct GNCTD (Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi) to explore the possibility to get these tankers and create storage, this obligation is passed to both UOI (Union of India) and GNCTD. The Delhi government should consider taking help of IIT Delhi, Delhi Technological University (DTU) to prepare a blueprint of the supply and distribution infrastructure, LMOs and oxygen cylinders,” the bench said.“GNCTD needs to provide the necessary areas where tanks need to be installed and also for purpose of transport and infrastructure LMO and cylinder,” the bench said, adding that it was the obligation of both the Centre and the Delhi government to get the job done according to the Supreme Court’s directions of April 30.On April 30, the apex court directed the Centre to collaborate with all states to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen to be used for emergency purposes to ensure supply lines continue to function even in unforeseen circumstances.After this, on Tuesday, the high court directed the Union government to collaborate with the Delhi government to set up a buffer stock of 100 MT of LMO in Delhi, or for supply to the Capital and neighbouring areas. It said that steps for the creation of the buffer stock should be taken in three days.The lawyer who on Wednesday raised the issue of the cryogenic tanks, Aditya N Prasad, said that smaller tankers can pick up oxygen from the larger tanks and distribute it in the city. This, he said, would enable Delhi to not fall upon other states or the Centre for tankers to transport oxygen once buffer stock was created. He suggested that the tanks could be installed with the help of the army.The court noted that it was for the Delhi government to explore all the possibilities for creating storage facilities for oxygen, and asked it to identify the necessary areas where such tanks can be installed.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that in the last few days they have not got sufficient oxygen supply to make any storage possible, but hopefully things would become better in the coming days with the SC’s order of Wednesday directing the Centre to supply 700 MT oxygen every day. “We will work with the Centre, and we should be able to get it done,” he said.The Centre’s counsel, additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, told the court that the armed forces are already facilitating the transportation of the tankers, and their resources are stretched. He also said that it has been decided in principal not to set up field hospitals and bring the army in civil administration.To this, the court said, “Fair enough.” It asked the Centre to explore the possibility of using the civil and engineering wings of the army for assistance.The court also sought to know the rationale of a Delhi government order directing small nursing homes to treat patients only on the ground and first floors, and not on the top floors.Mehra said that this was a general direction for the fire safety norms.He claimed that in the garb of the pandemic, the nursing homes have been flouting norms and admitting more patients than their capacity.The court expressed surprise over the timing of the order. “Prior to the pandemic, they were taking patients and treating them on the top floor. You don’t ask them even as to how the operations are going on. This is a sword hanging on their (nursing homes) heads... At this time we are concerned only and only about patients,” the bench said.The bench also said that the foreign aid, particularly medical equipment, was meant for people suffering from Covid-19, and not meant to be kept in boxes at some institution to become “junk”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-wants-an-oxygen-distribution-blueprint-101620249929483.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Startup eSaathi funded at Chitkara University’s innovation championship||Chitkara University recently conducted the grand finale of the India Innovation Challenge, one of the largest funding festivals for upcoming startups.The winning start-up, eSaathi, was created by IIT Kharagpur final year students Tushar Singla, Mann Goel, Anuprava and Shubham. The software-based user interface aims to bridge the gap between new smartphone users and apps, which have become an essential part of the post-pandemic lifestyle. The championship which was open to innovators, entrepreneurs, designers, thinkers, students, engineers, scientists, coders, trainers, academicians from any background was launched in October 2020 and received a record 460 applications from a variety of fields including fin-tech, agri-tech, ed-tech, waste management solutions and the health sector. Only 23 start-ups were allowed to ‘pitch and present’ their ideas to a panel of 10. Four startups made it to the finals. The startup eSAATHI provides users with guided audio-visual assistance, which helps them navigate all the apps step-by-step. The software has been designed to integrate itself with the partner companies’ application element ID, thus ensuring a seamless and high-quality guided experience. Once integrated, the user receives guidance to navigate through one’s phone, from unlocking the phone to making the payment or updating information.The ‘India Innovation Championship’ grand finale witnessed the raising of the fund by the start-ups including ‘Pacify Medical Technologies Pvt Ltd’ (SINE – IIT Bombay), ‘3RUrban Solutions India Pvt Ltd’ (Pune based start-up and incubated by Chitkara Innovation Incubator), and,’ This life matters Pvt Ltd’ (the start-up is offering a dairy-free option and is better for vegans and lactose-intolerant). Other notable innovations and start-ups which garnered particular attention from the judges and were adjudged as having the potential to raise funding in the future included start-ups from reputed institutes like the University of Florida, Chitkara Innovation Incubator, and locations like Bengaluru, New Delhi, and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/startup-esaathi-funded-at-chitkara-university-s-innovation-championship-101620246580098.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t take curbs lightly, Punjab likely to hit Covid peak next week, says Dr KK Talwar||Amid the raging second Covid-19 wave that has led to an unprecedented surge in fresh cases and fatalities, the spotlight is back on Punjab’s crumbling health infrastructure that looks grossly inadequate to take care of critically-ill patients. With people scrambling for oxygen and ICU beds and vaccination drive in disarray due to stocks running dry in many districts, Hindustan Times spoke to former PGI director KK Talwar, who heads the government’s expert group on Covid, about the current scenario and the way forward. Q: When are we expecting the state to hit the Covid peak? A: The situation is grim but I won’t say things are going out of hands like we are witnessing in many other states. If we follow this regulatory lockdown strictly for next 7-10 days, we can see the curve flattening. Next week is going to be crucial as the state is likely to hit the peak during this period. Q: There are concerns over increasing deaths in home isolation in villages. Why CFR is more in rural areas this time?A: The only reason behind high CFR is the reluctance for testing and taking Covid restrictions lightly. Initially, our testing rate was very poor in villages. High death rate can be attributed to the fact that the people are coming to the health facilities in the last stage of the infection. The key is to manage the virus in the initial 10 days. We have now changed some home isolation rules. Q: What is this new strategy for home isolation?A: We will be focusing more on home isolation patients and our experts would reach out to them thrice a day. Helplines have also been started at the sub-division level for such patients. We have also decided that in case the patient feels some problem in home isolation, he would be immediately shifted to a nearby health facility. Specials tab will be kept on patients with comorbidities. Q: Do you think continuous movement due to farmer agitation has made things worse in the hinterland? Have experts ever raised concern over such protests? A: I can only say that every gathering is a cause of concern for the spread, be it a farmer agitation, any other religious activity or even a marriage or a dinner party. I can’t comment why this movement has not stopped. That is not my domain. Q: Punjab’s vaccination drive appears to have hit hurdles. Initially people were reluctant and now the delay in supply for 18-plus age category has further affected it. In sharp comparison, our neighbour Haryana is far ahead of us? A: The shift in strategy for the availability of the vaccine by the central government has hit our drive. We expect supplies to get better in the coming days. For 18-plus category, 30 lakh doses are likely to arrive in the second fortnight of this month. Every state has its own share of challenges when such big drives are launched. Q: There have been allegations from different quarters that Punjab failed to tackle the crisis. What have been state’s challenges? A: Let me tell you, Punjab has done much better with the kind of health infrastructure we had a year ago. Our testing has been remarkably high, with focus on tracking the virus. In April, we were testing around 40,000 samples a day, now we are testing 60,000. That is also the reason in an increase in caseload as we are detecting more. And let’s not forget, Punjab is providing treatment to patients from other states also. A chunk of patients are coming to Punjab for treatment. We have been keeping a close eye on mutations and Punjab was the first state to raise alarm over UK variant and give evidence that this variant was affecting young people. Q: There are reports about the exponential rise in patients needing O2 in past few days? Do you apprehend a crisis in the making? A: Oxygen is a key component in Covid management. So, when the caseload goes up, the demand for O2 also increases. The chief Minister has been raising concern over it time and again. Authorities are also trying to get the allotment in best possible short time. At the expert level, we have taken some steps for the best management of the stock available with us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-take-curbs-lightly-punjab-likely-to-hit-covid-peak-next-week-says-dr-kk-talwar-101620246099567.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||NIA court grants bail to 8 accused in comrade Sandhu murder case||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court at Mohali has granted bail to eight accused arrested in connection with the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee comrade Balwinder Singh Sandhu as charge-sheet was not presented against them within the stipulated 180 days. Sandhu, who was conferred with the bravery award for fighting terrorism in Punjab, was gunned down by two bike-borne men at his home in Bhikhiwind town of Tarn Taran district on October 16, 2020. Seven of the accused—identified as Chand Kumar aka Bhatia (32), Rajbir Singh aka Raja (29), Rakesh Kumar aka (29), Manpreet Singh aka Manni (23), Jobanjeet Singh aka Joban (22), Kirpal Singh (28) and Sunny (23)—were granted bail on Tuesday while the eighth accused, Ravinder Singh alias Gian (26), was given the bail on April 30. The counsel of the accused, Jaspal Singh Manjpur said, “Raja, Kirpal and Gian have other cases pending against them while the other five will be released soon as their surety bonds have been furnished.” Gian, who is an accused in Nabha jailbreak episode, was termed as the key accused in the case by Tarn Taran police. The NIA has also submitted in the court that five of the eight accused—Raja, Manni, Joban, Kirpal and Sunny—“have not been arrayed as accused in the final report under section 173 of the CrPC and closure report has been filed against them”. Manjhpur said, “I had argued in the court that if the closure report was filed why these accused were not released.” All the eight accused, who have got the bail, were arrested by the Punjab Police. In total 23 accused were arrested for Sandhu’s killing. A case under Sections 120B (conspiracy), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 212 (harbouring offender) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and Sections 25 (1B) and 27 of the Arms Act, and Sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) was registered against the accused at Bhikhiwind police station in Tarn Taran. Earlier, Tarn Taran police had got an extension from 90 days to 180 days for filing a charge sheet against the accused. The NIA had taken over the case from Tarn Taran police on January 26. Earlier, on April 27, the NIA had filed a charge sheet against eight other accused, allegedly connected to Pakistan-based proscribed terrorist organisation Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), for killing Sandhu. Gangster Sukhmeet Pal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal was among these eight accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-court-grants-bail-to-8-accused-in-comrade-sandhu-murder-case-101620245739571.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Centre okays museum dedicated to Guru Nanak in Sultanpur Lodhi||The Centre has granted ‘in principle’ approval to Punjab government for setting up a museum named ‘Pind Babe Nanak Da’ at Sultanpur Lodhi. The Punjab government has floated tenders to hire a consultancy firm for the design of the museum. The museum will be a replica of Rai-Bhoi-Di-Talwandi, the village where Guru Nanak Dev was born (now in Pakistan). Former IAS officer, Shiv Dullar Singh Dhillon who is supervising the project, confirmed the development, adding once the design is finalised, the cost and deadline for the project will be evaluated. “We have yet to receive the final bids as the tendering process is still open,” said Dhillon, adding the approval from the Centre came in April. “The sub-divisional magistrate of Sultanpur Lodhi has been directed to start the land acquisition process for the museum,” an official said. Sultanpur Lodhi SDM Charumita said 40 acres were identified in Macchijova and Taraf Hazi villages for acquisition and negotiations with the owners were underway. The Punjab government set up a seven-member committee in August 2020 to finalise a concept note on setting up a ‘Pind Babe Nanak Da’ heritage museum at Sultanpur Lodhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-okays-museum-dedicated-to-guru-nanak-in-sultanpur-lodhi-101620245261086.html
06-05-2021||Other||HP hits new peak with 3,842 Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday hit a new peak with 3,842 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,14,787. The death toll mounted to 1,679 after 32 more patients succumbed to the contagion. As many as 195 fatalities have been recorded in the state in the first five days of the month. In April, 449 people had died of the contagion. The active cases in the state have crossed the 25,000-mark. There are now 25,902 active cases in the state while recoveries touched 87,151 after 1,480 people recovered. Record cases in Kangra Kangra, the most populous district in the state, logged a record 1,292 cases, the highest single-day spike in any district, since the outbreak of the pandemic. The district has recorded 3,954 cases in first five days of May and has 6,872 active cases, the highest in the state. Solan recorded 683 cases, Sirmaur 416, Shimla 378, Bilaspur 266, Chamba 166, Hamirpur 140, Una 135, Mandi 133, Kullu 120, Kinnaur 78 and Lahaul-Spiti 35. At 12, the highest fatalities were also recorded in Kangra, while seven people succumbed in Mandi, 5 in Shimla , 2 in Solan and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba, Hamirpur, Kinnaur, Kullu and Una. Kangra has recorded 21,739 cases so far, followed by Shimla with 16,363 cases and Mandi 16,012. Solan has recorded 14,812 cases, Sirmaur 8,753, Una 7,654, Hamirpur 7,480, Bilaspur 6,662, Kullu 6,262, Chamba 5,078, Lahaul-Spiti 2,036 and Kinnaur 1,934. State BJP chief tests positive for Covid State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap has tested positive for Covid. “I got my test for Covid-19 done after mild symptoms and the report turned out to be positive. I have self-isolated and people should not worry as I will soon recover and will be back,” he wrote on Facebook. Kashyap also advised those who came in his contact to isolate themselves and get their tests done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-hits-new-peak-with-3-842-covid-cases-101620245139489.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid fatality rate surpasses national average||With the deadly second wave of the coronavirus pandemic raging across the nation, Himachal Pradesh’s fatality rate has surpassed the national average even as shortage of oxygen cylinders continues to plague the state government. The hill state’s Covid fatality rate has increased to 1.5% against the national average of 1.1%. So far, 1,647 people in the state have died due to complications caused by the virus. Of the total fatalities, 1,057 (64.1%) were male and 590 (35.9%) female. As many as 1,062 victims (64.5%) had comorbidities — 50% (532) had diabetes mellitus, 44.8% (476) had hypertension, 10.7%(113) had chronic kidney disease, 8% (87) had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease — while 585 (35.5%) of the Covid victims were non comorbid. The mean age of deceased people was 63.2%.The state’s recovery rate is also low as compared to the national and global average. At 78.1%, Himachal’s recovery rate is below the national average of 81.9% and global average of 85.4%. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday convened a meeting with the Opposition to discuss the Covid situation in the state. At present, the state is facing a shortage of empty oxygen cylinders and has a limited stock of Remdesivir. Around 2,000 Remdesivir injections are available at the health headquarters in Shimla while only 750 are in stock in different hospitals. All-party meetingThe meeting was attended by leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, senior Congress leader Asha Kumari , Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar and lone Communist Party of India legislator Rakesh Singha. Thakur apprised the opposition of all the steps being taken by the government but admitted the government is yet to receive the oxygen cylinders it had demanded from the Centre. “The state’s current oxygen production capacity is 53 MT, which includes 15 MT state quota from INOX, Solan. Himachal has urged the Union government to increase the state quota to 30 MT,” said Thakur. At present, oxygen cylinders can be replenished at nine places while Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Medical Oxygen Generation Plants have been commissioned at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla; zonal hospital, Dharamshala and Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk, the CM said, adding that an additional six oxygen plants will come up at the civil hospital, Palampur, zonal hospital, Mandi, civil hospitals in Rohru and Khaneri in Shimla district, Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan and regional hospital, Solan. Limited stock of Remdesivir: Oppn “We questioned the government over the availability of Remdesivir injections in the state, the stock is very limited,” senior Congress legislator Asha Kumari, said adding that oxygen from Chamba had to be brought to Mandi for refilling, which was a nine-hour one-way commute. Agnihotri expressed concern over the sharp spike in Covid cases, fatalities and the delay in getting Covid test reports. “People in Shimla are not getting their reports for five to six days. By the time report arrives, the patients’ condition worsens or he transmits the virus,” he said. Senior Congress leader Col (Dr) Dhani Ram Shandil highlighted the need to deploy additional ambulances for transportation of Covid patients. Singha said all critically ill Covid patients should be shifted from home isolation to hospitals and asked the state to augment beds at Tanda Medical College. In the all-party meeting, it was decided that all legislators will donate a month’s salary of towards the chief minister’s Covid fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-covid-fatality-rate-surpasses-national-average-101620244899480.html
06-05-2021||Other||Illegal mining charges: Jammu mineral officer seeks FIR against BJP leader Randhawa||The police here have taken cognisance of a complaint filed by Ankur Sachdeva, district mineral officer of the geology and mining department, against former BJP legislator and Jammu Stone Crushers’ Association president Vikram Randhawa, said a senior police officer on Wednesday.The complaint was filed by Sachdeva following Randhawa’s allegations against the former, besides Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer, SSP Chandan Kohli, of aiding illegal mining in Tawi riverbed.Through the complaint, the mineral officer has sought an FIR against Randhawa, who in his recent presser had used unparliamentary language and threatened to “kill the former before committing self-immolation”.Sachdeva has also sought a personal security officer citing threat to his life and his family members.“It is requested to please provide PSO as my life is in danger and they may try to attack me and my family members for taking action against illegal mining,” read Sachdeva’s complaint.“We have taken cognizance of the complaint but in such cases no FIR is registered. We register it in our logbook and present it before the court,” said the SSP.The J&K administration had on Tuesday constituted a four-member panel to look into the illegal mining allegations.In an order issued by Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, commissioner secretary to government, sanction was accorded to the constitution of a committee, comprising four officials for in-depth examination of alleged illegal mining activities/operations of stone crusher units in and around Tawi river in violation of the high court directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-mining-charges-jammu-mineral-officer-seeks-fir-against-bjp-leader-randhawa-101620244839169.html
06-05-2021||Other||J&K sees record single-day rise of 4,716 cases, 52 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday hit another grim milestone with a record single-day rise of 4,716 Covid-19 infections and 52 deaths.Overall, the number of cases in the union territory has reached 1,96,585 and the death toll is now 2,510.Of the new cases, 3,198 are from Kashmir, while 1,518 pertain to Jammu. Among these, 129 were travellers.Out of the 52 deaths, 28 were reported in Jammu division and 24 in Kashmir. On Monday, as many as 51 people had succumbed to the infection.The month of April recorded the highest monthly tally of 45,123 infections and 289 deaths this year against 4,519 cases and 37 deaths in March.Officials said with 1,125 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 598 in Jammu district, 511 in Baramulla, 362 in Pulwama, 277 in Budgam and 255 in Anantnag.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 39,628, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Around 2,338 patients recovered on Wednesday, including 1,794 in Kashmir and 544 in Jammu.As many as 1,54,447 people have recuperated so far, taking the recovery rate to 78.56% against the 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.46 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed about 86,600 cases and 1,148 deaths.Owing to the surging cases, the J&K administration had imposed corona curfew in four districts of Srinagar, Jammu, Baramulla and Budgam on April 29 which was has been extended till May 10. Samba district was also brought under lockdown from Wednesday evening.Around 49,000 people above 45 years of age and 5,982 in the age group of 18-44 were vaccinated in J&K on Wednesday, the officials said. Over 25 lakh people have been vaccinated in the UT so far. 24x7 oxygen war room started in Jammu The industries and commerce department on Wednesday established a 24x7 oxygen war room (control room) at Udhyog Bhawan, Rail Head Complex, Jammu, to monitor and manage the supply and distribution of oxygen within the Jammu division.Madhur Anand has been nominated as the nodal officer for the control room and the public can contact him on phone numbers 9469593931 and 9469593933 in case of emergency.The war room will be in constant touch with the consumers and suppliers of oxygen and will take immediate necessary steps, whenever needed.The order issued by Anu Malhotra, director, industries and commerce department, however, did not mention if NGOs and volunteer groups are permitted to fill oxygen cylinders.Routine surgeries deferred in Jammu division hospitals The J&K administration on Wednesday ordered to defer routine/elective surgeries at all government and private health institutions of Jammu division for their optimal utilisation amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.Issued by divisional commissioner Raghav Langer, the order, however, said emergency services and critical care required for co-morbid and dialysis patients, and maternal and child health services would continue as usual.“In view of the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic in Jammu division demands optimal utilisation of available resources so that the existing infrastructure/healthcare facilities are not overburdened, the elective/routine surgeries are required to be deferred,” the order read.Langar said the main focus of the healthcare system at this juncture was the management of virus cases. “All elective/routine surgeries shall be deferred in government as well as private health institutions in the division; unless there are pressing medical reasons and the benefits of such procedure outweigh the risk related to Covid situation and its fallout,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-record-single-day-rise-of-4-716-cases-52-deaths-101620244784116.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid surge: ICU beds filling fast at major Srinagar hospitals||With the continued surge in Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir, the tertiary-care hospitals in Srinagar are fast running out of dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds.For the past one week, four districts — Srinagar, Budgam, Baramulla and Kupwara — that are experiencing major spike in virus cases and deaths, have been under lockdown, which is likely to be extended if the situation does not improve.“The lockdown may be extended with stricter curbs for some days as the cases are still rising, especially in Srinagar,” a senior government official said.On Tuesday, the UT witnessed the highest number of positive cases since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020, with Srinagar recording the most (1,311) cases, followed by Jammu with 598 cases.“Beds are filling fast at SMHS and Chest Diseases hospitals, which come under the Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar. There is a medical emergency-like situation,” said GMC nodal officer Dr Salim Khan.Another senior GMC doctor, Salim Iqbal said that the UT is seeing over 4,000 daily cases, and this figure is more than that of some nations. “This is quite disturbing, and I pray that we all adhere to preventive measures before we see a disastrous situation.”Notwithstanding the ground situation, the J&K administration’s daily Covid bulletin paints a rosy picture of bed occupancy at its dedicated hospitals.As per the bulletin, till Tuesday evening, of total 116 ICU beds, 77 were vacant in Kashmir, while in Jammu, of 234 ICU beds, 103 were unoccupied. Of the 3,591 isolation beds in J&K, 1,565 were still vacant, the bulletin stated.However, doctors say they are struggling with ICU bed availability. “Our Covid hospital at indoor stadium is now full. We have even spared a whole ward in the hospital for sick patients,” said a senior medico at Government Medical College, Baramulla, which does not have a single high-flow oxygen bed despite patients’ attendants having flagged the issue several times.With this, the attendants are seeking help on the social media.“My mother is admitted at SMHS. I’m in need of oxygen cylinder flow meter. Kindly do the needful,” wrote an attendant on Twitter. There are similar SoS messages on the social media. Even former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah highlighted such messages on his Twitter account.Srinagar deputy commissioner Ajaz Asad, however, has asked people not to decide the treatment plan for patients themselves.“Someone called me at 12.45am yesterday requesting for ICU bed. I woke up the medical superintendent of the hospital. He woke up the doctor who replied: Patient is stable on high-flow oxygen and doesn’t require a ventilator. Please don’t decide the treatment yourself. Let’s go by advice of doctors strictly,” the DC tweeted.At Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), which is one of the biggest hospitals treating Covid patients in the valley, 284 patients are admitted, while the tertiary care facility had earmarked only 260 beds for patients. “If there is no shortage of beds, then why are people highlighting issues on social media? Either people are lying or government officials are,” said Adil Ahmad, a social activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-surge-icu-beds-filling-fast-at-major-srinagar-hospitals-101620244779808.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||State govt’s medical infra upgrade claim falls flat: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday said it was unfortunate that the Congress government has been unable to create ICU facilities in 17 of the 22 government hospitals in the state despite making claims of spending more than ₹1,000 crore on upgrade of medical infrastructure. In a statement, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said media reports had exposed the state government’s claims. He said it was shocking to know that except for five districts of Patiala, Faridkot, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, no government hospital in the state provides level-3 care to critically ill patients. The SAD leader asked the CM to get the ventilators lying unused in the state installed. “Medical staff should be recruited on emergency basis to run the ventilators,” he said. Amarinder failed to manage Covid crisis: BJP Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said the Capt Amarinder Singh government has failed to measure up to the grave situation that has gripped the state. “The CM seems more worried about his chair in the face of loud dissidence in the party than to focus on managing Covid crisis in the state,” Sharma said. The CM has been hiding his failures by blaming the Centre, even as the Union government has provided assistance of more than worth ₹1,000 crore to the state to fight the pandemic, the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-govt-s-medical-infra-upgrade-claim-falls-flat-sad-101620244479429.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Manpreet seeks GST Council meeting||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal has asked Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to immediately convene a meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council for a “serious mid-term correction” on tax issues. In a letter to her, Manpreet said he is writing on the GST issue when the country is in the middle of battling the new Covid wave, which is more devastating in many ways than the one before. “There has been no meeting of the GST Council for the last six months even though Council’s own rules drafted in terms of Article 279A of the Constitution provide holding at least one meeting every quarter,” he wrote on Tuesday. His four-page letter was released on social media by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. The Congress leader said the GST revenues constitute nearly 50% of the tax revenues of the states, while this percentage for the Centre is nearly half of that. “States have a voting share of 75% in the GST Council. However, failure to hold any constructive consultation with states for so long in such critical times makes me wonder whether Centre has usurped all the powers of states putting the spirit of cooperative federalism – that formed the very foundation of achieving consensus on the epic reform – on the backburner,” he charged. Badal said some issues that require urgent discussion in the context of Covid are whether GST should be exempted on hand sanitizers, face masks, gloves, PPE kits, temperature check equipment, oximeters, ventilators and the like and cut in interest rates under GST law. “How do we provide relief to sectors most impacted by Covid such as MSMEs, aviation, hotels, entertainment, commercial realty, retail? Whether an amnesty scheme is needed to condone delays in payment of taxes during Covid period?” he asked. He also said that with oversight given a go-by, the harassment of taxpayers had taken an entirely new dimension with officers resorting to threats of arrest, provisional attachment of productive assets and freezing of bank accounts with any establishment norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manpreet-seeks-gst-council-meeting-101620244180250.html
06-05-2021||Other||629 arrested for covid norm violations in three days in Punjab||Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said that joint teams of Punjab Police have issued at least 6,531 challans to face mask violators and arrested 629 persons for violating the Covid-19 norms across the state over the past three days. The DGP, while disclosing data from May 2-4, said Punjab Police had registered around 560 FIRs against those found flouting the guidelines, including owners of prominent hotels, marriage palaces, restaurants, shops etc. The DGP said besides issuing fines, police have taken over 66,000 face mask violators to undergo RT-PCR testing under the drive to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Since the special drive was started from March 19, 2021, the Punjab Police have persuaded over 6.9 lakh people to undergo Covid-19 testing, besides penalising over 1 lakh people across the state for not wearing face masks, he added. A spokesperson said Tarn Taran Police have booked owners of restaurant Arabian Kebab and Master Burger for defying night curfew timings, besides booking a petrol pump owner, when most of his employees were found without a mask. The DGP exhorted the public to comply with restrictions, which were similar to those laid down in 15 other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/629-arrested-for-covid-norm-violations-in-three-days-in-punjab-101620244179133.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Montek panel to study impact of 2nd Covid wave before submitting report to Punjab govt||An expert panel headed by former deputy chairman of Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia, which was to suggest Punjab’s post-Covid revival strategy by March 31, has decided to study the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on the state before submitting its final report. The panel, which includes leading experts on economy, agriculture and industry, has informed the state government that it would submit the report by June-end. “We are in the middle of a second Covid-19 wave. It will be more useful if we see what is happening and the impact it is having on the state and then submit our report rather than giving a report at this point,” Ahluwalia told HT, expressing concern over the infection spread. Another committee member, who did not want to be named, also endorsed Ahluwalia’s view, stating that the second wave has been more devastating in terms of the virus spread and loss of lives and has also hit various segments of industry before these could fully recover from the setback suffered last year. The 22-member committee, which was set up by the Amarinder Singh government in April last year and submitted its interim report in three months, was to give its final report on December 31, 2020, but was later allowed time till March 31. The state assembly elections are just eight months away.Punjab has been seen a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, reporting its highest single-day count in infections and fatalities on Tuesday with 7,601 persons testing positive and 173 deaths. In the past one month alone, more than 1.48 lakh fresh cases and 2,562 deaths have been recorded, forcing an alarmed state government to shut down all shops selling non-essential goods, malls, cinema halls, educational institutions, etc till May 15. The “soft lockdown” has started the exodus of migrant workers, particularly those working in unorganised sector, from Ludhiana, Amritsar and major cities even as the industry was limping back to normalcy after the coronavirus-induced curfew and restrictions for months last year. These restrictions would take a toll on hospitality, transport, tourism, real estate and automobile sectors, besides micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), according to industry watchers. The expert panels’ interim report had drawn sharp reactions with regard to the recommendations made on agriculture, which the state government turned down subsequently. The report titled “Medium and Long Term Post-Covid Economic Strategy for Punjab – A Multi-Sectoral Approach to Building Resilience and Recovery” had advocated opening up of agriculture markets beyond state-run mandis where were “restrictive” and had “high license fees”, and other agriculture reforms similar to those incorporated by the central government in the three farms laws that are being opposed by farmers in the state. Besides new rules and amendments related to levy of market fees, commission fees, licensing for agriculture marketing to make the state competitive, the committee had also suggested leasing of agriculture land for a bigger role for private sector and disapproved of the free power policy for its financial and environmental consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/montek-panel-to-study-impact-of-2nd-covid-wave-before-submitting-report-to-punjab-govt-101620243939438.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||89% intensive care beds in Punjab’s govt hospitals full||Amid the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 infections in the state, the second wave of the virus has pushed the state’s health care infrastructure near to its saturation point. Covid patients, especially those needing oxygen and ventilator support (Level-3), across the state are scurrying for beds. The state health department has reserved 2,400 intensive care unit (ICU) beds (with or without ventilators), for critical patients in government and private hospitals of the state.”Of the 2,400 beds, 826 ICU beds are in government hospitals, including GMC Amritsar, GMC Patiala and GMC Faridkot, of which 733 (89%) are occupied,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, adding that they are planning to increase the Level-3 beds in the state. The occupancy varies from facility to facility as 92% ICU beds at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, are occupied while Rajindra Hospital in Patiala has overrun its capacity and authorities there were treating critical patients more than the dedicated beds at their disposal. There are 12 ICU beds at the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, of which only three were available. Sixteen ICU beds at the government hospitals in Ludhiana, in addition to 14 ventilators supplied by the government to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC), all are occupied. 92% occupancy at GMCH Amritsar Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, is the only government-run hospital in the Majha region comprising four districts Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, offering treatment to critical Covid patients requiring intensive care (Level-3). Of the 250 Level-3 beds reserved for the Covid-19 patients at the facility, 229 (92%) were occupied (till 4 pm on Wednesday) with patients coming from at least 10 districts of Punjab. The hospital has 87 ventilators reserved for Covid-19 patients, of which 40 were occupied. As per the health officials, two ventilators at Gurdaspur government hospital and three at Tarn Taran are lying non-operational due to staff shortage. Amritsar GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “At present, 92% of ICU beds are occupied as the demand for oxygen beds has drastically increased in the recent days amid oxygen shortage. We have proposed to increase 50 more ICU beds in the hospital, keeping in view the rising caseload in the region. Beds can be increased but meeting oxygen requirement is a big task.” In all, Amritsar district has 526 Level-3 beds (government and private) reserved for the Covid-19 patients but people prefer a government facility as private hospitals’ charges are high. Three-fold jump in critical patients at Faridkot hospital in a week At Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, the number of critical patients saw a three-fold jump in the last one week, and now it has 73% of the beds occupied. Of the 272 Level-3 beds, the hospital has 200 critical Covid-19 patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. There were only 65 critical patients undergoing treatment at the hospital till last week, officials said. The hospital has 82 ventilators reserved for the Covid patients. Dr Shilekh Mittal, medical superintendent GGSMCH, said the number of patients has witnessed a sudden increase in the last one week and most of them are critical. “Right now, out of 272 Level-3 beds, 200 are occupied. Even patients from outside the south Malwa region are undergoing treatment at the hospital,” he added. At the recently started 10 bed Level-3 Covid care facility at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 50% beds are occupied. In Bathinda, AIIMS is the only government institute equipped with ventilators. Patiala hospital has overrun its capacity The Government Rajindra Hospital 200 ICU beds and is providing medical assistance to 228 critical Covid patients by making temporary arrangements. Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi said of total Level-3 beds, 150 are dedicated for Covid patients and all of them are occupied. “All the beds in Covid ICUs are occupied as we are receiving critical patients from other districts and states,” said Dr Rekhi. The Patiala district also has eight Level-3 beds at the military hospital, of which six are occupied. (With inputs from Vishal Joshi in Bathinda, Parteek Mahal in Faridkot, Navrajdeep Singh in Patiala and Mohit Khanna in Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/89-intensive-care-beds-in-punjab-s-govt-hospitals-full-101620243759098.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota scrapped: We are not averse to need-based reservation, says lawyer||“We are not against Maratha or any other community for that matter. We are opposed to the very idea of caste-based reservation,” said Sanjeet Rammilan Shukla, lawyer and activist who has played an important role in the successful challenge to Maharashtra government’s decision to provide 16% reservation for Maratha community in public employment and education. “We are not averse to need-based reservation for economically backward sections of the society, for the ground reality is that majority of those in actual need of social support are still out of the mainstream because even education is beyond their reach,” he clarified.The 36-year-old represents a non-profit organisation, Youth for Equality Foundation, a body of educated like-minded professionals opposed to the idea of caste-based reservation. The organisation, having pan-India presence, was formed in 2006, immediately after the Mandal Commission controversy after the reservation in public employment and education nearly doubled, from 26% to 50%.In 2014, advocate Shukla petitioned the Bombay high court (HC) as a representative of the non-profit organisation when the state government came up with June 25, 2014 decision to provide reservation to the Maratha community. He fought the legal battle with other petitioners, resulting in the HC staying the decision on November 14, 2014.He again approached the HC after the then BJP-led government in Maharashtra came out with a new legislation to ride over the HC stay order and introduce the same decision to extend the benefit of reservation to Maratha community. This time, HC held the reservation law constitutionally valid, prompting petitioners like the lawyer-activist to move the Supreme Court.Shukla said that in the earlier round the state government had relied on the Narayan Rane committee report on social status of Maratha community in Maharashtra to provide the reservation. In the second round, it was the report of justice (retired) MG Gaikwad committee which provided the much-needed support to the second legislation. With regards to the legal battle before the Supreme Court, he said, “Apart from the legal aspects of breach of limit of 50% reservation in Maharashtra, we also pointed out that sample survey data placed before the Gaikwad Committee was not only grossly inadequate — barely 10% of what Range Committee took in to consideration — but was also obtained with the aid of tweaked format of the sample survey questionnaire required to be used for social surveys.” Besides, he said, the petitioners also pointed out that Maratha community was appropriately represented in public employment, and therefore there was no need to provide reservation to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-scrapped-we-are-not-averse-to-need-based-reservation-says-lawyer-101620243638484.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||SC strikes down Maratha quota: MVA’s setback, Opposition’s advantage||The striking down of the quota for the Maratha community in Maharashtra could be a major setback for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has blamed the MVA government for failing to secure the reservation provided by the former government, could use the unrest in the community against the ruling coalition, say political experts. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be writing a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting them to take a decision on Maratha reservation. “I am requesting the Prime Minister and President to take a decision on Maratha reservation as the Supreme Court has also acknowledged that it comes under their authority. Tomorrow, I will be writing a letter to them on the same and also ready to meet them, if required,” Thackeray said in his address on social media platforms on Wednesday evening. Taking serious cognizance of the issue, the chief minister decided to address the state especially the Maratha community and requested them to exercise peace and restraint as the state is in the midst of a pandemic and the state is fighting in their support. He asked them not to get provoked as some forces may try to take advantage of the situation. “The SC verdict is disappointing as it has said that the state doesn’t have powers to give reservation… But it has also shown us a way by saying that the Centre and President has powers to grant reservation to a community. I am sure that the PM or the Centre will not disrespect this demand as it is not of just a community but of entire Maharashtra,” he pointed out. The community Marathas, who make up nearly 30-32% of the state population, including Kunbi-Marathas, who come under the other backward class (OBC), are a strong force in the state both politically and socially. The community has a strong presence in agriculture, rural economy, cooperative sector (sugar, bank and milk cooperative units) as well as state bureaucracy. The community has a decisive influence on nearly 75 of the 288 constituencies. The Marathas traditionally rallied with the Congress-NCP, but that changed in the 2014 Assembly polls. The BJP and Sena dominated the western and central Maharashtra (which has strong presence of Marathas) even though they contested separately. It is assumed that in 2019 Assembly elections, the community helped the NCP bounce back as the party won a majority of its 56 assembly seats in western Maharashtra and adjoining areas that are politically dominated by Marathas. The party could also capitalise on ‘Maratha community pride’ after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, currently the most prominent Maratha politician, was targeted by the then BJP-led state government and its leaders. The Congress too has been dominated by Maratha community leaders for decades. The community strongly supported the party. The Shiv Sena has a mix voter base, including the Marathas. Following the Kopardi rape incident (see box), the Maratha mobilisation took place and the reservation issue was put forth strongly by the community. Subsequently, the community stages over 50 marches, first silent and later violent ones, to get quota for the community. Towards the 2019 Assembly polls, many Maratha leaders from Congress-NCP switched to greener pastures of the BJP. However, the NCP-Congress turned the tables in 2019 by winning over 30 from the 58 Assembly seats in Western Maharashtra. The three parties now face the risk of losing some of this support base, if they fail to find a solution to retain the quota granted by Fadnavis government to the community. The blame game State minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said that then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis misled the people on quota issues by passing it without due right. He said that Solicitor General of India had clearly told the SC that the state’s right to provide quota had not been taken away. “While setting the reservation aside, the apex court has opined that the states have no right to pass such law for reservation in the wake of the 102th constitutional amendment and the powers have been given to the Centre. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, was enacted in state legislature in November 2018 by then Fadnavis government, after the 102th Constitutional amendment in August that year. The state BJP leaders have been trying to put blame on us, but they have misguided the people of Maharashtra by keeping a faultline in the constitution of the Act,” Chavan said. Chavan said as the powers to give reservation to any community lie with the Centre, the MVA will send the proposal to National Commission for Backward Classes to give reservation to Marathas in “exceptional and extraordinary circumstances”. Fadnavis and other BJP leaders held the MVA government responsible for quashing of the reservation. Fadnavis said the state government under Uddhav Thackeray could not even effectively plead the case in the Apex court. “The Maratha quota law was enacted by our government taking Uddhav Thackeray into confidence as the Shiv Sena was part of our government then. When it was challenged in the Bombay high court and the Supreme Court, our government effectively pleaded the case. As a result, the high court upheld the reservation, while the SC had denied a stay on it. Later, during the MVA government regime, the case was referred to another bench where it was stayed. The Solicitor General of India had clearly told the SC that states’ right to provide quota had not been taken away,” Fadnavis said. Fadnavis said the MVA government failed to convince the court about the sanctity of the Gaikwad report and as a result of it the reservation was struck down, when reservations in other states were intact. Political repercussions Political analysts and observers said the BJP will use it to its advantage to corner the MVA politically. Pratap Asbe, a political analyst, said, “The Bill and subsequent law were passed during their government, but still they will make the argument emotional to fire up the Maratha youths. Whether there is any major election or not, the unrest will be engineered. We have seen what happens when a community as powerful as Marathas comes on the streets.” Another analyst Surendra Jondhale said that although the BJP enjoys support of many Maratha leaders, unlike before 2014, it needs to be seen if the Maratha youths come under their influence. “The BJP will attempt to mobilise the Marathas and make an issue out of it. Fadnavis has played an ambiguous role in the quota issue. Interestingly, [BJP MP] Sambhaji Maharaj has taken a stand that both governments pursued the matter and he accepted the verdict. The response of Maratha youths to the BJP will be important now,” Jondhale, who was a former professor of political science at the Mumbai University. According to a Congress leader, the SC verdict may have long-standing political repercussions. “The BJP has been painting a picture that they had given the reservation to the community, but the three-party government could not safeguard it. It is now very difficult to regain it by filing a review petition and next to impossible to include them in other backward classes. The conclusion is the reservation was struck down, when the parties with strong Maratha base are at helm of affairs. The effect may be felt in the upcoming local body elections,” said a senior Congress leader requesting anonymity. Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the three ruling parties may have to face a setback if they do not handle the issue smartly. “All three ruling parties enjoy political support of the community and may not afford to lose it. Poor people in the community are upset with their leaders for the suppression for years,” he said. Balasaheb Sarate Patil, a Maratha leader involved in the legal battle, said the BJP may not get advantage of the decision. “The Act which has been quashed was enacted by the Fadnavis government and even the Gaikwad commission report was submitted during his government. So the BJP cannot just blame the ruling parties,” he said. Political analyst Prakash Bal said, “The political impact depends on how the perception is created by both the sides. The reservation given to the Marathas was never tenable and this was said by Justice PB Sawant who was member of the bench that delivered the Indra Sawhney case judgment. The politics of allegations and counter allegations will continue and is likely to be utilised as an election issue in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-strikes-down-maratha-quota-mva-s-setback-opposition-s-advantage-101620243579577.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Police freeze ₹1.64 cr assets of 2 drug smugglers in Tarn Taran||Police on Wednesday froze property worth ₹1.64 crore of two drug smugglers based in Tarn Taran under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Harpal Singh of Thatha village was arrested in February 2007 in Amritsar and Rashpal Singh of Wan Tara Singh village was nabbed in March 2018. Police had seized 10kg heroin from Harpal while 80,100 intoxicating tablets, 15,300 capsules and 2,000 injections were recovered from Rashpal. The duo was booked under the NDPS Act at the Amritsar B-division and Tarn Taran’s Khalra police stations, respectively.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said: “After receiving order from the competent authority, we have frozen Harpal’s residential house worth ₹23.7 lakh and 34 kanal agriculture land worth ₹65.34 lakh. Similarly, Rashpal’s ₹35 lakh house and four shops in Khalra worth ₹75 lakh have been frozen. We will initiate the process to attach the frozen property,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-freeze-rs-1-64-cr-assets-of-2-drug-smugglers-in-tarn-taran-101620243579091.html
06-05-2021||Other||SC notice to Sodhi family over Punjab’s plea for land compensation||Gagandeep@htlive.comJalandhar The Supreme Court has issued notice to Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and others in a land acquisition matter in which the state public works department (PWD), in December 2020, had filed a recovery suit against Sodhi and family. The Punjab government had sought review of the SC order of 2019, granting relief to the Sodhi family. On May 3, the SC bench of justice Uday Umesh Lalit and justice Dinesh Maheshwari heard the review petition and issued the notice. HT has been following the matter closely. In 2014, the Sodhi family received a compensation of ₹1.8 crore against land acquired by the state government for a road project, after they had moved court. In 2015, a Ferozepur court said, on a plea from Sodhi, that they were entitled to re-determine the compensation of the acquired land in 2012, as per the new land acquisition Act, which came into force in 2014. In 2017, the Punjab and Haryana high court upheld the district court order, which was subsequently upheld by the Supreme Court in 2019. The SC order states that there was a delay of 544 days in filing the review petition. The order adds the application seeking condonation of delay states inter alia that the land in question were subject matter of acquisition initiated in 1962, which attained finality, and compensation was paid to claimants. “Issue notice on the application for condonation of delay as well as on the review petitions, returnable on July 16, 2021, and let these review petitions be listed in open court,” the order added. In December 2020, the PWD had filed a recovery suit against minister Sodhi, alias Guru Gurmeet Singh, and his family members — brother Guru Hardeep Singh and nephews, Prabhjot Singh and Jasdeep Singh — in a Guru Har Sahai court for allegedly pocketing double compensation for the land in question. One Joginder Singh was also named in the plea. The department has also made Guru Har Sahai SDM a respondent. The land at Mohanki Attar village had been acquired for the Ferozepur-Fazilka-Guru Har Sahai road. The family received ₹1.8 crore compensation in 2013 for the land after re-acquisition in 2012, which, as per record, had also been acquired in 1962 for ₹7,384. The land comprised 55 kanal and 6 marla belonging to Sodhi and 38 kanal of his nephew Jasdeep Sodhi (son of Hardeep Singh). In March 2020, a Punjab government sub-committee found that the Sodhi family had got double compensation. In February 2021, the Punjab and Haryana high court had also stayed the disbursement of re-determined compensation. The court was hearing a letter patents appeal (LPA) filed by Punjab government challenging the single bench order in the contempt petition filed by the minister’s brother Guru Hardeep Singh in 2018. Hardeep had pleaded for implementation of the order of the Ferozepur additional district and sessions court to give re-determined compensation to the family under the new land acquisition law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scnotice-to-sodhi-family-over-punjab-s-plea-for-land-compensation-101620243519963.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota scrapped: Fight for merit prevails, say students, parents||The Supreme Court’s (SC) decision to quash reservations for students from Maratha community in educational institutes has been hailed by students seeking admissions to professional courses and their parents. Dr Uday Dhoble, one of the petitioners in the case that was heard in the Apex court, said, “Along with other parents of medical aspirants, we had filed a case challenging the government rule of reservations exceeding 50%. We have nothing against the Marathas. Our contention was that if more than 50% seats are reserved, open category students will be forced to be admitted in private and deemed universities. The biggest impact of the reservations was on medical students.”“It’s a winning moment for all of us in open category. Finally merit prevails. The fight that we at Team Mumbai began at the Bombay high court (HC) in December of 2018 finally succeeded at the Supreme Court (SC) today. We are not against any caste or religion, but are against reservation going beyond 50%. Let everyone get it on economic grounds within the stipulated 50%,” said education activist and parent Sudha Shenoy, who is a part of Save Merit, Save Nation group. Shenoy is a part of a group of medical aspirants and parents protesting the 12% reservation of seats for Maratha category students. Those seeking admission to other professional courses, too, have been against the Maratha reservations. They had filed public interest litigations challenging the Maratha reservation in HC and SC. In September last year, SC had stayed all recruitment and admissions in education institutes under the socially and economically backward classes (SEBC) quota for the 2020-21 academic year, with exception to postgraduate medical admissions. On September 21, Maharastra government had filed a petition in the Apex court to vacate the stay on admissions. The court, however, had adjourned the hearing by four weeks. On November 24, the state released a government resolution clarifying that all admissions, for that time being, would be conducted without the inclusion of the quota, until there’s clarity from SC on the matter. In line with SC’s interim stay on the Maratha quota in jobs and education, the state education department had stayed the admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC) in September 2020. Admissions under the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) quota were conducted in the first round, but the remaining rounds took place without the reservation after the state government decided to do so. The overall demand for seats under the quota was low as only 20% seats had takers. This confusion over SEBC quota had led to an unprecedented delay last year in admissions to junior colleges as well as professional courses such as medical, law, management, architecture and engineering. With SC now quashing the reservations and providing clarity, students hope that the admission process is streamlined this year. “Now that there’s no confusion over the quota, the state common entrance test (CET) cell can conduct the admission process as per schedule,” said a law aspirant on the condition of anonymity. However, CET cell officials said they will wait for directions from the state government before they can act on the reservations issue. “We are aware of the SC decision. However, CET cell is an executing body. We will wait for directions from the state government on how to hold admissions and what reservations to apply,” said CD Joshi, commissioner, CET Cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-scrapped-fight-for-merit-prevails-say-students-parents-101620243518367.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet meeting: Capt rules out complete lockdown, announces phased opening of shops||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh again ruled out a complete lockdown in the state and announced phased opening of shops after some of his cabinet colleagues said there was resentment among traders over selective closure of shops amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The CM said restrictions currently in place in Punjab were more stringent than the lockdown conditions in many other states. The CM compared the Punjab restrictions with the curbs in place in Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, among others, and pointed out that it was not necessary to impose a total lockdown. Chairing a virtual cabinet meeting, Amarinder announced a series of relaxations, including phased opening of shops and various incentives for the housing sector, such as three-month extension in permission period for construction of plots/projects for allotments, whether private or allotted, by the state urban development authorities. Earlier, cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Tripat Bajwa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the shopkeepers, especially in urban areas, were upset about the selective shop shutdown as part of the restrictions imposed in the state. The CM said the objective of the closure had been to prevent crowding but phased opening could be worked out by district administrations. Amarinder also ordered limiting of the number of teachers in government schools to 50%, with the rest taking online classes from home. He directed the state food department to prepare five lakh additional food packets for distribution among Covid patients, besides announcing additional 10kg atta (wheat flour) for 1.41 crore smart ration card beneficiaries. The food aid is in addition to the 1 lakh food kits, containing 10kg of atta, 2kg chana and 2kg sugar already sanctioned for the underprivileged Covid patients. The CM said to meet the urgent needs of the people at the local level, the sarpanches have been authorised to spend up to ₹5,000 per day, subject to a maximum of ₹50,000, out of the panchayat funds for providing emergency relief by way of food and medicines to the poor. All urban local bodies have also been empowered to provide emergency relief, including food and medicines, to the poor and needy from the municipal fund. Taking cognisance of the problems resulting from the restrictions, the CM asked the social welfare department to release social security, pension amounts to ensure that the people do not suffer amid the current crisis. Relief for housing sector, shopkeepers For the housing sector, the CM directed all urban development authorities not to charge non-construction charges, extension fee and licence renewal fee for the period April 1 to July 31. Further, the urban development authorities have been asked to waive the interest to be charged on any delayed instalment, which was otherwise due between April 1 and July 31, provided that it is paid in equated monthly instalments after August 1. Mohali has 25% positivity rate Health secretary Hussan Lal informed the cabinet that 14 districts had positivity over 10% and six over 11%. Mohali tops the list with 25% positivity rate. The situation was grim with 70% of L2 beds (oxygen support) and over 80% L3 (ventilator support) beds in government and private hospitals occupied, the health secretary said, adding that with 10-30 patients needing a ventilator every day, things were not good. The cabinet approved one-time relaxation in the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Rules, 1964, for transfer of 5 acres of panchayat land in Mohali to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the establishment of the National Institute of Virology for North Zone. The Institute has been sanctioned by the central government on a proposal by the Punjab government. The cabinet authorised the Mohali DC to complete formalities for transfer of the land in village Mullanpur Garibdas in Kharar block of Mohali district. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said construction for the institute would start by the end of this year. BoxThrust sector status for O2 production unitsThe cabinet announced thrust sector status for all oxygen product units, while appointing a nodal officer to coordinate with the customs department for quick clearance of foreign aid. The CM said with the way things were going currently, the situation was likely to worsen in the coming days, with nobody knowing how many more waves of Covid would hit the country and the state. The status will apply to oxygen production units with minimum capacity of 700 cylinders per day equivalent to 5 MT, oxygen cylinder manufacturers/fabricators, oxygen concentrator manufacturing units. Oxygen refilling units will not be covered by the special status. With this decision, the units (both old and new) will become eligible for 100% exemption from the change of land use (CLU)/external development charges (EDC), property tax, electricity duty, stamp duty and investment subsidy, by way of reimbursement of GST up to 125% of fixed capital investment made in the land and machinery. The cabinet was apprised that the daily oxygen allocation to Punjab stands at 195 MT and only 140 MT was actually being supplied on a daily basis, with shortage of tankers hampering lifting of oxygen, especially from Bokaro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-meeting-capt-rules-out-complete-lockdown-announces-phased-opening-of-shops-101620243458990.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||SC scraps Maratha quota: What’s next for Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi govt||Various Maratha outfit leaders met virtually late Wednesday evening to decide over the future course of action even as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in a webcast on Wednesday assured the community that the state would fight for their reservation which was struck down by the Supreme Court earlier in the day. Thackeray said that the state was dealing with the pandemic crisis, and “some forces may try to take advantage of the situation” but that they should not get provoked and resume their agitation. “The Supreme Court verdict is disappointing as it has said that the state doesn’t have powers to give reservation… But it has also shown us a way by saying that the Centre and President has powers to grant reservation to a community. I am sure that the PM or the Centre will not disrespect this demand as it is not of just a community but of the entire Maharashtra,” Thackeray said. The Maratha agitation for reservation in government jobs and education has been a long-standing demand of the community and goes back to the 1980s. It culminated in the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018 which introduced 16% reservation for the community. The law was challenged in the Bombay HC, which brought down the reservation to 12% and 13% for education and jobs, respectively. Leaders of the Maratha community held a discussion on the basis on which the law was scrapped by the Supreme Court on Wednesday evening, which was attended by legal experts as well. On Thursday, a virtual meeting of state coordinators of Maratha Kranti Morcha, an apex body of various organisations of the Maratha community, has been called to discuss the next line of action. “We are evaluating the points based on which SEBC act was struck down. It has come to light that no point-to-point arguments were held in the apex court over findings of Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) report but while giving its verdict the apex court rejected some of the findings of the report. We have decided to call a meeting to discuss the matter in detail and decide the next course of action on Thursday evening, said Virendra Pawar, a leader from Maratha Mahasangh. Mansing Pawar, one of the organisers of Maratha Kranti Morcha, said there were two options: increase the ceiling of reservation quota which the Central government can do, or the state government incorporate Marathas in OBC category. “The Central government will have to think of making an amendment to increase reservation quota from 50% and above to grant reservation to the Maratha community. The other option is that the state government can make Maratha community part of OBC category to grant reservation,” he said. “If the state government is unable to provide us reservation benefits then they should incorporate Maratha community in the OBC category to get us reservation benefits. We have yet to discuss the option declared by the state government of approaching NCBC,” Pawar added.Bharatiya Janata Party Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji, a 17th century Maratha king, said that the state government was now left with the only option of announcing a supernumerary quota for the community. “I feel that the supernumerary quota method is the only option left before the state government. I would not like to blame any particular government, be it past or present. The erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis led BJP government had tried hard and passed the reservation law, the present Thackeray government too tried its best but failed to convince the Supreme Court,” he said. The state said that it would approach the National Commission on Backward Classes, with a 2018 report submitted by the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission, which attested to the need for reservation for the Maratha community. “As directed by the Supreme Court, we will approach the National Commission on Backward Classes with our report on the backwardness of the Maratha community. We will establish the ‘exception and extraordinary circumstances’ to show the backwardness of the community and send the proposal to the Centre. Now it is the responsibility of the Centre to accord the reservation to the community,” Ashok Chavan, PWD minister said. “In today’s verdict, the apex court clearly stated the state can approach NCBC for granting reservation. If the Commission makes a recommendation and the President approves it, then reservation can be granted. We have decided to approach NCBC and will present our side on why it is necessary to be given,” Nawab Malik, minority affairs minister said. State officials also discussed the possibility of filing a review petition against the Supreme Court verdict. “Once our legal experts study the verdict, we will discuss the pros and cons of approaching the apex court for review of the verdict by a larger bench. The law and judiciary department is looking into this possibility,” an official who did not want to be named said. “Our team of lawyers is studying the verdict. They will advise us on what to do next,” Thackeray said in his late evening address. “The 102nd amendment was notified in August 2018 whereas the SEBC Act was passed in November 2018. The argument made before the apex court is that the state government passed the act only after the 102nd amendment which makes SEBC act invalid. The previous government should have approached the Centre for clarity before enacting the act,” Shreehari Aney, former advocate general of the state told a news channel. The only alternative before the state was to bring the Maratha community within the OBC category to ensure continued reservation. “Apart from 22% reservation granted to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Vimukta Jati/Nomadic Tribes, the rest of the reservation quota is generally within the OBC category. If the Maratha caste would be able to bring Marathas under OBC category, then it will work and will also not exceed 50% cap. But that would require consensus from other OBC, but that is the only legal solution. For that, a lot of groundwork needs to be done for making a consensus,” he said. The reservation granted to Scheduled Caste is 13%, Scheduled Tribe — 7% and Vimukta Jati/Nomadic Tribe is 2%. He said the other legal solution could be giving the rights to the states to declare who is a socially and educationally backward class. “But that will also not fully resolve the problem because even if the state gets the right, breaching the 50% cap is not something within their capacity,” Aney said. Anant Kalse, former state legislature secretary said, “The verdict of the supreme court is the law of the land. The state government can now go for a review as the issue of states having powers for granting reservation to a community is still debatable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-scraps-maratha-quota-what-s-next-for-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-govt-101620243398367.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||State hits new peak, logs 182 deaths, 8,015 cases in a day||Punjab on Wednesday witnessed the deadliest day of the pandemic with 182 deaths due to Covid-19. The state also registered the highest single-day hike in infections with 8,015 people testing positive for the virus, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. The earlier high for single-day deaths was 173, which the state registered on Tuesday. Bathinda registered a maximum of 21 deaths, followed by 19 each in Ludhiana, Sangrur and Patiala, 18 in Amritsar, 17 in Mohali, 10 in Fazilka, nine each in Jalandhar and Muktsar and 6 in Pathankot. Ludhiana topped the chart with 1,186 fresh cases, followed by 1,056 in Mohali, 932 in Amritsar, 838 in Jalandhar, 696 in Patiala, 692 in Bathinda, 361 in Hoshiarpur, 317 in Fazilka, 338 in Mansa, 268 in Muktsar and 248 in Sangrur. Mohali has highest positivity rate Mohali constitutes to show the highest positivity rate of 29.42% in the state. Amritsar is at the second spot with 19.34% positivity rate, followed by Bathinda at 15.61% Rupnagar 15.26% and Fazilka 14.81%. A record 6,701 patients were discharged and 70,069 vaccines dosed were administered on Wednesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-hits-new-peak-logs-182-deaths-8-015-cases-in-a-day-101620243339000.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Jobs, admissions already granted under Maratha quota safeguarded||More than 3,000 Maratha youths who have completed the recruitment process and hundreds of medical admissions secured before the Supreme Court put an interim stay on Maratha quota on September 9, 2020, have been safeguarded by the top court while quashing reservation for the community.Maharashtra government, after opening up recruitment process, which was frozen for years ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, had recruited more than 3,000 youth under 13% Maratha reservation in jobs. Some of them had not received appointment letters though the recruitment process was completed when the Supreme Court announced the interim stay last year. The state government had sought the clarity on it from the top court.Similarly, many college admissions were stalled halfway due to the interim order but during the first round of admission, students were admitted under the quota.“The SC on Wednesday clarified that the admissions and jobs secured before the interim stay have been safeguarded. We will have to check about the cases in which the appointment orders were not issued due to the interim order. Today’s order has also cleared the air on the recruitment done under quota in 2014 under law enacted by the then Congress government,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jobs-admissions-already-granted-under-maratha-quota-safeguarded-101620243278337.html
06-05-2021||Other||Bathinda reporting 12 covid deaths a day for past 10 days||With 20 deaths reported due to Covid-19 in Bathinda on Wednesday, the second day in a row, local authorities are struggling to find enough space at the two crematoriums in the city. Data shows that 121 people have succumbed to the virus over the past ten days since April 26; this translates into 12 deaths a day. The district is among the six worst districts of Punjab. Over the past 10 days, it has added an average 568 new virus infection cases every day with 5,682 new cases reported since April 26.Sonu Maheswari, whose NGO Naujawan Welfare Society (NWS) has been working with the district administration in cremating bodies since the pandemic outbreak last year, said, “Everyday volunteers have to perform 6-7 last rites outside the cremation ground compound due to lack of space. Over the past few days, all pyre platforms remain occupied.”Bodies of suspected cases are also cremated according to the Covid protocol. Owing to a substantial number of deaths, families are asked to collect the last remains the very next day of cremation.“The city has no electric crematorium. A dignified last rite is becoming challenging due to the growing number of mortalities due to Covid, suspected death cases caused by the coronavirus, and other reasons. Bathinda city has two conventional cremation grounds with a capacity to handle 28 bodies. A cremation ground near the grain market complex is preferred, as it has enough space for 24 pyres,” said Maheshwari. Dr Sukhjinder Singh Gill, in-charge of Covid mortality cases, said in the three days, two minors have also died. “An 18-day-old infant died at Government Medical College at Faridkot, while a 5-year-old boy succumbed at Adesh Hospital in Bathinda. We have confirmation of only two deaths of patients, who were below 18,” said Gill.OPEN JAIL NOTIFIED FOR CURFEW VIOLATORSThe district administration on Wednesday designated SSD Senior Secondary School near Gol Diggi as open jail to keep violators of curfew. District magistrate B Srinivasan said that those who will be booked for violation of curfew in the district will be lodged at this open jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bathinda-reporting-12-covid-deaths-a-day-for-past-10-days-101620243098863.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Govt hospitals run out of ICU beds for Covid patients in Chandigarh||The day when Chandigarh registered a record number of deaths due to the virus, not a single bed with ventilator was available for Covid-19 patients at intensive care units of the four government hospitals in the city.Hit by the second wave, the authorities have been able to earmark only 127 ICU beds for Covid-19, and many of them are occupied by patients from neighbouring states.According to official data available, all ICU beds had been occupied at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research; Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; and Dedicated Covid Hospital in Sector 48 (see box). Meanwhile, at the seven private hospitals, only 10 beds (including ICU and oxygen) were available.Suraj Maurya, a relative of a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient who is admitted at GMSH, said doctors told the family in the morning that the patient needs ventilator support, but a bed could not be arranged till late in the evening. “We are trying everywhere, but are receiving the same answer that no bed is available,” said Maurya.Dr GD Puri, head of the Covid-19 management panel at PGIMER, where most of the patients are admitted, said they are trying to ramp up the infrastructure.“We are doing whatever is possible, but too many patients are admitted in the emergency. We are trying to adjust them in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.We are also adding four more ICU beds on Wednesday night and four will be added in addition to 24 high-dependency unit beds on Thursday. All concerned are working round the clock to make them functional,” he said.“This is an unprecedented situation for us. We are pushing for more ventilators. Around 30 are expected to arrive shortly,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER. UT adviser Manoj Parida said all department heads have been asked to see whether non-critical patients are occupying ICU beds. “At the same time, we are trying to increase the bed capacity in our Covid-19 facilities,” he said.Situation as grave in Mohali, PanchkulaThe situation is as alarming in the neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula districts. In Panchkula, all 19 ICU beds with ventilators were occupied on Wednesday evening, while only three of 79 ICU beds with oxygen/BiPAP machine were vacant. Meanwhile, the occupancy of 335 oxygen beds stood at 88%.Of 336 ICU beds at various government and private facilities in Mohali, only two were vacant on Wednesday evening. When it came to oxygen beds, only 19 of 685 were available. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the beds are occupied due to rush from other parts of the region. “We have asked private hospitals not to refuse hospitalisation to critical patients, and provide them with lower-level beds till ICU beds get available,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-hospitals-run-out-of-icu-beds-for-covid-patients-in-chandigarh-101620242860417.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 guidelines: Defiant Patiala traders resolve to open shop today||Defying state government restrictions on closure of non-essential shops due to the Covid-19 pandemic till May 15, traders across Patiala district have decided to open their shops in all commercial areas from Thursday onwards. On Wednesday, traders protested in Patiala city and said that shopkeepers dealing with non-essential items were facing heavy losses. There are over 21,000 such shops in the district. Rakesh Gupta, president, Patiala District Beopar Mandal, said, “Liquor vends and meat shops are allowed to open; then what is wrong with those dealing with garments, shoes and general store items? The authorities should conduct a field survey. They will find that since the implementation of these orders, traffic volume in main markets has increased, not decreased. There has also been spurt in covid cases.” “Instead of allowing selective opening of shops, the government should impose complete lockdown, so that it should be fair for all traders,” Gupta added.On Wednesday, the matter pertaining to resentment among shopkeepers over selective closure of shops also figured in the state cabinet meeting, in which CM Capt Amarinder Singh asked district administrations to work out the phased shop reopening plan.In the meeting, the CM added that closure of non-essential had been done to prevent crowding, but phased opening could be worked out by district administrations. Abhishek Garg, president, Patiala’s Sher-e-Punjab Market Association, said the lockdown has started taking toll on their businesses as well as patience. “Last year, garments lying in my stores were damaged due to a bug attack. Termites have eaten up furniture at our outlets. Fungus damaged leather goods. This will be repeated this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-guidelines-defiant-patiala-traders-resolve-to-open-shop-today-101620242618847.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||2,527 +ve, 38 die in record Covid surge in Chandigarh tricity||Breaking all records for the second consecutive day, Covid-19 claimed 38 more lives while 2,527 people tested positive in the tricity on Wednesday.Just five days into May, the tricity has logged 10,697 cases and 137 deaths, as compared to 43,145 cases and 311 deaths throughout April. As on Wednesday evening, 19,661 cases remain active across the tricity, up from 19,134 a day ago.On Wednesday, both Mohali and Panchkula recorded an all-time high of 1,056 and 654 fresh cases, respectively, while 817 cases surfaced in Chandigarh.Mohali and Chandigarh also witnessed the biggest spike in deaths as 17 and 14 people, respectively, succumbed to it, and even Panchkula equalled its previous record of seven fatalities in a day.In Chandigarh, the highest number of cases were reported on May 3, when 890 people tested positive, while the previous record of 13 deaths was registered on April 30. Panchkula had logged its previous all-time high of 584 cases just a day back on May 4, while seven deaths were registered for the first time on April 29.Mohali, which is the worst hit, had logged 12 deaths in a day thrice in a week before the Wednesday surge, while the 1,000 mark in terms of cases was breached for the first time on May 2 with 1,045 cases. Since crossing the grim milestone of 2,000 for the first time on April 22, the tricity has recorded 2,000+ cases as many as 10 times in two weeks, with the previous record of 2,211 set on May 4. Meanwhile, 29 fatalities, the record that now stands broken, were recorded twice, on April 28 and May 4.Case tally goes past 50K in MohaliMohali district crossed the 50,000 mark with a record 1,056 cases on Wednesday. While the number of cases has climbed to 50,988, the death toll has reached 651 with a record 17 fatalities. The fresh cases were spread across the district, with 362 surfacing in Mohali city, 270 in Dhakoli, 128 in Dera Bassi, 125 in Kharar and 84 in Gharuan. Meanwhile, with 1,002 patients recovering from the disease, the number of those cured climbed to 41,636, leaving 8,701 active cases. Teen among 14 dead in ChandigarhA 19-year-old youth was among 14 people who succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh on Wednesday. As many as 10 were below the age of 60. The record number of fatalities took the death toll to 532.With 817 new infections, the number of cases stands at 46,793, of which 8,363 are active. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 22%, suggesting that of every five people sampled, one was found positive. Meanwhile, the number of those recovered has reached 37,898.600+ cases for first time in PanchkulaWith 654 new cases on Wednesday, Panchkula breached all past records. Among those tested positive are five CRPF and 16 ITBP personnel. Mewanwhile, a 35-year-old man from Tipra and 47-year-old woman from Sector 12 were among seven patients who breathed their last. Both had no comorbidities. Of the remaining, three were in their 50s and two in 60s. The death toll has climbed to 234.The district has recorded 23,175 cases so far, of which 20,344 have been cured and 2,597 are active. Amid the rising number of cases, recovery rate has dropped to 87% and fatality rate has gone up to 1.07% while daily positivity rate stands at around 30%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2527-ve-38-die-in-record-covid-surge-in-chandigarh-tricity-101620242499564.html
06-05-2021||Other||Need to increase Covid tests in rural areas: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that there is a need to increase tests in rural areas to avoid further spread of Covid-19 in villages.Since the number of cases are rising in villages, there is need to increase tests in rural areas of Haryana, he said.The deputy commissioners have been asked to increase tests in rural parts of Haryana with the help of a special unit, Dushyant said after inspection of under-construction 500-bedded Covid hospital near Panipat refinery.He said that the first phase of 300 beds will be made operational by May 10 and it will admit patients from May 12. The second phase of 200 beds will be completed in the next 15 days. Dushyant urged people not to store emergency medicines as it may lead to shortage of medicines for those in need.He added that no decision has been taken so far on opening of liquor vends in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-to-increase-covid-tests-in-rural-areas-dushyant-101620242318675.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala cops in dock for buying liquor during lockdown||Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar on Wednesday suspended an inspector-rank officer and terminated the services of a special police officer (SPO) for buying liquor from a shop at Agrasen Chowk during the lockdown.The policemen were seen buying liquor from the store in a video shot by a local on Tuesday, which went viral on social media. They were identified as inspector Satish, in-charge, welfare, and SPO Phool Singh, who was driving the SUV.In the video, Satish could be seen waving the liquor when the video was being shot. The duo started misbehaving before leaving abruptly after some more locals gathered there.The SSP said a department inquiry has also been initiated against the duo and an FIR has been registered against the liquor vendor, Shokeen Wines Company. “We’ve also issued a show-cause notice to the area police post for laxity,” said Akhtar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-cops-in-dock-for-buying-liquor-during-lockdown-101620242260954.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces financial assistance for BPL patients in pvt hospitals||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced financial assistance of ₹5,000 per day for below the poverty line (BPL) patients admitted in private hospitals who are on oxygen support or in intensive care unit (ICU). Financial assistance will be given for a maximum of seven days.Khattar has also announced a lump sum amount of ₹5,000 medical assistance for BPL patients in home isolation.Khattar said that private hospitals will also be given an incentive of ₹1,000 per patient per day or a maximum of ₹7,000, for giving admission preference to Covid-19 patients belonging to Haryana.The CM who held a briefing said the rates of beds and other facilities have been fixed for Covid patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals in state.Currently, 42 private hospitals are treating Covid patients. The government has fixed rate of ₹10,000 for isolation beds in NABH and JCI accredited hospitals, ₹15,000 for ICU beds without ventilators, and ₹18,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators.Similarly, in non-NABH accredited hospitals, the rates have been fixed at ₹8,000 for isolation beds, ₹13,000 for ICU beds without ventilators, and ₹15,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-announces-financial-assistance-for-bpl-patients-in-pvt-hospitals-101620242259745.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn offers oxygen to patients in home isolation||In order to provide relief to Covid patients under home isolation, Mohali administration has offered provision of oxygen to them after approval of the district civil surgeon. Deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said the patients having recommendation from private hospitals must get it endorsed by the civil surgeon to avail the facility. While commenting upon the oxygen situation in Mohali, Dayalan said the district has sufficient supply as of now. Oxygen is being procured from five sources for Mohali, he added. “On an average, our consumption is 25 to 27 MT daily, which we are at present getting from five sources. We can provide oxygen cylinders to patients under home isolation, but only after endorsement from the civil surgeon. No one will be given oxygen at home without civil surgeon’s approval,” he added. The DC said that Mohali is getting liquid oxygen tankers from Bokaro, Roorkee, Panipat, Linde India in Uttarakhand and Inox Air in HP’s Barotiwala. He added that two companies in Mohali — HiTech and Hindair — are supplying oxygen cylinders to Mohali hospitals whereas some firms in Mandi Gobindgarh have also volunteered. At present, liquid oxygen supply from Bokaro is coming regularly with empty tankers airlifted from here and returning by road, he said. The entire supply and distribution of oxygen is being controlled by the state government and regulated by the district administration, he added. The oxygen management committee, after a survey, has concluded that Mohali requires 26 MT of supply daily to meet the requirements. Meanwhile, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Punjab, will be setting up an oxygen plant at the government hospital in Phase 6, Mohali. In a meeting of district administration headed by DC Girish Dayalan, the CREDAI team led by its president Jagjit Singh Majha and secretary Arun Jindal extended support by setting up of an oxygen plant which will help in meeting the oxygen shortage in the second wave of pandemic. The CREDAI team is providing financial support to the tune of ₹1 crore in setting up the plant. This plant will be made operational in 15 to 20 days.With only hours of oxygen left, Panchkula turns to Punjab for help
06-05-2021||Other||No major impact of lockdown in urban areas of Haryana||Even as the Haryana government has made movement pass mandatory for commuters during lockdown, there was no major impact on movement of people on highways, especially in the cities.The district-level officials dealing with enforcement of lockdown said the lockdown is not as strict as the one people faced last year.They said the government has allowed auto approval for movement passes and thousands of people from across district have auto-approved passes as people applying for it do not require any approval from the authorities.Kurukshetra city magistrate Nisha Yadav said, “We are getting good response from people for movement pass as over 4,500 passes were approved under the auto-approved category whereas around 2,000 passes have been approved by the deputy commissioner.”In Panipat, 1,09,990 people have applied for the movement passes and 9,120 have been approved, including 8,101 who got auto-approved passes.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said 523 people have been challaned in Panipat in the last two days for coming out on roads without any valid reason and 340 people were challaned for not wearing masks.Also, Karnal police have challaned 300 people for violating the lockdown.Over 14,000 people have auto-approved passes in Karnal so far, whereas the deputy commissioner has approved only 21, and 3,627 are still in the process.BJP LEADERS PROTEST WEST BENGAL VIOLENCEThe BJP leaders staged a dharna at all district headquarters to protest post-election violence in West Bengal.The protests were led by BJP MPs and MLAs at the mini-secretariat as only five people were sitting on dharna.They slammed TMC leaders for alleged attacking BJP workers within hours after TMC registered a thumping win in the assembly polls.BJP MP from Karnal, Sanjay Bhaita, who led the protests in Karnal and Panipat, said, “TMC workers are attacking BJP workers in West Bengal and this is highly condemnable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-major-impact-of-lockdown-in-urban-areas-of-haryana-101620242080405.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax shortage gives Panchkula senior citizens a harrowing time||At the time when the government is encouraging people to get inoculated, it has failed to provide adequate supply of Covid vaccines. The shortage is making many senior citizens in Panchkula run from pillar to post for days to get a shot.With finite number of doses and limited staff, the health department had to reduce the number of centres to four in urban Panchkula. Rajender Arora, 72, and his 66-year-old wife Savita Arora have made three rounds to multiple health centres to get their second dose of vaccine in a week, but have to return empty-handed. “Last month, we got our first dose at the civil dispensary in Sector 20. However, for the last few days, the authorities have stopped administering vaccines at this dispensary. On Tuesday, we left at 7.30am for Sector-12 community centre but despite waiting for an hour, we did not get any token. I then contacted a doctor at the civil hospital, who abruptly cut the call,” Savita said. The couple then visited civil hospital where they were asked to go to the Sector-26 polyclinic. “We were told to come back tomorrow at the polyclinic as well as at Sector 21,” she added. The couple said, “We are old and cannot go from one health centre to another for vaccination. The authorities should make the process convenient for people like us.”They are not the only ones suffering. Ashok Kumar, 65, finally received his second jab after eight weeks of getting the first shot and one week of search. “I had been visiting the dispensary in Sector 20 and there they used to ask me to visit the next day. Then I went to the dispensary of Sector 12 A, where I was told that they don’t keep Covaxin and told me to visit the community centre in the same sector. There too, the vaccine was out of stock,” he added. “Then I called a helpline, which asked me to visit either MDC-4 or polyclinic in Sector 26. I visited both the sites, but did not get the shot,” he said further. Immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan, meanwhile, said, “We have limited stock of vaccines. I am left with only 5,000 doses for 45-plus age group and 13,000 for those between 18 years and 44 years. Hence, I have brought down the number of vaccination centres in the district. In rural areas, the number has been reduced to seven from 10. With limited supply, I cannot run vaccination drives at every health centre.” However, she said that Thursday (May 6) onwards, they would start getting around 6,000 doses every alternate day. She added that detailed information is being shared on social media platforms, including WhatsApp groups of resident welfare associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-shortage-gives-panchkula-senior-citizens-a-harrowing-time-101620242078958.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s guidelines hit vax drive at private facilities in Chandigarh||At the time when every resource could have been utilised to vaccinate more people, due to new central government’s guidelines, private facilities in the city have not been able to contribute to the process which can also be a factor for declined daily inoculation numbers. According to the arrangement till April 30, the UT administration supplied the vaccines to the private facilities which in turn paid the price of the same to the central government. However, according to the new arrangement, the private facilities have to procure their own stock from the manufacturers. The UT health department took back the remaining stocks from the private facilities on April 30 and May 1.In the last eight days of April, the number of inoculations had crossed the 5,500-mark daily and even reached the highest on April 30 when 6,200 jabs were given. But, in the beginning of May, the number has not crossed even the 5,000-mark with the daily inoculation numbers hovering between 4,200 to 4,800.Though some private hospital chains in Mohali have procured vaccines, the small-scale facilities have not been able to buy it from the manufacturers. In the process, the number of vaccination centres has also reduced to 50 from around 65.“This has resulted in confusion among the beneficiaries. We are not able to administer doses to even those who had booked the spot in our hospitals. There should be some consistency in the policy,” Dr RS Bedi, former vice-president of Indian Medical Association, said.Dr Neeraj Sharma, who ran a vaccination centre at his private hospital, said they tried to purchase the vaccine from the manufacturer, but they have failed to secure the batch so far. “We have been told to wait for three to six months,” he said.UT’s immunisation officer Dr Manjeet Singh said that people should come to government facilities, which are properly managed by the authorities.“We are following the government of India’s guidelines and if the eligible beneficiaries are concerned about the second dose, they should report to any government facility,” he added. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said it does not have a huge impact on the outcome.“There is no large-scale disruption to the drive and even government facilities have all the facilities which are required for this process,” he said. In a drive that started on January 16, 2,22,860 doses have been administered in the health facilities of the city so far. The UT, unlike Mohali and Panchkula, has not been able to start vaccination for the younger age group of 18+ category as it is awaiting vaccines for this group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centres-guidelines-hit-vax-drive-at-private-facilities-in-chandigarh-101620242019414.html
06-05-2021||Other||Phagwara SHO suspended for kicking cart of vegetable vendor||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta has placed Phagwara station house officer (SHO) Navdeep Singh under suspension with immediate effect. A video of Navdeep, kicking a basket of vegetables of a street vendor in the city, went social on Wednesday morning. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kanwardeep Kaur issued formal suspension orders of Navdeep, and, later, transfer to police lines, Kapurthala.The incident occurred on the Sarai Road where a large number of vegetable and fruit vendor shops were present, when police went to check on violations of covid-19 norms. The SHO got furious at violation of the guidelines and kicked the vendor’s cart, which overturned. The video of the incident invited sharp criticism of the police from social media platforms. A twitter user Khushpreet Brar tweeted, “A shameful act by a Phagwara police officer. This is inhuman, as everyone deserves respect. Poor vendors are risking their lives for their bread and butter, not for fun. He should be suspended, this is intolerable.”Replying to Brar, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted, “Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended the Phagwara SHO. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences.” Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said, “As member of a disciplined force, such behaviour is against service rules and is unwarranted. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated against him.” She added that officers of Kapurthala Police have contributed money to compensate the vegetable vendor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phagwara-sho-suspended-for-kicking-cart-of-vegetable-vendor-101620241899687.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||24-year-old Ludhiana woman ends life: Husband booked for dowry death||Police search is on for a man and his mother after his 24-year-old wife hanged herself to death on April 27, purportedly after being harassed for bearing a girl child.The matter came to fore on the complaint of the deceased’s mother, police said.The woman told the police that her daughter got married on November 23, 2019. On February 20 this year, she gave birth to a girl. Thereon, her husband and mother-in-law, who were expecting a boy, started harassing her for bearing a girl child and also to bring dowry. When her daughter narrated this to her, she brought her to Delhi on April 13.On April 27, the mother-son duo took her back to Ludhiana after promising to mend their ways. But, their ill-behaviour resumed on reaching Ludhiana. Succumbing to the harassment, her daughter hanged herself the same day.Assistant sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 304-B (dowry death) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused at the Tibba police station. The accused were on the run since the woman’s death, but they will be arrested soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24yearold-ludhiana-woman-ends-life-husband-booked-for-dowry-death-101620241898717.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three aides of gangster Lehmbar arrested with weapons in Ludhiana||Police arrested three aides of notorious gangster Gurpreet Singh Lehmbar in Jagraon city on Tuesday nightInspector Simarjit Singh, station house officer (SHO), City Jagraon police station, said those arrested had been identified as Gurmanjot Singh, alias Toor, and Gurjot Singh, alias Ramna, of Chakar village, and Parvinder Singh, alias Binder, of Lakha village.A .32-bore pistol, a .315-bore countrymade pistol, bullets and a car were recovered from their possession.“The accused were arrested following secret information that they were lurking in the city to commit crime. They are all facing trials in several cases, including double murder, murder, attempt to murder, robbery, assault and possessing illegal weapons, registered at various police stations of Ludhiana Rural police,” he said, adding that the gang’s kingpin Lehmbar was on the run.The trio was booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. They were produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to five-day police custody.“Important information about the gang’s network is expected from the accused,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-aides-of-gangster-lehmbar-arrested-with-weapons-in-ludhiana-101620241659693.html
06-05-2021||Other||Kurukshetra govt hospital denies admission to Covid patients||Hours after the authorities of Lok Nayak Jai Parkash Government Hospital in Kurukshetra installed a notice denying admission to Covid-19 patients, the notice was removed and the hospital made alternate arrangements.The district administration swung into action after photos of the notice were widely shared on the social media.BJP’s Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha convened an emergency meeting with the deputy commissioner and officials of the health department and the notice was removed.Later, Sudha said directions have been issued to admit patients coming to the hospital and action will be taken against officials behind this act.On whether the hospital can deny treatment to people, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said, “This is wrong. And we will take action against those at fault.”Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Barar said they could have made alternate arrangements instead of denying treatment to Covid patients.As per a letter being circulated on the social media, the Kurukshetra chief medical officer has written to the medical superintendent of the LNJP Hospital stating that “all beds in Covid isolation ward of the hospital are occupied and if any patient admitted in the emergency ward is found to be infected, they should not be admitted in the hospital and should make arrangements to isolate new patients at their home or shift them somewhere else”.Also, the district administration has set up a three-member panel to ensure all patients get admission and treatment in Covid hospital.The deputy commissioner said people facing problems to admit patients can dial helpline 1950 for admission at Covid hospitals.Later in the evening, government issued the transfer and posting orders of seven senior officers of health department including Kurukshetra civil surgeon Sukhbir Singh and Sant Lal Verma has been appointed as civil surgeon Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kurukshetra-govt-hospital-denies-admission-to-covid-patients-101620241539148.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Regulate prices for Covid vaccines at private hospitals, say experts||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) in April priced Covishield at ₹600 per dose to private hospitals. After adding service charges, few private hospitals that have started inoculating citizens between the age groups of 18 and 44 years are charging between ₹700 and ₹900 per dose. While the extra charge is not illegal, the uneven and unregulated pricing of Covid-19 vaccines has raised concerns among doctors and health activists who are calling for a price cap on the vials. From May 1, the Central government allowed the vaccination of the public between the age group of 18 and 44 years. Amidst shortages of vials, only three private hospitals—HL Reliance, (Girgaum), Nanavati (Vile Parle) and Apollo (Navi Mumbai), who had placed their order for vials to SII months ago, have been able to start the inoculation programme. These hospitals are charging ₹700, ₹900 and ₹850 respectively after including charges for transportation, procurement, storage and service. A section of doctors, however, fear that hospitals in the absence of guidelines or a price cap may use the opportunity to “unethically” charge a higher price range for vials.“While all major and smaller private hospitals are struggling to get hold of the vials, a few hospitals have turned into major providers of the vaccines. This gives them the upper hand to decide on the pricing as per their wish in the absence of regulation and a cap. This may lead to unethical overcharging,” said Dr Prince Surana, chief executive officer at Surana Group of Hospitals.Santosh Marathe, chief operating officer at Apollo Hospital said their cost for a jab includes the cost of transportation, maintaining the cold chain and service charges. Nanavati Hospital was unavailable for a comment, and HL Reliance Hospital refused to comment. N Ramaswamy, commissioner of the National Health Commission, said they haven’t received any official complaint from the public on the price issue as yet. “The Central government has instructed private hospitals to procure vials directly from the manufacturers. As there are no specific guidelines, the hospitals decide their own vaccine prices. But they have to upload the price on Co-WIN for the public to decide. So far, the state health department hasn’t personally decided to put any price cap,” said Ramaswamy.Charging a higher price for vaccines will render them unaffordable for many which can become a hurdle in the mass immunisation programme, said, health experts.“Firstly, the procurement process should be centralised which will help bring better regulation on the pricing of vaccines. Also, with a cap on pricing, private hospitals won’t be able to able use it to exploit the public. Otherwise, more underprivileged people would fall prey to the infection,” said Brinelle D’Souza, senior faculty, Tata Institute and co-convener, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan-Mumbai.Dr Deepak Baid, former president of the Association of Medical Consultants (AMC) said, “At the beginning of the pandemic, some hospitals overcharged patients when there were no regulations on beds pricing. Similarly, if a cap isn’t imposed on vaccines, there is a possibility that hospitals may charge a higher amount of money from the public.” Meanwhile, amidst the ongoing shortage of vials in the city, SII has informed a few private hospitals that it would take five-six months to supply Covishield. In response to an email sent by Dr Surana, SII replied, “...Due to our current obligation to meet the government’s existing requirements and to meet the additional demand emanating from state governments under liberated and accelerated vaccination, it is challenging to meet independently the requirement across from a large number of private hospitals. Therefore, we urge you to access the vaccine when it becomes available in the private market supply chain channels which will take about 5-6 months from now.” SII, however, refused to comment on the issue. This delay in the procurement process has upset doctors who are planning to seek help from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Dr Gautam Bhansali, general physician, Bombay Hospital said, “To control the second wave, we need to fasten the vaccination process. If private hospitals don’t get the vials, the mass immunisation programme will get further delayed. So, we have plans to hold a meeting with BMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-regulate-prices-for-covid-vaccines-at-private-hospitals-say-experts-101620241478136.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amid trying times, Ludhiana’s religious organisations extend a helping hand||Stepping up to help Ludhiana tide over the Covid crisis, several religious organisations are coming forward to support patients fighting the contagion.While ISKCON and Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib have kick-started free food service for the patients, the SGPC is all set to launch a Covid care facility at Gurdwara Manji Sahib in Alamgir village.“We noticed that many people visiting the gurdwara for langar were relatives of Covid patients. So, we decided to reach out to them at the civil hospital. On Tuesday, our volunteers visited the hospital to hand out free meals. We bumped up the quantity on Wednesday, but that also ran out in no time,” said Pritpal Singh Pali, president of the Dukh Niwaran Sahib Gurdwara managing committee.A similar service has been started by ISKCON, that has also made available a web link – bit.ly/covidfoodservice – and helpline (740-282-8074) to place food requests between 8am and 8pm. Food will be delivered the next day between 11am and 3pm.“Around 15 volunteers have come together to prepare the meals and manage the supply across the city. We are delivering around 100 plates a day. Hundreds of patients are isolated at home, with limited access to groceries. It is time to serve those in need,” said Rajesh Garg, who is attached with ISKCON for the past three decades.At the historical Gurdwara Manji Sahib in Alamgir village, a hall been converted into a 25-bed Covid care centre.“We have set up 25 beds in the hall, where a team from Guru Ram Das Hospital can monitor patients with mild symptoms. We are working out the modalities to procure oxygen cylinders and get administration’s approval, following which the facility will be made operational,” said Gurdarshan Singh, manager of the gurdwara committee, adding that the centre was an initiative of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, nodal officer for Covid in district, said the facility set up by the gurdwara will be inspected before permission was accorded.She said organisations, individuals, NGOs, corporate and trusts may approach the administration to set up similar centres. “Also, when NGOs and religious organisations are lending their support, each citizen must do their bit by simply wearing a mask in public. Only Covid appropriate behaviour can help us stem the virus spread,” said Dr Kiran.In his address to the community on Wednesday, Punjab Shahi Imam Maulana Habib-ur-Rehman Saani Ludhianvi called on people to come forward and help each other in these trying times. “The pandemic has yet again reminded us to save and serve humanity. I urge people to help those in need, especially people out of means for treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-trying-times-ludhiana-s-religious-organisations-extend-a-helping-hand-101620241426215.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||181 Covid deaths reported in a day in Haryana||Haryana on Wednesday reported 181 fatalities due to the Covid-19 pandemic, resulting in the death toll mounting to 4,960, according to the health bulletin.In this month alone, 744 people have succumbed to the infection. The death toll has been on the rise almost every day last week.For instance, 153 people had died on April 4, 140 on May 3, 145 on May 2 and 125 on May 1. On Wednesday, Bhiwani was the most affected in terms of fatalities as 18 patients died, followed by 15 in Gurugram, 14 in Hisar, 13 in Karnal, 12 in Fatehabad 12, 11 each in Ambala and Panipat, 10 each in Jhajjar and Kaithal, nine each in Rohtak, Yamunanagar and Sirsa, eight in Faridabad, seven each in Panchkula and Jind, five in Palwal, four in Sonepat, and three in Mahendergarh.It was for the second consecutive day on Wednesday that the new cases’ tally went past 15,000. The state tested 51,453 samples and detected 15,416 new cases on Wednesday, and 15,786 new cases on Tuesday.On Wednesday, Gurugram logged 4,740 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,610, Sonepat 1,171, Hisar 985, Ambala 417, Karnal 767, Panipat 645, Rohtak 332, Rewari 352, Panchkula 654, Kurukshetra 318, Yamunanagar 312, Sirsa 674, Mahendergarh 642, Bhiwani 416, Jhajjar 315, Palwal 161, Fatehabad 311, Kaithal 132, Jind 317, Nuh 107, and Charkhi Dadri 38.Though 10,640 people recovered, the recovery rate came down to 78.82% from Tuesday’s 79.10% and the positivity rate which was 7.17% on Tuesday increased to 7.33%.The state on Wednesday vaccinated 56,103 people and the cumulative number of people vaccinated stood at 40.27 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/181-covid-deaths-reported-in-a-day-in-haryana-101620241425223.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Admissions for PG dental students yet to commence||Dr Pratima Pandey, 24 is among at least 30,000 postgraduate (PG) dental aspirants who cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test-Masters in Dental Surgery (NEET-MDS) in December 2020 but are still waiting for admissions to begin.What’s worse is that directives from the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC), which handles all-India admissions for MDS aspirants state that admissions to the course can only begin once NEET-PG for medical and diploma students is conducted and results are announced. “This means we will have to wait another four months minimum for admissions to begin because the Central government recently postponed NEET-PG by four months,” said Pandey, one of many students affected by this decision.While all BDS students who graduated this year have been roped in for Covid-19 duty, these MDS aspirants are waiting at home wanting to join the task force. “Most students are already working eight-hour shifts daily with various hospitals, but those of us who cleared BDS earlier and are eligible for MDS are waiting to be called on the field, but with admissions stalled we can be of no help,” said Dr Balasubramniam Shankar, another aspirant. MDS aspirants have to clear their BDS degree and complete at least one year of internship before they are eligible for admissions to the master’s course. While the all-Inda quota seats are conducted by the MCC, state quota seats are filled by the state common entrance test (CET) cell. “We can see that at present the burden of work on the medical faculty is large, and we are ready to participate in the covid task force. Most of us have cleared our BDS in the last two-three years are, however, waiting for a word from the authorities,” added Shankar. Final year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical, dental and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in the month of December along with NEET-MDS, but while the MDS entrance exam was conducted as per schedule, NEET-PG for medical and diploma candidates was postponed.After receiving queries from students from across the country, a statement from the MCC stating the reason for the delay was shared. “NEET-PG 2021 for postgraduate medical, dental and diploma has not been conducted yet, but counselling for MDS seats is also supposed to be done with MD/MS and diploma seats. Hence, the tentative counselling schedule for NEET-PG medical/dental seats has not been made yet. Students are advised to visit the official website of the MCC regularly for further updates,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/admissions-for-pg-dental-students-yet-to-commence-101620241298656.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Five years on, wetlands yet to be declared as bird sanctuaries||More than five years have passed since former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis, acting as the chairman of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL), approved a proposal to declare three wetlands in Mumbai, Raigad and Thane districts as bird sanctuaries. However, the respective water area — including wetlands of Mahul-Shivdi, Panje-Funde and TSC-NRI wetlands in Navi Mumbai — are yet to be notified as such, as per provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Activists earlier this week wrote to CM Uddhav Thackeray, drawing his attention to this delay, and urged him to expedite protection for these ecologically sensitive areas, which support a rich biodiversity of migratory birds during winter months. The Fadnavis government had, on December 4, 2015, proposed to declare nearly 1,600 hectares of wetland as bird sanctuary while approving the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link project.The same day, via the official Facebook page of the Chief Minister’s office, it had been announced, “CM Devendra Fadnavis chaired the 10th meeting of the State Wildlife Board at Mumbai, in presence of forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. The board approved three bird sanctuaries in Mumbai region (Mahul-Shivdi, TSC land near Palm Beach and Panje Funde), which will help in conservation of flamingos.” Mitigation measures suggested by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) were taken into consideration before giving approval to the MTHL project, the post read.BN Kumar, director of NatConnect NGO which has been campaigning to protect wetlands in Navi Mumbai, said, “This move is in line with what environmentalists have been demanding for years. But despite filing multiple Right to Information (RTI) queries in the recent past as to the status of Panje bird sanctuary, it was not mentioned in the responses that approval had already been granted to declare these wetlands as sanctuaries. We have now requested CM Thackeray to go ahead with his predecessor’s decision and make this announcement on World Migratory Bird Day, on May 8, as a gift to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.”Recently, migratory birds (namely greater sandplovers) which had been tagged by BNHS at Panje in September 2018 were found to have returned to the area after a supermoon event caused tidal water to flow into the parched wetland which, Kumar said, has been dry for close to a year now. Local birder Parag Gharat who ventured out with his camera after seeing the waterflow spotted the tagged birds. Kumar quickly cross-checked the photos with BNHS which confirmed it had done the tagging. “Looks like the birds are using the Mumbai coast as a stopover or refuelling site,” said BNHS director Dr Bivash Pandav.Meanwhile, wetlands in Mahul-Shivdi in Mumbai and TSC-NRI in Navi Mumbai also continue to support a large number of resident and migratory bird populations, including flamingos. “These areas are not just important for birds; they act as urban sponges and prevent flooding as well. Since the state government had already expressed their desire to grant them legal sanctity as bird sanctuaries, there should be no further delay in the same. To have waited for over five years since then is already a serious lapse in governance,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-years-after-wildlife-board-nod-wetlands-yet-to-declared-as-bird-sanctuaries-101620241122064.html
06-05-2021||Other||Of six oxygen generation plants in Haryana, two already operational: Vij||As the state battles scarcity of liquid oxygen, Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said that of six pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants, two are already operational and rest of the four will start working by the end of this week.“We were allotted six such plants and one each in Sonepat and Karnal are already functional. The plant in Ambala will start providing gas by Wednesday night. Rest of the three plants in Panchkula, Faridabad and Hisar will get ready within 2-3 days,” Vij said.After inspecting the plant at the civil hospital in Ambala which will provide oxygen directly to patients’ bed in the isolation ward, Vij said other than these six plants, the Union government has allotted 60 more such facilities which will be installed at hospitals with bed capacities of 30, 50, 100 and 200.“Civil work will be carried out by the NHAI and is expected to complete within a week. Installation will be undertaken by DRDO along with a Union government agency. We have a target to make every government hospital in state ‘atmanirbhar’ in terms of oxygen supply. We’ve instructed private hospitals to install their own plants within six months or face action,” Vij added.On Wednesday, he said that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is himself monitoring the oxygen supply situation in state.“Most of the gas allotted in our quota is being transported from Odisha and there are some issues in its supply. So after a meeting in Chandigarh on Tuesday, we’ve decided to import 10 trucks from any foreign country where the vehicles are available, to develop an uninterrupted chain between Haryana and Odisha for its supply,” Vij said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-six-oxygen-generation-plants-in-haryana-two-already-operational-vij-101620241119360.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Private schools must submit documents on fees: Maharashtra edu dept||With several complaints concerning private schools charging indiscriminate fees coming to light, the state education department has directed its officials to ensure that schools across boards and managements submit documents with reference to fees to the department. In a letter addressed to officials at the education department, the director of primary education in the state has ordered that documents on fee- such as papers of PTA approvals, finances of school etc be sent to the department. The move came after CAPS student organisation requested the government to look into fee-related complaints of parents. “Several schools are charging students indiscriminately and are not following norms concerning fee hikes. In many places, the Parent Teacher Association is not formed as per the due process and fee hikes are still approved without following norms. We thus hope that the government acts in this regard and keeps a tab on fees across schools,” stated the letter given by the student organisation. As per the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, it is binding on schools to submit records of fee hikes and fee-related decisions to education authorities regularly. However, in the past, despite requests from parent bodies, the department has seldom acted against schools that fail to submit their records and still hike fees indiscriminately. The state government recently formed an expert committee to suggest changes and revisions in the fee act and had also invited suggestions from various stakeholders for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/private-schools-must-submit-documents-on-fees-maharashtra-edu-dept-101620241119890.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Age of contactless customers: Drones to replace traditional delivery executives||Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), popularly known as drones, could well replace traditional delivery executives in the country in times to come as the ministry of civic aviation (MoCA) on Tuesday granted conditional exemption from Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021 to 20 entities, including Dunzo and Swiggy, to conduct Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) experimental flights of drones. Taking a step towards making home delivery by drones a reality, MoCA said BVLOS trials will help create a framework for future drone deliveries and other major applications using drones. Senior MoCA officials told HT that draft guidelines for BVLOS drone operations will be open for public scrutiny by the end of the year.In April, MoCA also granted conditional approval to Telangana government for delivering Covid-19 vaccines using drones on an experimental basis. Similar permission was granted to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones, in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur. MoCA had constituted BVLOS Experiment Assessment and Monitoring Committee (BEAM) with an aim to undertake BVLOS experimental drone flights, following which the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had in May 2019 issued an expression of interest (EOI).Among 34 EOIs evaluated by the committee, 20 were selected for experimental flights. As a result of which, MoCA on Tuesday issued an order granting permission (or conditional exemption) to these selected consortia to conduct experiment flights for one year or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The concept of drone delivery has, however, already taken roots in some countries with self-flying drones, from delivering Covid-19 vaccines in Ghana, a country in West Africa, to global e-commerce platforms (such as Amazon) planning to complete their deliveries by unmanned machines in the sky. Back home, in 2014, a local eatery in Mumbai, as a test flight, used a drone for delivering a pizza, making it the first city in the country to adopt high-technology in food delivery. Soon after the unlocking of the economy in June last year, DGCA granted approvals to food start-ups such as Zomato, Swiggy and Dunzo to start testing BVLOS operation drones for deliveries. In such operations, drones fly without a pilot maintaining visual line of sight on the aircraft at all times. Instead, the pilot operates the UAV using Remote Pilot Station (RPS) / Ground Control Station (GCS) instruments. A Dunzo spokesperson said they were working with local authorities in Telangana to commence drone trials for medicine delivery. A comment from Swiggy is awaited.Ministry officials said use of drones in last-mile deliveries will grow larger in the pandemic-hit world.Though, in the recently announced norms for drone operations in the country, BVLOS operations for delivery of goods has not been permitted, a senior MoCA official early in March had said that as drones become the new normal, traditional air cargo movement has to dovetail itself with last-mile or first-mile connectivity.“There are some areas of aviation, particularly in cargo, that need to grow as drones become the new normal. The civil aviation ministry may very shortly put in place a platform and rules, which will make air cargo grow as well,” Vandana Aggarwal, senior economic advisor in MoCA, had said. The Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021, notified on March 12, spells out the terms of usage of drones by individuals and businesses. It also lays down rules for terms of research, testing, production, and import of such vehicles. The rule allows drones to be used to conduct surveys, for photography, security, information gathering purposes, disaster management, and surveillance operations.However, MoCA joint secretary and head of the drones division Amber Dubey said draft guidelines for BVLOS operations are expected to come by the end of this year. “After test flights are conducted, test results and proof of concept submitted by consortia will be scrutinised by DGCA. Post which, draft guidelines will be issued and will be open for public feedback before issuing the notification,” said Dubey adding, “Thereafter guidelines are expected to be issued by year-end.”A DGCA official said, “Trial flights will be affected by upcoming monsoon season and winter fog in certain parts of India. One cannot rush the trials since it has safety, national security, data security and privacy concerns.”Chirag Sharma, co-founder and chief executive officer of Delhi-based Drone Destination Pvt Ltd, said drones, owing to its autonomous capabilities, will play a key role in last-mile logistics, especially in hard-to-access areas. “Heavy lift drones with payload carrying capacity of over 5kg can be used to transport essential food and supplies, medicines and blood samples,” said Sharma, adding that a restaurant-to-home food delivery is still some time away from an Indian UAS operations perspective. “We will need drone ports in the future to enable large-scale drone powered logistics. Certain delivery companies like Zomato, Swiggy, Dunzo will be conducting government-approved trials in the next two to three months. Once learnings from the trials have been adopted and standard operating procedures (SOPs) are in place, we could see real-time implementation in the coming two to three years,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/age-of-contactless-customers-drones-to-replace-traditional-delivery-executives-101620241058705.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Different viewpoint is not hate speech, says Bombay high court||A different viewpoint does not become “hate speech” merely because it is harsh or extreme, the Bombay high court observed on Wednesday while striking down a first information report (FIR) registered against a Vashi resident for allegedly trying to created hatred between two religious groups by reposting a video on her Twitter handle along with her view.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik said the right to express your view is a protected and cherished right in our democracy. “Merely because the point of view of the petitioner is extreme or harsh does not make it a hate speech, as it is only expressing a different point of view,” the bench added, striking down an FIR registered by Azad Maidan police against Vashi resident Sunaina Holey, accusing the 39-year-old of creating hatred between different religions. On April 15, she was booked after she reposted on her Twitter handle a video of an individual addressing the huge crowd of migrant labourers who had gathered outside Bandra railway station on April 14, 2020, amid nationwide lockdown along with a purportedly objectionable message.On April 14, a rumour that trains were restarted was spread, attracting huge crowd of migrants who were desperate to return to their native places.As the atmosphere become tense, the police requested a man to pacify the crowd and he started to say that the pandemic was an act of God. When he was speaking, one person in the crowd shouted that Covid-19 pandemic was not an act of God but had been brought out by the Prime Minister of India. Someone shot the entire sequence on video and circulated it on social media. Holey retweeted the video with a message critical of the authorities The HC said the prime intent of the petitioner was obviously to criticize and counter the view point of the person in the video who was blaming the Prime Minister of India for the spread of virus. “Reading of the contents of the tweet would reveal that neither any community nor any religion is named. Nothing substantial has been brought on record by the prosecution to hold that because of the said tweet, hatred or enmity was created in between two communities,” said the bench. “Upon reading of the contents of the said tweet, it is difficult to arrive at the conclusion that the Petitioner has mens rea to commit alleged offence under section 153A of the IPC.”The HC added that the concern of the state police machinery to control the situation though justified, but the approach in registering the FIR for the comments made on the Twitter feed by the petitioner on the apprehension that the same may lead to promoting hatred or enmity between different groups was “too far-fetched and remote”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/different-viewpoint-is-not-hate-speech-says-bombay-high-court-101620241058110.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||FIR against comedian Sunil Pal for derogatory comment on doctors||The Andheri police on Tuesday booked stand-up comedian Sunil Pal for allegedly making “derogatory and obnoxious” comments on doctors working in Covid management and treatment. The video on the same had gone viral on social media.Association of Medical Consultants (Mumbai), which represents 12,000 doctors and 811 hospitals in Maharashtra and Karnataka, had complained against Pal.Dr Sushmita Bhatnagar, the association president, in the first information report (FIR) has stated that the accused, stand-up comedian in an interview with a YouTube channel had made false accusations against doctors claiming their involvement in fraudulent deeds, comparing doctors to evil creatures of the society and also spread lies about Covid-19.The video of the interview later went viral on social media and was widely shared on WhatsApp and other platforms. Various doctor’s bodies from across the country had objected to it, ultimately forcing the comedian to tender an apology for his comments. “The content of the video incites anger and hatred against doctors among the general public and also creates panic and fear about Covid in people’s minds. Pal’s video spreads rumours. It incites negative notions to defame doctors. The video could also trigger violence against doctors across the country and the comedian will be solely responsible for it,” stated Dr Bhatnagar in the FIR (of which HT has a copy). The complaint regarding the objectionable video was submitted to the police by the association’s chairman Dr Sudhir Naik on April 22, but the Andheri police registered an FIR in the matter only on Tuesday. Pal has been booked under sections 500 (defamation) and 505-2 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code. He would soon be summoned to record his statement, said a police officer.When contacted Pal’s spokesperson she said that the comedian had already apologised for his comments which a section of doctors found objectionable. Like the first video, the doctors should also see the second video in which he has stated that his comments were meant for the bad people and not the genuine doctors who are doing great work and serving the nation. Pal hasn’t yet received any intimation from the police regarding the FIR, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-comedian-sunil-pal-for-derogatory-comment-on-doctors-101620240998577.html
06-05-2021||Other||Fire engineer files PIL before HC over blazes at hospitals||A Nagpur-based fire engineer and a private forensic expert has filed an intervene public interest litigation (PIL) before the Bombay high court (HC) concerning the fire incidents in state hospitals. Referring to the Virar hospital fire incident, where 15 patients were charred to death on April 23 due to a short circuit in the air conditioning unit, the plea also suggests solutions to avoid fires in hospitals. The hearing is for the PIL is posted on Thursday.Nilesh Ukunde, 53, the petitioner who is an engineer from the Central government run-National Fire Services College, Nagpur, said large amounts of alcohol in sanitisers and heavy curtains inside the ICU blocked cross-ventilation, this led to the spreading of fire. The intervention petition by Ukunde is based on the fire audits of several Covid hospitals in the state.In the petition before the HC, Ukunde said he has visited around 35 Covid hospitals and had also visited the Virar hospital post the tragedy on the orders of the divisional commissioner, Nagpur Municipal Corporation and the fire audit of the Virar hospital states that alcohol settled on ceilings and can result in a fire due to a short circuit in the absence of cross ventilation. The alcohol is lighter than air and settles on the upper layer of the room, as per the petition.In the Virar hospital case, there was only one point for entry and exit from the ICU, thus the patients were trapped. The hospital should have used a suction pump, every eight hours, for two minutes, to suck out the alcohol-laden air in the upper layer of the room, and thus the fire would not have occurred, said Ukunde in the fire audit.The curtains in all ICUs of hospitals should be removed and only fire retardant cloth should be used, which was absent in the Virar hospital. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to all hospitals which are being implemented in Nagpur hospitals, and such SOPs should be adopted by all Covid care hospitals in the state, said Ukunde in the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-engineer-files-pil-before-hc-over-blazes-at-hospitals-101620240998006.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Tragedy averted as 26 patients rescued in nick of time after fire in Delhi nursing home||Twenty-six patients, including 17 infected with Covid-19 and some of them on oxygen support, were trapped after a fire broke out late Tuesday night in UK Nursing Home at Vikaspuri, fire and police officials said. The medical facility was recently converted into a Covid hospital.All the patients, and around 50 members of the hospital staff were rescued in a 45-minute-long firefighting and rescue operation carried out by 30 firemen involving eight fire tenders. Three serious Covid patients who were on ventilator support in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) were immediately shifted to two private hospitals in west Delhi – Kalra and Central – in ambulances, said fire official and the hospital administration.“As water was dripping in the ICU from the roof, we removed three Covid patients as a precautionary measure. Two were shifted to Kalra hospital while another patient was sent to Central hospital. The fire started in the first floor store room, where administrative records were kept. All patients are safe and they were shifted to ground and second floors,” said Pankaj Maini from UK Nursing Home’s administration department.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said the fire control room received a call around 11pm that a fire has broken out in the hospital, and people were trapped inside.“Immediately, eight fire tenders were rushed to the hospital. The building has a basement, ground, and two upper floors. The fire originated in the storeroom on the first floor. While the flames were seen only on the first floor, the smoke had engulfed the entire hospital building,” he said.Since it was a Covid hospital, the firemen were divided into four different teams – one to douse the flames and three others to rescue the patients and hospital staff.None of the rescuers wore PPE kits since it catches fire easily. The firemen wore the regular uniforms, helmets with face shields, and eyeglasses and masks, said assistant divisional officer (DFS) Bhupender Prakash, who was leading the teams.According to Prakash, the firefighting team entered the hospital building through the main gate, and reached the first floor using a ladder installed on the porch. The patients on the first floor were immediately evacuated, and water was sprayed to douse the flames. The glass windows towards the front portion of the building were broken for ventilation.The fire officer said that there were six patients in the ICU on the ground floor, right below the first floor store room where the fire broke out. The water used to douse the flames started dripping inside the ICU from the roof. All the six patients were evacuated. The false ceiling of the ICU collapsed soon after all the patients were taken away safely, he said.“The members of our rescue teams evacuated patients from the ground and second floors, as well with the help of the hospital staff. We used the stretchers and wheelchairs to move the patients to safe places. Within 45 minutes, the fire was controlled while the entire operation continued till 1am on Wednesday,” said Prakash, adding that they found fire fighting equipment such as fire extinguishers in the hospital.The firefighters said that though they knew they had Covid patients inside, they knew they must carry out the rescue operation. All firefighters were properly sanitised after the rescue operation, and their uniforms were discarded.“We take calculated risk as saving lives is the top priority of fire fighters even in situations where there are chances of getting infected from Covid or other virus. As a precautionary measure, for two days we isolate the firefighters who were directly exposed to Covid patients, and watch their health condition,” DFS chief Garg said.Meanwhile, the ministry of home affairs has asked all the states and Union territories to ensure that no fire incident occurs in any of the health facilities (particularly Covid-19 dedicated facilities).The ministry has taken cognisance of fire incidents, caused by short circuits, in hospitals and nursing homes in the last few days across the country.In his letter to the states and UTs, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said that in the context of recent fire incidents, and particularly in view of the impending summer season, it needs to be highlighted that either because of high temperature, lack of maintenance or high load on the internal wirings within facilities, short circuits take place, leading to fire incidents and consequential loss of life and essential infrastructure.Fifteen patients died after a fire broke out on April 23 at Vijay Vallabh hospital in Virar, Mumbai. On April 25, 3 patients died in fire at hospital in Gujarat’s Surat.The ministry of home affairs has asked the states/union territories to conduct a detailed review with officials from the health, power and fire departments, and prepare a detailed plan of action to ensure that fire safety measures are in place in all hospitals and health facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tragedy-averted-as-26-patients-rescued-in-nick-of-time-after-fire-in-delhi-nursing-home-101620240640193.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Bandra society opposes Mumbai civic body’s plan to set up Covid vaccination centre inside complex||Two housing societies in Rizvi Complex area of Bandra (West) have opposed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s plan to set up a vaccination centre inside their premises.The BMC owns a structure inside the complex, however, the housing societies, consisting of 56 flats, have written to the civic body expressing fear of crowding and spreading of Covid-19 among residents.The BMC, to scale up vaccination drives for 18 to 44 age groups is in the process of having 227 vaccination centres across the city in 24 wards, and one such is inside the compound of Harmony and Rocky housing society. The BMC’s H West ward had written to the societies on April 29, informing them about the plan to set up the vaccination centre at the welfare centre owned by the civic body. The BMC, in its letter, had sought cooperation from the society regarding the same.However, the members of both societies have opposed the plan citing that vaccination centre should not come up in residential areas. Jasmine Divekar, a resident said, “We are told to stay home and stay safe, but with the BMC planning to come up with a vaccination centre, I do not feel residents in our society will be able to remain safe. With vaccination centre, there might be crowding, and this can result in spreading of Covid-19 among residents of society.”Masud Ahmed, chairman of Harmony society said, “We are not against vaccination or vaccination centres, but we are just requesting them to not set up the same in our society premises. Senior citizens are residing in our society and we fear they might be infected. We have written to the BMC and are expecting a positive reply from them.”The residents also took to social media expressing their displeasure.Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s H West ward said, “The premises herein is located inside Harmony society and is a welfare centre owned by the BMC. There is a separate gate and parking available for us, which we do not regularly use. But now we want to use it for vaccination, considering it is the most feasible and suitable location.”He added, “I expect the citizens to cooperate considering vaccination is the need of the hour. We cannot set up vaccination centres in schools and colleges considering they might reopen any time, after which, vaccination drive might get affected.”However, the residents claim there is no individual gate for the BMC premises and there are only two common gates. The entrance to the BMC’s premises is through the main gate and compound of the society which is common for all three. In the two housing societies where 60% of the occupants are senior citizens, the vaccination centre could be a huge health hazard,” added Divekar.Meanwhile, local BJP corporator Swapna Mhatre said, “I had already informed BMC that there will be opposition if we select residential society premises for vaccination. I had already suggested schools in nearby areas, but BMC says it does not want to go ahead with schools or colleges fearing they may restart in the coming month. I feel if alternative options are available, we should avoid disturbing residential housing societies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bandra-society-opposes-mumbai-civic-body-s-plan-to-set-up-covid-vaccination-centre-inside-complex-101620240937984.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: 33,807 get the jab in Mumbai on Wednesday||Vaccination for those above 45 years of age began in Mumbai on Wednesday after the civic body received a fresh stock of vaccine on Tuesday. A total of 33,807 citizens were vaccinated. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also vaccinated 2,294 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years across five centres in Mumbai on Wednesday. Of the 33,807 beneficiaries, 26,806 received their second doses. Among the beneficiaries 17,356 were senior citizens, 11,009 were citizens in the age group of 45-59 years, 2,017 were frontline workers, and 1,131 were healthcare workers. From Tuesday, vaccination in the age group of 45 years and above restarted across Mumbai, after it was suspended for three days since Saturday due to a shortage in doses. Vaccination at the five centres that are now catering to the age group of 18-44 years, alongside vaccination for those in the age group of 45 years and above, took place amid reports of overcrowding at BKC jumbo facility and Rajawadi Hospital. By Wednesday night, photographs circulated on social media of overcrowding and a stampede like situation at the BKC Jumbo facility. However, Dr Rajesh Dere, the dean of BKC jumbo facility said, “There was only some crowding at BKC jumbo facility in the morning before we opened the vaccination centre at noon. Despite BMC’s request to beneficiaries on Tuesday, that vaccination would start post noon, people started gathering at the centre at 6am itself. Once doses arrived and gates of the vaccination centre opened at noon, everything went smoothly.” In a statement on Wednesday night, BMC’s public relations management department said, “There was no mismanagement at BKC. On the contrary, the citizens were requested to come after 12pm as doses were to come in the morning. Local administration and police also appealed to the citizens. However, people started crowding the centre in the morning hours. Once the doses arrived, vaccination was carried out smoothly.” Responding to a fake message circulating on social media, that this centre was operational for vaccinating beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group, BMC on Wednesday morning urged citizens not to rush to the centre. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over the area, said, “Many 18 to 44 age group beneficiaries gathered at Kohinoor insisting for vaccination. I urge all to please spread this message: vaccination at this centre is only for people in the age group of 45 years and above, getting a first or second dose. Drive-in is only for senior citizens and specially-abled citizens.”Vaccination will take place for beneficiaries between the age group of 18-44 years at five vaccination centres on Thursday. No walk-ins will be permitted, BMC tweeted on Wednesday. Only those who have registered on the Co-WIN application and received a slot from BMC will get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid1933807-get-the-jab-in-mumbai-on-wednesday-101620240818034.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||45 held for black marketing of oxygen, remdesivir across Haryana||Haryana police have registered 21 first information reports (FIRs) in connection with black marketing of oxygen, oxygen cylinders, and remdesivir injections across Haryana in the past two weeks, leading to the arrest of 45 persons and recovery of 77 oxygen cylinders and 101 vials of remdesivir.According to director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava, taking advantage of the rising demand of medical oxygen, unscrupulous persons and employees of private hospitals are indulging in black marketing of oxygen and remdesivir, which are in high demand for treatment of Covid-19.Since April 23, he said, eight FIRs were registered in connection with black marketing of oxygen and oxygen cylinders in six districts of Haryana, leading to arrest of 12 accused and recovery of 77 oxygen cylinders.Similarly, 33 accused involved in black marketing of remdesivir injections were arrested. He said 13 FIRs were registered against the accused in eight districts and police recovered 101 vials of the drug from them.“Police have collected 1,249 cylinders as a voluntary contribution from factory owners, welding shop owners, gas-balloons sellers and ordinary citizens and handed over to the district administration,” he said, assuring that police are working tirelessly to stop the black-marketing.The DGP appealed to people to inform the police on black marketing of injections and oxygen cylinders on mobile number 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314.SUPPLIER OF REMDESIVIR INJECTION HELD
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra sees 920 deaths in a day||Maharashtra on Wednesday breached the 900 death mark for the second time, since the outbreak of the Covid-19 virus last year.On Wednesday, the state recorded 57,640 new Covid-19 cases with 920 deaths. The highest number of deaths in a single day was on April 28 when 985 people had succumbed to Covid-19.The total number of deaths in the state has now reached 72,662, with Mumbai topping the list with 13,511 deaths, followed by 9,863 in Pune.The state currently has 6,41,596 active cases in which Pune tops with 1,14,254 cases followed by Nagpur with 58,944 cases.Deaths may come downDr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the deaths will stabilise in the coming days. “Most of these patients have been ill for over two weeks and the treatment was delayed. In addition, many of them had already been suffering from medical complications and the virus made it worse,” said Lahane. “However, the death rate will come down in the coming days as even the new cases are coming down,” he added.According to Dr Jeevan Jain, a leading physician from Lalbaug, the current strain of Covid-19 is highly infective and lethal compared to the first wave. “In the second wave, we are seeing the new variant of Covid-19 directly affecting the lungs, which was not the case last year. This is proving to be fatal. Last year, the fever hardly exceeded 100 degree Fahrenheit but this time, the fever is not coming down for a long time, despite administering various medicines. The range of fever now goes up to 103-104 degree Fahrenheit,” said Jain, who has treated more than 15,000 Covid-19 patients to date.Commotion over vaccineThe police personnel lathi-charged at the agitated citizens who had come to vaccinate themselves at Parli in Beed district. There were 30 doses of vaccine available, while hundreds of citizens had lined up outside the centre. The shortage of doses infuriated people. They even pushed the deputy superintendent of police (DYSP) Santosh Walke who had gone to pacify the crowd. This act infuriated the policemen who took to lathi charging. Police have also arrested six people.Oxygen leakage in tankerA leakage was reported in the oxygen tanker along the Pune-Bengaluru highway. This tanker was proceeding towards Kolhapur and the leakages continued for more than half an hour before officials stepped in to plug the same. In Nagpur, 25 minibuses are converted to ambulances.‘Become self-reliant in oxygen supply’Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said he has asked the administration to ensure that the state becomes self-reliant in oxygen supply by increasing the manufacturing to 1,800 metric tones. Maharashtra daily needs 1,800 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen. The state has been able to get 1,848 MT of oxygen, of which 1,295 MT is being arranged by the state, while 500 MT is procured from outside. The rest 53 MT is being produced from the 38 pressure swing absorbing (PSA) plants. The state has given a go-ahead to start 382 PSA plants which would produce 240 MT of oxygen informed the CMO.These plants are being constructed on a war footing and would be operational by June end. The state would also enhance the production of liquid medical oxygen and installation of such plants will also be given a green signal. This will boost the oxygen supply by another 300 MT. The state has asked the centre to hike its allocation by 200 MT from outside the state from Jamnagar in Gujarat and Bhilai in Chhatisgarh.Meanwhile, the CMO also said that the Central government has from April 21 to May 4 has dispatched 4,74,791 doses of Remdesivir injection which is 59% of its agreed quota. The state is distributing the same across all regions. The state has also floated global tenders to procure them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-sees-920-deaths-in-a-day-101620240697959.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Why are health bulletins often delayed in Capital?||On Tuesday, the Delhi government failed to release its crucial daily health bulletin, which gives updates on the city’s Covid-19 numbers from the previous day. This was the third time since the pandemic hit the national Capital in March 2020 that the government has been unable to release the bulletin till the end of the day.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country, and the fourth in Delhi, has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and deaths. Delhi is currently recording an average of nearly 23,000 new Covid cases and nearly 400 deaths every day over the past seven days. While every state issues bulletins, some later than others, Delhi’s health bulletins over the past several weeks have often been released late in the night, even though the data is from the previous day -- a decision taken last year after a health bulletin was missed (the logic being that it would be easier to compile the previous day’s data).Experts say that the quick sharing of data is the essence of public health action. “This is a national health emergency and Delhi is now the worst hit city-state. At such a critical juncture, it is critical to release data to the public on time. I do not know if it was just not released to the public, and if officials had it on time. This approach may hinder timely interventions in pandemic management,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The health bulletins were also not uploaded on the Delhi government website on May 3 and May 4, even as the administration released them to reporters and on social media.In a statement on Wednesday, the Delhi government admitted Tuesday’s delay. “We’d like to sincerely apologise for the delay in sending the health bulletin. It has always been our effort to lay the facts bare in front of the people. Health bulletins are an indicator of how we fare, what factors remain a matter of concern, where the government needs to take immediate measures and where the public can hold us to account. We’re deeply sorry and regret that we were unable to share an important document yesterday. What we can promise, is that this will never happen again in the future. We are also looking into the reasons why it was delayed,” the statement said.The Tuesday bulletin (with Monday’s data, as per the norm), was released at 8.55am on Wednesday. Later that afternoon, the Wednesday bulletin was released as well. A government spokesperson said that there was a serious effort being made to rectify the problem, and that the bulletin would be released in the afternoons, rather than late in the evenings, from now on.The other days when the bulletin did not come till midnight were June 9, 2020 (it was released at 5.30am on June 10); and on April 28 (when it was put out at 12.11am on April 29).A senior official said on condition of anonymity said that a bulk of the data used to prepare the bulletin generally come in by 1pm. “This is the data of the previous day. It comes from hospitals and our team compiles it. These days, because of the surge in case, a few batches of numbers come in by evening, because of which the bulletin sometimes gets delayed. Also, officials who need to sign the bulletin are often in some meeting or the other to handle the Covid-19 crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-why-are-health-bulletins-often-delayed-in-capital-101620240228304.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gets 479,000 Covaxin doses; in talks for Sputnik V||The Covid-19 inoculation drive for people between the ages of 18 and 44 is set for a boost as the state government has received nearly 500,000 doses. Currently, the inoculation drive in the third phase is going on at limited centres and with limited doses across the state. Meanwhile, the state government is still deliberating global tenders to procure vaccines from foreign manufacturers to boost the vaccination of the young people. The state government is in talks with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to procure Sputnik V doses. On Tuesday night, health department officials said the state received 479,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. Officials added that the state will continue to keep the drive at limited centres to keep it sustained for a longer period. “We have received 479,000 doses from Bharat Biotech. The vaccination centres for 18-44 will continue to be five per district, as it has to be a sustained drive with minimum wastage,” said DN Patil, state immunisation officer. Patil added that the fresh stock of Covaxin has been dispatched to all the districts and it will be used in the coming day. In Pune district, the stock was used on Wednesday to vaccinate people in the 18-44 category. On April 30, the state had received 300,000 vaccines from Serum Institute of India, which helped state to start vaccination for 18-44 category from May 1.In the state Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the ministers deliberated on procuring vaccines from foreign manufacturers, including Russia-made Sputnik V. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state will hold consultations with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to procure Sputnik V.However, in absence of a go-ahead from the Centre and low manufacturing capabilities of these companies, the state will depend on Indian manufacturers. A senior official who was present in the meeting said, “The issue of permission from Government of India still remains in place. Besides that, the production of Sputnik V is also not as fast. So, for the time-being we will have to depend on Indian vaccines,” he said, requesting anonymity. On Wednesday, the state inoculated over 250,000 beneficiaries in 5,038 centres across the state. The state’s numbers saw a jump on Wednesday as the state vaccinated around 79,491 and 98,150 on Monday and Tuesday, respectively, owing to less stock. Of the 253,031 beneficiaries vaccinated on Wednesday, 50,796 were from Mumbai and 59,081 were from Pune district. The state has, so far, vaccinated 16,793,770 beneficiaries, of which 2,863,037 have taken their second shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gets-479-000-covaxin-doses-in-talks-for-sputnik-v-101620240457932.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||19 more dead in Ludhiana, 1,186 test positive for Covid as contagion rages on||Showing no signs of slowing down, the Covid-19 pandemic on Wednesday claimed 19 more lives in the district, which also recorded over 1,000 cases for the fifth consecutive day. The 1,186 cases pushed Ludhiana’s caseload to 61,321 and the active cases to 10,778 – both highest in Punjab. At 1,470, the district is also leading the state’s charts in number of total deaths.May began with an all-time high of 1,600 cases, following which Ludhiana has clocked 6,735 infections in just five days against 20,176 in the entirety of April and 7,294 in March. On the deaths’ front, the contagion has claimed 95 lives in May, compared to 232 in April and 115 in March.Since April 26, the number of daily deaths has been in double digits for 11 straight days, reaching a record high of 21 on May 3.36-year-old among latest victimsThe youngest among Wednesday’s fatalities was a 36-year-old man from Prem Nagar.Apart from him, the men who died were an 88-year-old from Civil Lines, an 83-year-old from Haibowal, a 78-year-old from Kila Raipur, two aged 72 from Khanna and Shivpuri, a 62-year-old from Jaspal Banger village, a 60-year-old, a 58-year-old from Shimlapuri, a 57-year-old from Millar Ganj, a 51-year-old from Dugri and a 45-year-old from Bharthala.The female deceased included a 65-year-old, a 63-year-old from Dugri, two aged 62 from Shivaji Nagar and Shimlapuri, a 60-year-old from Haibowal Kalan, a 50-year-old from Bhamian village and a 44-year-old from Shimlapuri.‘Don’t venture out unnecessarily’ Terming the pandemic situation grim and the health infrastructure severely strained in Ludhiana, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma urged the residents not to ruin the hard work of thousands of healthcare and frontline workers by venturing out unnecessarily.Interacting with residents through the official Facebook page of DPRO, Ludhiana, Sharma said currently, 1,913 beds, including 526 ICU and 1,387 oxygen, were occupied in various hospitals of the district, and the administration was arranging 100 beds at the Jawaddi Community Health Centre and Government School for the Meritorious. He said the administration was also planning to set up more beds in the hostels of Punjab Agricultural University if the pandemic did not ease in the coming days.The deputy commissioner observed that it was really sad that some people were still not observing Covid appropriate behaviour, despite the high risk of transmission.He reiterated that those dealing in medicines and essential items like dairy, vegetables, fruits, poultry, meat, grocery, PDS shops, fertilisers, agriculture machinery, liquor, hardware, industrial material, tools, motor pipes, etc., were permitted to operate till 5pm, except during the weekend curfew (from 6pm on Friday to 5am on Monday).Answering questions regarding the vaccination for bank staff and traders, by considering them frontline workers, he said the administration had earlier allowed them to get vaccinated at camps, but their response was lukewarm and now they will have to wait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19-more-dead-in-ludhiana-1-186-test-positive-for-covid-as-contagion-rages-on-101620239978370.html
06-05-2021||Other||Sangam city youngsters go all out to help needy during pandemic||PRAYAGRAJ: At a time when people are putting up a brave fight against the pandemic, it is the youngsters working under banners of different social organisations who are providing help to the needy. From nutritional food to sanitising different localities, these youths have come forward to give a befitting reply to the current challenge, using their resources and funds. Activists associated with the Nandi Seva Sansthan, a social organisation of the city, have been engaged in serving the corona positive patients living in home isolation. The organisation has floated a helpline number (9936667701) which can be used to get free food delivered right at home. “We have been delivering good quality food free of cost to corona positive patients living in home isolation in different colonies of the city, adopting safety measures and following the corona guidelines. The members of the organisation prepare and deliver nutritious food to the homes of the patients after receiving orders on WhatsApp”, said Lalu Lal Gupta, senior member of the NGO. Likewise, former general secretary of the Allahabad University Student Union (AUSU), Shivam Singh and his friends too are doing their bit. They held a corona testing camp at Amarnath Jha hostel of Allahabad Univerity on Wednesday. “We are determined to put in our best effort in trying to end this crisis”, said Shivam. His team of volunteers visit designated Covid treating hospitals and provide food for the family members of the patients waiting outside the hospitals. Besides, they give food packets to people sleeping on footpaths, at bus stand etc. Shivam and his friend Sharad Shankar Mishra also sanitise various hostels, areas surrounding AU etc. Shivam said that he started this work early every morning and continued till night. He sanitises battery rickshaws, hostel premises, crossings, roadside shops and bus stand and hospitals—all free of cost using his own funds collected from friends and kin. Joining these efforts is a Mumforganj-based organisation named Akhand Yuva Samiti. Although the organisation is just three years old, a distress call on the WhatAapp number is enough for getting food at the doorstep of a corona positive patient. “We have been delivering around 150 food packets each day in different localities of the city”, informed 23-year old Satyam Kerservani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangam-city-youngsters-go-all-out-to-help-needy-during-pandemic-101620239677815.html
06-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi not getting enough vaccine doses: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday expressed concerns over the short supply of Covid-19 vaccines, even as he asserted that with the current infrastructure in place, the entire population of Delhi can be vaccinated in three months if supply is scaled up.“In the coming days, we will need a large scale supply of vaccines. The latest consignment we have received is not a large one. With the established procedures in place, we can scale up (the vaccination drive) in 24 hours. But there is a shortage of vaccine production. If production and supply are scaled up, we are capable of vaccinating the entire population of Delhi. Right now, the only obstacle is a short supply of vaccines,” Kejriwal said on the sidelines of his visit to a vaccination centre in central Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar.While vaccination of people aged over 45 years was underway at around 500 sites, the drive was opened to people aged between 18 and 44 years on a wider scale on May 3, in a different set of 300-odd sites scattered across all 11 revenue districts in the city.Government records showed, as on 10am on May 5, Delhi had a balance of 411,030 vaccine doses in the central government’s stock and 377,120 vaccine doses in the state government’s stock. Of the total 788,150 doses, 371,600 were of Covishield -- the Indian version of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – and the remaining are doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior government official said going by the current rate of vaccine coverage in the city, this stock would last for eight to nine days, unless replenished. Government records showed around 89,500 people are getting vaccinated a day on average these days.Delhi’s adult population, as per electoral rolls revised in January, is around 15 million – it essentially means the city needs 30 million doses of vaccines, of which 3.25 doses were already administered by April 30, government data said. On May 1, the Delhi government had received its last consignment of around 450,000 vaccines, said the government official.Kejriwal on Wednesday also expressed concerns over the issue of oxygen shortage and said that the ongoing lockdown is likely to remain imposed till it is necessary.“We are working with the central government to ensure the oxygen shortage problem in Delhi is resolved at the earliest... Even though currently there is a severe shortage of oxygen, we are trying our best to ensure that oxygen shortage should not lead to deaths,” said Kejriwal.On being asked about the lockdown, he said, “It is likely to remain till it is necessary. It is not the government imposing a lockdown. People in Delhi want a lockdown in the light of the surge in cases. The pandemic has taken a massive shape. We are augmenting health infrastructure (during lockdown).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-not-getting-enough-vaccine-doses-arvind-kejriwal-101620239348533.html
06-05-2021||Other||Cops cremate Covid+ woman whose kin could not turn up||Agra Police at Ekta chowki here set an admirable example by cremating a 62-year-old Covid positive woman whose family members were unable to attend her last rites. The woman’s sons, who live in Dubai, requested the police to get the cremation done as they were unable to fly to Agra. Sharda Devi (62) lived in Jaipuria Sunrise Colony here. She was suffering from fever and sore throat. Her husband was in Mumbai where he is a builder and her two sons, Arjun and Niranjan, were stuck in Dubai. “ The woman died on Monday but no one in the colony was prepared even to touch the body because of Covid -19 fear. The body was lying in the apartment and left with little choice, we decided to send the body to the mortuary after wearing PPE kits,” said Shailendra Singh Chauhan, the in charge of Ekta police outpost in Agra. “Both the sons of the deceased in Dubai were in telephonic discussion with me and assured that some member of the family would reach Agra on Tuesday to conduct the last rites. However, none, including husband of the deceased could turn up and so her sons requested the police to get the cremation done and provide ashes to the servant who was earlier looking after the deceased but is presently in Gorakhpur,” informed Chauhan. “To fulfill the wishes of the family, the deceased was cremated on Wednesday by cops in the presence of the servant who came from Gorakhpur. The cremation was made available live online for family members who could not turn up,” stated Chauhan, the cop winning appreciation for the humane approach in these pandemic times. “ The ashes have been handed over tohe servant according to the wishes of the sons,” added Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-cremate-covid-woman-whose-kin-could-not-turn-up-101620239437793.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Vaccination drive for second dose beneficiaries resumes in Pune city||The vaccination drive for 45-plus beneficiaries resumed in Pune city on Wednesday after four days of dose unavailability. The district administration has also added three more centres for Covaxin beneficiaries between the age group of 18 and 44 years from Wednesday.The priority second doses for 45 years and above beneficiaries of Covishield were administered at 97 centres on Wednesday after Pune city received 73,800 doses on Tuesday late evening. Along with this, 18 centres in Pune city were administering Covaxin to beneficiaries above the age of 45 years.Rubal Agarwal, Pune additional municipal commissioner, said Covishield centres were dedicated for priority beneficiaries who took the first jab before March 20.“For Covaxin, 18 centres are directed to give priority to beneficiaries who took the first jab before April 5,” said Agarwal.Pune district on Wednesday reported 61,426 beneficiaries receiving the jabs. Of this, 55,330 were beneficiaries above the age of 45 years. The vaccination drive picked up pace as 12,099 beneficiaries in PMC, 31,034 beneficiaries in Pune rural and 12,197 in PCMC received the jabs on Wednesday. Since May 1, only Pune rural was administering vaccines to beneficiaries but the number was not very high due to limited vaccine stock. On Wednesday, there were a total of 474 vaccination centres in the district.Shekhar Patil, a 50-year-old beneficiary who received the second jab after waiting for almost a week, said there was a little rush at the centre but he got his jab.“It is over 45 days since I took my first dose. I am happy that after visiting vaccine centres for almost a week, I finally received the second dose. It is a good decision to give second-dose beneficiaries priority. Vaccination is important to keep everyone safe and break the chain of infection,” said Patil.Vaccination for 18-44 year group On Wednesday, 6,096 beneficiaries reported receiving the first jab of vaccine in Pune district. Of these, 2,080 beneficiaries were in PMC limits, 2,474 were in Pune rural and 1,538 were in PCMC. Even though vaccination at two centres ran smoothly, many beneficiaries reported difficulty in registering for new sites.Karuna Kadam, 28, said she faced problems like scheduling an appointment at new centres.“Some of my friends got the registration done, but scheduling an appointment was difficult. However, we are still trying to get an appointment at centres that are administering Covaxin vaccine,” said Kadam.Agarwal said that the vaccination drive in the city will continue on May 6 as well.“The remaining doses are less with PMC. But the drive will continue to inoculate beneficiaries on May 6 as well,” said Agarwal.Three more vaccination centres for 18-44 year group in the cityCentre--VaccinesKamla Nehru Hospital--CovishieldRajiv Gandhi Hospital--CovishieldJayabai Sutar Hospital-- CovaxinAnnasaheb Magar Hospital--CovaxinMurlidhar Laigude Hospital--Covaxin||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-drive-for-second-dose-beneficiaries-resumes-in-the-city-101620229776112.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Katraj zoo under stricter Covid prevention cover||Pune: Male Pawan (5) and female Subbi (9) are the two lions that are major attraction at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research centre, before Covid pandemic left the zoo outside human limits. “The lions and tigers, included in the 440 animals, are monitored regularly and are healthy. The park is sanitised, including the vehicles that enter the premises bringing food for animals and other purposes,” said Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research centre.Post the report of eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad zoo contracting the coronavirus on Tuesday, the environment ministry has directed zoos, national parks and sanctuaries to remain closed and the officials to strictly follow precautionary measures. “The notification released by the Central Zoo Authority on April 30 includes prevention to sample collection to detection in suspected cases and safety protocols for animal keepers,” said Jadhav.The zoo has limited access to enclosures and holding areas to essential staff. The animal keepers usually wear double masks, face shields, latex gloves, and personal protective gear and regularly undergo RT-PCR tests.Datta Bhagwan Chandane, a senior animal handler who takes care of lions and four Royal Bengal tigers, said, “I have already had my shot of vaccine. We are taking utmost care of animals. We sprinkle bleach powder around the cage and its surroundings. While feeding them or even grooming them, we first dip our feet into potassium permanganate (disinfectant) and always wear gumboots, two layers of hand gloves, plastic and latex gloves,” said Chandane, wearing a mask and head cover before calling out to Subbi, the lioness to get into the enclosure. “The staff while handling the animals maintain a two-meter social distancing and avoid unnecessary contact with animals. Food supplied to animals are cleaned, disinfected and meat is sterilised by dipping in hot water (above 65 degrees Centigrade) for 10 minutes,” Jadhav said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katraj-zoo-under-stricter-covid-prevention-cover-101620224615824.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Clerics, educationists drive the campaign to remove vaccine hesitancy during Ramadan in Pune||Pune: Prominent clerics and leaders in the city are creating awareness among the Muslim community about the importance of vaccination in the fight against Covid-19. The vaccination drive is taking place in the city during the Muslim community’s holy month of Ramadan. While many took the jab before vaccine shortage disrupted the drive, now they are ready for inoculation after breaking the fast following the beginning of Ramadan from April 13, according to community elders. The clerics have appealed for early vaccination as a preventive measure from Covid. The management of Poona College, one of the Muslim educational institutions in the city, has come up with a detailed advisory. “In view of the current pandemic and the severity of Covid-19 cases, I have been directed by the general secretary to inform you all and to impress upon you and your entire teaching and non-teaching staff to take the vaccines at the earliest. This will enable you all to work in a carefree atmosphere when the school reopens. Please note that the vaccines are safe and not fall prey to rumours. Inoculation is the best form of defence to fight this pandemic and follow ‘Covid Appropriate Behaviour’. We hope you will take these instructions from the management seriously,” reads the message from the educational body that runs schools and colleges. Those who took the vaccine before Ramadan have decided to take the second dose after breaking the fast. The dose shortage had left many to miss the vaccination. Anwar Shaikh, Poona College principal, said, “Many Muslims took the vaccine before Ramadan. Long queues were seen outside vaccination centres due to shortage of doses, and many were sent away without getting the jab. We have told the staff to get vaccinated, but they cite doses are unavailable. The state must provide sufficient vaccines to all.” Sajid Shaikh, who is following the Ramadan fasting, said, “I am open to taking the vaccine in Ramadan but there is shortage. I will take the jab after breaking the fast or after Taraweeh prayers. Our religious scholars have advised us to get vaccinated at the earliest and have also launched awareness campaigns.”Maulana Qari Idris , president, Jamiat E Ulema E Hind, Pune ,said, “We have appealed to the community to get vaccinated. In Ramadan, vaccines can be taken after breaking the fast.” Maulana Abbas Amir Hamza of Jama Masjid Kondhwa Budruk said, “Many campaigns have been started to spread awareness about the importance of vaccination, besides counselling sessions to clear doubts about the inoculation drive. However, community members have reported about vaccine shortage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/clerics-educationists-drive-the-campaign-to-remove-vaccine-hesitancy-during-ramadan-in-pune-101620220534309.html
