08-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 47,563 Covid-19 cases, 482 deaths||Karnataka's total Covid-19 fatality count crossed the 18,000 mark on Saturday with 482 deaths while 47,563 cases took the tally to 18.86 lakh, the health department said. The day also saw 34,881 getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively, 18,86,448 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 18,286 deaths and 13,19,301 discharges. Among the deaths reported on Saturday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 285, Ballari 25, Mysuru 20, Hassan and Shivamogga 13 each, Tumakuru 12, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Kalaburagi 11 each and 10 in Kalaburagi. Deaths were reported in 19 other districts as well. Bengaluru Urban also topped in infections, recording 21,354, followed by Tumakuru 2,419, Mysuru, 2,294, Kalaburagi 1,661, 1,563 in Bagalkote, 1,513 in Dakshina Kannada, 1,225 in Mandya, 1043 in Udupi and 1034 in Dakshina Kannada. Thirteen districts reported over 500 cases each. A total of 2.69 crore samples have been tested so far, of which 1,57,027 were on Saturday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-47-563-covid-19-cases-482-deaths-101620497951732.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wild Buzz: Love for lizards||Positioning water bowls for creatures in scorching summer not only makes for eminent empathy but yields revelatory insights into survival strategies. Worthy of emulation in any home garden, an unexpected interaction between a zoologist’s family and non-venomous garden lizards serves as a beacon of human goodwill and understanding. With a little bit of thoughtful care extended by their human friends, the creatures smartly adapted and triumphed over menacing odds.The reach out between man and the proverbial ‘mini-dragon’ of the gardens evolved at a residential complex in the Thar desert seven km outside the golden city of Jaisalmer. There, the common species of garden lizards (or the much reviled and feared ‘korkirlas’) occupied water bowls put out in native trees by zoology assistant professor Shyam Sunder Meena, when afternoon temperatures soared beyond 48 °C and touched 55 °C. The lizard adaptation astonished Meena. He had no idea lizards would make such good use of the bowls he had placed with the intention to quench the thirst of birds, mammals and insects!“Most creatures turn inactive during peak heat and take shelter under shadows cast by plants or rocks. I return from office in the afternoon, check the bowls and refill them. I discovered that six water bowls were occupied by male lizards for a few hours in the afternoon. They regularly leave their territorial zones and come to the bowls. Under heat duress, the lizards showed a remarkable capacity to equitably share the water opportunity. Under normal conditions, the dominant male is intolerant of the sub-dominant male’s presence but both amicably share the same bowl. The lizards’ primary objective here is to regulate body temperature not to drink water or predate on insects attracted to the water. As the afternoon heat ebbs, male lizards return to contested territories. Some smart female lizards chill outside our kitchen window which lets out the draught from air-conditioners,” Meena told this writer.His children, Vaishnavi, 13, and Khushank, 3, also display compassion, curiosity and love for the lizards. “Khushank is not afraid of lizards. Neither are the lizards as they sense the child means no harm to them. Khushank touches their tails, observes them up close as if they were puppies, and wants to make them his pets. But I told him that they can remain his pets forever in their natural state and he understood,” said Meena.Meena recently tested positive for Covid so Vaishnavi took over the task of keeping the water bowls filled. With a simple camera, Vaishnavi recorded the female lizard digging a hole and laying eggs. With a cell phone, Meena documented courtship rituals and mating as the lizards trust him totally and do not scamper away on his approach. Meena made a video of a frolicking lizard jumping in and out of a bowl enjoying a cooling splash just like skinny kids thronging a village tank! So endearing was the image posted by Meena on social media of cute little Khushank peering at a trusting male lizard — their faith in each other so evident — that it attracted raving comments. A thoughtful one from Dalia Bose: “What a brilliant moment when all comes to a standstill because Truth comes visiting in the form of a child and Nature, both spontaneous, marvellous beings”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wild-buzz-love-for-lizards-101620498071650.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati :Much ado about O2 and OO||We are navigating a season of strange pandemic paradoxes. Paradoxes that seem so ‘pronounced’ that one may even stumble upon some pronunciations. With pandemic’s second season of Mother’s Day here, one can’t help but talk of certain ‘mothers of invention’, driving pandemic’s paradoxes. At a time when India Quarantining can scarce sniff through its nostrils, the world has, ironically, ‘smelt’ another sort of opportunity. At a time when India Gasping can scarce spell “smell” thanks to a national emergency sparked by O2, some smart brains in the West have churned out an ingenious invention replicating a much-missed smell – OO. The paradox of O2 versus OO. This is nothing but India suffering a scarcity of oxygen, on the one hand, and the rest of the #WorkFromHome world, on the other hand, discontented with a deficit of that daily smell – OO (office odour).Of Ooh-la-la odours Trust the world’s leading capitalist economy to hit upon the idea of capitalising on the woes of #wfh by rolling out scented candles that remind of familiar office-place smells and scents, thanks to American enterprise Eau d’ Office (this makes the paradox pretty pronounced, for it tosses up a problem for us pronunciation challenged, like yours truly, who’ve never really got it right when it comes to pronouncing eau de toilette, eau de cologne et al, and now here comes Eau d’ Office!) What’s a typically American gesture of gifting two exiting colleagues farewell candles created from a confluence of workplace odours – Breakfast Leftovers In Edit Suite 1, Sushi Thursday At The Café, After A 6-Hour Workshop etc – may smack of the fabled Marie Antoinette-sque “Let them eat cake” ring for India Inc. For, ironically, it is one invention idea about which India Inc isn’t in a position to wax eloquent. The curious case of Scentless in Seattle. Of O2 and oximeters Another app that’s proving to be a ‘Mother of Invention’ has to do with not OO, but O2. The other day, when a childhood friend called from Punjab, perched near farm houses lush, she did gush. So alarmed was she that we in the country’s Capital were struggling for not only oxygen cylinders, but also with many a related app and all such crap, that she egged me on, “Arre yaar, why this app-shapp, why not just go walk outdoors and get some fresh air!”OMG, the irony of O2! I was hard put to drive home the point, “Oh dear, you’re forgetting, we live in a polluted metropolis driving a double scarcity -- denizens are facing not only a scarcity of O2 inside (anatomically), but also low O2 outdoors (climatically)!“Hence, the oximeter!” This ground reality of ours spelt the other paradox.Whilst half of India Quarantining finds itself affixed to oxygen cylinders, the rest of the nation looks to be appended to that curious contraption called oximeter. When the world is wired to the oximeter, how can our quintessential quirky couple, Lollita and Lamba ji, not smell an opportunity here! Lollita goggles at Lamba ji flitting in and out of rooms in a state of being fully wired to the world -- his ears encased in earphones, mouth caterwauling casualty bulletins to cronies on the cellphone; and hands clipped to the Oximeter for his latest O2 bulletin. Exasperated by his bleat-bleat from the constant cellphone confabulation and by the beep-beep from his curious contraption, Lollita yanks off his earphones with a yell, “Curfew ... curfew!” Lamba ji gawks, alarmed as much as annoyed at being unplugged. “But the city’s already under curfew?” Lollita delivers the diktat, “You’re being placed under room curfew, lest you become an ‘oxy’ moron!” The curious case of For Whom the (Oximeter) Bells Toll!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-much-ado-about-o2-and-oo-101620497109563.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Dear doctor, we are truly beholden||Dear doctor, We are truly beholden to you! For your unswerving steadfastness, for your untiring diehard service, for your professional diligence, for your unimaginable sacrifices, for your unflinching valour, for your undaunted courage, for your unruffled calmness, and for your caring humaneness. We know what you are going through, but we cannot fathom the extent of your angst. We cannot feel the ripples of your sweat. We cannot experience the pangs of heart wrenching pathos, that you do, at the sight of patients who are suffering. We cannot imagine the extent of the pressure that you are tackling upon your brave shoulders, in the face of all odds. Neither will we ever be able to understand the helplessness that you feel at often being let down by your own system. Along with you, this letter addresses the millions of other healthcare professionals, hospital administrators, nurses, ward boys, laboratory technicians, helpers, ambulance drivers, attendants, government officials, security forces et al, as also the zillions of lay volunteers, all of whom are the unsung heroes at the pinnacle of this quest to vanquish the dreaded, unseen, virulent foe. To each one you, we the people of the world, bow and pay gratitude in this hour of crisis. At a time when our nation feels hapless and helpless, you are the ones holding the fort, with fortitude, with dedication, with zeal. We are also aware that several people, out of a sense of despair or out of sheer lack of empathy, disparage you and your ilk at times. They shout at and even abuse you, with tempers soaring high. Lives are at stake, after all. Each individual is testy and his at wits end. And there are those who have let you down, from within your own flanks. Those who cannot handle the unending barrage of crossfire or the relentless surge of numbers, sheer numbers, unmanageable numbers. Those few who are unable to hold the torch high, even while a majority of you do. Then there are some who hoard, even plunder, whether within the system, or from the periphery of it. Yet, and this is more true than anything else, you just keep marching on. Even when your family is in tears, your children are howling, your parents are worried to bits, you simply keep soldiering on. You are human, yet super human, somehow. You wipe away your own tears, you swallow the lump in your throat, you shoo away any thought of weakness or frailty. The enemy continues to loom large and plunder those around you, stretching your forces to the hilt. But you make some inroads into enemy territory. You bounce back with renewed bouts of energy, new strategies, newer methodologies. You battle the odds when the odds are stacked against you. And you battle with great spirit and verve. Your smile seldom takes leave from your countenance, albeit under the ubiquitous mask. You somehow manage to summon from the depths of inner reserves, the wherewithal to remain gung-ho, full of hope and energy. You organise your thoughts and words, to assuage the feelings of those who seek strength and solace from you. You are aware that your every word, your every move, is being watched carefully by those who depend upon you and your calibre. You do not flinch even when all and sundry come armed with theories downloaded from God-knows-where, which are supposed to be superior to your know how and experience. Yet, and in the face of all that the raging contagion may throw at you, you are our bedrock. You are actually living the affirmation that Paramahansa Yogananda, author of the Autobiography of a Yogi, gave to the world: “I will stand unshaken, amidst the crash of breaking worlds!” Or, as missionary activist Joshua Graham said, “I survived because the fire inside me burned brighter than the fire around me…” We know too that this dastardly fire will be doused one day. Till then, we pray with all our might, for every one of you, and feel grateful. For your every act of kindness and fearlessness in this hour of tumult, we will forever be truly beholden to you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-dear-doctor-we-are-truly-beholden-101620496689656.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Love, hope in the time of Covid||The debut novel of Gurmeet Karyalvi, a well-known and sensitive writer of Punjabi, opens with the harsh April sunshine of 2020 glaring at the board of Divine Light Public School, which seems wilted like the once dancing dahlia flowers in the school’s garden. Like the flowers, the school seems withered without the ringing laughter of children in smart uniforms, who have not stepped into its gates for many days now. While students, whose smiles and frolic would liven up the building, are nowhere to be found, one finds uniformed policemen deployed there: their faces harsher than before, larger than life and expressionless. This is how, Karyalvi, who was born and brought up, in the village of Karyala near Moga in the Malwa region of Punjab, starts the narrative of his novel Oh Ikki Din (Those Twenty-One Days) where a school has been turned into an isolation centre, as is now the case with most schools and colleges of the city. Officialdom now rules these places of learning and hope. The inmates after putting their belongings in appointed spaces are summoned to the school grounds to listen to essential announcements to be made by SDM sahib. As one holds Gurmeet’s novel in one’s hands looking at its beautiful cover with its distant hills and two masked faces, a woman and a man, looking longingly out of windows at a field of flowers, from which rises a menacing hand with gnarled fingers, many thoughts flit through the mind. This book reaches a year after the scene that the writer conjures takes place amid the first wave of the pandemic. Much has happened since and the people of India have travelled from hope to hopelessness during the brutal second wave, which is playing havoc with lives as Indians struggle to breathe. Sincerity of sensitive prose Readers of literature have revisited several books to make sense of these times from Albert Camus’ The Plague, The Diary Of Anne Frank, penned by an adolescent Jew girl in hiding with her family from the Nazi harbingers of death, as well as Gabriel Garcia Marques’ Love in the Times of Cholera. Yet the writer who tells the saga of 21 days in isolation holds his own with the sincerity of his sensitive prose in one of the first contemporary novels in the Punjabi language on the trying times humanity has been placed in the time of Covid, in spite of strides in development made all over the world. Gurmeet carries with him the name of his village Karyalvi, which is a common tradition in India and more so in Punjab where the writer is often known by the name of the village or town that he is born to. Many prominent writers have taken their villages and towns to heights of fame such as Urdu poet Sahir Ludhianvi, famous writer-editor Gurbax Singh Preetlari or this year’s Sahitya Akademi award winner, veteran Gurdev Singh Rupana. This is just to name a few. There have been instances where a person is known by the name of their poem, story or even a column as in the case of Baldev Singh Sadaknama or the one-story wonder Amar Singh ‘Kabarput’ (gravedigger). Perhaps in times to come one may find people referring to Karyalvi as Oh 21 dinan wala! As it is Kayralvi is an established prose writer with six collections of short stories to his credit, two books of prose set in the days of militancy in Punjab and several plays and stories for children besides penning poetry. However, this is the first novel by this sensitive writer who has struggled against class and caste prejudice to reach where he has. He has done the momentous task of not just making a name for himself but has also endeared himself to readers. Khushwant Bargarhi, founder of People’s Fourm publishing house near Faridkot, which distributes books to people at minimal rates each month, says of Gurmeet: “He is a writer of soil and richly conscious of social reality. His ease with language and a mastery over rural Punjabi idiom has always won the hearts of readers. His greatest gift is that he turns despair into hope.” Telling story of the times How did the seeds of this novel, which paints a vivid picture of officialdom at micro-level yet indicative to the macro-level, in which one has thrown the nation into the killing second wave as battles for power are being fought, get sowed in the writer’s mind? Gurmeet replies: “I work in the government’s welfare department and my wife is a staff nurse, so it was a very close encounter with the management of the pandemic and the plight of the people as they struggled in loneliness, locked indoors during this man-made crisis, which prompted me to record the story of the sad seasons that we are passing through. As a writer, it was my discovery of hope in the hearts of many that egged me further and I wrote it out in a month and a half!’ The characters the writer creates are true to life and the stress of the situation where people wait on mattresses placed at a social distance in the classrooms of the Divine Light Public School. True to life is also the narration of squabbles, discrimination, bureaucratic indifference, fear and despondency but in midst of all this blossoms the unsaid love story of Jinder and Amrit and hope that moves from a character named Anand who holds even in the bleakest of times that life will always triumph over death. nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-love-hope-in-the-time-of-covid-101620496210572.html
08-05-2021||Kolkata||Dhankar expresses displeasure at not being updated on law and order situation||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Saturday expressed displeasure at not being updated on the law and order situation in the state with regard to post poll violence by the chief secretary and director general of police (DGP). State Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra called on the governor at Raj Bhavan on Saturday evening being asked by him over the law and order situation in West Bengal. "Unfortunately both came without any paper or reports sought. Directed them to send the same without delay. In a sense disgusted with such stance," Dhankhar tweeted after the officers met him. Maintaining that the home secretary has failed to apprise him on the law and order situation vis a vis the post-poll violence, Dhankhar had asked the chief secretary to see him. Dhankhar had tweeted earlier in the day that the home secretary did not forward reports of the DGP and commissioner of Kolkata Police in this regard. "Chief Secretary @MamataOfficial has been called upon to see me today before 7 PM as ACS Home @HomeBengal failed to impart status report on law and order regarding post poll violence," the governor tweeted. "Such drifting of governance @MamataOfficial from constitutional prescriptions is unfortunate and cannot be overlooked. While the State passes through most severe post poll violence, there is just NO input to the constitutional head. This is least expected," Dhankhar wrote.The West Bengal has been rocked by large scale violence after the bitterly fought state elections. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said that 16 persons of different political parties have lost their lives in clashes after the end of the polls. A four-member team of the union home ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post-poll violence in Bengal, had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan.\||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dhankar-expresses-displeasure-at-not-being-updated-on-law-and-order-situation-101620493426688.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Woman, child killed in hit-and-run by 21-year-old student||A woman and a year-old child that she was carrying were killed in a hit and run incident in Kondhwa on Friday afternoon. While the police found the car driver who caused the accident, the identity of the deceased, who were found to be beggars, is yet to be verified. The accused driver was identified as Shreyas Kurle (21), a resident of Mohammadwadi who was driving a Maruti Suzuki Brezza car. Kurle is a driving license holder and a second-year student of bachelor’s in commerce at Fergusson College. He has not been arrested by the police. The woman, who had no identification with her, was wearing a grey coloured saree and is believed to be between 30-35 years of age, according to the police. The woman was roaming with the child on the street near Yewalewadi around 3:30pm when they were hit by a speeding car. The police later found another three-year-old girl who was with the woman but is too young to understand what happened. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the police as the identity of the woman could not be verified in order to contact the next of kin. A complaint was lodged by police naik Vishal Kamble of Kondhwa police station. “We found the girl very close to the accident spot, but she cannot say anything and does not own any identification. We roamed all over Yewalewadi for two days before admitting her to Sofosh at Sassoon Hospital. We could not get a name for her, so we called her Pari. If anybody knows of the woman, they should come to the police station,” said assistant sub inspector PP Doifode of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 304(a), 279, 184 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 119/177, 132(1)(c) of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-child-killed-in-hit-and-run-by-21-year-old-student-101620492908838.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Parts of city witness intense spell of rain on Saturday||The city on Saturday witnessed a spell of intense rainfall in various areas during the evening hours. As per the weather department, Lohegaon reported 6.8 millimetre rainfall, Pashan reported 4.4 millimetre rainfall and Shivajinagar reported 0.3 millimetre rainfall on Saturday. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD, Pune said that there are multiple weather systems that are influencing the weather over Maharashtra.“There is a trough line from Northern central Madhya Pradesh to western Vidarbha and an upper cyclonic circulation over North interior Karnataka which are the reasons for rainfall activity in Maharashtra. Due ot this, rainfall in four subdivisions are likely in the next few days. Gusty winds and hails at isolated areas until May 9 are also likely,” said Kashyapi.He added that rainfall is likely in Pune to occur until May 9. “After May 10, the rainfall activitiy is likely to reduce and the day and night temperature in Pune city will also be pleasant,” said Kashyapi.The day temperature at Shivajinagar was reported to be 38.2 degrees Celsius, Pashan reported 38.3 degrees Celsius and Lohegaon reported a day temperature of 39.4 degrees Celsius, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The night temperature on Saturday in Pune was at 23.1 degrees Celsius at Shivajinagar and 24.6 degrees Celsius at Lohegaon. “Partly cloudy skies with very light rain towards the evening are forecasted until May 10. Along with light rainfall, there will be lightning and thunderstorms,” said IMD officials. Along with Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Satara, Gondia and Nagpur reported light rain on Saturday. Three subdivisions in the state will also continue to experience light rainfall until May 10. “Marathwada, Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha may witness light rain at isolated areas along with lightning and thunderstorm. From May 11, the weather will be dry in the state,” said IMD officials. The highest maximum temperature reported on Saturday was at 42.2 degrees Celsius at Akola and the lowest minimum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 20 degrees Celsius reported from Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parts-of-city-witness-intense-spell-of-rain-on-saturday-101620492788871.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Satara policeman’s 65-year-old mother killed in Warje||A 65-year-old woman was killed near her house in what is believed to be a robbery gone wrong in the late hours of Friday in Warje Malwadi area of Pune. The woman was identified as Shahabai Arun Shelar (65), a resident of Ramnagar area of Warje. She runs a scrap yard while her son is an assistant sub inspector in the Satara police force. The woman was killed using a square shaped metal pipe with which she was bludgeoned in the head, according to the police. The accused attacked the woman between 9pm on Friday and 5am on Saturday when she was found. She was found by two workers who work in her scrap yard run out of a tin-shed where she was working when she was attacked. The assailant is believed to have taken the keys from her person and used it to ransack the cupboard in her house located nearby. Cash worth ₹65,000 was stolen from the cupboard that was ransacked, according to the complainant. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her policeman son identified as Vitthal Shelar (42) who lives in Ravivar peth area of Satara city. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 460 (all persons jointly concerned in lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night punishable where death or grievous hurt caused by one of them), 380 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/satara-policeman-s-65-year-old-mother-killed-in-warje-101620492668860.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Schools demand financial aid to remain afloat||School management and authorities across the city fear that a lack of state support in terms of financial package will adversely affect the schooling system in the city. On the background of parents demanding a reduction of school fees for the forthcoming term and the impending fear of state government crackdown if school fees are not reduced on compassionate ground, school authorities believe a financial package like the one given to other sectors must be provided. The establishments cost like rent, maintenance, payment of salaries to teachers and non-teaching staff has emerged as a cause of concern before schools as they gear up for a fresh academic year starting next month. “With fees trickling and many parents taking undue advantage of government and court orders, schools are struggling to meet their financial obligations.Apart from salaries and maintenance expenditure, we have to provide for technical upgradations too. The government is not giving any concession in electricity bills; at least they should compensate the schools to the tune of fee collection lost if any fee reduction is enforced. Schools will have to maintain their own standard,” said Benjamin Simon, principal, Kline Memorial School. According to Siddhi Mittal, principal of Sanskar Public School, Covid-19 has hit all sections of the society and school is one of them. “We have shut the schools as per the government order and online education is being imparted as per the state rule. We are paying heavy rent for the school, and it is a major challenge to meet the teachers and non-teaching salary and also maintenance plus other expenses. If any school employee contracts infection, we support them with our funds. Now with schools closed, it is only through fees we can keep ourselves afloat otherwise we all are in trouble. Our plea for taking complete fees must be considered on humanitarian grounds and concession can be granted to those in dire trouble,” Mittal said. “We also faced problems regarding rent, loan and infrastructure. We have waived the school fees of some needy and deserving school students as a humanitarian gesture during this tough period and are ready to extend any help needed to parents,” Mittal added. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had ordered strict action against schools who fail to reduce fees on compassionate grounds for parents who are undergoing a severe financial condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-demand-financial-aid-to-remain-afloat-101620492608867.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad Covid centre ward boys caught selling Remdesivir illegally||Three ward boys from a local hospital were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Friday for trying to sell Remdesivir injection used for Covid-19 treatment in the black market. The three were identified as Nitin Haridas Gund (23), Sahar Kakasaheb Waghmare (24) both residents of Vijaynagar in Kalewadi and Akshar Babaraj Darade (19), a resident of Maitri Chowk area in Pimpri, according to the police. “These are ward boys from the Covid centre. They had two injections and they were selling each for ₹40,000. The market price of one of the injections is Rs899 and the other is Rs3480,” said Bhagyashree Yadav, food and drug administration officer. The FDA officer is also the complainant in the case. The police caught them in possession of the two injections along the road that connects Delux Chowk with Kalewadi, according to the police. The officers of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch received information about the black-market trade and set up a trap during which the FDA officer was called to verify the drug. The officials of Pimpri police station have the custody of the three men and are investigating the case for further details including where they sourced the injections from. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 188, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant Sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Essential Commodities Act, 1955; Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 was registered at the Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-covid-centre-ward-boys-caught-selling-remdesivir-illegally-101620492428779.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Hospital officials booked for holding body over non-payment of bill||The officials of a hospital in Talegaon area of Pune district were booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Friday for allegedly refusing the body of a Covid-19 victim to his son over non-payment of hospital bill. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sudhir Ganesh Loke (23), a resident of Malawali in Maval area. Loke’s father Ganesh Shankar Loke (50) was admitted to the Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research (MIMER) hospital in Talegaon. “We have given a letter to the hospital after registering the case to seek information about who the chief of the hospital is. While the hospital officials say that the family members did not come to collect the body, the family members are alleging that they did go to collect it but they were denied access claiming non-payment of bill,” said assistant police inspector Digambar Atigre of Talegaon Dabhade police station who is investigating the case. The family had applied for the benefits of Mahatma Jyotirao Phule public health scheme which ensures free treatment for the poor people. The 50-year-old succumbed to Covid-19 on May 1, according to the complainant. “They had applied for the scheme benefit. The total bill was of ₹70,000 and they had paid ₹15,000 to the hospital and ₹55,000 was pending. They had submitted the patient’s Aadhaar card and documents, but the bill had not been sanctioned until May 3,” said API Atigre. The family members conducted last rites of the deceased and then submitted a complaint at the local police station. A case under Sections 297 (trespassing on burial places) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospital-officials-booked-for-holding-body-over-non-payment-of-bill-101620492368803.html
08-05-2021||Pune||House-help who stole ₹60 lakh arrested in Lucknow||A man who worked as a house-help in Pimpri-Chinchwad was arrested along with his father and two brothers by Pimpri-Chinchwad police from Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh in a case of theft of ₹60 lakh cash on April 28. The arrested man was identified as Anodkumar Rajkumar Yadav (28) while his relatives were identified as father Rajkumar Munishwar Prasad Yadav (54), and brothers Ankit Yadav (26) and Anuj Yadav (22), all residents of Meena Market area of Indiranagar in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The arrest was made by a team of officials from Pimpri police station with the help of police officials of Gazipur police station officials of Barabanki district. The police have recovered ₹45,69,500 from the men of the total stolen amount. While ₹99,500 was recovered from the father of the accused, the remaining amount was found in the possession of the main accused. Anodkumar worked as house help for three engineers working for a major construction company. The three lived in a housing society near Gandhinagar slum of Pimpri. The amount of ₹60 lakh was kept in a cupboard in their house and was meant to pay the salaries of workers on the company’s construction site. The cupboard was accessed using a duplicate key and the house help had gone missing since the theft had come to light. Therefore, a case under Sections 381, 408 411, 414, 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Pimpri police station on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/househelp-who-stole-rs-60-lakh-arrested-in-lucknow-101620492308790.html
08-05-2021||Pune||21-year-old held for killing pavement dweller||A 21-year-old man was arrested by Pune police on Friday for the murder of a 65-year-old pavement dweller in Camp area of Pune on Thursday. The arrested man was identified as Mohammad Azad Shah (21) who lived near the place where the deceased used to sleep. The deceased man, identified as Ismail Shaikh, lived on a pavement in Modikhana area near Pulgate, Camp. He was found dead on Thursday afternoon with his head bashed in the place where he had set up a plastic sheet shed and slept. The police arrested him based on information collected by police naik Mohseen Shaikh. “When asked about the reason behind committing the murder, the accused revealed that the deceased man used to insult him for using drugs and did not allow him to use drugs near the place where he slept. The deceased man used to ask him to go back to U.P and talk about the accused to his sister-in-law which had enraged the accused,” read a statement from unit 2 of Pune police crime branch. He told the police that he bashed the man’s head around 3am on Thursday when he was asleep. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lashkar police station. Man arrested for killing elder brother A 22-year-old man and his friend were remanded to the custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police until May 11 for killing his elder brother for allegedly mistreating their mother and drinking excessively. The arrested man was identified as Manoj Dnyaneshwar Borhade (25) while the arrested men were identified as Akshay Dnyaneshwar Borhade (22) and Sandeep Dilip Survase (24) all residents of Borhade Vasti in Moshi. The younger sibling killed the elder one using a sharp weapon allegedly as he was upset over his habit of drinking, brawling, fighting with their mother, and spending money on multiple partners, according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21yearold-held-for-killing-pavement-dweller-101620492248820.html
08-05-2021||Pune||State to conduct drone surveys to promote tourism and monitor encroachment around dams||The Maharashtra water resource department has decided to use drone surveys for tourism planning, encroachment monitoring, asset mapping, and post disaster mapping and planning of mitigation measures among other things. The government has prepared a Model Request for Proposal (MRP) and set a deadline to complete the survey within 22 months after assigning work to agency. The state government has issued an order to carry out the drone surveys in respective divisions. There are more than 3,000 small, medium and large dams spread across the state. According to the water resources department, drone surveys can be helpful for mapping of such locations, generate 3D views and available facilities which can further be put online for promotion of tourism. Currently, most of the activities are performed manually in the conventional manner which is a time-consuming activity. The huge amount of time and human effort are invested in the manual environment which results in a delay at different stages of the project which directly impacts the entire project life cycle. Tourism planning Dams and their surrounding environment naturally provide for a scenic tourism venue. However, considering the location constraints and the land available with the Water Resource Department (WRD), tourism activities would be feasible at select locations only. Drone surveys can be helpful for mapping of such locations, generate 3D views and available facilities which can further be put online for promotion of tourism. This can be a revenue generating activity for the state and monitoring of the activities, adds to safety measures, and prevents encroachment. Increase revenue Rajendra Mohite, chief superintendent engineer of WRD said, “We have good backwater areas which can be utilized for tourism purposes. We can develop tourist spots on the Private public partnership (PPP) model. It will help to get additional revenue to the department.” Mohite added, “Day by Day, the water resources department is facing a manpower crunch. The survey will help to give accurate areas of the dam’s backwater, irrigated and non-irrigated area. In Pune district, Maharashtra Krishna Valley development corporation (MKVDC) carried out a successful drone survey. Every irrigation corporation gets money from water taxes from irrigated and non-irrigated areas. We have to use funds for dam, canal maintenance from these revenue resources. Drone surveys will help to boost revenue as well as keep watch on illegal practices such as water theft, encroachment on rivers.” Integrate data with GIS TN Munde, chief superintendent engineer of Pune water resources division said, “The drone survey will mainly focus on project progress monitoring. It includes an evidence-based project progress monitoring system. The data can then be integrated with GIS for location specific, site specific and works specific services. The GIS tag and geometry enabled video and report data regarding project information and relevant documents.” “Maharashtra Water Resources Department’s (WRD) projects are in areas which can promote tourism, proper planning will help in facilitating tourism as well as protecting the catchment areas and its assets,” he added. The various potential works identified for which WRD intends to use aerial / drone based geospatial technology mapping are such as project progress monitoring of ongoing WRD projects, inspection of safety and health of dams and other irrigation structures, 3D mapping of WRD assets, planning for tourism related activities, water quality monitoring, catchment area management, project irrigation potential analysis, post-disaster mapping and planning of mitigation measures and assessment of crops for irrigation billing. Water quality and encroachments The survey will include finding out illegal sources of irrigation and encroachment. The agency will mark the illegal source of irrigation from the canal, mark the illegal source of irrigation from reservoir, mark the illegal source of irrigation from the river, mark the gaps in canal network, identify and mark the leakages in the canal network and mark the encroachment into the river, reservoirs WRD land and colonies. Drone surveys will be used for assessing water quality. It could monitor water bodies. Remote sensing imageries can be used to measure the qualitative parameters of water bodies such as turbidity, water temperature (WT), pollutants, floating materials, weeds. Drones can map the water surface and aquatic weeds on the dam water surface, map the water turbidity, assess dam environment health, monitor the expansion of the vegetation in the dam over the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-to-conduct-drone-surveys-to-promote-tourism-and-monitor-encroachment-around-dams-101620492128771.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s rural areas hit by Covid totally neglected: Sampat Singh||Former Haryana minister Sampat Singh on Saturday expressed concerns over the second wave of Covid-19 penetrating the rural areas of Haryana.In a statement, he said, “The rural lifestyle is such that the entire population is dependent on each other. Thus, villagers are more prone to rapid infection.”“Most villages in Haryana had been hit by the pandemic and the number of deaths had been mounting steadily. Villages are being neglected completely as doctors and paramedical staff posted in health centres there, have been deputed at hospitals in towns and cities,” said the former minister, who had joined BJP in 2019.Terming management of the pandemic “utterly unsatisfactory and ineffective”, he asked the Centre and the state government to redouble their efforts to meet the challenge posed by the second wave of Covid-19.He said that government should focus on managing the situation and apply all its resources since the situation is extremely critical.“The government had taken the first wave of the pandemic lightly. The health infrastructure was not ramped up and the government stopped consulting health professionals,” he added.“This criminal neglect resulted in the second wave hitting the country. The situation is now out of control and the government seemed helpless and clueless,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-rural-areas-hit-by-covid-totally-neglected-sampat-singh-101620491949264.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Door-to-door campaign in rural Haryana to detect, contain Covid||The Haryana government on Saturday announced to depute around 8,000 multidisciplinary teams to launch a door-to-door Covid-19 screening drive in rural areas amid reports of low testing and underreporting of the infection in the hinterland.The multidisciplinary teams led by trainee doctors and health department officials will have ASHA and anganwadi workers. One team will approximately cover 500 households.As the pandemic is hitting rural areas hard after affecting big cities, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that apart from door-to-door health screening camps, dharamshalas, government schools, and AYUSH centres will have to be converted into isolation centres to contain the virus spread.“We have to protect rural areas from the virus at any cost. Every officer concerned should ensure that special vigilance is kept on every village and for this a massive Covid screening campaign should be conducted in all villages,” said Khattar during a review meeting.The CM directed that since the virus is spreading fast in rural areas, special screening camps should focus on ‘test, track and treat’ strategy to catch people having Covid symptoms.“Through these camps, the officers concerned should ensure that every member of 60 lakh families residing in Haryana are tested tracked and treated,” Khattar said, adding that every journalist will be given priority during the vaccination drive.CONTROL ROOMTo keep check on the arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators and to clamp down black marketing of medicines, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said a control room has been set up in state in which any person can file a complaint.He said that so far, 45 persons have been arrested in this regard.Vij added that these days, cases of arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators have become rampant due to which the government is keeping a strict vigil on it.He said that strict action will be taken in cases of black marketing of medicines and overcharging of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doortodoor-campaign-in-rural-haryana-to-detect-contain-covid-101620491771588.html
08-05-2021||City||Tamil Nadu logs biggest single surge of Covid-19 cases, deaths||Tamil Nadu reported its biggest single day spike of COVID-19 cases and fatalities on Saturday, with 27,397 infections and 241 deaths, taking the tally to 13.51 lakh and the toll to 15,412. The state touched the new high just a day after logging a record 26,465 cases and 197 deaths. A medical bulletin said 23,110 people were discharged today, taking the tally to 11,96,549, leaving 1,39,401 active cases. Chennai accounted for most number of new infections at 6,846, totaling 3,83,644 till date, and also fatalities, which now stands at 5,153. A total of 1,55,998 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,38,54,797. Besides Chennai, Chengalpet added 2,458 cases, Coimbatore 2,117 Thiruvallur 1,284 and Madurai 1,217.Thirty one districts reported new cases in triple digits, among which were Kancheepuram 906, Thanjaur 857, Tuticorin 853 Tiruchirappalli 820, Erode 779, Tirunelveli 674, Tiruppur 655, Salem 550, Kanyakumari 542 and Cuddalore 519. Among the 241 deceased, 61 did not have any comorbidities. As many as 13 people who tested positive today were returnees from various destinations, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tamil-nadu-logs-biggest-single-surge-of-covid-19-cases-deaths-101620489246047.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Recovery rate improves in Haryana||Haryana has detected 1 lakh new Covid-19 positive cases of over 3.68 lakh samples tested this month till Saturday, according to official data.During May1-8 period, 1,113 people lost lives across state due to the contagion, while 86,077 patients recovered and 4.71 lakh shots of the vaccine were administered.In the last eight days, the cumulative positivity rate has climbed from 6.76% on May 1 to 7.74% on May 8.And the recovery rate has improved from 78.7% to 79.82%, in an indication that the number of people recovering are on the rise.155 FATALITIES ON SATURDAYThe death toll on Saturday rose to 5,454 after 155 succumbed to the contagion in the state.Jind was the worst hit district with 19 fatalities; followed by Panipat and Hisar with 16 deaths each. In Bhiwani 15 died of Covid, while among other districts 11 people lost their lives in Karnal, and 10 each in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala and Kaithal.In the last 24 hours, 55,555 samples were taken and 14,667 fresh cases were recorded in state, increasing the cumulative number of positive cases detected so far to 6,02,349.As many as 14,366 people recovered on Saturday, pushing the tally to over 4.80 lakh. The number of active cases on Saturday stood at 1,16,109.Gurugram logged 3,441 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,713, Sonepat 995, Hisar 1,465, Ambala 548, Karnal 590, Panipat 488, Rohtak 362, Rewari 256, Panchkula 361, Kurukshetra 302, Yamunanagar 436, Sirsa 684, Mahendergarh 648, Bhiwani 717, Jhajjar 368, Palwal 118, Fatehabad 232, Kaithal 275, Jind 436, Nuh 110, and Charkhi Dadri 122.Also, 71,730 people were vaccinated, of these, 43,732 got the first shot, and 27,998 the second shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recovery-rate-improves-in-haryana-101620491659363.html
08-05-2021||Other||Kaithal ambulance drivers to provide free facility to Covid patients||Even as the ambulance service providers across country are facing criticism for overcharging patients, members of the private ambulance association of Kaithal district in Haryana have decided to provide free ambulance services to Covid-19 patients.In a meeting of the members of private ambulance association, it was decided that they will provide round-the-clock free travel facility to Covid patients by 15 ambulances from Saturday.“We were already providing free services to pregnant women and road accident victims. Now, we have decided to provide free services to Covid-19 patients,” said Sandeep Sheokand, driver of Balaji Ambulance Services.He said that they have taken the decision following reports that the ambulance drivers are facing criticism as they are making most of the helplessness of Covid patients by charging hefty amounts.“Just because of a few ambulance drivers, who charged extra from patients, the entire community is facing criticism. We have decided to provide free services to counter this criticism,” said another driver, Rahul Kumar.Earlier, following reports that ambulance drivers are charging hefty amounts even for a short distance, the Haryana government had fixed rate for ambulances with advance life support system at ₹15/km while rate of ambulance with basic life support system has been fixed at ₹7/km.Even the Haryana government has directed the regional transport authorities (RTAs) to slap “minimum ₹50,000 penalty” on private ambulance drivers or owners if found charging more than the fixed price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kaithal-ambulance-drivers-to-provide-free-facility-to-covid-patients-101620491589787.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||UP records slight dip in fresh cases, CM says state’s Covid management effective||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday recorded 26,847 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases registering a marginal dip in the number of fresh cases. The state recorded 28,076 infections on Friday - around 1,229 more cases compared to Saturday. The state currently has 245,736 active cases of Covid-19 and is among the states which currently has more than 1 lakh active cases.The toll in the state also dropped to 298 after the state reported a record single-day jump of 372 Covid-19 fatalities on Friday. The total toll in the state reached 15,170, according to a health bulletin issued by the state government. Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Gautam Budh Nagar and Moradabad have a very high active caseload with most active cases concentrated in Lucknow (25,748).The state recorded 34,721 recoveries in the past 24 hours which took the tally of the recovered people to 1,219,409.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a Covid-19 review meeting earlier in the day and said that the state is managing the pandemic effectively. He said cases have decreased in Bareilly over the past week. While visiting a Covid-19 control centre, he remarked that the state’s implementation of Covid-19 rules has been effective in curbing the spread of Covid-19.“It was predicted that Uttar Pradesh will see 1 lakh positive cases per day from May 5 but, as of May 8, we have reported 26,000 cases. It means our Covid-19 strategy and management is successful. From April 30, we're seeing a decline in cases and we also started special screening as well as testing in villages,” Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-slight-dip-in-fresh-cases-cm-says-state-s-covid-management-effective-101620489658649.html
08-05-2021||Ranchi||Will provide charter plane if BJP leaders are willing to meet PM, seek help: JMM||Accusing the Centre of non-cooperation in batting the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Saturday said they “will provide charter plane” if elected representatives of the state BJP were willing to go to Delhi and “lobby with the Centre” in getting the rightful claim of the state in terms of equipment and essential drugs. Addressing media persons, JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said instead of pointing fingers towards chief minister Hemant Soren for his statement after the phone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP’s elected representatives from the state should help the government in getting what it requires to fight the pandemic. “Be it providing adequate number of vaccines, essential drugs, oxygen cylinders or installing oxygen plants under PM Cares fund, the state’s requirements are not being fulfilled. We require 4.5 crore doses of vaccines, but till date we have received only 29.83 lakh doses. The Centre made budgetary provision of ₹35,000 crore for vaccination, but now states have been burdened to bear the cost for inoculation of 18-44 age group,” he said. He further said the state received only 29,524 vials of Remdesivir against its demand of 4,28,500 vials till now. The state requisitioned for installation of 21 oxygen plants under PM Cares but were allowed only four of them, work for which was yet to start, the JMM leader claimed. “The BJP has 16 MPs from the state (12 Lok Sabha and four from Rajya Sabha). We only have four MPs, two in each house. They also have 25 MLAs. Instead of getting worked up by what the CM wanted to tell the PM, the BJP’s elected representatives should go to the PM and the health minister and lobby to get what the state deserves. If they are willing to go, we will provide them a charter plane to go to Delhi,” Bhattacharya said. Several BJP leaders, including Union ministers and chief ministers of other states, besides local leaders hit out at CM Hemant Soren for his recent statement on social media platform Twitter, saying that the PM only spoke his ‘mann ki baat’ when he called on Thursday “instead of listening” what the former had to share about the Covid situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/will-provide-charter-plane-if-bjp-leaders-are-willing-to-meet-pm-seek-help-jmm-101620486968472.html
08-05-2021||Other||Growth of covid-19 cases declines in lockdown’s second week, positivity rate goes up||Bedanti Saranbedanti.saran@hindustantimes.comRanchi: The deadliest second wave of covid-19 pandemic is swiftly spreading across every corner of Jharkhand which has been witnessing a continuous rise in disease’s positivity rate even after imposition of partial lockdown in the state.Noticing a steep surge in covid-19 cases in the first three weeks of April, the state government clamped a partial lockdown in the fourth week (April 22-28), which has been extended further with certain new embargo.While Jharkhand now entered in the third week (May6-12) of the lockdown, the first two weeks saw a decline in growth of cases but reported a significant rise in positivity rate (number of positive cases per hundred samples tested).The state discovered 44,133 positive cases in lockdown’s first week (April 22-29) when certain exempted trade activities were allowed till 8 pm. These cases were detected after testing 322,392 samples with positivity rate stood at 13.68%, meaning thereby that to every 100 samples tested, 13.68 returned positive.The lockdown’s second week (April 29-May 5), however, was more stricter as exempted trade activities were allowed only till 2 pm with only exception to medicine shops and petrol pumps.The growth of positive cases dipped this week as the state unearthed 41,626 cases registering a decline of 5.68% in comparison to the previous week, when 44,133 cases were reported. The disease’s positivity rate, however, didn’t go down but jumped to 16.25% from the previous week of 13.68% as the 41,626 odd cases were discovered after testing 256,134 samples.The rising positivity rate, however, is the real cause of concern for the state as it indicates the rapid spread of the infection.The state reported weekly positivity rates of 4.85%, 7.16%, 10.96%, 13.68% and 16.25% respectively in April 1-7, April 8-14, April 15-21, April 22-28 and April 29-May 5.Health experts, however, opined that the lockdown has greatly impacted the fast spread of the infection.Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine RIMS, said, “The lockdown has definitely slowed down the spread of the disease. If we see the results of sample tests conducted at RIMS laboratory, we can say that positivity rate has gone down. We had seen positivity rate as high as 45% on April 17, when 278 positive cases were detected after testing 605 samples. This has gradually came down and on Saturday, we saw only 72 samples tested positive out of total 360. Besides, we have noticed that there has been a significant decline in number of people seeking beds and Remdesivir injections. This shows positive trend as the rush in hospitals is gradually waning.”Dr Kumar said, “We should wait for at least one more week to see the real impact as there is three-four days of delay in test reports. Results of samples collected today will come after three-four days. So, a real assessment could be done atleast after three-four weeks.”According to Kumar, the peak of cases has already come in Jharkhand.“I personally feel that the state has attained the peak and now the cases will decline. Due to lockdown, the growth trajectory would remain flat but high number of cases will keeping coming till May end,” he said.Dr Kumar also indicated that there would be a rise in death toll as according to him the peak in deaths come atleast 10 days after the peak of positive cases.”Jharkhand has been witnessing a continuous rise in number of covid-19 deaths since early April. It reported 38, 141, 317, 786 and 951 deaths respectively in April 1-7, April 8-14, April 15-21, April 22-28 and April 29-May 5.According to health department’s covid-19 bulletin of May 8 morning, the state has so far reported 276062 cases including 211270 recoveries, 61177 active cases and 3615 deaths.BOXBefore and after lockdownWeek. Cases/ST/PR*April 1-7: 6707/138,098/4.85%April 8-14: 16,884/235,540/7.16%Apr 15-21:29,564/269,708/10.96%LockdownAp 22-29: 44,133/322,392/13.68%Ap 29-May 5: 41,626/256,134/16.25%*ST: Sample tested*PR: Positivity rate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/growth-of-covid-19-cases-declines-in-lockdown-s-second-week-positivity-rate-goes-up-101620486969060.html
08-05-2021||Patna||JD (U) MLC dies of Covid; over 12k fresh cases reported in Bihar||JD (U) MLC Tanvir Akhtar was among 76 people who died due to Covid-19 in Bihar in the last 24 hours as state witnessed a surge of 12, 948 fresh positive cases on Friday, taking the tally to 112976.An ex-JNU student’s union president, Akhtar, who became an MLC in 2016, was also JD (U)’s minority cell in-charge. He was admitted to Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) a couple of days back and breathed his last on Saturday morning. The government has announced a state funeral for Akhtar.Prior to joining JD (U), Akhtar was with the Congress. His death was mourned by all party leaders including chief minister Nitish Kumar. “He was an able politician and an affable person who took keen interest in social work,” said chief minister in his condolence message. His death was also condoled by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and senior JD (U) leaders. Meanwhile, Patna continues to be the hotspot for Covid-19 with 2,498 cases, followed by Nalanda with 740 cases.The state capital has so far reported 733 deaths, 23 of which have been last 24 hours.Begusarai and West Champaran reported 586 and 578 cases respectively while 560 cases were reported from Samastipur.On the other side, there has been the steady improvement of recovery rate from 78.36% on May 4, 79.16% on May 7 to 79.97% on May 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jd-u-mlc-dies-of-covid-over-12k-fresh-cases-reported-in-bihar-101620486848500.html
08-05-2021||Other||Pappu ‘raids’ Rudy’s area for ambulances, booked||PATNAThe Saran police have registered an FIR against former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) president Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, who on Friday raided a place where over two dozen ambulances purchased from the fund of Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy were parked.The FIR was filed following a complaint from Rudy’s office, which alleged that Yadav and his supporters damaged two of the ambulances and manhandled the caretaker, besides violating lockdown norms, said the MP’s representative Rakesh Singh. On Friday, Yadav, who had been visiting different parts of the state to expose the lack of preparedness in dealing the Covid situation, visited Amnour in Saran and allegedly found over 30 ambulances with ‘MPLADS-2019’ marked on them. “There are over 30 ambulances here. There were more earlier, but they have been moved. Overall, close to 100 ambulances were parked here. We want to know why they were not being used… this is not about Rudyji or Pappu… this is about people of Bihar. The entire state is reeling under impact of Covid,” Yadav said. A video on social media shows Yadav walking around the parked vehicles, removing tarpaulin covering them. Rudy said the ambulances were lying unused for want of drivers. “There are not 60, 70 or 100 ambulances, but only 20. And they are not being used because we don’t have drivers. Pappu Yadav… you can take all the ambulances, but promise the people of Saran that you will find and employ drivers for all of them,” he said. “These are the ambulances which were returned by the panchayats as they were not in used.” “We have a fleet of 75-80 ambulances of which 50-55 are running. The people of the district have never suffered for want of ambulance. Not many drivers volunteer to drive with a Covid patient. I have written to Saran district magistrate to provide me with drivers,” Rudy said. Yadav, however, hit back. On Saturday, he presented before the media 40 people with their driving licences who were willing to run the ambulances. He alleged that panchayats that did not vote for the MP were asked to return the ambulances. Yadav found support from CPI-ML and the RJD. “This is BJP’s way of development. The matter should be probed,” said CPI-ML state secretary Kunal. “He could have donated (the ambulances) to a hospital or NGO,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. The Congress too backed Yadav. AICC media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said criminal proceedings should be initiated against Rudy for using the MP fund like his own money. “Discretionary quota fund is managed by the local district authorities and the MP/MLA concerned has no role in deciding the course of purchase or use of the articles purchased from the fund,” said Mishra.“It would expose the nefarious designs of the state government if any action is taken against Yadav for expose the corrupt practices adopted by the BJP leader,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-raids-rudy-s-area-for-ambulances-booked-101620486788503.html
08-05-2021||Other||Death registration in May shoots up in Patna||PATNAWith Covid-19 pandemic spreading fast and gripping newer areas with disconcerting intensity, the positivity rate has gone up past 15% in the state while recovery has plummeted to 78-79%, increasing the mortality rate. There are queues in cremation ghats and graveyards, say those who have performed the last rites of their near and dear ones. While the figures of Covid deaths come mostly from the dedicated Covid government hospitals, figures of death registration from Patna alone points to the growing fatalities, coinciding with the spurt in Covid cases. The incomplete figures of death registration in Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) area alone in just six days, from May 1 to 6 (till 2.20 pm), stands at 795, of which 512 were male and 283 female. It does not include the figures of Gulbi ghat since April 30. Similarly, the death registration figures of Bans Ghat have not been updated online since April 23, say officials. Anup Kumar Sharma, registrar-cum-chief medical officer, Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), said updating figures online takes some time. It is not reflected online as to how many of the 795 deaths are Covid-related, though it is supposed to be mentioned in the register manually, but officials say the figures are quite high compared to normal days. “There are six places under PMC for which figures are updated online. They include Pataliputra, Bankipore, Kankarbagh, Nutan Anchal, Patna City and headquarters. Some are pending at present, but the uploaded figures so far show 795 deaths registered in just first six days of the month,” Sharma said. He said that from April 1-30, 1626 deaths were registered online. Of them, 1004 were male and 622 female. According to official health department figures, over 62 people lost their life due to Covid infection in Bihar in the past 24 hours, including 19 in Patna, while 13,455 fresh cases got reported. The official figures put the total death toll in Bihar so far to 3,139. On Tuesday last, the casualty figures had breached 100-mark in the state, as per health department figures. A senior official said that the crematoriums were working round-the-clock and it would be difficult to assess the figures of Covid-related deaths out of the total, considering that many deaths are also taking place at home without proper testing or due to difficulty in admission in hospitals. ”Death registration is poor in India as a whole, and more so in Bihar. Besides, the cause of death is often not confirmed by a medical practitioner if the deaths are reported at home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/death-registration-in-may-shoots-up-in-patna-101620486728462.html
08-05-2021||Other||Vaccination for 18-plus begins today||PATNAAfter a wait of eight days, the Bihar government will start vaccination drive for persons in the age group of 18 to 44 years from Sunday (May 9), according to a tweet by the state health department. “Vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years will start from 9th May 2021 at your nearest health facility (up to Primary Health Centre). Prior registration and slot booking is must for getting vaccinated. Register yourself and book your slots for Covid-19 vaccination,” the tweet said.It further said the state government had received 3.5 lakh doses of #COVID19 vaccine for the persons in the age group of 18-44 years.The state on Monday has placed orders for supply of first batch of 11.80 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.12 lakh doses of Covaxin before it begins inoculating 5.50 crore target population of 18-44 years against the coronavirus. Bihar is purchasing the vaccines directly from the firms, Serum Institute of India, the manufacturers of Covishield, and the Bharat Biotech, manufacturers of Covaxin. The state’s purchase would be in addition to the Centre’s allotment in due course of time, said an official of the health department. The Centre has fixed a purchase rate of ₹315 per dose for Covishield and ₹420 per dose for Covaxin for states and union territories. Bihar has been going slow on vaccination because of lack of availability of sufficient vaccines. On Friday, only 673,96 people in Bihar (all categories) were given vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-for-18-plus-begins-today-101620486729098.html
08-05-2021||Other||Bird flu detected at farm in Punjab’s Ludhiana, 90,000 birds to be culled||The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, has confirmed avian influenza in samples of birds sent from a poultry farm at Kila Raipur, prompting the administration to order culling of 90,000 birds. The samples were collected on Wednesday after owner of Suba Singh poultry farm informed the administration about the mysterious death of 1,500 birds. As the report confirming presence of bird flu arrived on Friday evening, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma declared the area within a kilometre of the epicentre as infected zone and 1-10km as surveillance zone. Ordering culling of 90,000 birds at the farm, he also constituted a nine-member committee to oversee the process and ensure that no bird, unprocessed poultry meat, eggs, feed or any other material was taken out from the poultry farm. The committee headed by Khanna additional deputy commissioner Sakatar Singh Bal took stock of the situation at the farm on Saturday. Bal said 20 teams of the animal husbandry department will start the culling operation in two shifts from Sunday. With a target of 4,000-6,000 birds a day, the process should be completed in around three weeks, he added. A highly contagious viral disease, avian influenza has many strains. But, most of them are mild and may only cause low egg production or other mild symptoms among birds. However, some are severe and cause deaths of large number of birds. Generally, people coming in close contact with infected alive or dead birds contract the flu, and it does not usually spread from person to person, according to the World Health Organization, which has also said that there is no evidence that the disease can be spread to people through properly prepared and cooked poultry food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-detected-at-farm-in-punjab-s-ludhiana-90-000-birds-to-be-culled-101620482769297.html
08-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka man held for selling oxygen cylinders at exorbitant price to patients||A man has been arrested for selling oxygen cylinders to patients at ten times the government price of ₹300, police said on Saturday.According to police, Ravi Kumar (36), who is the branch in charge of Siga Gases at Peenya Industrial Area in the city, was selling oxygen cylinders for ₹3,000 per 47 litres of oxygen."He was selling it for 10 times more than the price fixed by the government.The government rate for 47 litres of oxygen is only ₹300," a police officer said.He was caught red-handed on Friday while selling two oxygen cylinders of 47 litres for 6,000 rupees, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-man-held-for-selling-oxygen-cylinders-at-exorbitant-price-to-patients-101620480044245.html
08-05-2021||Other||‘Elections in India need immediate reform’: Mamata Banerjee||Elections in India need to undergo immediate reforms, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday while addressing the West Bengal legislative assembly on Saturday. Banerjee’s comments came at her first speech at the legislative assembly after taking charge as the chief minister of the state for the third time on May 5. “Since the time of TN Seshan, I have seen the ECI working to prevent rigging during polls. Now it is just the opposite. In some places, the rigging was done with the direct help of the poll panel. This is unfortunate and shameful. Elections need to be reformed immediately. I have been fighting for this since 1995. I am once again giving a call for this. Three nominated persons along with a few retired officers are giving transfer orders on paper chits. This should not happen. Else democracy can’t be saved,” Banerjee said. Veteran TMC leader Biman Banerjee took oath as the speaker of the assembly on Saturday. BJP legislators, however, boycotted the session to protest against the poll violence in the state in which at least 16 persons were killed till Thursday. “They aren’t ashamed that people have boycotted them. I can challenge that they (BJP) wouldn’t have won even 30 seats had ECI not directly helped them,” the chief minister said. The Trinamool Congress in the state has been at loggerheads with the ECI with the ruling party repeatedly accusing the poll panel of working at the behest of the BJP-led government at the centre.Poll panel officials in Kolkata refused to comment on the chief minister’s remarks in the assembly. Earlier in March, however, Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain had written a letter to the TMC chief, asking her to refrain from making accusations against the poll panel. “We will not attend the speaker’s election. We will also not attend the sessions of the House. We will not come to the assembly till our MLAs get full protection... We will only come when our MLAs will be able to walk alongside our workers,” Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s state president had told the media on Friday.Turning her guns at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government, the TMC supremo accused the centre of behaving in a step-motherly attitude while alleging that oxygen produced in the state was being diverted to other states. “They are not being able to accept the people’s mandate and that’s why they are behaving like this. This is not shameful but has also raised a big question on our democracy,” she said. In the recently ended the TMC won for the third consecutive time winning 213 out of the 292 seats where elections were held. The BJP, which had set a target to win more than 200 seats, could manage only 77. “What if Maharashtra says today that we won’t allow vaccines produced in our state to go out? It cannot happen that way. The TMC should think about a larger perspective. This is a crisis period and the centre is helping each and every state to fight the pandemic,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president.Ministers of the new cabinet would be sworn in on Monday, the chief minister said. The first cabinet meeting would be also held on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elections-in-india-need-immediate-reform-mamata-banerjee-101620480128720.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records slight dip in daily Covid-19 cases, positivity rate remains below 25% for 3rd straight day||Delhi recorded 17,364 new Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking the tally of cases to 13,10,231. This marks a slight decrease in the daily tally of cases as on Friday, 19,832 new cases were recorded on Friday. A total of 332 fatalities were also recorded in the national capital, which took the toll to 9,071. There are 87,907 active cases in Delhi as of Saturday, according to the data released by the health department.Saturday also marked the third consecutive day of the Capital recording a positivity rate below 25%. On Friday, Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 24.9% which went further down to 23.34% on Saturday. The average positivity rate stayed above 30% consistently in the last two weeks.A total of 74,384 Covid tests have been conducted in the national capital in the last 24 hours, marking a slight reduction from the 79,593 tests conducted on Friday. Out of these 74,384, a total of 62,921 tests were RT-PCR tests and 11,463 were antigen tests.The national capital also witnessed a slight fall in the daily toll on Saturday, after it reported 332 deaths in the span of 24 hours as against the 341 reported on Friday. The fatality rate went up slightly from 1.45% recorded on Friday to 1.46%, recorded on Saturday.A total of 20,160 people recovered from the disease on Saturday, a slightly higher number than the 19,085 recorded on Friday. Total recoveries in the capital city have surpassed 1.2 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-slight-dip-in-daily-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-remains-below-25-for-3rd-straight-day-101620478999655.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Adani Group procures 48 oxygen carrying tanks for fight against Covid-19||As India suffers the world's worst outbreak of COVID-19 cases, port-to-energy conglomerate Adani Group says it has deployed all resources at its command - from staff and logistics to ports and airports - to secure medical oxygen and transportable cryogenic containers as well as augment health infrastructure.The Adani Group has already procured 48 cryogenic tanks capable of carrying 780 tonnes of liquid oxygen across the nation, a group spokesperson said.The health ministry reported 4,187 fatalities over the past 24 hours, taking the overall death toll to just under 2.4 lakh. Cases rose by 4,01,078, bringing the nation's healthcare system to the brink of collapse, with a scarcity of hospital beds, medicines and oxygen.The Adani Group is ramping up its efforts in India's battle against the pandemic."As soon as the second COVID wave hit India, the Adani Group began leveraging its overseas connections to procure hard-to-find supplies of critical essentials like medical oxygen and transportable cryogenic containers," the spokesperson said.It procured 48 cryogenic tanks from leading manufacturers in countries like Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan and UAE.While some of these large cryogenic tanks were shipped in through the group's Mundra Port in Gujarat, others were airlifted into the country with the help of the Indian Air Force, which deployed its biggest transport aircraft for these time-critical operations.These cryogenic tanks are a vital addition to the hardware India sorely needed to manage the medical oxygen requirements of patients across the country.Even as the group continues its relentless search for more of these cryogenic tanks, the tanks imported so far are already in the service of the nation, ferrying precious liquid oxygen round-the-clock from filling centres to wherever it is needed, in accordance with distribution lists and directions from the government."Our rail and road logistics infrastructure is playing a critical role in the efficient last-mile delivery of these life-saving supplies," said the spokesperson. "The Adani Group has also partnered with global oxygen producers like Linde and Air Products to quickly refill and despatch liquid oxygen to all corners of India by the fastest means available."The Adani Group is also sourcing high-throughput oxygen generator plants and oxygen concentrators. Sixteen of these independent oxygen plants and 300 oxygen concentrators will be pressed into service in the next few days.In several states and districts, the group is also refilling and distributing thousands of medical oxygen cylinders every day to augment and fill gaps in the local oxygen supply chain.Subsequently, Adani Ports, announced priority berthing and unloading for vessels carrying COVID-related cargos and waived storage, handling, and vessel-related charges.In Gujarat, where the Adani Group is headquartered, the group has intensified its focus on the provision of direct medical care. To reduce the systemic overload on Ahmedabad's hospital infrastructure, the Adani Foundation has converted the Adani Vidya Mandir school into an emergency COVID Care Centre with oxygen support and catered food.Equipped with doctors, nurses, paramedics and support staff, this first-responder care facility is housing infected and moderately ill COVID patients. Isolating patients when they are at their most infectious will also help to break the chain of infection and significantly curtail the spread of the disease.In Kutch, India's largest district, the battle against COVID is being led from Bhuj by the GAIMS (Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences), the principal medical facility serving this remote part of western India. The Adani Foundation has upgraded and converted GAIMS into a 100 per cent COVID hospital with all its 800 beds equipped with oxygen support."This hospital has become a medical oasis for the thousands of people in Kutch and its neighbouring districts. We have installed three oxygen plants and a fourth one would be available soon. This is in addition to liquid oxygen supplies being provided by the Adani Group," said Vasant Gadhvi, Director, GAIMS. "Many of our personnel have lost family members to COVID but they have put aside their personal grief to continue working for 12 to 14 hours each day."The Adani Hospital in Mundra has been similarly upgraded into a 100 per cent COVID hospital with an additional CT-scanner installed to diagnose COVID faster. Its bed capacity has been doubled and all its beds have been converted into oxygen beds.This hospital serves not only the people of Mundra but also the residents of 20 neighbouring villages whose medical care alternatives are limited.Within the Adani Group's operations, all employees and their family members have been brought into the Group's free vaccination programme. The Group has also extended its vaccination drive to include the thousands of people living in and around its corporate headquarters at Shantigram in Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/adani-group-procures-48-oxygen-carrying-tanks-for-fight-against-covid19-101620478926413.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray reviews Kham river rejuvenation project in Aurangabad||Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray reviewed the Kham river rejuvenation project in Aurangabad and said the detailed project report should include the history and changing structure of the river, an official said on Saturday.The minister for environment and tourism reviewed the project undertaken by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) through video-conferencing with civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey on Friday.The AMC commissioner explained about cleaning, greening and beautification of the riverside, which is being carried out with public participation, while the chief of the civic solid waste management cell spoke about the cleaning of nullahs joining the river, the official said.Thackeray outlined the points that should be included in the DPR based on his experience of working on the restoration of Mithi and Panchganga rivers, he said.The minister said the DPR should cover the history of the river, its relationship with different sections of the community and its changing structure, the official said.He also proposed a common platform for people working on river restoration projects across the state, he added.The Kham river, which originates in the Jatwada hills near the city, flows through parts of the Aurangabad city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-reviews-kham-river-rejuvenation-project-in-aurangabad-101620478709145.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Explain bias in Covid drug distribution: Himachal HC to Centre||The Himachal Pradesh high court has asked the central and state governments to explain the discrimination in the allocation of Covid-19 medicines to the hill state. The court directed the Union health secretary to furnish details about the distribution of Remdesivir, Favipiravir and Tocilizumab and apprise it of reasons why states with a less population and fewer Covid patients were getting more allocation of medicines than Himachal Pradesh. The court directed the state to provide details of the distribution of oxygen for the past two weeks besides its plan to augment the supply. It asked the state to ensure the uploading of real time data on bed availability in each hospital for Covid-19 patients on its web portals besides those of hospitals and also physically display the data outside each hospital daily. Writ petition highlighted lack of oxygen facilities The division bench, comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Chander Bhusan, passed these orders on a writ petition highlighting the issue of the lack of oxygen facilities at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, and the non-functioning of 25 ventilators that have been given to the college under the HIM Care Scheme. The court directed the state government to publish the names and locations of the testing centres, hospitals, dedicated Covid health care centres in the media bulletin daily. The bulletin should clearly indicate the availability of total beds, vacant ones, beds with ventilators, oxygen cylinders and beds without any oxygen tank/cylinder in each hospital, dedicated Covid health care centres. State to act tough if private hospitals don’t cooperate The court clarified that if private hospitals refuse to cooperate, or are reluctant to provide Covid test and facilities, the state government shall resort to coercive steps as provided under the Disaster Management Act and Essential Services Maintenance Act. It directed that the state should also consider buying additional CT scan machines. The court directed the state to furnish information regarding bed capacity for Covid-19 facilities in government and private hospitals along with the details of the availability of oxygen (high flow or otherwise). The state was asked to give details of steps taken and proposed to augment the availability of oxygen, meeting both the present and projected requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/explain-bias-in-covid-drug-distribution-hc-to-centre-101620476648415.html
08-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 outbreak at Assam’s Karimganj district jail, 34 prisoners test positive||Thirty-four inmates of Karimganj District Jail in Assam have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far. There are around 290 prisoners in the jail which includes some foreigners from Bangladesh, Myanmar and African countries, HT has learnt. Now, most of the inmates will go through Rapid Antigen Test for detecting the Covid-19 virus. Some more are expected to test positive because they are suffering from mild fever and other issues. Superintendent of Karimganj District Jail, Sanjeev Kumar Chetia has confirmed the news. Talking to Hindustan Times, the superintendent said, “It all started when we noticed some of the inmates were suffering from mild fever and other issues. We requested the district health department to test them and find if the inmates are Covid-19 positive. But we have almost 300 inmates and it is not possible to test everyone at the same time. So the district administration started conducting the test in a phased manner. On the first day, 6 people tested positive and yesterday 28 more found infected. Now, this process will go on and the number may increase in the coming days”.Apart from the local prisoners, there are few detained foreigners kept in Karimganj District Jail. It includes Bangladeshis, Myanmar nationals of the Rohingya community, people from African countries like Nigeria, Ghana and Angola. Most of them were arrested while they tried to cross the Indo-Bangladesh international border located along the district. The African Nationals include some women as well. They were arrested because they entered into the Indian territory without any valid document, Chetia said. About the source of the virus, the jail superintendent believes, there are multiple possibilities. He said, “The family members can be one of the sources because the prisoners get a chance to meet their family members often. The family members come to jail almost every week and they bring food and other stuff along with them. This can be one of the sources for the virus to enter inside the jail. We are also trying to find other possibilities so that we can prevent it in future.”Regarding the treatment of covid positive prisoners, he said, “The prisoners who tested positive have been given a place for isolation at the jail premises. They are being given the treatment there, doctors from the district administration are looking after the treatment part. Required medicines are being supplied by the district health department. But if there are issues like oxygen shortage, breathing problem or lung infection, the person will be sent to Covid-19 ICU in Silchar Medical College and Hospitals for better treatment. But there will be strict security arrangements during the entire process.”There was a similar situation in Silchar Central Jail last year. More than a hundred prisoners tested positive in a span of a week in August. Some of them were sent to Silchar Medical College & Hospitals because they were critical and needed treatment in ICU. The district administration arranged proper security arrangement for the treatment of prisoners at SMCH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-outbreak-at-assam-s-karimganj-district-jail-34-prisoners-test-positive-101620475209043.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers defy Covid curbs, take out protest marches in Sangrur, Barnala||Hundreds of farmers took out marches in Barnala and Sangrur districts on Saturday to protest the state government’s decision to impose a weekend lockdown for curbing the spread of coronavirus. Despite the farmer leaders’ appeals to shopkeepers, shops remained closed in both towns. In Barnala, the farmers assembled at the city railway station parking and took out a protest march through the markets, while in Sangrur, supporters of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha gathered near the railway station before marching through the town’s markets. Farmers associated with the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) marched from Sangrur grain market to smaller markets. Also read: 12 states account for over 80% of active coronavirus cases“All farmer and labour unions participated in the protest against lockdown. Though we have been speaking against the lockdown since last year, the people of the state are not in a position to face another lockdown and it should be ended. The government should provide health services and recruit doctors to protect people from Covid-19,” said Balour Singh Channa, the Barnala block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). Asked about the poor response from shopkeepers, Channa said, “We are trying to motivate shopkeepers and educate them about the anti-people policies of the government.” Stop intimidating traders: Patiala farmers The call by farmers unions to oppose the lockdown failed to evoke any response from traders as shops across Patiala district remained shut on Saturday. The farmers urged traders to open their shops, but they did not relent. Heavy police force was deployed in commercial areas asking people to adhere to Covid restrictions. Jang Singh, a farmer leader, said: “The traders are reluctant to open their shops fearing fines and police cases. We warn the government to stop intimidating shopkeepers,” he said. (With inputs from HTC, Patiala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-defy-covid-curbs-take-out-protest-marches-in-sangrur-barnala-101620472028096.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal sees 55% rise in Covid cases over a week||Himachal Pradesh has seen a 55% rise in new Covid-19 infections over the past week with a total of 1,22,906 positive cases on Friday. The health department data shows the state recorded 23,619 cases in the first week of May as compared to 15,222 cases in the last week of April. In the highest single-day spike, the state recorded 4,190 new infections on Friday. Also read: DCGI gives emergency approval of DRDO-developed anti-Covid oral drugThe spike in infections has also led to rise in fatality. As many as 297 people have died in the past seven days in the state, a 37% increase as compared to 217 Covid fatalities in the last week of April. Friday saw the highest number of 56 deaths in a day. Since the outbreak last March, a total of 1,780 people have died due to coronavirus-related complications. The state has a case fatality ratio of 1.44%, which is higher than the national average of 1.1%. Kangra saw the highest number of 109 deaths in a week, an average of 16 deaths a day. To date, the district has recorded 483 deaths and has a case fatality ratio of 2%. Shimla has registered 347 fatalities since the outbreak and 33 in the past week alone. Mandi’s death count has reached 207 of which 26 occurred in the past seven days. Similarly, Solan’s total count is 144 of which 43 succumbed between May 1 and 7. Kangra, Shimla, Mandi, Solan account for 60% of cases Kangra, the state’s most populous district, accounts for 20% of the total caseload. The four worst-hit districts of Kangra, Shimla, Mandi and Solan share 60% of the cases. The four districts have recorded a cumulative 73,944 cases to date since the outbreak. Kangra recorded 6,568 new cases in a week, 76.5% more than the previous week’s tally of 3,720 infections. Solan recorded 2,649 new infections, Mandi 2,648, and Shimla 2,277. Sirmaur is also emerging as a bigger hotspot and has recorded 2,467 new cases. Sharp increase in infections The active Covid cases have spiralled manifold due to the sharp increase in the infections. In the past week, the active case count rose by 11,088 as compared to 6,179 in the last week of April. Kangra has the highest number of 8,237 active cases, 28% of the total active cases. Solan has 3,709 active cases, Mandi 3,054, Sirmaur 2,923 and Shimla 2,787. A total of 91,573 people have recovered from Covid in the state to date of which 12,263 recuperated during the past week alone. The recovery rate has come down to 74.5% from 78% last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-55-rise-in-covid-cases-over-a-week-101620470408038.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Traders ignore farmers’ call to defy Covid curfew in Bathinda||The protest call by farmer organisations against the Punjab government’s Covid curbs on Saturday failed to evoke any response from traders. Members of the Bathinda market associations said they were not averse to the idea of imposition of stricter rules to break the chain of coronavirus infection. Bathinda is under curfew from 3pm on Friday till 5am on Monday to contain the spike in Covid cases. Also read: Positive Covid report not mandatory for admission in hospitals: Health ministryFarmer organisations asked traders across Punjab to keep their shops open in defiance of the administration’s orders. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had announced earlier this week that the state government’s decision to impose a lockdown was hurting the financial interest of traders, shopkeepers and workers engaged by them. On Saturday, farmer union activists gathered at various places in the city and adjoining areas, including Goniana. The farmers held protests, but markets remained shut. Unwise to oppose curbs: Beopar Mandal Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal president Amit Kapoor denied any talks with farm union leaders to oppose lockdown. “Coronavirus is spreading at an alarming rate, and it is unwise to oppose the restrictions. Hospitals are flooded with patients and lives are being lost every day across Punjab. It should be the collective duty of all sections of society to contribute to containing the spread of the virus,” Kapoor said. Rajinder Goyal, the chairperson of the Dhobhi Bazaar Market Association, said the weekend curfew was in public interest. “The district administration has allowed opening shops for half the day. We will support it even if the government plans a complete lockdown. Public health should be the priority,” he said. Allow home delivery: Grocers A-Z Traders Kikkar Bazaar Association president Jeevan Kumar said grocers have suggested a complete lockdown but permission for home delivery. “Since social distancing is not possible in most conventional shops, we welcome the lockdown like last year where shopkeepers were allowed to deliver goods at customers’ doorsteps,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traders-ignore-farmers-call-to-defy-covid-curfew-in-bathinda-101620469927997.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Migrant exodus: Mayawati says Delhi CM and other state govts busy in theatrics||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Saturday accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of "indulging in theatrics" over people moving out of the national capital because of the COVID-19 lockdown, and said the same was being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab.She demanded that vaccines should be administered for free to everyone, especially the poor, Dalits and tribals, and economic assistance should also be given to them.In a series of tweets in Hindi, the former Mayawati said, "The Delhi chief minister, with folded hands, urging people not to flee Delhi is a drama which was enacted during COVID-19 earlier. Now, the same is being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab. Many people from Ludhiana in Punjab are fleeing. This is extremely sad.""If these state governments generate confidence among the people that their needs will be fulfilled in time, then they would not flee. These state governments are indulging in varied theatrics to hide their failures. This is not hidden from anyone," she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/migrant-exodus-mayawati-says-delhi-cm-and-other-state-govts-busy-in-theatrics-101620464844501.html
08-05-2021||Bangalore||Dr K Sudhakar announces Covid vaccine administration on priority to 45+||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday informed that the two sets of Covid vaccine available with the state - Covishield and Covaxin - will be administered on priority to people above the age of 45.The health minister said that 70 per cent Covishield doses will be given to beneficiaries of the age 45 and above waiting to get their second jab and 30 per cent to people seeking to get their first dose of the Covid vaccine. Meanwhile, Covaxin will be administered only to people of the age 45 and above awaiting their second dose.Taking to Twitter, Dr Sudhakar wrote, "70 per cent of the available stock of Covishield will be utilised to vaccinate 45+ who are due for second dose and rest 30% will be used to vaccinate 45+ seeking first dose.""Covaxin will be administered only to 45+ who are due for the second dose after six weeks of the first dose," he added.Earlier, the minister had requested people between the age group 18-44 years to refrain from going to the hospital in order to get vaccinated as the state had not received their allocated vaccine stock.Meanwhile, the third phase of the vaccination drive, which allowed 18-44-year-olds to administer vaccines, across the country commenced on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dr-k-sudhakar-announces-covid-vaccine-administration-on-priority-to-45-101620466274413.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Despite curbs daily average of cases over 50,000 in Maharashtra: Rajesh Tope||Over three weeks have passed since the Maharashtra government imposed strict restrictions to check the spread of coronavirus but the daily average of cases is still over 50,000 which is a matter of concern, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday.Citing the Union government, Tope said Covid-19 cases have dipped in 12 out of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra, but in some other districts, the cases are on a higher side.The lockdown-like curbs announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray came into effect on April 14 that included the ban on inter-city as well as inter-district travel and the closure of non-essential services in the state.These measures, including the weekend restrictions on the movement of people, were later extended till May 15.The state government had allowed groceries, vegetable shops and dairies to remain open only for four hours, between 7 am and 11 am from Monday to Friday and banned home delivery after 8 pm till May 1."The government had introduced lockdown-like measures but the average number of daily cases is still hovering between 50,000 and 60,000. The positivity rate, which is the key factor in deciding the (extent of) outbreak of the pandemic, is still on a higher side," Tope told reporters.The health minister said the government will review the situation and decide on whether to extend these lockdown-like measures or not."The state government is stressing on tracking, tracing and treating Covid-19 patients to curb the outbreak," he added.As of May 7, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally stood at 49,96,758 while the overall death toll is 74,413. The state had tested 2,89,30,580 samples so far, the health department had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-curbs-daily-average-of-cases-over-50-000-in-maharashtra-rajesh-tope-101620466290327.html
08-05-2021||Other||After HC order, 18-44 age group vaccination to resume in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh government on Friday said it will resume the Covid-19 vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years in the state following the High Court’s directive in this regard, a press release issued by the government stated.“In compliance of the interim order given by the High Court of Chhattisgarh, the inoculation drive for people under age-group of 18-44 years under Phase-3 Covid-19 inoculation drive will take place on the basis of 1/3 ratio for Antyodaya, BPL and APL categories of people,” a statement issued by the government said.Earlier, the state government suspended inoculation for this age group from May 5 after the Chhattisgarh High Court ordered it to modify its vaccination plan for the third phase of the drive and fix a ratio for distribution of vaccines in an equitable manner.The HC passed the order while hearing a suo-moto public interest litigation (PIL) under which intervention applications were filed challenging the state’s order to give priority to economically weaker sections of society.In an order issued on April 30, the Bhupesh Baghel led-government had said vaccines will be first given to the ‘Antyodaya Group’ (poorest among poor) followed by those belonging to the ‘Below Poverty Line’ (BPL) and then to the ones belonging to the ‘Above Poverty Line’ in the third phase, starting May 1. During the hearing of the PIL on Friday, the HC directed the state government to resume the vaccination for the third phase based on a 1/3 ratio for Antyodaya, BPL and APL categories of people, the official said.In its order on May 4, the HC directed the state government to fix a reasonable ratio of allotment of vaccines for the Antyodaya group along with the BPL and the APL group in terms of vulnerability, chance to spread the disease and the number of eligible persons. In compliance with that order, the state government constituted a high-level committee of secretaries headed by state chief secretary Amitabh Jain, it said.The HC while hearing further on this matter on Friday, justified the state government’s concern towards the poor and directed the committee, constituted under the chief secretary, to submit its recommendation at the earliest, thereafter, the next hearing will be held, the release said.Keeping in view the Covid-19 crisis pandemic and considering the time required for the high-level committee to submit its recommendations, the HC has directed the state government to carry out vaccination under Phase-3 for people under the age group of 18-44 years based on 1/3 ratio for Antyodaya, BPL and APL categories of people, till the committee submits its recommendation, as an interim measure, it said.The state government has decided to establish separate vaccination centres for Antyodaya, BPL and APL groups under phase-3 inoculation drive, it said.At the vaccination centres fixed for Antyodaya and BPL category people, the beneficiaries should visit for vaccination along with ID/documents and ration cards. At the centres for the APL category, people will have to bring IDs mandated by the central government, such as Aadhaar, PAN card and any other valid documents, but they’ll not have to produce ration cards, it said.Since the state government has received 1.5 lakh doses of vaccines as of now for the third phase, the drive will continue till the vaccines are exhausted and will start inoculation again when vaccine doses will be available. Accordingly, notices will be displayed at vaccination centres, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hc-order-18-44-age-group-vaccination-to-resume-in-chhattisgarh-101620466207503.html
08-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to use its Covishield stock for vaccinating people above 45 years||Seventy per cent of the available stock of Covishield in Karnataka would be utilised to vaccinate people above 45 years of age who are due for second dose, Health Minister Sudhakar K said on Saturday.The rest 30 per cent would be used to vaccinate the 45 years and above age group seeking first dose, he said. "Covaxin will be administered only to 45 who are due for 2nd dose after 6 weeks of 1st dose", the Minister tweeted. Karnataka on Friday reported 592 COVID deaths and 48,781 new cases. The State government on Friday announced imposition of strict lockdown from May 10 to 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-use-its-covishield-stock-for-vaccinating-people-above-45-years-101620464416673.html
08-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata says Centre's inactivity over past 6 months led to current Covid crisis||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday that the COVID crisis in the country was the result of the Centre "not doing any work" in the last six months as Union ministers and leaders were visiting Bengal daily to "capture" it.Banerjee was speaking in the assembly after TMC MLA Biman Bandyopadhyay was elected the Speaker for the third time.Warning of stern action against communal incitements, the chief minister claimed the BJP was provoking violence after failing to win the elections."I can challenge that had the Election Commission not helped them directly, they (BJP) could not have won even 30 seats. In this election, rigging took place in some places under the watch of the poll panel," Banerjee alleged, stressing the need to reform the EC."Now, they (BJP) cannot accept the mandate of the people and are trying to incite violence by posting fake videos," she claimed.She directed the administration to take stern action against those trying to provoke violence and communal tensions.Banerjee said that personnel of the central forces were in the state during the elections without undergoing RT- PCR COVID tests, resulting in the spread of the infection.The chief minister claimed that the Centre did no work in the last six months."To set up a double-engine government in Bengal, they have pushed India to the brink of destruction. Last six months, the central government did no work and they were all here daily to capture Bengal," she said.A host of Union ministers and chief ministers of BJP- ruled states, besides the party's top leadership were canvassing West Bengal in run-up to the just-concluded assembly elections.Banerjee reiterated the demand for universal vaccination, stating that it should have been the priority of the Centre, instead the government is spending ₹50,000 crore on the new Parliament building, PM's residence and statues, among others.The opposition BJP legislators boycotted the House proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-says-centre-s-inactivity-over-past-6-months-led-to-current-covid-crisis-101620463993501.html
08-05-2021||Jaipur||21 die in Rajasthan allegedly after burial of Covid infected man without following protocol||Twenty-one people died in as many days at a village in Rajasthan's Sikar district allegedly after a Covid-19-infected corpse was buried without following protocol.However, officials said that only four deaths have occurred due to the virus between April 15 and May 5.According to officials, a Covid-19-infected body was brought to Kheerva village on April 21 and about 150 people attended the last rites and the burial was done without following coronavirus protocol. The body was taken out of the plastic bag and several people touched it during burial, they said. "Only 3-4 deaths have occurred due to Covid-19 out of 21 deaths. A majority of deaths are from older age group. We have taken sample of 147 members of families where deaths have occurred to check whether it is Covid-19 community transmission," Lakshmangarh sub-divisional officer Kulraj Meena told PTI on Saturday. He said that the administration has carried out sanitisation drive in the village. Villagers are explained about the severity of the problem and now they are cooperating.Sikar's Chief Medical and Health Officer Ajay Chaudhary said that a report has been sought from the local authorities following which he will be able to comment on the matter.Kheerva falls in Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra's assembly constituency. He had first shared the information about deaths following burial of infected corpse on social media, but later removed it. "With profound grief, I have to say that more than 20 people have lost their lives and several are infected," he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/21-die-in-rajasthan-allegedly-after-burial-of-covid-infected-man-without-following-protocol-101620463211465.html
08-05-2021||Patna||Amid pandemic, Bihar to launch free ration scheme under public distribution system||In a major reprieve to the people battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has decided to dole out free ration to around 8.71 crore beneficiaries under the public distribution system (PDS) from Saturday, officials said.“We have sufficient allocation of foodgrains from the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The state’s quota of foodgrains is being lifted and carried to the PDS retailers to ensure smooth distribution of free grains,” said a senior officer of the state food and consumer protection department. He said that there were some issues from the PDS dealers, which were being sorted out. However, its secretary Vinay Kumar could not be contacted for his comments.The PDS outlets have lifted a sufficient amount of wheat and rice from the state food corporation (SFC) godowns to launch free distribution of foodgrains for May, as announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar earlier this week.The Central government has already announced free distribution of 5-kilogram of wheat and rice per unit to all ration card holders for the month of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Kalyan Yojna. An equal amount of foodgrains in equal proportions would be distributed free of cost from the state’s scheme.With this, a family of five is entitled to 20 kilograms of rice and 30 kilograms of wheat per month. Unlike last year, however, the beneficiaries would not be getting pulse this time. Last year, each person received 500 grams of pulse free of cost under the Central government scheme.As per the rough estimate, the FCI had allocated around 8.70 lakh metric tonne of wheat and rice for their lifting by May 31. The amount of foodgrains not lifted within the deadline would be adjusted in the next month’s quota and a suitable deduction would be made in the next month’s allotment, said an FCI officer.There are around 55,000 listed PDS retail outlets across 38 districts in Bihar. However, about 47,000 outlets are currently functional.The number of beneficiaries under PDS stands at 8.71 crores while the amount of ration for free distribution is 25 kilogram per unit. Foodgrain allocation by the FCI for May is 8.70 lakh MT. The total number of working PDS outlets is 47,000 while the deadline for the final lifting of the May quota from FCI is May 31.Amid pandemic, Bihar to launch free ration scheme under public distribution system (PLAYBACK) Subhash Pathak/HTCPATNAIn a major reprieve to the people battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has decided to dole out free ration to around 8.71 crore beneficiaries under the public distribution system (PDS) from Saturday, officials said.“We have sufficient allocation of foodgrains from the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The state’s quota of foodgrains is being lifted and carried to the PDS retailers to ensure smooth distribution of free grains,” said a senior officer of the state food and consumer protection department. He said that there were some issues from the PDS dealers, which were being sorted out. However, its secretary Vinay Kumar could not be contacted for his comments.The PDS outlets have lifted a sufficient amount of wheat and rice from the state food corporation (SFC) godowns to launch free distribution of foodgrains for May, as announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar earlier this week.The Central government has already announced free distribution of 5-kilogram of wheat and rice per unit to all ration card holders for the month of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Kalyan Yojna. An equal amount of foodgrains in equal proportions would be distributed free of cost from the state’s scheme.With this, a family of five is entitled to 20 kilograms of rice and 30 kilograms of wheat per month. Unlike last year, however, the beneficiaries would not be getting pulse this time. Last year, each person received 500 grams of pulse free of cost under the Central government scheme.As per the rough estimate, the FCI had allocated around 8.70 lakh metric tonne of wheat and rice for their lifting by May 31. The amount of foodgrains not lifted within the deadline would be adjusted in the next month’s quota and a suitable deduction would be made in the next month’s allotment, said an FCI officer.There are around 55,000 listed PDS retail outlets across 38 districts in Bihar. However, about 47,000 outlets are currently functional.The number of beneficiaries under PDS stands at 8.71 crores while the amount of ration for free distribution is 25 kilogram per unit. Foodgrain allocation by the FCI for May is 8.70 lakh MT. The total number of working PDS outlets is 47,000 while the deadline for the final lifting of the May quota from FCI is May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/amid-pandemic-bihar-to-launch-free-ration-scheme-under-public-distribution-system-101620462367258.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Second Covid-19 wave leaves pets orphaned||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has wreaked havoc. Many animals have been orphaned, losing their humans to the pandemic. As families struggle to cope with the loss of loved ones, these pets suddenly find themselves abandoned.  “There are lots of requests coming in for dog adoptions and foster care as the parents have passed away or are recovering from the infection,” says Anuradha Dogra from Animal Hospital and Shelter, NOIDA. And a few good folks in the city are volunteering to look after such fur babies. One such resident and pet parent to two dogs, Parul Taneja from Faridabad, had put a post on social media willing to foster says, “Ever since I posted, my inbox has been flooded with messages for adoptions where the parents are no more.” But for those who can’t foster and are coming across such incidents, Dogra suggests passing on information of abandoned pets to animal welfare association of the area, and with animal-care volunteers instead of directly posting on social media. She says, “There needs to be thorough check before giving for adoption to avoid going to a breeder, or getting re-abandoned because they are adult dogs—so they need to be aware of the behaviour and temperament.” Another animal-care volunteer, Ruchi Gupta echoes similar sentiment and says, “Alert the RWA and then best is to connect with rescue organisations or volunteers from the area.”However, before approaching organisations, Achal Gupta, founder, Jeffurry’s:The Pet Resort advises to personally reconfirm the details. “There have been a few posts for dog adoptions doing the rounds but instead of simply re-sharing, please ensure and cross-check that the dog is in reality left to nobody as these cases are rare only with couples or individuals,” says Gupta who has had 45-50 dogs in the last few weeks being fostered while the parents were recovering.The grief of losing owners and then getting adopted into a new family can be a traumatic experience as Dr Vivek Arora, veterinary surgeon points out. He says, “The loss of the family members and the presence into a house, new level of hierarchy, confidence and faith into complete new parents – all adds to the pet’s pain.” He furthers adds that the pet could be under stress also due to the overexposure with the owners in the last year as he states, “The last 10-12 months, we did not go out and what was meant to be 6-8 hour contact suddenly became 24 hour contact [between the pet and parent] and then losing them, so the pet takes a little longer to settle and new family needs to be patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/second-covid-19-wave-leaves-pets-orphaned-101620462249257.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi speaks to Maharashtra CM Thackeray over Covid-19 situation in state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about the coronavirus disease situation (Covid-19) in the state. According to a statement by the chief minister's office (CMO), PM Modi lauded Maharashtra's efforts in combating the second wave of the pandemic. Thackeray, meanwhile, informed the Prime Minister about the steps taken by the Maharashtra government in view of the potential third wave of the pandemic. "He (Thackeray) also requested for more supply of oxygen to Maharashtra," the CMO statement said. "The Prime Minister and the Centre have been guiding us in this battle since the beginning and it has been proven beneficial. We are thankful to the Centre for accepting some of our suggestions and demands," the statement added. Earlier on Saturday, Thackeray wrote a letter to the Centre seeking permission to develop a separate application for the vaccination against the coronavirus disease in the state after he received several complaints of frequent glitches in the CoWin platform, according to news agency ANI.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state from the pandemic across India, has so far added 4,996,758 cases, 74,413 deaths and 4,265,326 recoveries, according to the state health department’s bulletin. On Friday, the state saw a dip in its daily Covid-19 disease tally after 54,022 cases were reported.Maharashtra is currently placed under lockdown-like restrictions till May 15. These restrictions were first imposed from April 14 to May 1 banning movement of people, closure of movie halls, auditoriums etc. On April 22, a fresh series of restrictions were introduced by the state government on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings.It is being observed that adherence to these restrictions has led to an improvement in the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state. According to the Union health ministry, Maharashtra along with Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Uttarakhand etc is showing early signs of plateauing or decrease in daily cases.On Saturday, PM Modi also spoke to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. While on Thursday, Modi had spoken to the CMs of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-over-covid-19-situation-in-state-101620458871158.html
08-05-2021||Other||Volunteers step in to help deal with the pandemic in Kashmir||A network of local voluntary groups has stepped in by arranging medical oxygen, equipment, ambulance services in Kashmir while a non-governmental organisation has helped the authorities establish a 100-bed hospital to deal with a surge in Covid-19 cases that have overwhelmed the healthcare system. Farooq Ahmad, the founder of Help Poor Voluntary Trust, said all of their 300 oxygen machines and cylinders have been pressed into service for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. He added though they are trained to meet any exigencies dealing with the pandemic has been tough. Ahmad said they often get calls for help in the middle of the night invariably for patients with low oxygen levels. “We try to stabilise patients first at home and then shift them to hospitals in our critical care ambulances,” said Ahmad, whose organisation has a fleet of 12 ambulances. Authrout, which helped establish the 100-bed hospital, also has a network of volunteers who have been virtually working non-stop particularly for those in need of oxygen. “We are trying our best to help the people and our helpline is working 24x7. At times, we did not even get to have proper sleep as our phones keep ringing,” said a volunteer of the organisation. Social Reform Organisation (SRO), which was established in 2004 to work for 2005 earthquake victims, has been providing oxygen concentrators, cylinders and medical equipment to Covid-19 patients. Javeed Ahmad Dar, the SRO chairman, said they get around 150 distress calls every 24 hours and have helped provide almost 750-900 patients oxygen support over the last month. The NGO has also provided ambulance service to around 700 patients. “[We are also] providing other relief measures and supplying lifesaving drugs to many Covid patients. We also arranged plasma for many Covid patients...” J&K Yateem Foundation has been providing services, especially in Srinagar and Bandipora districts. “We...[have helped] the poor, needy and the destitute for the last 21 years. ...Covid-19 came up as a new challenge. In the beginning, due to lockdown, daily wagers faced difficult times...[and we provided them] food... Currently, the situation is different...now people ask for oxygen concentrators and we have stepped in to provide this facility too. Due to the non-availability of oxygen concentrators in the market, the organisation could not get more machines. We have 40 machines running and ordered more,” said Javeed Jawaad, one of the volunteers of the foundation. “We even gave oxygen cylinders to the district administration in Bandipora.” Sikh Volunteers Kashmir has been distributing food packets at hospitals and Covid centres. It has also helped conduct 60 cremations across Kashmir and runs a 24x7 helpline for Covid-19 patients. “We have been working for the last year and have procured 24 oxygen machines and 50 cylinders. We arrange medicines, meals and cremations across Kashmir and resources are arranged through voluntary contributions. Our group is being run by doctors and professionals,” said Jagjeet Singh, a volunteer. Falah-u-Darein, a volunteer group established two decades ago in Baramulla to help the poor, too, has stepped in to help Covid-19 patients. “We have 35 oxygen concentrators and 10 cylinders which are all with the patients. We only provide oxygen machines to people on the advice of doctors, which has helped many and there is no crisis in our area,” sayid Asif Aziz, a volunteer of the group. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/volunteers-step-in-to-help-deal-with-the-pandemic-in-kashmir-101620460447128.html
08-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee bats for universal Covid-19 vaccine programme||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday criticised the Centre over the Covid-19 vaccination programme and said there should be a universal inoculation programme for everyone throughout the country. " ₹30,000 crores is nothing for the central government... There should be a universal vaccine program for all throughout the country," Banerjee said in the state assembly."Universal vaccination should have been the priority of the Centre, but it's spending ₹50,000 crore on new Parliament building, PM's residence, etc," Banerjee said.Banerjee alleged that the Centre did not work in the last six months. "The Centre did not work in the last six months. Ministers came to Bengal every day to capture it," she added.Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) won 213 seats in the just concluded West Bengal Assembly elections. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) garnered 77 seats in the 294-seat state assembly.Banerjee has earlier urged the Centre for free universal vaccination across the country. "The Covid management is my priority. There is a shortage of vaccine supply. Approximately 65% of vaccines being produced in India were already sent overseas. Still, we are vaccinating 50,000 people a day," she added.Banerjee had said that the Centre should provide the Covid-19 vaccine for free to every citizen. ""We have demanded 3 crore vaccine doses from the Centre. I feel the vaccine should be provided free to the 140-crore people of India. I request the Centre to sanction ₹30,000 crore for a vaccine program for all throughout the country. I believe ₹30,000 crore does not matter to the central government. If a portion of the money that they spent in the election was invested for Covid vaccine then the universal vaccination would have already been done," she added.West Bengal on Friday registered its highest single-day spike of 19,216 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally to 9,54,282, the health department said. 112 more people succumbed to the infection, taking the total number of fatalities to 12,076, the department said in its bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-bats-for-universal-covid-19-vaccine-programme-101620456736097.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||From cradling a baby to monitoring Covid: This Mumbai doctor does it all||The mask digs deep furrows into his face, the shield fogs up his glasses and the PPE suit weighs him down in the humidity. The hours run into one another, uncomfortable and difficult at various levels, but it’s all in a day’s work for Dr Amol Pawar. As the second wave of the pandemic ravages large parts of India, it’s about sweat and tears - quite literally - for millions of healthcare workers at the frontline of the war against Covid-19. They have walked the tightrope between looking after patients and trying to dodge infection for more than a year. And it isn’t ending anytime soon. Pawar, obstetrician and gynaecologist at the Nowrosjee Wadia Maternity Hospital in Mumbai’s Parel locality, is but one face of India’s gravest health crisis yet. Sometimes gently cradling a newborn baby and comforting a patient and other times conferring with colleagues on a particularly difficult case or counselling relatives, the 44-year-old is a familiar figure for regulars at the 450-bed hospital. There are 35 beds in the Covid ward and 15 in the isolation ward. Hundreds of Covid patients have passed through the maternity hospital, which had to include a Covid ward last year in May when cases began rising. “The first case came in mid-April but we transferred the case to the Nair hospital nearby as there were no facilities in our hospital. On May 10, we started a Covid-19 ward. Since then, we’ve seen around 513 cases in this hospital,” Pawar told PTI. Working at least eight hours a day, six days a week and on call 24X7, he wears his discomfort and his responsibilities lightly.  “The eight hours are really packed at the hospital… new admissions, discharges, rounds and monitoring medicines for patients, and now even the vaccination drive. We have to do all this while ensuring we don’t contract the virus,” he said. In September last year, he did. He was admitted to the Seven Hills hospital in Andheri and was there for three weeks. He was on oxygen support for four days and after that got back to work through calls and guidance to his assistant.Pawar, like many of his colleagues, has now been vaccinated. But doctors don’t have the luxury of work-from-home and have to come to work every day. With reports of mutant strains, the tension of the infection is ever present, even for those like Pawar who have had the infection and been inoculated. The day begins with rounds, checking up on patients, visiting the vaccination centre and recording the doses used and stocks left. Sometimes, he lectures students over Zoom as well.In what would a year ago be a scene from some imagined reality or a futuristic sci-fi film and is now par for the course, he and his colleagues don PPE suits, masks and shields for much of the workday. Pawar, like the others, wears the PPE kit over his scrubs for more than three-four hours at a time. “We can’t eat, drink or use the restroom as long as we are wearing it. Add to that the irritation caused by sweat and glasses fogging up,” he said.Watching the coronavirus infection extract its toll on the country, the city and his own patients has been emotionally and physically exhausting and challenging. But also rewarding when patients get well and return home.  “Even if we still have a long way to go in the battle against Covid-19, the gratitude on the faces of those leaving the hospital keeps us going,” said Pawar. “It’s depressing for us doctors to still see that some people are still not following safety precautions. We don’t want to see a rise in the number of patients anymore,” he said. Before the second wave, Wadia Hospital saw only about four to five Covid-19 cases a day. But the numbers spiked this March. “Suddenly in March, there were as many as 52 cases. In April, we had 78 cases. Therefore, we were forced to cancel the study leaves of our resident medical officers (RMOs), some whom have to study in the restroom because their exams are in June,” he said. In addition to his regular duties, Pawar is also the nodal officer of the Covid Vaccination Centre at Wadia. He is involved with procuring, implementing and monitoring of the vaccination programme for Covid-19.Sometimes, in between his various responsibilities of dealing with deliveries, obstetric complications, Covid complexities and updating his case sheets, Pawar takes a short break. And then, when the work day ends he heads home to Thane, 26 km away. There have been days he has to drive back to the hospital in case of an emergency. Otherwise, it’s an evening spent at home before duty beckons again the next morning. Though Mumbai’s cases have dipped in the last few days, Covid cases continue their relentless rise. On Saturday, India recorded 4,187 fatalities and 4.01 lakh cases.Clearly, for Pawar and other healthcare workers across the country, there is no getting off the Covid treadmill yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/from-cradling-a-baby-to-monitoring-covid-this-mumbai-doctor-does-it-all-101620458978655.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi still facing shortage of Covid-19 vaccine, need 3 crore doses: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday there is still a shortage of vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the national capital needs three crore doses to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries within three months. He urged the Centre to provide the requisite number of doses.Addressing a press briefing, Kejriwal said, “How many vaccine doses do we need to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries in three months? If I give you an estimate, Delhi’s population is 2 crore. Of this, 1 crore people are in the age group of 18 and 45; 50 lakh below the age of 18 and the rest 50 lakh above the age of 45. Hence, there are almost 1.5 crore people above the age of 18. These 1.5 crore people have to be administered two vaccine doses. Hence, 3 crore doses are needed of which the Delhi government has received 40 lakh doses. We need 2.6 crore more doses and around 80-85 lakh doses are needed per month.”Kejriwal expressed confidence if the Delhi government gets 80-85 lakh doses per month, the vaccination process can be completed within the set target of three months. “To complete vaccination within three months, we need to vaccinate 3 lakh people every day. Currently, we are inoculating 1 lakh people in a day. I request the Centre ensure adequate availability of vaccines to Delhi.” he added.If we get adequate vaccine doses, we can complete vaccination within 3 months. There're 1.5 crore people above 18 years of age in Delhi so we need 3 crore doses. Out of this, Delhi Govt has got only 40 lakh doses so far. We need 2.6 crores more doses: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/Q21mk0oenZThe chief minister pointed out the current requirement of doses can also go higher as beneficiaries from the NCR region are also coming to Delhi to get inoculated.A day earlier, Kejriwal chaired a high-level meeting on the overall Covid-19 situation in the national capital where he directed officials that all eligible beneficiaries should be vaccinated within three months. District magistrates have been ordered by the chief minister to pay surprise visits to vaccination centres and relief camps to review the preparations.Delhi has so far vaccinated 3,666,694 beneficiaries till now of which 114,657 were administered doses in the last 24 hours.Also Read| Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure availability of beds, oxygen supplyDuring Friday’s meeting, Kejriwal also said that oxygen supply has been improved and urged officials that no infected patient in Delhi should suffer from a shortage of the life-saving gas.“Now that Delhi has received oxygen, no one in Delhi should suffer because of shortage of oxygen. All the hospitals in Delhi should increase their beds and every DM should arrange new oxygen beds in their districts so that no deaths happen due to lack of oxygen in Delhi,” Kejriwal said adding that the hampering of oxygen distribution has to be rectified so that there is no disruption.Also Read| Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, expresses gratitude for supply of oxygenSince last month, several critical patients of the Covid-19 disease lost their lives as hospitals across Delhi were unable to procure oxygen supplies on time or were only able to procure limited supplies which got over very quickly.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has recently faced criticism for not ensuring adequate availability of oxygen to hospitals and other medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-still-facing-shortage-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-says-cm-kejriwal-101620453521240.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Mission Oxygen: UP launches project to install oxygen generators in every district||To increase the oxygen supply in Uttar Pradesh amid Covid-19 pandemic, the excise and sugar industry and sugarcane development department of the UP government has started the process of installing oxygen generators across the state for the patients, it announced in a statement on Saturday.The department officials have shortlisted 75 districts where the plants will be installed in various hospitals. The work has begun in 27 districts already, "while the remaining districts will get those soon," the official release stated.So far, the work is complete in Saharanpur, Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Aligarh, Etah and Hathras. It also includes Sitapur, Kasganj, Badaun, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Shamli among others."Through the combined efforts of the Excise, Sugar Industry and Sugarcane Development Department, about 30 units of Excise Department and 45 sugar mills have ensured that in every district, there is at least one community health centre or district hospital with 35-45 beds having full-time oxygen supply through oxygen generators," it also said.The hospitals for the task will be chosen by the district magistrate and chief central officer.The project will see an investment of about ₹50-60 lakh per hospital, according to the statement. A letter to Air India has also been written, asking the airline to airlift these machines and deliver them to the hospitals as soon as possible.Covid-19 is wreaking havoc in Uttar Pradesh as it has spread beyond big cities into the towns and villages in India's most populous state. On Friday, the state reported 28,076 new Covid-19 cases, 33,117 discharges and 372 deaths.The devastating Covid-19 wave has triggered a severe shortage of oxygen cylinders families of the patients are facing a hard time to even find key medicines.On Friday, the Allahabad High Court sought the status of the Covid-19 situation in the countryside from the Uttar Pradesh government and also the measures it is considering to curb the surge in the spread of the infection there.On the vaccination drive in the state, a Bench comprising Justice Siddharth Verma and Justice Ajit Kumar, asked the government about a policy so that all people of the state can be inoculated in the next three to four months.The next hearing in this matter will take place on May 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mission-oxygen-up-launches-project-to-install-oxygen-generators-in-every-district-101620455136979.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Khan market oxygen concentrator seizure case transferred to Crime Branch||The Khan market case involving the recovery of 105 oxygen concentrators has been transferred to the Delhi Police Crime Branch, said the Delhi Police on Saturday.Five people were arrested on Friday for involvement in the case.The two restaurants - Khan Chacha and Town Hall - owned by Navneet Kalra, who is currently absconding, while the manager and three staffers were apprehended on Friday for running a black marketing racket in the national capital.The Delhi police got their hands on screenshots of Navneet Kalra's WhatsApp chat group which reveal his involvement in the case.According to the police, on April 26, Kalra has written about the demand and supply of oxygen concentrators. They have also received video footage of the area outside Khan Chacha restaurant.Gourav Khanna, CEO of Matrix Cellular was also arrested in connection with the case. His company had received a consignment of 650 concentrators, out of which 524 have been seized. These concentrators were being sold for ₹71,000 each, as per the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-khan-market-oxygen-concentrator-seizure-case-transferred-to-crime-branch-101620454348913.html
08-05-2021||Other||Covid negative certificates or proof of jab must for tourists entering Goa||Goa has made it mandatory for tourists entering the state to either have Covid-19 negative certificates or that of having been fully vaccinated.Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the measure would be enforced from next week in compliance with a high court order.“Tourists entering Goa will have to produce valid RT PCR [reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction] negative test reports or proof of vaccination upon entering the state. This is only applicable for tourists,” Sawant said.The announcement came after the Bombay High Court at Goa on Thursday said that it was “not justified” that Goa is not insisting upon Covid-19 negative certificates from people seeking to visit the state.“Based on this unrestricted entry, Goa is touted as one of the few tourist destinations where all is well. This is neither fair to the populace in Goa already suffering from the overstretched medical infrastructure nor to the unsuspecting tourists who have to very often avail of the overstretched facilities at a great price,” the court said. It added the government should come up with restrictions. The court said that it was unfair to the state’s population that Goa being a tourist destination was being cited as a reason for not making it mandatory for having negative tests on arrival.Goa was reluctant to put restrictions on tourist arrivals fearing it would damage the tourism industry following a bad year due to a harsh Covid-19 induced lockdown in 2020.Goa had the highest positivity rate among states (48.5%) the first week of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-negative-certificates-or-proof-of-jab-must-for-tourists-entering-goa-101620450486151.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Minor fire breaks out on INS Vikramaditya, no major damage||A minor fire broke out on-board aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya on Saturday. The crew on duty noticed smoke emanating from a part of the ship meant for sailors and acted promptly to douse it.No major damage was done, said commander Mehul Karnik, the chief public relations officer of the Indian Navy. The ship is at Karwar Harbour in Karnataka.All personnel on-board have been accounted for and an inquiry into the incident is being ordered, Karnik added.This is the second incident of fire on INS Vikramaditya. Earlier, in April 2019, a naval officer of the rank of Lt Commander died during a firefighting operation on the aircraft carrier when it was entering the Karwar Harbour.The aircraft carrier completed sea trials in July 2013 and aviation trials in September 2013. On June 14, 2014, INS Vikramaditya was inducted into the Indian Navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minor-fire-breaks-out-on-ins-vikramaditya-no-major-damage-101620449046076.html
08-05-2021||Indore||Health dept workers call off protest against DM over ill-treatment, resume work||The health department workers in Indore including the District Health Officer resumed their duties on Friday after calling off their protest against the District Magistrate over his alleged ill-treatment."We have resolved our issue and have agreed to work together for the people of Indore," Indore District Magistrate Manish Singh said.District Health Officer Dr Purnima Gadaria said the health department workers called off their protest after a discussion with the District Magistrate. Notably, Gadaria had resigned from her duty over the alleged misbehaviour by Singh in public. She had demanded the removal of Singh from his post."Members of 14 associations accompanied me in this protest. I had resigned but after the discussion, we came to the conclusion of calling off the protest and resume our work. District Magistrate has said that he will be careful of the issue raised by us," Dr Purnima Gadaria told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/health-dept-workers-call-off-protest-against-dm-over-ill-treatment-resume-work-101620435950625.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of farmers' protest, Punjab CM orders strict enforcement of lockdown curbs||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the state DGP to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown and deal stringently with any violation, ahead of farmers' proposed protest against it.The chief minister authorised the deputy commissioners to impose new and harsher restrictions, as needed, but made it clear that no dilution of the existing curbs will be allowed.On the farmers' unions protest against the lockdown, Amarinder Singh asserted that the Kisan Morcha, a body of 32 farmers unions, cannot dictate terms to the state government.Thirty-two farmer unions from Punjab, which have been agitating against central farm laws, had on Wednesday said they will hold street protests against the coronavirus lockdown on May 8 and urged people to defy the restrictions.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border protest site near Delhi, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal alleged the government has imposed a lockdown to hide its failure in handling the coronavirus situation and wants to weaken the farmers' movement.“The 32 farmer unions of Punjab have decided to protest against the lockdown on May 8 (in Punjab) where our field workers will come out on streets and ask people to open their shops and not follow the lockdown,” he had said.Like several other states reeling from the Covid surge, Punjab has imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and night curfew till May 15.Amarinder Singh said if any shops are opened in violation of the restrictions, the owners will be prosecuted.The chief minister authorised the DCs to take any decision on opening of non-essential shops or private officers on rotation, after taking the local MLAs and other stakeholders into confidence.However, the DCs cannot impose any restrictions on inter-district movement, he said, underlining the need to allow free flow of people and goods on the highway network of the state.The new curbs, if any, and the opening of shops on rotation will come into effect from Monday, he said.Responding to DGP Dinkar Gupta's remarks that various districts wanted to adopt different models for phased opening of shops, the chief minister said the decision on working out the local systems rests with the DCs.Taking serious note of the spike in cases in the Malwa region of the state, the chief ministers asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to examine the possibility of re-employing the volunteers deployed last year and also to get rapid antigen tests done on all residents in the villages.He stressed the need to control the fatality rate, which was 2.1 per cent as of May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-farmers-protest-punjab-cm-orders-strict-enforcement-of-lockdown-curbs-101620432028556.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Testing limited to urban clusters in Uttar Pradesh?||Have states been testing enough to curb the spread of the second wave of Covid-19 in India? An HT analysis suggests that while current positivity rates are high enough across states to require increased testing, a low positivity rate earlier, or when it comes in the future, may not always be a wholesome indicator of adequate testing (not unless it comes after a long plateau or a gradual decline).The World Health Organisation (WHO) considers a prolonged positivity rate of under 5% to be the threshold at which the Covid-19 infections in an area can be said to be under control. No major state in India had a positivity rate of 5% or less on average in the week ending May 4. This underlines the need for all states to test more.However, four weeks ago, five of India’s 19 major states had an average positivity rate less than 5%. These were — in increasing order of positivity rates — Assam, Telangana, Bihar, Gujarat and Odisha. The state that came next was Uttar Pradesh, with a positivity rate of 5.8%. This is at odds with anecdotal reports from the state at the time that spoke of people finding it difficult to get tested. At 13.2%, even in the week ending May 4, the average positivity rate in the state was lower compared to most states: it was, in fact, the fifth lowest among 19 major states. Why have official numbers from the state not reflected what ground reports suggest? (See maps)One reason for UP’s official numbers showing testing as adequate despite ground reports suggesting otherwise could be that the large-scale testing is limited to a few areas, cities, or districts. Checking positivity rate at district-level could possibly help confirm this distribution of tests, not only in Uttar Pradesh, but other states that have shown low positivity rates even amidst reports of oxygen shortage, space crunch in hospitals, crematoriums, and graveyards.However, only a few states — Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, and Arunachal Pradesh — publish district-level testing or positivity rates, and most major states with low positivity rates are not among them. What we have at the district level for all major states is the number of Covid-19 cases.Also read | Covid quietly ravages rural UPBut these case numbers can be used as a proxy to test for adequacy of testing. For instance, if a district has a high number of cases per million population, it is evident that the infection is widespread in that district. It is reasonable to assume that adjacent districts will be affected by high rates of infection as well (especially if the first district is a hub of sorts). To check for this trend on a map, HT created a map of average cases per million by districts in the last week, normalised on a scale of 0 to 1 for districts of each state. A district with a score of 1 has the highest cases per million in the state, and the district with a score of 0 has the lowest cases per million in the state.HT plotted four such maps: showing this index for the week ending April 13, April 20, April 27, and May 4. Rather satisfyingly, data from most states support the premise that adjacent districts have similar caseloads theory throughout this period. Uttar Pradesh alone looks like an outlier in April, with districts around Lucknow having a far lower score than it. This means that while Lucknow had the highest infection rates in Uttar Pradesh through April, districts around it remained largely unaffected. That, as maps of other states suggest, is not credible unless there was no movement from Lucknow to adjoining districts, or unless testing in neighbouring districts was inadequate. That the state was holding Panchayat polls during this period makes this even more unlikely. (See maps)To be sure, this trend can also be seen in the union territory or Ladakh and some north-eastern states.In Ladakh, this trend is a mathematical quirk. If there are just two districts in a state, one of them will have the highest cases per million (and therefore a normalised score of 1) and other minimum (normalised score of 0). In districts in the north-eastern states, the absolute infection rates themselves are far lower than Lucknow, which might explain the infection not spreading to neighbouring districts as readily. In the week ending April 27, for example, West Tripura had an average of 49 cases per million compared to 1,137 per million in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/testing-limited-to-urban-clusters-in-up-101620429777566.html
08-05-2021||Ranchi||BJP hits out at Jharkhand CM for ‘Mann ki Baat’ remark on PM||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday for his swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the latter called him to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state a day ago.On Thursday night, PM Modi spoke to Soren and chief ministers of other states. After the conversation, Soren said PM Modi only did his “Mann ki Baat” during the conversation. “It would have been better had he listened to, and spoken on important matters,” the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief tweeted.On Friday, BJP hit back. “While making a statement on the Prime Minister of the country, he must not forget that the pandemic situation should be addressed by a joint effort of the Centre and the state government. Taking out the rage on PM Modi while trying to conceal your failure is condemnable,” the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan said in a strongly worded tweet.Also read | It was PM's 'Mann ki Baat', Jharkhand CM on Modi's phone call to discuss CovidBJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi termed Soren a “failed CM”. “Failure in governance. Failure in tackling Covid in the state. Failure to assist people. To hide his failures, he demeans the office he holds. Wake up and work, Mr Soren. The clock is ticking,” Marandi tweeted.Several other BJP leaders, including former chief minister Raghubar Das, Union tribal minister Arjun Munda, and state BJP chief and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash hit out at the incumbent CM, many of them reminding Soren about the “failure” of his own governmentJharkhand is among the 10 states and Union territories that collectively account for over 75 per cent of daily Covid-19 deaths, according to latest data.Leaders of other parties, including those from Congress and Shiv Sena, came out in support of the Jharkhand CM. “This tweet tells us everything about #CovidCrisisinIndia. Our Prime Minister only talks. He does not listen - not even to chief ministers (sic.),” said the Congress’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-hits-out-at-jharkhand-cm-for-mann-ki-baat-remark-on-pm-101620429130985.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sufi island in the heart of the city||A little island. Circled with trees. With four graves.This Sufi shrine feels as secluded as if the island stood in the middle of the sea.But this is Delhi’s heart, within the India Gate grounds. (This excursion was undertaken before the Central Vista redevelopment project earnestly took off in the area). Turned away from the public gaze, this tiny spot exists like a self-contained world. The India Gate revelers are not lurking very far but also not close, letting this place enjoy an eerie charm and a sense of extreme remoteness.The island is in the middle of a pond, and is accessed by hopping and slipping along a slender stretch of humid, weedy earth. On this grey overcast afternoon the mound is cloaked in absolute solitude. No sound here, even birds are quiet, at least at this moment. You feel as if you could touch the silence. The shrine’s four graves are covered with colourful chadors—sheets of fabric for sacred offerings—implying that coming on pilgrimage here hasn’t fallen yet into obsolescence.A crudely painted sign on a green stone slab identifies the place as the burial place of Hazrat Shabbir Shah Baba. There is no knowing about this mystic, but then Delhi is full of small and big Sufi shrines. The patron saints of a few of these shrines are known across the world, while the biographies of a great many have been lost to history. Many such shrines are also believed to have disappeared over the years, as the expanding metropolis added more buildings to its already limited space.The absence of a substantial architecture makes it impossible to determine the age of this secretive landmark. Perhaps it’s 500 years old. Perhaps 50. The mystery makes the shrine truly enigmatic. In a fast-changing city, this spot of land has managed to survive largely unnoticed. It doesn’t figure in any noteworthy guidebook.One is now left to wonder how this place will look like following the completion of the Central Vista project.After, say, 50 years, will this barely known island hillock, and these barely known graves, still exist as they do now, or will they have become a part of our city’s undocumented history?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-sufi-island-in-the-heart-of-the-city-101620425761867.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Ambulance operator held for overcharging||Police on Friday said they have arrested a 29-year-old ambulance operator, an MBBS doctor by qualification, for allegedly overcharging Covid-19 patients.Police said one of his victims was an elderly Covid patient who was charged ₹1.20 lakh for a 350km journey -- from Gurugram in Haryana to a hospital in Punjab’s Ludhiana. The ambulance has also been seized, police said.The payment receipt issued by the ambulance operator, identified as Mimoh Kumar Bundwal, was widely shared on social media on May 6. After the post went viral, Bundwal returned ₹95,000 to the elderly person through an online transaction on Thursday, the police said.“Bundwal used to work as a junior resident at a government hospital in south Delhi. He quit the profession two years ago and started an ambulance service company,” said deputy commissioner of police Urvija Goel, adding that Bundwal was overcharging patients for the past one month and has cheated numerous people in this manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ambulance-operator-held-for-overcharging-101620425552127.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||BJP protests against vax centres’ closure||BJP MLAs, along with senior party leaders, staged a protest outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Friday against the government for shutting 45 of the 137 corporation-run Covid vaccination centres in the capital.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said at a time when the government should be increasing the number of sites to vaccinate more and more people, the AAP-led Delhi government was indulging in politics over vaccination. Gupta said the 45 centres were shut over the past two days, causing great difficulties to the public.Gupta said on Thursday he had spoken to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal in this regard. “I have raised the issue with the L-G, as this decision of the government will only create problems for residents. Those who have taken the first vaccine dose from a nearby centre would prefer to go there for the second dose as well. But now, after the closure, that may not be possible.”The Delhi government did not respond to HT’s queries on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-protests-against-vax-centres-closure-101620425209799.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Staff crunch, high volume of samples delay Covid reports||Mahesh Singh Rajput (63), a resident of southwest Delhi’s Dwarka, made several frantic calls to diagnostic centres in his locality for home collection of samples after his 59-year-old wife started showing Covid-19 symptoms. After at least eight labs declined, he drove his wife, who was already suffering from incessant coughing and high fever by then, to a diagnostic centre and waited for around 30 minutes before his wife’s sample was collected.His wait, however, did not end there. It took two days for the blood reports to arrive and another two days for the RT PCR report to come, which confirmed that Rajput’s wife had tested positive for Covid-19.“Though we started the basic treatment for her, the doctors kept asking for the blood test reports to determine the severity of her infection. We got the results four days after my wife started showing the first symptom,” said Rajput.Many residents in Delhi are facing hurdles in getting tested for Covid-19--be it at their homes or at diagnostic centres. With testing facilities being pushed to the limits amid the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, booking a slot for RT-PCR test and blood sample collection for CRP (C-reactive protein), D-Dimer and IL-6 and getting the reports, is proving to be quite a challenge.Owners of several private and government testing centres said shortage of manpower and an overwhelming surge in requests for testing has led to instances of samples getting lost and longer wait for test results.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityOn April 22, the Delhi high court directed the state government to ensure test reports are delivered within 48 hoursMany private labs said several staff members testing positive for Covid-19 and many others not reporting to work have led to severe shortage of trained manpower in laboratories conducting RT-PCR tests.“There is acute shortage of manpower. My technicians have to look inside the mouth of a suspected patient and collect the sample, what is the incentive? They too have families,” said the owner of one of Delhi’s biggest laboratories.Lab technologists in the city reiterated that manpower crunch has also forced most laboratories to stop collecting samples from home. It has also resulted in delay in giving the reports.“There may be some laboratories that are picking up more samples that they can process, thereby delaying the reports. At our centre, we collect only as many samples we can process in a single day. Earlier, we used to keep our sample collection centre open from 8am to 8pm. Now, with people rushing to get tested, we collect samples till about 1pm and on some days, till 11am,” said the owner of another laboratory in Delhi.A third laboratory owner said, “With the government capping the prices of RT-PCR tests, it is a challenge for laboratories to buy new machines and hire people to do the tests. When the pandemic is over, these machines are likely to be underutilised.”While labs are grappling with problems of their own, doctors said early detection of infection is the key to control the symptoms.“A delayed test report holds no value. In many cases, the symptoms start manifesting very fast and to control them, you need to put the patient on anti-viral or on steroids. This is why we need to scale up testing and make it more efficient. The load of the virus, if detected early on, can be controlled. We have observed mild cases turn severe just because requisite reports are not delivered on time,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/staff-crunch-high-volume-of-samples-delay-covid-reports-101620425005807.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Gangster dies of Covid-19 as Tihar readies to decongest||Tihar jail officials on Friday said they were preparing a list of nearly 5,000 undertrials who could be released either on interim bail for 90 days or on eight weeks’ parole following a Supreme Court-appointed high powered committee recommending that the prison be decongested in view of the “alarming” and “threatening” situation of the pandemic in the Capital.Currently, Tihar has nearly 19,679 inmates, almost twice the prison’s sanctioned capacity of 10,026. It is also the country’s most populated prison complex. The jail currently has about 250 active Covid cases and six deaths have been recorded in the ongoing Covid wave. The latest prisoner to die of the infection was Gaurav Jhareda, a 38-year-old alleged gangster whose name featured in the list of Delhi’s most wanted. Jhareda died on Thursday night.After the high-powered committee’s recommendation, the state government is likely to order emergency parole for 1,000 convicts by Monday or Tuesday. The 4,000 undertrials, being selected based on the criteria set by the HPC, will be released on interim bail after the orders of the respective courts where their cases are being heard.“Each jail has prepared a list of prisoners. There will be approximately 5,000 prisoners who could be released. We are waiting for the government’s order. It should happen anytime next week,” said a prison officer who asked not to be named.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityThe first 1,000 convicts who will be released are those who surrendered in February and March after 10-11 months of similar parole, during the first nationwide lockdown in March last year. The undertrials who will be released are those who are currently facing trial in non-heinous cases -- in which punishment is less than 7 years. Other undertrials who have HIV, cancer, kidney dysfunction (requiring dialysis), or Hepatitis B or C, will also be considered for release, the officerThere are three prison complexes under Tihar Central prisons -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. Tihar has nine sub jails, Rohini has one sub jail and Mandoli has six small sub jails. The prison is headed by one director general rank officer and assisted by an inspector general. Nearly 14,000 prisoners are lodged in the Tihar complex, while Rohini has around 2,000 and Mandoli has around 3,000 inmates.The committee has laid down 11 categories of undertrial prisoners -- such as those in civil imprisonment, senior citizens who are facing trial for offences with a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, those who are suffering other serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life -- who would be eligible for grant of 90 days interim bail on furnishing of a personal bond.The jail administration wrote to the Delhi government last week to consider releasing prisoners on special parole to decongest the prison.In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials in Tihar. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19. But in the last one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners. Currently there are 249 cases of infection. Activist Umar Khalid, arrested in the Delhi riots case had also tested positive. Chhota Rajan, underworld gangster, too, tested positive last month and is admitted at AIIMS.While two prisoners died in June-July last year, in the last two weeks at least six prisoners have died of Covid-19.The last prisoner to die of the infection, Jhareda was allegedly involved in at least 18 criminal cases, including murder, robbery, arms act and extortion, among other heinous crimes.Also read | Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitalsJhareda, who was lodged in sub jail 8/9 tested positive for the virus on April 29. He was undergoing treatment at the Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.On May 1, former gangster turned politician Mohammed Shahabuddin also died of the disease.1,406 O2 cylinders provided to patients in home isolationA total of 1,406 oxygen cylinders have been provided by district magistrates to Covid-19 patients recovering in home isolation, officials said on Friday.According to the latest health bulletin released by the Delhi government, 50,425 patients are in home isolation. The number of active cases in the city stands at 91,035, while there are 50,785 containment zones.The government has created a common cylinder pool in each district of Delhi to supply oxygen to Covid-19 patients in home isolation and meet the emergency needs of hospitals.Patients in home isolation can contact the district magistrate concerned for an empty or filled cylinder, an official said.The filled cylinders will be provided in lieu of empty ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-dies-of-covid-19-as-tihar-readies-to-decongest-101620424375050.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Police raid Khan Market restaurants, seize O2 devices||A day after 419 oxygen concentrators were seized from Nege & Ju, a restaurant-cum-bar in Lodhi Colony, and private company Matrix Cellular’s godown in Chattarpur, Delhi Police said on Friday that they raided Khan Chacha and Town Hall restaurants in Khan Market and recovered 105 more concentrators.According to Delhi Police, these restaurants are owned by Navneet Kalra, a businessman who also owns Dayal Opticals. Police said Kalra was avoiding cooperating with the investigation since the raids were conducted at his restaurants and oxygen concentrators seized.“With further seizure of 105 #OxygenConcentrator from Khan Chacha & Town Hall, 2 upscale restaurants in Khan Mkt, total 524 seized frm #blackmarketers Owner Navneet Kalra, also owns Dayal Opticals, is on run. Manager, 3 staffers arrested by #DelhiPolice SouthDist. Further raids on,” the Delhi Police tweeted on Friday from its Twitter handle.“We tried contacting Kalra but his cellphone is switched off and he is absconding. Notices will be served to the management of all the three restaurants to join the investigation and explain their role in the entire hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators and as to why 96 such concentrators were stored in their restaurant,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.In a late evening development, the 47-year-old chief executive officer (CEO) of Matrix Cellular, Gaurav Khanna, who is a resident of Gurugram, was arrested in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his company’s godown in Chhatarpur, DCP Thakur said.Also read | Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitalsA senior office-bearer of the Khan Market Traders Association, who did not wish to be identified, confirmed that all three restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – are owned by Kalra. Khan Chacha restaurant’s website has Kalra’s name in the “About us” section. In the “Celeb Presence” section, he is seen inside the eatery with cricketers and Bollywood actors.While 96 oxygen concentrators were seized from Khan Chacha, another nine were found illegally stored at Town Hall. The fresh recoveries were made following the interrogation of four people, whose arrests along with the recovery of 419 concentrators were made public by the south district police on Thursday. With this, the total recovery made in the case, which is being probed by the Lodhi Colony police station, now stands at 524, the retail price value of which is around ₹1.04 crore. A concentrator costing between ₹20,000 and ₹50,000 is being sold for between ₹70,000 and ₹1.25 lakh in the black market, the police said.Senior police officers said they were probing a nexus between the restaurant owner and the private company in hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators, a device whose demand soared following the steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave.HT tried to contact Kalra, Matrix Cellular and the restaurants (Nege & Ju, Town Hall and Khan Chacha) on Friday through phone calls and text messages through Thursday and Friday but there was no response till the time of going to press.Social media users commented extensively on the development. “I feel sorry for poor Khan Chacha & his family. First they lost the use of their name to Navneet Kalra & now they are being dragged through the mud for no fault of theirs because Kalra was using his eateries to store concentrators allegedly for sale on the black market,” tweeted Omar Abdullah, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and vice-president of the Jammu Kashmir National Conference (JKNC).The police on Thursday said that they had arrested four persons in connection with the raids on Nege & Ju and Matrix cellular. They were identified as Hitesh, manager of Nege & Ju, and three employees of Matrix Cellular – Gaurav, Satish Sethi and Vikrant.“To portray that the machines were being sold at a fair price, stickers carrying fake maximum retail prices (MRPs) were pasted on them. The concentrators costing about ₹20,000 each were sold for as much as nearly ₹70,000,” Thakur had said on Thursday.A senior police officer privy to the developments said, requesting anonymity, that the investigation so far has revealed that people involved in the nexus were into the illegal trade of oxygen concentrators since October and had already sold many such devices.The officer said they are probing the role of the three arrested Matrix Cellular employees for allegedly getting the concentrators from outside India.In a separate raid, a Greater Kailash police station team arrested two individuals, Saeed and Muqueem, and seized 3,486 digital thermometers, 10 oxygen concentrators, 263 digital gun thermometers, 684 oximeters and 10 nebulizers, allegedly meant for sale in the black market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-raid-khan-market-restaurants-seize-o2-devices-101620423658228.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||184k between 18-44 years got their first jab so far: Sisodia||Over 184,000 people between the ages of 18 and 44 years have received their first jab against Covid-19 in four days since the drive began, according to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. In comparison, 18,795 healthcare workers were immunised in the first four days in Delhi when the vaccination drive was rolled out from January 16.“In Delhi 1.84 lakh youth have got the 1st dose of vaccine, in first 4 days of 18-45 yrs age group opening. In total, 38.88 lakh people have got the vaccine in all age groups till yesterday evening,” Sisodia tweeted.The arrangement was described as “pretty smooth” by Kritika Goswami, 24, who took the shot on Friday at a government school in Dwarka. “The whole arrangement was pretty smooth and I was done in around 30 minutes. I had a slot for 3pm to 5pm, I had reached the centre a little early and got the shot before 3 o’clock. There were only five or six other people at the waiting hall and social distancing was followed,” she said. She received a dose of Covaxin.The Delhi government now plans to create outreach vaccination camps for journalists. “This is currently at the planning stage. Letters will be sent out to media houses to get a list of their employees and vaccinate them at outreach camps at their office. No timeline has been fixed yet,” said a senior government official, on condition of anonymity.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityChief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a high-level meeting, directed district magistrates to pay surprise visits to vaccination centres and relief camps in order to review the preparations done for the convenience of the people.He also directed the officials to ensure that all eligible people are vaccinated within the next three months.He said, “We will be able to stop the third [national] wave of corona from coming to Delhi, only by being able to administer vaccines to everyone in Delhi as soon as possible in the next three months.”Kejriwal on Wednesday expressed concerns over short supply of Covid-19 vaccines, even as he asserted that with the current infrastructure in place, the entire population of Delhi can be vaccinated in three months if supply is scaled up.“In the coming days we will need large scale supply of vaccines. The latest consignment we have received is not a large one. With the established procedures in place, we can scale up [the vaccination drive] in 24 hours. But there is a shortage of vaccine production. If production and supply are scaled up, we are capable of vaccinating the entire population of Delhi. Right now, the only obstacle is a short supply of vaccines,” said Kejriwal on the sidelines of his visit to a vaccination centre in central Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar.While vaccination of people over 45 years old was underway in around 500 sites, the drive was opened to people aged between 18 and 44 years on a wider scale on May 3, in a different set of 300-odd sites scattered across all 11 revenue districts in the city.According to the Delhi government bulletin on Friday, a total of 2,856,955 people have received their first dose of Covid vaccine in Delhi so far. It also said that 809,739 have got their second doses as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/184k-between-18-44-years-got-their-first-jab-so-far-sisodia-101620423408730.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Few ambulances with critical care a concern||The shortage of ambulances with ventilators has emerged as a concern amid the ongoing coronavirus disease wave in the Capital, with a large number of critical patients needing life support while being taken from their homes to hospitals, or from one medical facility to another in search of a bed.There are 2,287 ambulances registered with the transport department. Of these, 265 are permanent ambulances under the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) fleet. The remaining are operated by private hospitals and private service providers. The state government has also temporarily augmented the fleet of CATS with around 400 more ambulances.“Of the total number of ambulances functional in Delhi, 25 CATS ambulances have ventilators and, at this point, and less than 125 private ones have ventilators,” said the senior official who asked not to be named.Also read | Delhi government caps rates of private ambulancesThe shortage of ambulances with ventilators translates to critically ill patients sometimes having to wait, officials and patients said. Since people often cannot wait, they take the risk of ferrying critical patients to hospitals in ambulances with high-oxygen flow systems. This becomes very risky, said Narendra Lakra, head of the Delhi CATS Ambulance Union.“We come across a high number of cases in which a patient, who is already admitted in a hospital, becomes critical and needs to be moved to a ventilator. But then there is a shortage of vacant ventilators in hospitals too. So, the patient has to be taken to another hospital where a ventilator is available. How do you do that without an ambulance that has a ventilator system?” Lakra said.What makes things more difficult is that earlier, an ambulance used to take one to two hours to pick up a patient and finally get relieved after hospital admission. Now, with a crisis of beds, the waiting time in hospitals has increased, officials said. A government spokesperson did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/few-ambulances-with-critical-care-a-concern-101620423156132.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Plea in HC over distribution of O2 by minister||The Delhi high court on Friday directed the state food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain to appear before the court on Monday on a plea over stopping the alleged “unauthorised”, “unlawful” and “arbitrary” distribution of oxygen cylinders by the MLA in his constituency Ballimaran.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli issued a notice to Hussain seeking his reply, and said it needed to be figured where he was procuring the cylinders from.“Suppose he is not getting it from refillers in Delhi... Suppose he has independent arrangement from some supplier in Rajasthan, Faridabad, or wherever…. If he is getting it from there and he is giving it to some people in need in his constituency, then you cannot have a grievance because then he is only augmenting supply to Delhi. Even gurdwaras are doing it,” said the court.“If he’s not eating away from the allocated source... He has arranged his own cylinder. Let us be clear about it,” it added, saying that there could be a grievance if Hussain was taking it from the allocation made for hospitals, nursing homes, or for individual use at homes in the national capital.Also read | Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitalsThe court’s observation and directions came while hearing a plea which alleged irregularities in the supply of medical essentials and sought an enquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Advocate Amit Tiwari, representing petitioner Vedansh Anand, showed a Facebook post referring to the distribution of oxygen by Hussain, and contended that there was hoarding involved. The Delhi government counsel Rahul Mehra said that whether it is BJP MP Gautam Gambhir or AAP MLA Hussain, strictest possible action will be taken if any violation is found. His reference was to Gambhir’s tweet on April 21 that people in need of Fabiflu tablets could get them for free at his office. Fabiflu is an anti-viral used in the management of symptoms of Covid-19 infection.The court is hearing a plea by Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.During the hearing, the court rejected a suggestion to bring the Armed Forces for setting up field hospitals in the national capital saying that they should be first ready for the duty they have been raised for.Meanwhile, another bench of the high court asked the Delhi government to treat as a representation a PIL seeking compensation for the families of those patients who died due to shortage of oxygen. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh directed that the representation be decided in accordance with the law, rules, regulations, and policy applicable to the facts of the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-in-hc-over-distribution-of-o2-by-minister-101620422922373.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Govt to create oxygen reserves to handle distress calls by hospitals||With the daily oxygen supply to the city still in flux, the Delhi government plans to create oxygen reserves at several points across the Capital to answer SOS calls by hospitals, senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha said on Friday. Delhi on Thursday received 577 MT of oxygen -- 153 MT less than the previous day’s supply of 730 MT.“We have been creating SOS reserves stocked in various places in Delhi from where it will be supplied to hospitals in an emergency, if their regular supply is not initiated. For example, if a 300-bed hospital that was supposed to be delivered oxygen through a tanker from a designated company fails to get it due to some unforeseen circumstances, Team Kejriwal steps in,” said Chadha, who is monitoring the day-to-day oxygen supply in Delhi.The acute dip in supply earned the Centre reproach from the Supreme Court on Friday. The apex court warned the Centre of “coercive steps” if there is any deficit in the future. The city is estimated to require at least 700 MT to sustain the critical care patient load and consistently lower supplies have caused several hospitals to reduce the number of beds, officials have said.“We have been very clear that you have to give 700 MT to Delhi every day. We said it in our earlier order and also clarified this yesterday (Thursday). Don’t drive us to a situation where we have to take firm and coercive steps,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre.Also read | Fall in positivity rate a ray of hope for cityChadha explained that multiple oxygen reserves will help the SOS tankers reach hospitals early. For instance, Batra hospital, where 12 patients including a senior doctor admitted to the hospital died for the want of oxygen on May 1, the tanker reached late because it was in Burari--over 30km away.The Delhi government has been demanding 976 MT of oxygen to ensure that they are able to increase the number of oxygen beds by 15,000 and ICU beds by 1,200. “The supply of oxygen has to be regular. We cannot give sufficient oxygen one day because of increased supply and completely deprive the patients another day because the Centre decreased our supply,” said Chadha.He added, “If the Kejriwal government wishes to substantially increase the number of these beds in Delhi to up to 40,000-45,000, it will need regular and uninterrupted supply of oxygen.”In a high-level review meeting on Friday, chief minister minister Arvind Kejriwal asserted that nobody should die because of lack of oxygen. “Now that Delhi has received oxygen, no one in Delhi should suffer because of shortage of oxygen. All the hospitals in Delhi should increase their beds and every DM should arrange new oxygen beds in their districts so that no deaths happen due to lack of oxygen in Delhi.”Hospitals such as Delhi government-run Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur said they will start increasing the beds eventually but will monitor the oxygen supply for a couple of days. The hospital reduced its beds from 550 to 350 due to the uncertainty over oxygen supply.Also read | SC warns of coercive action if Delhi’s O2 quota not metKejriwal also urged everyone to use oxygen efficiently and avoid wastage. Several hospital have already implemented measures such as restricting the number of patients being put on “oxygen-guzzler high flow nasal oxygen”.The chief minister said, “The 48 oxygen plants should be installed immediately as soon as they reach Delhi. These plants have an oxygen production capacity of 40 tonnes. This will further help in improving Delhi’s oxygen situation.”Kejriwal also expressed displeasure over complaints that patients in home isolation were not being given pulse oximeters, which was part of the protocol to manage those who were recuperating at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-create-oxygen-reserves-to-handle-distress-calls-by-hospitals-101620422661609.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Doctor conducts last rites of woman as son recovers in hospital||For over a year now, doctors and other health care and frontline workers have been shouldering the burden of India’s battle against Covid-19. On Thursday, a 37-year-old doctor at a Delhi hospital took on some more weight. He performed the last rites of an elderly woman, who succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital because her son, also diagnosed with the viral illness, was not in the condition to perform the rituals.“I got a call from a junior working at the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital late on Wednesday, and he told me that an elderly woman had died of Covid there, and her son was unable to perform the last rites since he was still Covid-positive. I asked him to contact their immediate family and neighbours. When no one came forward till Thursday, I decided to help the family. I asked my doctor friend to get the consent from her son so that I could perform the rituals,” said Dr Varun Garg, assistant professor of forensic medicine at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation Medical College and Hindu Rao Hospital.“Her son gave us written consent, and authorised me to perform the rites in his stead. It was quite painful to realise that none of the woman’s relatives nor her friends and family were there,” he added. The woman’s son is currently admitted to the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital.The doctor then coordinated with his colleagues at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital and brought the body of the 78-year-old woman to the Nigambodh Ghat cremation ground. “I performed all rituals, and lit the pyre. I have stored her ashes in a locker at the crematorium so that whenever her son recovers, he can immerse them,” he said.Garg said he and his family -- his mother and his wife -- recovered from Covid-19 last week, and he resumed work on Saturday. “If there is anything that can help us overcome these challenging times, that is empathy and compassion. We need to help each other in any way we can amid this pandemic,” he said.The 37-year-old has been working at the hospital since 2015 and has been on Covid duty since last year.Delhi, bearing the brunt of its fourth and worst wave of infections, has seen long queues at crematoriums in recent weeks as the city has been consistently recording more than 300 daily deaths for the last 16 days. On Friday, Delhi again added 341 deaths and 19,832 new Covid-19 cases.In these difficult times, good samaritans and others have come forward to help. Last month, police helped cremate the bodies of an elderly couple who died in their homes while in quarantine in north Delhi’s Burari.In some cases, family members of the victims have been unable to reach India for last rites, leaving them to rely on funeral organisers.Officials at Messy funerals, a service provider in Civil Lines, told HT in April that they also carried out the last rites of two elderly people, aged 76 and 82, in neighbouring Ghaziabad as their children were in the United States.Garg, who is also the in-charge of the mortuary at the hospital, said there was a similar incident in his hospital on Friday.“A man from Rohini has died of Covid-19 and no one from his family has turned up for the last rites. We are still waiting to hear from them. If no one comes forward, we will inform the police and see what we can do,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doctor-conducts-last-rites-of-woman-as-son-recovers-in-hospital-101620421795012.html
08-05-2021||Other||A day after arrest, man accused of murdering Ludhiana teen for phone escapes||A day after arrest, an accused in the murder of a 17-year-old boy in Daba area managed to escape from the police lock-up after removing the grilles of the skylight in the wee hours of Friday. His accomplices, however, failed to get away as the space was too narrow for them to slip through.The trio had stabbed the teen, identified as Amardeep Singh, when he had tried to resist a phone snatching bid. Following the jailbreak, police lodged an FIR against night munshi Roshan Preet and sentry Budhi Raj for negligence. Proceedings to suspend the two cops have also been initiated. As per information, the accused, Harvinder Singh alias Lali of Gurmel Nagar, Gurmeet Singh alias Gagan of Jamalpur village, and Tej Ram alias Chintu of Mundian Khurd, were lodged in the lock-up of Daba police station that was being run from the flats in Daba.As Harvinder Singh alias Lali was extremely lean, he managed to escape by bending the grilles. The incident is said to have taken place around 2.30am. The cops deputed at the police station were reportedly sleeping at the time. They came to know about the incident in the morning and alerted their seniors. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said it was utter negligence on the part of the police personnel deputed at the police station that a murder accused managed to flee. He said that teams have been formed to trace the accused. A case under Sections 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful appre¬hension) and 225 (resistance or obstruction to lawful apprehension of another person) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused as well as the two cops, he said. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered against the cops, the ADCP added.The trio was to be produced in the court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-after-arrest-man-accused-of-murdering-ludhiana-teen-for-phone-escapes-101620420723018.html
08-05-2021||Other||Quarantined woman foils robbery bid by domestic help in Ludhiana||A woman in quarantine foiled a robbery bid at her house after a Nepalese domestic help, who was employed just three days ago, served milk laced with sedatives to her entire family and called his accomplices to carry out the crime.The incident took place in Panchsheel Vihar on late Thursday night. The woman, identified as Gunjan Sharma, had quarantined herself on the first floor of her house as she had symptoms of Covid-19. The domestic help had served the milk to her husband Gaurav Sharma, 46, who is a trader, his mother Shanti Devi, 65, the couple’s son Divansh Sharma, 15, and four-year-old daughter Siya Sharma. All of them lost consciousness after drinking the milk, however, Divansh gained consciousness after some time and alerted his mother.Gunjan then tried to assess the situation from the balcony and saw unidentified men trying to get into the house. She immediately raised the alarm following which the neighbours rushed outside. Seeing the neighbours, the domestic help and his accomplices fled the spot. The incident was captured on the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed outside the house. Family hospitalisedMeanwhile, the family members, excluding Gunjan, have been admitted to a private hospital on Ferozepur road. The domestic help was not able to serve the milk to Gunjan as she was under quarantine. Case against help, unidentified accomplicesThe Sarabha Nagar police have lodged an FIR against the domestic help, Dinesh, and his unidentified accomplices. Sarabha Nagar station house officer, inspector Paramdeep Singh said they received the information about the robbery bid on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and immediately reached the spot to start investigation. Gaurav Sharma runs a business of CCTVs. He had hired Dinesh from an agency three days ago as their domestic help Gopi had left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/quarantined-woman-foils-robbery-bid-by-domestic-help-in-ludhiana-101620420063873.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||SC notice to Punjab govt over Prashant Kishor’s appointment||The Supreme Court has issued notice of motion to Punjab government in connection with a petition challenging the appointment of political strategist Prashant Kishor as principal adviser (cabinet rank) to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta on Thursday directed the matter to be listed after summer vacations while hearing a plea filed by Labh Singh, a retired boxing coach and Satinder Singh, a Chandigarh-based advocate. Capt Amarinder had appointed Kishor as his principal adviser in March this year. The petitioners submitted that appointment of Kishor, who has been assisting different political parties, in the rank and status of a cabinet minister was a clear violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. The petitioner alleged that in Kishor’s appointment, no advertisement was issued, no interviews were conducted and no criteria was adopted. The petitioner said that the article 16(1) of the Constitution provides that there shall be equal opportunity to all citizens in employment or appointment to any office under the state. “Kishor will be enjoying pay, perks and all facilities from the state exchequer. His appointment is contrary to the provisions in the Constitution,” the petitioners added. “Had proper procedure been followed, more qualified and suitable persons could have been available. The appointment has been made in a clandestine and cloistered manner causing loss to millions of aspirants,” the petitioner said. The petitioner said the appointment smacks of mala fide as he was appointed election strategist by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee in 2017. “There is a reasonable apprehension in the mind of petitioners that Kishor has been appointed principal adviser just to make election strategies for the coming elections,” the petition said. In March, the Punjab and Haryana high court had dismissed a similar petition challenging Kishor’s appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-notice-to-punjab-govt-over-prashant-kishor-s-appointment-101620419943094.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Infections spike, positivity rate stagnates in Punjab||Despite an exponential rise in daily Covid-19 cases in Punjab in last few weeks, there is some respite as the state’s average positivity rate for the last week (April 30-May 5) has been static when compared with the previous week (April 25-30). The positivity rate in state for both the weeks remained at 11.7%, reveals the weekly analysis done by the health department. Positivity rate is the percentage of new infections in proportion to the total tests done. According to the analysis, 11 districts — SAS Nagar, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Rupnagar, Sangrur, Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar — witnessed a slight rise in the average weekly positivity rate, and an equal number of districts — Muktsar, Fazilka, Mansa, Faridkot, Moga, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur, Barnala, Taran Taran and Kapurthala — recorded a decline. Between April 30 and May 5, 10 districts registered a positivity rate of more than 10%, while in the preceding week (April 25-April 30), the number of districts in the said category was 12. Fazilka, Ferozepur, Mansa and Barnala districts witnessed the steepest decline in the positivity rate. No respite in SAS Nagar, Ludhiana The health department analysis revealed that SAS Nagar (Mohali) registered an increase of 1% in the average positivity rate, whereas the spike was 1.1% in the worst-hit Ludhiana district. The week that ended on May 6, SAS Nagar’s average positivity rate was found to be 24.9% as compared to 23.9% in the previous week. Ludhiana’s figure increased to 13.1% as compared to 12% in the previous week. Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state registered a rise in cases but the average positivity rate for both weeks remained unchanged because the testing was also increased. “Our daily testing increased from around 55,000 in the last week of April to 68,000 on May 6. This means we are increasing testing to track the virus in order to curtail its spread,” said the nodal officer. The health department has termed the outcome as the first positive sign that the cases may stabilise in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infections-spike-positivity-rate-stagnates-in-punjab-101620419823738.html
08-05-2021||Other||From Monday, Ludhiana to have 17-hour curfew daily||In view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the district, Ludhiana administration on Friday decided to impose a 17-hour daily curfew in the district, starting Monday. The curfew will come into effect from 12noon and go on till 5am. A seven-hour relaxation will be allowed from 5am to 12noon during which all shops, including those selling non-essential items, and private offices and establishments, will be allowed to open. The curfew will be observed on weekdays – Monday to Friday—while the weekend lockdown will also continue until further orders. The weekend curfew will start from 12noon on Friday and continue till 5am on Monday.As per the fresh orders, there will be no movement of passenger vehicles within the city during curfew hours. Passenger movement by four-wheelers or motorised two-wheelers during curfew hours will be allowed only in exceptional circumstances, provided the vehicle occupants present an e-curfew pass. However, there will be no restriction on movement of passenger vehicles during curfew relaxation hours in morning. It has also been ordered that takeaway and home-delivery services will be allowed during curfew relaxation time (5am to 12pm) only as the hotels will remain closed during curfew hours. The DC has also directed that all government employees will be staying at the headquarters for posting and may be put on Covid duty. The department heads concerned shall ensure that any staff put on Covid duty is made to be present immediately with orders given to all staff to be on calls for any Covid duty. To and fro inter-state movement or movement to other districts is allowed on national and state highways. Home delivery of milk is allowed on all seven days from morning 5am to 12 noon and in the evening from 5pm to 9pm. Milk vendors will not require curfew passes. All manufacturing industrial units have also been exempted from the curfew. Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and the Indian Penal Code 1860. High positivity rate prompted stringent steps: DC Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the curfew was necessitated due to the steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district. He said the decision was taken after reviewing the situation with civil surgeon, district epidemiologist and commissioner of police. “The positivity rate is currently above 10% and the bed occupancy in Ludhiana city hospitals is above 81%. Therefore, there is an urgent need to impose stringent restrictions to save precious human lives in district,” he said. Industry had cried their heart out earlier in the day Earlier in the day, several representatives of the Ludhiana industry participated in a virtual meeting with state food and supply minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and senior officials of the Ludhiana administration and expressed their grievances over the ongoing partial lockdown in the state.The traders and manufacturers said they are facing a plethora of problems due to shortage of labour and closure of main markets across the country. “Most of the units are in losses and working just to engage the labour,” said Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU. Ashu said that almost all Level-III and Level-II beds are occupied in the hospitals and health infrastructure is severely strained due to the continuous inflow of patients in Ludhiana. He said the administration is already at work to create more beds in other places for the best treatment of patients. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that it is high time for people to mitigate the stress of healthcare and other frontline workers by observing Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Scores of medium and small scale units are suffering due to the shops being closed as we have a limited source of money. With shops closed, the payments are being delayed and it is difficult for us to pay our labour force,” said Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, former president of the United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA). After the orders, the industry expressed satisfaction over the decision to allow all shops to open for business in morning hours. “Earlier, electricians and plumbers were also not allowed to work. Now at least emergency requirements can be catered to,” said Ankur Sharma, a businessman based in Sarabha Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-monday-ludhiana-to-have-17-hour-curfew-daily-101620419344300.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Situation critical in Punjab, Haryana, UT; consider reorientation of O2 supply: HC||The Haryana high court Friday said that situation appears to be critical in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and directed the Centre to consider reorientation of the supply of oxygen from various plants in such a manner that the allocated quantity reaches the respective states before already allotted quota is exhausted to avoid loss of life. The order was passed by the high court after it was apprised by Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda that Punjab requires 300 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen whereas the Centre has allocated to it 227 MT, which is also not reaching the state. “Sufficient number of containers are not allotted to transport the same. Besides, Punjab needs 600 doses of Tocilizumab which is considered as life saving drug in critical cases,” Nanda had told court, adding that there is shortage of vaccinate too, especially in the age group of above 45 years of age. There is a shortfall of 32 lakh of doses. In total, 2.64 crores doses are required in Punjab for the age group of 18 to 45 years. The state has been given liberty to secure the same from two suppliers, Serum Institute, Pune and Bharat Biotech, on payment basis. This demand has also not been met despite the fact that orders have been placed after following due procedure, it had told the high court. Haryana on the other hand said that state is facing extreme shortage of oxygen despite the fact that it has a plant located at Panipat which is manufacturing 260 MT. The state is facing extreme shortage of oxygen despite the fact that it has a plant located at Panipat. Instead of allowing Haryana to get the supply from the plant at Panipat for the facility of transport as well as timely replenishment, it has been allocated far off places like Rourkela and Jamnagar etc. Resultant delay has led to several deaths in Haryana as well,” state’s advocate general, Baldev Raj Mahajan had told court. UT too said that it is now facing difficulty in procuring the required quantity of oxygen and Centre has been requested to increase the quota to 35 MT. Amicus Curaie Rupinder Khosla too had said that there is severe shortfall in supply of oxygen to both the states and UT. “The allocated quantity of oxygen is either not being supplied or has been allotted from very distant places, such as, Rourkela and Jamnagar etc., timeline for which is not conducive. By the time the arrangements are made, the states are virtually left starving of oxygen, resulting in many deaths,” he had submitted. Additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain assured the court that the matter would be considered immediately and appropriate steps shall be taken. However, he had submitted that the allocation of oxygen is being done equitably to all the states in the country. The bench observed that at this stage these states are not seeking enhancement of supply but timely delivery of oxygen allotted to them,well in time. It added that supply be reoriented in a manner that the allocated quantity reaches the respective states before already allotted quota is exhausted to avoid loss of life. “..the availability of oxygen at the earliest is imperative. In absence thereof, many patients experience breathlessness and other complications and resultant fatalities. People in trauma cannot be made to run here and there in hospitals to get oxygen cylinders,” it said adding that Centre needs to be over sensitive and in an overdrive to reach out to patients in need of medical care and assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/situation-critical-in-punjab-haryana-ut-consider-reorientation-of-o2-supply-hc-101620419163023.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Relaxed restrictions: Covid norms violated in Bathinda||A day after the district administration relaxed restrictions on the commercial activities, it was business as usual in the crowded markets of Bathinda city on Friday as residents and shopkeepers blatantly flouted Covid guidelines. Beopar mandal and shopkeeper associations had been opposing the state government’s directive to close all shops of non-essential services till May 15 to control the spread of coronavirus. Bathinda is among six worst-hit districts by the pandemic. With 1,042 new cases on Friday, the highest on a given day since the pandemic outbreak last year, Bathinda has now 6,202 active cases. The district also reported 19 Covid deaths on Friday, taking the number of fatalities to 492.On Thursday, a delegation of the local Congress leaders led by Jaijeet Johal, brother-in-law and head of finance minister Manpreet Badal’s political activities in Bathinda, met the deputy commissioner B Srinivasan. Johal favoured permission for traders dealing in non-essential services to resume their activities. Later, the administration allowed shops selling milk, grocery, fruits and vegetables to open between 6am and 10am. Rest of the shops and trades were allowed to function for five hours from 10am.However, all grocery shops were found open till 2pm and social distancing was not followed. Fruit and vegetable markets on Amrik Singh Road were also overcrowded.Bathinda-based public health activist Dr Vitull K Gupta said: “The administration should withdraw permission to non-essential shops. The administration should adopt stricter measures and act to minimise crowding to curtail infection spread,” he said.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the situation may be reviewed next week after weekend lockdown in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relaxed-restrictions-covid-norms-violated-in-bathinda-101620418982861.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Curfew in Ludhiana from Monday; stricter curbs in Bathinda, Doaba belt||As Covid-19 cases and deaths continue to spike across the state, the Ludhiana administration on Friday decided to impose a 17-hour daily curfew in the district starting Monday. The decision comes after chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh authorised the deputy commissioners to impose new and harsher restrictions, as needed, to control the raging second wave of pandemic. According to the Ludhiana DC’s order, the curfew will come into effect from 12pm and go on till 5am. A seven-hour relaxation will be allowed from 5am to 12pm during which all shops, including those selling non-essential items, and private offices and establishments, will be allowed to open. To and fro inter-state movement or movement to other districts will be allowed on national and state highways. In Bathinda, authorities have decided to impose a curfew from Friday 3 pm till 5 am on Monday. The district administration also directed the banking sector to remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays. The Kapurthala district administration said curfew will be imposed from 5pm to 5am from May 8 to 15. In Jalandhar, the essential items shop will open between 7am to 3pm during weekdays. The administration has imposed curfew from 6pm to 5 am on weekdays along with weekend curfew. Curfew has been clamped in Hoshiarpur from 6pm to 5am on weekdays while the existing weekend curbs will continue. Milk vendors and shops selling vegetables will open all days between 5am to 9am. In Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, no person will be allowed to enter without a Covid-19 negative report or a vaccination certificate at least two week old. In SBS Nagar, the curfew will remain in force from 6pm to 5am besides weekend curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-curfew-in-ludhiana-from-monday-stricter-curbs-in-bathinda-doaba-belt-101620418924142.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Phagwara couple gets vaccination certificates without getting a jab||A Phagwara-based couple received Covid-19 inoculation certificates without getting the actual vaccine dose.Within hours of opening of the CoWIN portal for registration for the 18-plus category, Ram Naresh and his wife Priti, both aged 29, got the slot online at 2.15pm on Thursday and were asked to go to Hoshiarpur’s Shergarh or Sahri village to get the jab between 3pm to 6pm the same day. The couple rushed to Shergarh but were told by villagers that no vaccination drive was on. When they reached Sahri around 4pm, the vaccination centre was closed. They drove to the civil hospital to lodge a complaint with the health officials but before they could do that, they received provisional certificates on their cellphones saying that they had been successfully vaccinated at Sahri village. The QR-based certificates carried the name of the staff that vaccinated them and also mentioned the batch number of the dose.“It came as a shock. We needed the vaccine as a safeguard against coronavirus, not for completing any formality. We knew that we will face issues in getting a second jab so we argued with the authorities to administer us the dose of the same batch, which was mentioned in the certificate. We were asked to come the next day. On Friday, after a lot of dilly dallying, the staff at the civil hospital vaccination centre administered us the first dose,” said Ram Naresh.Civil surgeon Ranjit Singh said that inconvenience was caused due to some technical glitch in the online app. “This is first of its kind complaint, but otherwise, beneficiaries have been coming from far-off places to get vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/phagwara-couple-gets-vaccination-certificates-without-getting-a-jab-101620418502776.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt sets up new SIT to probe 2015 Kotkapura police firing||Acting on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high Court, the Punjab government on Friday constituted a new three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. The SIT --- headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, who will be assisted by Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh --- will complete the investigation within six months, the government said. The high court on April 9 had quashed a report by an earlier Punjab Police SIT, headed by IG (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the Kotkapura firing. Police had opened fire at people protesting over the alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari village of Faridkot district. Police had also opened fire at a similar demonstration in Behbal Kalan, also in Faridkot, where two people were killed. A separate probe is underway in that case. The ruling Congress in Punjab has constantly targeted the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was in power then in the state, over the two incidents. The new SIT will investigate the two FIRs registered on October 14, 2015, and August 7, 2018, in connection with the Kotkapura incident. The state home department order said the new SIT would ensure “meticulous compliance” with the directions of the high court stipulating that there would be no interference from any quarter, internal or external, in the investigation. The SIT shall work jointly and all its members would put their signatures on all the proceedings of the investigation and the final report. The SIT would not report to any state executive or police authority regarding the investigation and would report only to the magistrate concerned, it said. The members of SIT have also been directed not to leak any part of the investigation and refrain from interacting with the media on the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-sets-up-new-sit-to-probe-2015-kotkapura-police-firing-101620418442732.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, 18+ priority groups to get jabs from Monday||The third and the largest phase of vaccination, under which beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group will be given jabs against coronavirus, will begin in Punjab on Monday.Chairing a review meeting, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday asked officials to be ready to vaccinate priority groups in the 18-45 age category from Monday as the state is expected to receive one lakh doses of coronavirus vaccine from the Serum Institute of India (SII) by weekend.The state government has identified construction workers, teachers, government employees and those with co-morbidities as high-risk individuals in the 18-45 age group for priority vaccination. Vaccination of co-morbid categories will be planned by deputy commissioners and only advance registration and slotting of vaccination site will be allowed. The state government had ordered 30 lakh vaccine doses from the SII for the Phase 3 vaccination and the Centre has allocated 3.3 lakh doses to Punjab for May. 1,550 18+ beneficiaries inoculated Over 35 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group have registered in the state on the CoWIN app since April 28 for taking the vaccine shot in the third phase of vaccination, but the drive will start for only co-morbid people, constriction workers, teachers and government employees.The Punjab government had deferred the third phase of the vaccination drive in government vaccination centres, which was scheduled to start from May 1 as was announced by the central government, citing “‘shortage of doses”.Meanwhile, 1,550 people in this age group have already got vaccinated in private hospitals, data available with the health department revealed. “Till now, over 35 lakh beneficiaries have registered for the vaccination in 18+ category but they will have to wait for few more days to get the jabs as the drive will start with the limited vaccine stock. We are expecting second batch of 2 lakh Covishield doses from the SII next week,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.Vaccine shortage hits drive The state health department says that the erratic supply of vaccine doses from the Centre has hit the inoculation drive in Punjab, resulting in spread of the infection.In last seven days, state could administer the first dose of vaccine to only 1,44,779 beneficiaries (health care workers, frontline warriors and 45+ age group), with average of only 20,683 people per day. During the period, 79,500 people got the second dose of vaccine.“The vaccination shortage has badly hit the drive in Punjab as we are unable to administer jabs to even registered beneficiaries. After receiving 1.5 lakh doses on Thursday, we were left with just 2 lakh doses on Friday morning while the stock was used on Friday’s drive too. Also, 35 lakh people in 18+ category are also waiting for the doses in absence of the stock”, Dr Bhaskar said.(With inputs from Mandeep Narula)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-18-priority-groups-to-get-jabs-from-monday-101620418142712.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University launches e-library, students welcome move||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Friday launched e-library services for the registered users of the university.The facility will be provided to registered users of the university campus, all regional centres and faculty of all affiliated colleges. Kumar, in his address, said that faculty, researchers and students of PU can now access thousands of e-journals, e-books and databases from their homes.Jivesh Bansal, university librarian, said, “Through the PU e-library, all the subscribed e-resources will be provided. It aggregates all the library collections, open access resources, multimedia learning content and electronic document repositories under one platform. This facility can be accessed on any device from anywhere.”The platform will also provide a mobile e-library app (for both Android and iOS), which is a multi-format, content delivery app.National Students Union of India (NSUI), PU, in a statement welcomed the university’s move.National Students Union of India (NSUI), PU, in a statement welcomed the university’s move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-launches-e-library-students-welcome-move-101620417903010.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||17 trees uprooted as rains, gusty winds lash Chandigarh||Rain showers of 19mm, accompanied by winds blowing at speeds up to 80 kilometre/hour, resulted in over 17 trees getting uprooted in the city on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.As per data compiled by the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), the trees were uprooted in Sectors 7,8, 19, 22, 23, 24, 38, 27, 30, Industrial Area Phase 2, Manimajra and Dadumajra. No injuries or major loss to property was reported. While Friday remained sunny, there are chances of light rain in the city on Sunday, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. “Another set of Western Disturbances is likely in the coming week, so more spells of rain can be expected. After showers on Sunday, cloudy weather is expected on Monday. The maximum temperature will remain on the lower side during this duration.”Maximum temperature of the city went down from 36.1°C on Thursday to 34.2°C on Friday, while minimum temperature dipped from 22.8°C to 21°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 36°C and 37°C while minimum temperature will remain between 21°C and 22°C. Power supply affected in ZirakpurPower was also disrupted in Zirakpur, late on Thursday evening, and most of the area was plunged into darkness. In some areas, electricity was restored after 12 hours.Khushwinder Singh, executive engineer of Zirakpur, said power was disrupted after some trees fell on electric wires due to gusty winds, but it was restored in most parts by 1am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17-trees-uprooted-as-rains-gusty-winds-lash-chandigarh-101620417846754.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Deal with farmers anti-lockdown call strictly: Capt to DGP||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday directed director general of police Dinkar Gupta to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown and deal stringently with any violation, ahead of farmers’ proposed protest against it.Chairing a review meeting on Covid situation, Amarinder authorised the deputy commissioners to impose new and harsher restrictions, as needed, within their respective districts, but made it clear that no dilution of the existing curbs would be allowed. He directed the DGP to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown and deal stringently with any violations in view of the Kisan Sangharsh Morcha’s anti-lockdown agitation on Saturday. Asserting that the Kisan Morcha, an amalgamation of 32 kisan unions, cannot dictate terms to the state government, Amarinder warned of strict prosecution in case of violation of any restrictions. He said if any shops are opened in violation of the restrictions, the owners will be prosecuted. Taking serious note of the spike in cases in Malwa region, the CM asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to examine the possibility of re-employing the volunteers deployed last year and also to get rapid antigen tests done on all residents in the villages. He stressed the need to control the CFR, which stood at 2.1% as of May 6. Health Secretary Hussan Lal said the positivity rate in the state had gone up to 13.5% on Thursday, when the state reportedly nearly 9,000 cases. The CM directed the chief secretary to explore utilisation of some component of the state’s World Bank loan for purchase of 10,000 Oxygen concentrators, along with tankers and O2 plants as well as vaccines. He said besides the TATA Group, which was sending 500 oxygen concentrators, 200 concentrators were being sent by the Tata Memorial Hospital too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deal-with-farmers-anti-lockdown-call-strictly-capt-to-dgp-101620417785876.html
08-05-2021||Other||Covid cases rise again in Chandigarh tricity area||A day after the tricity reported a significant drop in the daily Covid-19 cases and deaths, the numbers shot up again on Friday.The tricity added 2,340 new cases, up from 2,095 on Thursday, while the number of deaths rose from 17 to 21. With this, the active cases also climbed to 20,313 from 19,782 the day before.At 890 cases, Chandigarh led the Friday tally, matching its all-time high recorded on May 3. Mohali and Panchkula reported 927 and 523 infections, respectively. Mohali had the highest deaths at nine, followed by eight in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula.The latest fatalities, that included a 35-year-old woman, took Chandigarh’s toll to 549.Of the 48,442 cases reported in the city so far, 8,505 remain active, while 39,388 patients (81.3%) have recovered.Mohali’s caseload rose to 52,857, while the nine casualties pushed its toll to 666. Meanwhile, with 781 patients getting discharged, the number of recoveries increased to 43,144 (81.6%), leaving 9,047 active cases. The youngest among Panchkula’s casualties was a 32-year-old woman. The district’s total cases stand at 24,092, of which 2,761 patients are still recuperating. As many as 21,091 patients (87.5%) have been cured, making for the highest recovery rate in the tricity, and 240 have died. Since breaching the 2,000 mark for the first time on April 22, the tricity has logged 2,000+ cases as many as 12 times in 16 days. Just a week into May, it has clocked 15,131 cases and 175 deaths, against 43,145 cases and 311 deaths in the entirety of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-cases-rise-again-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101620417782667.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid death toll crosses 10,000 mark||Punjab’s Covid death toll crossed the 10,000-mark, while 8,367 fresh cases took the tally to 4,24,647, according to a bulletin released by the state government.A maximum of 22 deaths were reported in Barnala, 20 in Ludhiana, 19 in Bathinda 13 in Patiala, 10 in Jalandhar, 9 in Mohali, 8 in Ferozepur, 7 each in Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur. With 165 more fatalities on Friday, the death toll in the state stands at 10,144.Ludhiana tops the list with 1,509 deaths so far, followed by 1,144 in Jalandhar, 1,079 in Amritsar, 871 in Patiala, 771 in Hoshiarpur, 550 in Gurdaspur, 429 in Sangrur. Ludhiana registered the highest number of cases on Friday at 1,465, Bathinda 1,027, Mohali 675, Patiala 692, Amritsar 502, Fazilka and Pathankot 408 each, Muktsar 384, Mansa 316, Sangrur 307, Ferozepur 306 and Hoshiarpur 277. The number of active cases rose to 69,724 from 66,568 on Thursday, the bulletin said. A total of 4,976 coronavirus patients were discharged, taking the number of cured persons to 3,44,779.There are 277 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 8,283 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.As many as 76,42,667 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-covid-death-toll-crosses-10-000-mark-101620417362749.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitals struggle to put Covid crisis to bed||Tenth worst-affected place in the country with a Covid positivity rate of 26.7%, Chandigarh continued to grapple with shortage of critical care beds for the third straight day on Friday.As many as 91% of the ICU beds available at various government and private health facilities in the city remain occupied, leaving only 13 ventilators available.According to official data, as of Friday evening, no ICU bed was vacant at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; Dedicated Covid Hospital in Sector 48, and three of the seven private hospitals offering Covid care. Those available at other hospitals are mostly reserved for paediatric, surgical and other critical patients.“As soon as a ventilator bed gets vacant, there are 10 more patients waiting in line. But, every patient is being attended to through alternative measures. No one is being turned away,” said Dr Ajay Singh, assistant professor of anaesthesiology department, who is managing a Covid ICU in PGIMER.To tackle the rising patient load, the hospital has converted some areas in the emergency block into Covid wards. “More beds are being set up wherever oxygen points are available. Not all patients may get the required facilities, but oxygen is being provided in non-ICU areas as well,” said Dr GD Puri, head of the Covid management panel at PGIMER.At GMCH-32, where just one ICU bed is left vacant, director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur said they were working on adding 20 ICU beds, of which six were made available on Friday. Besides, more non-Covid ICUs will be utilised for Covid patients, she said.Dr Sanjeev Palta, nodal officer of ICU management at the hospital, said, “We are constantly monitoring patients to prevent their condition from worsening. If beds run out, alternative arrangements are quickly made.”Worrisome positivity rateOn Friday, the Union health ministry expressed concern over Chandigarh’s high positivity rate, while listing it among 24 states and UTs with a figure higher than 15%. Goa leads the chart at 48%.However, the ministry also observed that the cases were plateauing in the city, with no significant spike in the recent past. “Analysis of the seven-day average shows daily cases have remained on one level in Chandigarh,” a ministry’s representative said at a media briefing. There were 15 other states and UTs with similar trends.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said for the past two weeks, the cases had remained in the 700 to 900 bracket, neither showing a major spike nor drop, which is a positive indication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hospitals-struggle-to-put-covid-crisis-to-bed-101620417243348.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin woman jailed in Singapore for not wearing mask||A 41-year-old Indian-origin woman in Singapore was on Friday sentenced to two weeks’ jail and a fine of 2,000 dollars (around ₹1 lakh) for not wearing a mask while she was outside her residence, according to a media report.Paramjeet Kaur pleaded guilty to one charge each for failing to wear a mask over her nose and mouth and for causing public nuisance, The Straits Times reported. Five other charges were taken into consideration by district judge Ronald Gwee during sentencing.Three of these were for breaching Covid-19 regulations while the other two were for failing to report her change of home address and for refusing to sign her statement at a police station, the report said.Kaur was sentenced to two weeks’ jail and a fine of 2,000 Singapore dollars, it said. The judge backdated Kaur’s jail term to May 5 last year, when she was remanded in the Institute of Mental Health for two weeks.For failing to wear a mask over the nose and mouth, a first-time offender can be jailed for up to six months, or fined up to 10,000 Singaporean dollars or both. Repeat offenders can be jailed for up to a year, or fined up to 20,000 Singaporean dollars or both. Kaur made headlines in May last year after she was caught on video not wearing a mask and engaging in a heated argument with passers-by at Shunfu Mart near Upper Thomson Road. In the video clip, which went viral, she claimed that she was “sovereign”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-woman-jailed-in-singapore-for-not-wearing-mask-101620417063249.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Surjit Baba elected Jaitu municipal president||The election for the office-bearers of Jaitu municipal council was held amid high drama on Friday, with a faction of Congress councillors along with supporters creating ruckus after the name of the president was announced from an ‘envelope’. Congress’ Surjit Singh Baba was elected Jaitu municipal president. Later, one faction of Congress councillors backed by member of parliament Mohammad Sadiq objected to the election process and announced councillor Suman Devi as president. Both the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party councillors came in support of two factions accordingly. During the meeting, name of Surjit Singh Baba was proposed for the post of president, while Suman Devi was nominated as senior vice-president and Jatinder Kamal as vice-president. Sources said all nine Congress councillors first agreed to the proposal in the meeting, but later one faction of Congress councillors led by Suman objected to the election process terming it ‘unconstitutional’ and started protesting outside. MP Sadiq’s son-in-law, Suraj Bhardwaj said that out of the total 17 councillors, Suman had the support of 11. Rejecting the election of Baba, he announced Suman Devi president and Rajni Rani as vice-president. The Congress had won nine out of the 17 seats in the civic body elections held in February.Narinderpal Singh is Faridkot municipal chief Narinderpal Singh was unanimously elected the president of the Faridkot municipal council for a five-year term on Friday. The election was held during the first meeting of the newly elected members of the House, amid a boycott by the SAD councillors. Rupinder Kaur Brar was elected senior vice-president and Harmeet Gandhi as vice-president.The Congress had won 16 out of the 25 seats in the civic body elections held in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surjit-baba-elected-jaitu-municipal-president-101620416885651.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 Punjab-origin youngsters held in Canada for trying to extort money||Three Punjab-origin youths have been arrested in Canada for allegedly trying to extort money from an 80-year-old in the name of the country’s revenue agency.Taranveer Singh, 19, Ranveer Singh, 19, and Chamanjyot Singh, 21, from Brampton were charged with extortion, conspiracy to commit an indictable offence and possession of property obtained by crime.“On Monday, May 3, the victim received a call from a suspect claiming to be from the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). The victim was instructed to attend a bank and withdraw USD 10,000 then send the money by courier to a Brampton address,” York Regional Police said in a statement.The victim was told she would be arrested if she did not pay. Police monitored the delivery and when a man arrived to pick up the package of money he was taken into custody.A follow-up investigation found that others were involved and additional arrests were made. All the money was recovered and returned to the woman, police said.The three men arrested are scheduled to appear before the Ontario Court of Justice in Newmarket on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-punjab-origin-youngsters-held-in-canada-for-trying-to-extort-money-101620416884547.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dry fruits worth crores perish in Amritsar factory fire||A massive fire broke out in a dry fruit packaging factory in Ananad Vihar on Chabhal Road here on Friday wherein items worth crores perished. Nearly 300 labourers were working in the factory when the fire had broken, however no casualty or injury was reported. Eight fire tenders took at least eight hours to douse the blaze that erupted due to a short-circuit. The factory belongs to Amritsar’s famous trader BK Bajaj, who deals in import and export of dry fruits, besides their processing and packaging.“We got information that a fire has broken in the factory. I, along with a heavy police force, reached the spot and started the rescue operation. Our team successfully rescued nearly 300 labourers working in the factory. No casualty or injury was reported in the incident,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP-Central) Parvesh Chopra. He said almost entire factory was reduced to ashes within hours. “We have yet not got any statement from the factory owners about the loss, but it can run into crores. There were many imported machineries in the factory that were gutted,” he added. Member of Parliament (MP) Gurjit Singh Aujla and cabinet minister OP Soni also visited the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dry-fruits-worth-crores-perish-in-amritsar-factory-fire-101620416883610.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, govt medical colleges’ labs flooded with swab samples||With the sudden spike in cases of coronavirus across the state, many major cities are suffering from unprecedented delays in RT-PCR test results as the Covid testing facilities of three government medical colleges (GMCs) at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala are overburdened and as a result, there is a big pileup of pending tests. As per the record, testing labs at GMCs are testing around 29,000 RT-PCR samples per day and the results are taking more than three days to be declared. Faridkot epidemiologist Dr Harjot Kaur said the swab samples sent for RT-PCR tests to GGSMCH lab are taking three days to be tested. “The delay in results causes further threat of spread as contact tracing only starts after receiving a positive report. We have raised this issue with Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur. The RT-PCR results should be available within 24 hours so that the isolation and contact tracing process could be started as soon as possible,” she added. Swab sample of patients from nine districts are sent to Faridkot medical college lab RT-PCR testing. While sample load has increased with the surge in cases, GGSMCH lab is having trouble giving RT-PCR test results early as 12 of its staff members, including six lab technicians and a research scientist, have tested positive. Rechecking of positive samples is also another reason for the delay. Dr Rajeev Sharma, GGSMCH principal, said that presently, the medical college lab is giving around 8,000-9,000 RT-PCR results everyday, which is less than the number of samples they are receiving every day right now. “We also retest the positive samples to double-check, so there is no error. Due to this, there is some delay in giving results, but we are catching up on the pendency,” he added. A Jalandhar resident said after being tested positive in a rapid antigen test, she also sent a sample for RT-PCR test. “I was informed that my sample was sent to Faridkot medical college, but even after three days, I have not received the test result report,” she added. Jaskaran Singh from Amritsar said, “My wife and I experienced mild symptoms on May 4, after which we decided to undergo RT-PCR tests. It has been four days since we have given swab samples, but my wife’s test report is still pending, whereas I was tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Despite being symptomatic, we had to wait for four days for the reports and medication.” Dr Lavina, Covid testing lab in-charge of GMC, Amritsar, said, “The labs are overburdened with samples as cases are rapidly increasing in the state. We are testing around 9,000 samples daily while the positivity remains between 10-15%. We are trying to give reports to the people as early as possible.” Dr Rupinder Bakshi, in-charge of GMC, Patiala lab, said, “Since we are experiencing the highest-ever demand for Covid-19 testing due to the second wave of the pandemic, we are trying to do our best to give results on time. Presently, we are testing around 12,000 samples per day and giving results in 24 hours.” Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “We are receiving RT-PCR results of the district within 24 hours. But there is a delay in results of samples coming from other districts due to transportation and other reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-govt-medical-colleges-labs-flooded-with-swab-samples-101620416882549.html
08-05-2021||Delhi||Fall in Covid-19 positivity rate a ray of hope for Delhi||The average weekly test positivity rate – proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – in Delhi has now dropped at least five percentage points in the past week, offering a much-needed glimmer of hope at a time when the Capital’s administration and its people are engaged in a brutal battle against the city’s fourth Covid wave.What may be the first signs of recovery (with the positivity rate, and subsequently, cases starting to plateau) for Delhi started to appear around two weeks since the time the city went under a lockdown, data shows.The move, experts suggested, appeared to have helped bring the transmission of the disease under control, although they warned that removing curbs on social movement prematurely may again start the spread of the infection.On Friday, the daily positivity rate was 24.9%, remaining below 25% for the second day in a row, even as the Capital added 19,832 new cases and recorded 341 new deaths, according to the government’s bulletin on Friday, taking the total number of infections in the city to 1,292,867 and fatalities to 18,739.In the past week, 27.4% of all samples have returned positive in Delhi, against 32.5% the week before. The average positivity rate was consistently above 30% in the two weeks before the current one.Also read | SC warns of coercive action if Delhi’s O2 quota not metTo be sure, even at 27.4%, the current average positivity rate in Delhi remains more than five times the 5% threshold recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) at which the Covid-19 infections in an area can be said to be under control.Positivity rate is a crucial metric that shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and over time it provides an idea of whether a region’s testing strategy is adequate to contain the virus. Generally, this metric serves as a precursor to the movement of new infections in a region – for instance, if a region’s positivity rate is rising, it means that cases will likely remain rising (if the same amount of testing is maintained) over the coming days.This apparent cresting of the wave is reflected when we take a look at the case curve in Delhi – the seven-day average of daily infections have dropped 19% from the peak of 25,294 for the week ending April 23 (exactly two weeks ago) to 20,505 for the week ending Friday.Deaths due to the disease, however, are yet to see as proportionate a drop as cases have – the seven-day average of daily deaths have only seen a marginal drop of 7% from peak value so far. However, studies have shown that death figures generally catch up to change in rate of cases at a 14-day lag. This is because studies have showed that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it (if things go South) is around 13.8 days.Experts said the reduction in positivity rate appeared to show that Delhi has reached its fourth peak.Watch | ‘Covid third wave may not happen if we take strong measures’: Dr K VijayRaghavan﻿“The reducing positivity rate is a signal that Delhi has reached the peak of infections. Now, whether the current reduction is because of the lockdown, we cannot know for sure. This could be the natural progression of the disease; any infection can spread only to a certain extent before coming down. Lockdown, if properly implemented, prevent interfamily transmissions giving hospitals a breather – allowing them to arrange beds, oxygen, medicines etc,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College-Vellore.But he warned that removing curbs on social movement may again start the spread of the infection. “However, with an airborne infection like Covid-19, the infections are likely to start spreading again when the lockdown is lifted. The government has to ensure that 100% masking is followed after lockdown,” he said.“A stringent lockdown may be used to break the chain of transmission. However, we cannot remain in lockdown for months on end. So, while planning to come out of the lockdown the government has to ensure that a significant proportion – 40% to 50% -- of the people are vaccinated,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fall-in-positivity-rate-a-ray-of-hope-for-city-101620416275846.html
08-05-2021||Other||4 held for animal trafficking attempt in Maharashtra’s Alibag||Four persons were arrested in Alibag, Raigad district, on Thursday for protected wildlife’s trafficking attempt. Two live pangolins, an adult female and a cub were recovered from the accused who have been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) by the Maharashtra forest department.Pangolins are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Act, putting them in the same bracket as tigers, lions, rhinos and several other species. Smuggling or hunting of pangolins – which are classified as endangered in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s red list of threatened species – attracts the highest penalties as per the law.Thursday’s arrest was made in Navghar region of the Sudhagad Pali forest reserve in Alibag. Officials said they acted on a tip-off received from an informant, and were able to nab the accused after one of them posed as a customer interested in purchasing pangolins for their scales, which are in high demand in the international wildlife market. “We had been on the trail of the accused for three days,” said range forest officer Sameer Shinde, who also credited Alibag’s deputy conservator of forests Ashish Thakre, and assistant conservator of forests Sanjay Kadam, for their role in the operation. The four accused have been booked under Sections 9 (prohibition of hunting), 39 (3) (possession of wild animals), 44 (1) (a) (dealing in captive animals), 48 (a) (illegal transportation of wildlife), 49 (purchase of wild animals) and sections 50, 51, and 51 (a), which dealing with arrests and penalties, of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972). They have been remanded to police custody.This is the third incident in Maharashtra this year where poachers have been arrested for smuggling of pangolins. In February, four people had been arrested from Ahmednagar district for attempting to smuggle these animals. During the same month, three persons had also been arrested from Raigad district in a similar case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-held-for-animal-trafficking-attempt-in-maharashtra-s-alibag-101620416341933.html
08-05-2021||Other||Forest dept staffer killed by elephant in Maharashtra’s reserve, animal restrained||A bull elephant from the Botezari elephant camp at Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur district had to be physically tracked and restrained after it killed a forest department staffer on Thursday afternoon. The elephant, 25-year-old Gajraj, was finally tranquilised at 5am on Friday after a nightlong operation.Department officials said the elephant had entered a period of musth, a phenomenon seen in male adults that is characterised by aggressive, irritable behaviour and in which the elephant’s testosterone levels can shoot up by almost 60 times. Musth is a healthy occurrence and typically lasts between two-four months.“Unaware of this fact, assistant conservator of forests (Kolsa), Mr Kurkarni, along with chief accountant at the office of forest department, TATR, were moving in the same area. Their vehicle got stuck in the mud and they had to leave the vehicle looking at the approaching elephant. In the process, the elephant attacked the two and tragically Shri Gaurkar, chief accountant, died in the event,” the forest department said in a statement.“Two rapid response teams, one from Tadoba Tiger Reserve and another from the Chandrapur forest division had to be called in. We started tracking the animal on Thursday evening, but because it got dark and the elephant was aggressive, we could not confront it till about 5am, when it was finally taken into captivity. The elephant is currently chained and we’ll take a decision on releasing it after it is out of musth,” said Jitendra Ramgaonkar, chief conservator of forests, TATR.At least 80 people, including several members of TATR’s tiger protection force, were roped in for the operation. “Our main concern was the safety of villagers in Kolsa and Ram Talodi, which are the only two habitations inside the TATR core area. We immediately put the residents on alert. Our elephant camp was initially located outside the core tiger reserve area in a village called Moharli, and was shifted earlier this year to Botezari to avoid incidents like this. This was an extremely unfortunate occurrence,” said Ramgaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-staffer-killed-by-elephant-in-maharashtra-s-reserve-animal-restrained-101620415981910.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Bhandup mall fire: Hospital group’s executive, fire agency staffer held||Bhandup police have arrested two persons in connection with the HDIL Dreams Mall fire that had resulted in the death of 11 patients admitted in Sunrise Hospital, located on the mall’s third floor.A massive fire broke out on the first floor of the Bhandup mall late on March 25, which spread to the third floor, housing the Covid-19 hospital.Police officers said that during the course of investigation, they found that George Puthhu Seri, the chief executive officer of the Privilege Healthcare (which owns Sunrise Hospital), had in connivance with Haresh Dayalal Joshi of fire safety inspection firm Pona Corporation, had obtained a fire NOC (no-objection certificate) for the mall by certifying that its fire safety system was functional, despite the fact that it was not.Assistant commissioner of police Priya Dhakane of Bhandup division said that Seri and Joshi were arrested on Thursday. A metropolitan magistrate at Mulund remanded them in police custody till May 10.“During investigation, we learnt that the water pumps and smoke detectors were not functional at the mall. Pona Corporation is a BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation)-authorised licenced agency, which claimed to have tested the fire-fighting system in the mall and submitted bogus fitness certificate. Based on it, the fire department issued an NOC to the mall, said Dhakane.Bhandup police have also booked several people, including HDIL directors Rakeshkumar Wadhawan and his son Sarang, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan and Deepak Shirke, as well as Amitsingh Trehan and Sweetie Jain who are the directors of Privilege Health Care Services Private Limited, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 465 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code have been added to the crime on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhandup-mall-fire-hospital-group-s-executive-fire-agency-staffer-held-101620415921966.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccines for 18+: Maharashtra to give priority to 35-44 age group||Amid limited stock for the third phase for the 18-44 age group and to control crowding at vaccination centres, the Maharashtra government plans to first give the shot to those in the 35-44 age group, with preference to people with comorbidities. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to take a decision on it, said state health minister Rajesh Tope, adding the inoculation of those in the 18-34 age group would start once adequate doses are available.Currently, the state is inoculating citizens in the 18-44 age group only at five centres in a district, as the number of doses is limited. The state started the drive with 300,000 Covishield doses and later purchased 479,000 Covaxin doses. So far, 215,284 citizens in the 18-44 category have been inoculated since May 1. The move is prompted amid instances of people from urban areas taking an appointment at vaccination centres in rural areas. Tope said such incidents have caused “unrest” among locals in rural areas. “Till we have abundant supply of vaccines, we will have to make slots as per the age group and comorbidities. If 100% people from the 18-44 category are allowed to go, there can be crowding. We plan to have an age bracket of 35 to 44, with preference to people with comorbidities. I will discuss this with the chief minister,” said Tope. The state is also in talks with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that helped financed vaccine Sputnik V, to purchase doses. “We are trying to get the stock available with them,” Tope told reporters on Friday. He said the state has not got the doses assured by Serum Institute of India for inoculation of the 18-44 category. “The institute had assured us that it would supply additional 350,000 doses, but so far it has not come. For the 18-44 age group, we are going slow as per the availability of 779,000 vaccines. As we get more stock, we will ramp it up.” With the vaccination of over 700,000 people in the 45+ age group on Wednesday and Thursday, the state is left with a limited number of doses. With under 100,000 doses remaining, the vaccination drive for people over the age of 45 is expected to slow down this weekend, unless doses arrive from the Centre, Tope said. Maharashtra had received 900,000 doses earlier this week from the Centre. Tope said they are “constantly” following up with the Centre to provide doses of Covishield and Covaxin. Over 400,000 people in the state are due for their second dose of Covaxin. With the Centre not sending Covaxin doses, the state will take a decision on diverting the doses it has purchased for the second dose of people over age 45. The Centre provides vaccines to the states for free. The state has been buying vaccines for those in the 18-44 age group. “Two days ago, we had received 900,000 doses for vaccination of people over 45 years. Of the stock, 800,000 doses have been consumed. We have some thousand vaccines left. We appeal to the Centre to provide vaccines in large quantities, especially Covaxin. Around 400,000 to 500,000 people are due for their second dose of Covaxin. It has to be given within 42 days. If they do not provide in time, the state will divert the Covaxin doses it has purchased. But we are confident that the Centre will provide adequate doses,” Tope said. The minister reiterated the state is prepared to purchase 120 million doses at one go for the inoculation of 57.1 million population in the 18-44 category as vaccination remains “top priority” of the government. He added the state can ramp up daily vaccinations to 1 million, but the stock is not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccines-for-18-maharashtra-to-give-priority-to-35-44-age-group-101620415681975.html
08-05-2021||Other||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case: NCB nabs alleged drug supplier from Goa||Continuing its probe into the purported drug links in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested an alleged major drug supplier Hemant Shah alias Maharaj. The special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) court in Mumbai remanded Shah to judicial custody for 14 days on Friday, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. According to NCB officers, Shah was arrested from Miramar, Panjim, in Goa on March 8 during an operation in a local seizure case. Shah, a native of Madhya Pradesh, was running a shack and resort in Goa’s Morjim area from the past several years.Shah had allegedly supplied drugs to two local suppliers, Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal, who were arrested in September and December, respectively, in the drug probe related to the actor’s death.Keshwani and Mahakaal had revealed Shah’s involvement in the supply of drugs. “Both had in their statements said that Shah had supplied LSD and charas to them,” said Wankhede.Accordingly, NBC located Shah in Miramar and conducted raids at his premises on March 8 and allegedly recovered 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity) and 30 grams of charas from there, said Wankhede.Thereafter, the agency filed an application on April 30 to take Shah’s custody to conduct an inquiry into the drug angle in Rajput’s death probe. The NDPS sessions court at Panjim issued an order, following which Shah’s custody was taken from the jail and he was produced in the court at Goa. He was brought to Mumbai on May 6 on transit remand. Keshwani is a Khar resident and during a search at his residence in September last year, the agency allegedly seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets, 304 grams of marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules, and cash worth ₹1.85 lakh as well as Indonesian currency from him. During his interrogation, Keshwani said Mahakaal used to supply drugs to him. Keshwani had allegedly supplied drugs to actor Rhea Chakraborty and Rajput, who was found dead in his Bandra apartment last June. Chakraborty’s counsel has earlier denied all the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-ncb-nabs-alleged-drug-supplier-from-goa-101620415502022.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Local gangster disguises as woman in Navi Mumbai, held||The Mankhurd police on Thursday arrested a 34-year-old local gangster while he disguised as a woman in Navi Mumbai. Police nabbed him after a chase of over three kilometres.The accused identified as Manikandan alias Shambhu Kuttan, was residing at Juhu Gaon in Navi Mumbai and was wanted in more than 23 cases in Mumbai.According to police, Manikandan had been absconding after a theft case was registered against him on April 8. Sub-inspector Sandeep Rahane said that he changed his mobile number every 15 days, which made it difficult to track him. On Wednesday, however, Rahane received a tip-off about Manikandan residing in Vashi.“We immediately informed the Vashi police and laid a trap near his residence at Juhu Gaon,” said Rahane. However, just before a police team reached the spot, Manikandan was alerted by his informers about the police search.“Manikandan then dressed as a woman jumped off the roof of his building and began fleeing. We already knew about his disguises, so we kept a watch and chased him,” added Rahane. After a chase of over three kilometres, the police were able to intercept Manikandan and arrest him.Sub-inspector Dattaray Malvekar, who was also a part of the team said, “After committing the crime Manikandan would return to the scene or nearby area dressed as a woman or a sadhu or any of the disguises to meet his informer or keep a watch on the police,” said Malvekar.After the arrest of Manikandan, the police are now trying to find out how many more crimes has he committed and his other disguises.Prakash Chougule, senior police inspector of Mankhurd police station said that there are several crimes registered against Manikandan. He has been booked for threatening, assault, kidnapping and attempt to murder in police stations across the city. Manikandan has been externed from the city twice since 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-gangster-disguised-as-woman-in-navi-mumbai-held-101620415381863.html
08-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC grants bail to 3 independent directors of PMC Bank||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday granted bail to three former independent directors of the scam-hit of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. HC said there was no evidence suggesting the involvement of the trio – arrested by Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing in 2019 – in the alleged fraud. “There is no evidence to show that the applicants were a part of any conspiracy with the prime accused in causing loss to the bank. There is nothing on record to show that the applicants at any point of time had met accused Nos 1, 2 [realty group Housing Development Infrastructure Limited’s Rakeshkumar Wadhawan and his son Sarang] or there were any meetings with HDIL’s directors,” said HC while granting bail to Dr Trupti Bane, Mukti Bavisi and Rajneet Tara Singh Nandrajog. “There is no evidence that the applicants received any kickback or gratification as board of directors of the bank or that they misused their position in sanctioning loan to themselves or to their relatives or any other person known to them,” the court added.Dr Bane, who works at Bhabha Hospital, was represented by noted lawyer Niteen Pradhan. Bavisi, a non-practicing chartered accountant was represented by senior advocate Ashok Mundargi, while Nandrajog had appointed Wesley Menezes and Waqar Pathan as his counsels.They had pointed that the statements of the witnesses do not establish prima facie case for commission of offence against their clients. All instructions to effectuate the fraudulent transactions were given by the chairperson and managing director to the managerial personnel of PMC Bank, they had argued.The prosecution had opposed the bail pleas.As per the prosecution case, the multi-state scheduled cooperative bank granted loans to HDIL without following the due process. The principle loan amount of ₹2,400 crore snowballed to ₹6,670 crore because HDIL allegedly failed to repay for the multiple loans taken between 2008 and 2019. PMC Bank’s senior management covered up these irregularities to avoid scrutiny by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), by masking the loan transactions from the Central bank auditors and manipulating the compute system to keep the transactions accessible only to a select few within the bank, the prosecution alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-3-independent-directors-of-pmc-bank-101620415321893.html
08-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC stays post-facto CRZ clearance for projects||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday stayed a recent office memorandum issued by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), allowing the ex-post facto approval of projects that have not yet obtained coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance under the CRZ Notification, 2011.The stay was in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Mumbai-based environmental group, challenging the constitutional validity of MoEFCC’s direction. The matter has been listed for final hearing on June 30, before a two-judge bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni.The impugned office memorandum, dated February 19, and authored by joint secretary of MoEFCC’s CRZ division Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, was also stayed by the Madurai bench of the Madras HC on April 29, in response to a different petition.MoEFCC’s office memo would have allowed projects – typically permitted as per CRZ, 2011, but did not seek requisite clearances prior to commencement –to become regularised subject to fulfilment of certain conditions.“Bringing such projects and activities in compliance with the environmental laws at the earliest point of time is therefore essential, rather than leaving them unregulated and unchecked, which will be more damaging to the environment,” Bajpayee had written to the environment secretaries of all coastal states.“As the project commenced construction and/or operations without a prior CRZ clearance, the respective coastal zone management authority shall assess the environmental damages caused by such an action and shall give specific recommendation in respect of activities, corresponding to the environmental or ecological damage assessed, to be taken up by the project proponent within a period of three years from the date of clearance, under compensatory conservation plan (CCP) and a community resource augmentation plan,” stated MoEFCC’s February 19 office memorandum, which has been reviewed by HT.“This circular empowers coastal authorities/MoEFCC to regularise all kinds of CRZ violations on a day-to-day basis, making it easier for environmental violators to evade substantive law. It further encourages a “pollute and pay” principle rather than the ‘precautionary principle’. A public interest litigation is filed by Vanashakti on the ground that this circular is arbitrary, wholly unconstitutional and in direct contravention of recent Supreme Court judgments,” said Mumbai-based NGO Vanashakti, at the time of filing their PIL before HC on March 30.Experts also pointed out while the amended CRZ (2019) notification has come into force, contingent coastal zone management plans (CZMP) as per the same have not yet been finalised. Until such a time, CRZ 2011 rules should remain in force, Vanashakti’s petition clarified, adding that neither notification allows for grant of ‘ex-post facto CRZ clearance’ which the MoEFCC’s office memorandum proposes to facilitate.HC has also stated that if any permission has been granted or any application has been received for any such CRZ regularisation by a violator since February 2019, then such persons and industries are to be informed of the proceedings stemming from Vanashakti’s PIL.“All such permissions and applications will be subjected to the outcome of the present PIL,” said Vanashakti’s advocate, Zaman Ali. A copy of the HC order is not yet available. The Madras HC, meanwhile, is set to take up the matter on August 25, in response to a PIL filed by R Fatima of Thoothukudi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-stays-post-facto-crz-clearance-for-projects-101620415141813.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body looks to boost ‘Brand BMC’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is looking at ways to strengthen its image and build its reputation by enhancing its social media presence across digital platforms, namely Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Telegram, YouTube and blogs. It is now looking for a dedicated agency to maintain these platforms for at least nine departments of the civic body – public health department, education department, disaster management and fire brigade departments, roads and traffic departments, sewage, solid waste management and water departments, social media accounts of all 24 wards, various municipal hospitals, and the main umbrella account of the civic body. The agency will be hired on a contractual basis for content management, creation and improving creative design. As part of this, the BMC wants to create interactive strategies such as quizzes, crossword puzzles, contests and online surveys, across these social media platforms, live streamlining and tweeting of events, live broadcasts and webcasts. Social media platforms will also be used to give out information on the civic body’s policy decisions, services, initiatives, and events. Currently, an agency has been informally appointed by the civic body to manage its various social media accounts, which was met with mixed reactions from BMC corporators, when it started two years ago. While some criticised it as a waste of BMC’s financial resources, others pointed it was much needed to effectively communicate with citizens, especially a younger audience. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s disaster management, fire brigade and public health departments, among others, said, “We want to formalise a contract with any agency appointed with the due tendering process, that will manage BMC’s social media presence. Social media is an effective tool in communicating with citizens, and especially during a pandemic. Our expectations from the agency have been listed out in detail in the tender document. We have a comprehensive vision of social media communication.” A tender floated by the civic body to appoint an agency said, “It will strengthen the image of the BMC as an empathetic local body and of Mumbai as a premier smart city. The aim is to bridge the gap between public perception and brand reputation of BMC.” As part of the contract, that will be valid for one year, the BMC is looking for audio and video editors, creative content writers, public relations officers, translators, photographers, videographers. Recently, the BMC undertook various initiatives to engage with Mumbaiites. In January, the BMC headquarters opened its doors to tourism, and organised guided history tours of the BMC building on the weekends. For two years now, barricades placed along civic work happening on roads and footpaths across the city sport fun facts about BMC’s history, or Mumbai City. A senior civic officer said, “It is time we looked at customer experience. This type of social media exercise will also give credibility to the information about the civic body that is floating in the public domain. It will help us counter fake information effectively, create awareness, educate Mumbaiites about the work done by the civic body. Citizens can feel closer to the civic body because they can directly reach us, convey queries or grievances from their phones.” Ravi Raja, leader of the opposition in BMC, said, “The BMC has tried using social media before and failed. Each administrative head comes up with his own idea. In times of a pandemic, we need to think before we utilise money for such an initiative.” Nayana Kathpalia, a resident of South Mumbai, who has been engaging with the BMC for two decades through various community and citizens initiatives, said, “This is a good idea. The BMC does a lot of work, but there is not enough awareness or information about it. Some years ago, the BMC was constructing an underground water tunnel between Malabar Hill and Churchgate area. The work was done so seamlessly, quietly, without interfering with routine public life. No one even realised that a huge tunnel was being constructed under main roads, railway lines and residential buildings in South Mumbai. We are always bashing the BMC, so it’s time we also saw how much work gets done on the ground.” Kathpalia added, “However, the civic body should examine if it’s premature to spend so much money on non-Covid information at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-looks-to-boost-brand-bmc-101620415022599.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors in Mumbai demand arrears in stipends, start social media campaign||Resident doctors of civic-run hospitals in the city, who have not received an additional stipend for almost nine months, have threatened to not take part in Covid-19 services if their arrears are not cleared soon.On Friday, #BMCbetrayedus and #BetrayedStillWorking trended on Twitter as resident doctors took to social media to register their protest against the non-payment of stipend and arrears. In a statement released Wednesday, the Mumbai chapter of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) said that doctors will shut down Covid services in the next seven days if the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) does not release the stipend.“We do not want to stop our services to Covid-19 patients. We are hoping and trying that it doesn’t come to that. We are putting up posters at the hospitals and making our voices heard as we continue our work,” said Arun Ghule, president, MARD, Mumbai.From May 2020 till January this year, over 3,000 resident doctors of the four BMC-run hospitals—KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper—were paid ₹10,000 a month. It was then discontinued as Covid-19 cases started to go down. In September, the government announced a hike of ₹10,000 in the stipend for resident doctors, however, the civic body released a circular regarding the stipend only in March.When doctors demanded the arrears for the stipend hike, they said the BMC informed them that the arrears were adjusted against the ₹10,000 paid to them last year during the first Covid-19 wave. “This is unfair, especially since doctors have been working non-stop, risking their lives during the pandemic,” said Ghule. MARD claimed that the arrears for each doctor amount to ₹1.2 lakh. Despite repeated attempts, TP Lahane, medical education director, said the matter was in the jurisdiction of BMC. However, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health, did not respond to calls or messages, despite repeated attempts. The Maharashtra State Association of resident Doctors has also extended its support to the doctors in Mumbai. “This tragedy is greater than the pandemic itself for the resident doctors. The government has finally found scapegoats to hide their failures in the resident doctors,” said the association in a statement on Friday. Meanwhile, doctors have stormed social media with their pleas for arrears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-in-mumbai-demand-arrears-in-stipends-start-social-media-campaign-101620414961962.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh sees 28,076 fresh Covid-19 cases, 372 more deaths in 24 hours||Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 372 more fatalities, including 31 in Kanpur and 25 in Lucknow, taking the statewide death toll to 14,873 while 28,076 fresh Covid-19 cases raised the infection tally to 14,53,679 since the start of the pandemic last year, according to official data.During the day, 33,117 patients recovered across the state, the official data showed. Now, there are 2,54,118 active cases (patients) under treatment in the state, including the maximum 28,035 in Lucknow. In all, 11,84,688 people have recovered in the state since the start of the pandemic.Lucknow reported the maximum 1,982 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the second consecutive day when the new infection count remained below 2,000 in the state capital. (On Thursday, 1,865 fresh cases were reported in Lucknow and there were 65 deaths).Among other districts, Meerut reported 1,817 cases on Friday, Gautam Buddha Nagar 1,288, Saharanpur 1,122, Varanasi 910, Kanpur 779, Jhansi 744, Ghaziabad 686 and Prayagraj 563, according to health department data.Kanpur reported the maximum 31 deaths, Lucknow 25, Gorakhpur 15, Prayagraj 11, Gautam Buddha Nagar 12, Jhansi 10, Varanasi 7 and Ghaziabad 6, according to the official data.The state has conducted over 4.25 crore (4,25,00,649) Covid tests till now, including 2.41 lakh (2,41,403) in the past 24 hours.“In the past 24 hours, over 1,27,000 RT-PCR tests were done. Now, the target of RT-PCR samples from districts has also been increased from 70,000 to 1,03,500 per day as we have strengthened the labs in the medical colleges,” said principal secretary (medical education) Alok Kumar.He said there were 70,000 beds, including 54,934 isolation beds with oxygen support and 16,260 ICU beds.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,23,657 Covid cases of which 1,93,594 have recovered. The recovery rate in Lucknow is 86.55%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Positivity rate down from 30 to 10 in Lko, says DM’s officeThe overall positivity rate for Covid-19 in Lucknow that had touched 30% around April 18 and 19 has now come down to 10% on Friday. In a tweet, the district magistrate’s office wrote, “In the district Lucknow covid-19 positivity rate has come down from 30 to 10.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-sees-28-076-fresh-covid-19-cases-372-more-deaths-in-24-hours-101620414902011.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay student magazine demands no-fail policy||The demand for a no-fail policy is gaining ground among students at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), with the institute’s student magazine — Insight — making a case for it. In an editorial published Wednesday, Insight made an “absolute demand” for a no-fail policy in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and virtual classes. “It could make sense to fail students who have performed below a certain (usually very low) threshold set by the professor, if: all students are equally able to attend classes, all students are able to focus on their academics, all students are able to give their best in their examinations. If any of the conditions above do not hold, failing students does not make any sense. It has serious negative consequences for a student,” read the editorial. Members of Insight declined to comment. Institute director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “I was not aware of such a demand. Our end-semester exams are all over now. Only project evaluations are possibly still remaining. We have given (students) the option for S grade for the projects. That carries a lot of weight.” He did not comment on if the institute was planning to introduce a no-fail policy. However, students interviewed by HT said virtual learning was not enough and the pressure of the pandemic keeps students from performing their best at exams. “There is a genuine frustration among students about the evaluation policies of the institute. Our learning environments are different from what it used to be on campus,” said a BTech student on the condition of anonymity. “Learning virtually is a pain, because you miss out significantly on peer learning. The online class environment is not great, difficult for dialogue during most lectures, so it’s a fairly disconnected learning,” said a final-year BTech student. He added, “During exams, it’s very difficult to maintain a conducive environment at home, especially with the strict proctoring. Some professors insist on rigorous continuous evaluation, magnifying academic stress.” The stress of family members, close friends and acquaintances suffering from Covid-19 also affect students’ ability to perform in exams, they said. “Most professors have conducted continuous and rigorous evaluation throughout the semester which has actually been far more demanding than a regular semester. Students have, at different points of the semester, been forced to make a direct choice between their academic performance and their mental and physical wellbeing. This is inhumane enough, but to fail them on top of all this is downright apathy,” read the op-ed by Insight. As the pandemic broke out in March last year, the institute allowed students to drop a course and also opt for an S grade. The S grade is a place-holder and depicts notionally a pass in a course and the test can be taken again to improve the grade. In its op-ed, Insight also made a case for S grade to be applied to the upcoming semester. The institute’s senate is yet to decide whether the option will be available to students in the upcoming semester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-student-magazine-demands-no-fail-policy-101620414842998.html
08-05-2021||Other||Defer Class 5 and 8 scholarship exam: Schools, parents to Maharashtra govt||As Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra continue to remain high, schools and parents have urged the state education department to either postpone or cancel the Class 5 and Class 8 scholarship examination, scheduled to be held on May 23. Over the past few days, there have been several demands to cancel the exam considering the risks involved in conducting them offline. However, a circular issued by the Maharashtra State Council of Examination on May 5, which had asked schools and teachers to prepare for the offline exam, irked parents and schools. “At a time when all exams including the professional ones such as JEE (Joint Entrance Examination), NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) and even board exams are being postponed, why the insistence on conducting offline exam for students as young as Class 5 and Class 8? In fact, if the exam cannot be postponed, it can be cancelled altogether. Children’s safety is more important than any exam,” said the principal of a suburban school. While the exam was earlier scheduled to take place on April 25, it was later pushed to May 23 due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. Officials said that they will issue a circular in this regard soon. “There is a plan to postpone the exam and we will issue an official circular soon,” said an official from the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defer-class-5-and-8-scholarship-exam-schools-parents-to-maharashtra-govt-101620414842335.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctors flag indiscriminate use of steroids, antibiotics in Covid-19 treatment||A 43-year-old man from Andheri was prescribed a cocktail of antibiotics, antiviral, and steroids on his first consultation with a local physician when he developed symptoms and was suspected of Covid-19. At first, he got better but within days he developed a persistent high-grade fever and his oxygen saturation levels dropped, following which he had to be hospitalized last month. In another instance, a 13-year-old girl with Covid-19 was prescribed a heavy dosage of steroids by her family physician on the fifth day of her illness, even as her symptoms had diminished. Her physician made the prescription based on a chest CT scan that showed a slight abnormality in her lungs. On the 10th day, she developed a full-blown fever and was rushed to a hospital where the doctors had to take her off steroids and work with other medicines. These are not one-off cases. City’s top medical experts have flagged a trend of patients being prescribed steroids in the first few days of symptoms. Even antibiotics that have no role in treating Covid-19 -- a viral infection-- and antiviral drugs that have little evidence backing them are being indiscriminately used, they said. “The Recovery Trial carried out in the UK has established that a 6mg dose of dexamethasone once daily has shown reduced mortality,” said Dr Sujeet K Rajan, city-based respiratory medicine specialist. “But what you see in practice is disturbing. Patients are given two to three times more steroids than what they should be given,” he said. The Recovery Trial conducted in the United Kingdom – preliminary results came out in June 2020 --found that a 6mg dose of dexamethasone, an inexpensive steroid drug, once daily for up to 10 days decreased mortality in patients on respiratory support. The trial also showed that patients not requiring oxygen did not benefit from the drug. Steroids like dexamethasone are widely used to fight against inflammation, one of the effects of the coronavirus disease. However, most doctors label steroids as “double edged swords” in Covid-19 treatment if they are not used judiciously. In fact, the unwarranted use of steroids began soon after the trial results became public. Given that the number of Covid-19 cases is higher in absolute numbers, the problem is more pronounced in the second wave. “This has the potential to be nothing short of a disaster,” said Rajan, who practices at Bombay Hospital. Indiscriminate use “Starting patients on steroids early is harmful for them,” said infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital where the 43-year-old man and the teenager mentioned above are undergoing treatment. “Steroids lower the body’s immunity and can also cause viral replication. Their unindicated and early use worsen the outcome of patients. The right time to use steroids is when the oxygen saturation is low,” she said. The treatment protocol released by the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force in April 2021 allows the use of steroid- injection dexamethasone in moderate patients with pneumonia and oxygen saturation below 94%. Put simply, viral replication is a process of multiplication of the virus in the body. As steroids mask symptoms and reduce the body’s immunity, patients are at the risk of developing a severe infection. Dr Randeep Guleria, a member of the national Covid-19 task force and director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi has also recently cautioned against an early use of steroids and said that it leads to “faster viral replication and severe viral pneumonia.” According to Rajan, unwarranted high doses of steroids, often coupled with unnecessary high-generation antibiotics, present the perfect soil for invasive and life-threatening fungal infections, which can be independently a major risk factor for mortality. Cases of mucormycosis, a stubborn fungal infection are now widely being reported from the city. Also referred to as black fungus, it commonly affects sinuses or the lungs. While the disease is tackled with medication at a very early stage, cutting away the infected tissue is the only option when it spreads. Doctors in the city have had to operate out tissues of the eyes, nose and jaw in many patients. “We currently have 21 patients with mucormycosis and 15 of them are in an inoperable stage,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of civic-run KEM Hospital. “The number of patients coming with these infections has doubled,” he said. Doctors said that post-Covid-19 we are staring at a wave of threatening antimicrobial resistance. “Antibiotics like doxycycline, azithromycin, and others are crucial in treating illnesses and infections like typhoid, scrub typhus, pneumonia, etc,” said Singhal. “With their unnecessary use, we are leading to a serious drug resistance,” she said. Singhal has also stopped using ivermectin and another antiviral called favipiravir as they don’t play any role in treating Covid-19 contrary to popular belief. Many doctors in the city have questioned the inclusion of antibiotic doxycycline for off-label use and antiviral drug ivermectin in the Covid-19 treatment protocol framed by the state task force. “The task force has simply encouraged the grassroots level physicians to use antibiotics and antivirals without any great evidence backing these drugs,” said a senior doctor who did not wish to be named. Anti-microbial resistance Antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and antiparasitic drugs are known as antimicrobial drugs. Misuse and overuse of antimicrobial drugs is one of the main factors for antimicrobial resistance. The World Health Organization has declared antimicrobial resistance as one of the top 10 global public health threats facing humanity. “For mild patients, we immediately start doxycycline, ivermectin, and paracetamol,” said Dr. Akhtar Shaikh, general secretary of the Dharavi AYUSH Doctors Association- a body of nearly 180 alternative medicine practitioners in Dharavi, who are also now treating Covid-19 patients with allopathic drugs. “Additionally, we also prescribe some AYUSH remedies for symptom relief,” Shaikh said that antibiotics are crucial because patients may have an underlying bacterial infection developed along with Covid-19 when the body’s immunity is low. “We avoid steroids before seven days of symptoms unless it is extremely necessary,” he added. Due to a shortage of healthcare staff, mainly allopathy doctors, the state government has also deployed a large number of AYUSH practitioners on Covid-19 duty. On the grassroots, however, many other alternative medicine practitioners prescribe allopathic medications, even when they are not allowed to do so. “Except Ayurveda and Unani practitioners, no other alternative medicine practitioners are allowed to prescribe allopathic medicines in Maharashtra,” said Dr Jayesh Lele, general secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). “But the government rule that allows these practitioners to prescribe allopathic medicines has been challenged in court by the IMA. This is a huge problem and often leads to unwarranted use of drugs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-flag-indiscriminate-use-of-steroids-antibiotics-in-covid-19-treatment-101620414781884.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Stand-up comedians bring smile on tired faces of doctors||Laughter is the best medicine, and who knows this better than stand-up comedians. Several well-known comedians have joined hands with civic-run medical colleges in bringing a smile on the faces of the overwhelmed doctors amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have never seen so many deaths...sometimes, we have to decide depending on the vitals of the patients whom to prioritise. We feel helpless...,” said a 28-year-old resident doctor from the orthopaedic department of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital.He is one of the 700 resident doctors from the hospital who have been working tirelessly since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. He had also contracted the Covid-19 infection in January. So far, 262 resident doctors from the hospital alone have been infected with Covid-19 while taking care of the Covid-19 patients. In addition, 650 resident doctors from the other three civic-run medical colleges — King Edward Memorial (KEM), RN Cooper and BYL Nair hospitals — have been diagnosed with Covid-19 since last year. The ongoing pandemic, especially the second wave, has taken a toll on the mental health of resident doctors who are the main pillars of the healthcare system. “It is not only exhausting us physically but also mentally. Most of us have burnt out and have anxiety. The second wave is more stressful due to shortages of beds, medicines and oxygen because we have to deal with patients in need every day,” said a 29-year-old post-graduation student from the medicine department, KEM Hospital. “When we lose someone to the virus, we don’t even get the time to grief,” he added.City psychiatrists cautioned about a possible rise in mental ailments due to the increased work demand, social isolation, decreased self-care and increased exposure to emotionally traumatic events at work and home.Last week, a resident doctor at a private hospital in Delhi died by suicide due to severe stress amid the deadly second wave of the pandemic. Another 22-year-old medical student from Vadodara died by hanging himself from a fan on May 6 due to the stress related to Covid-19 duty. “Hours long duty in Covid wards in personal protective equipment (PPE) amid the ongoing crisis can break anyone. These young doctors have been working since 14 months, which will leave a mark on their mental health,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a psychiatrist who has been working closely with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for counselling of the caregivers. Laugh it out say hospitalsResident doctors claim that almost 70% of them are suffering from Covid stress. To address the issues, medical colleges are inviting stand-up comedians to improve their mental health with humour. “These brave fighters have been through a lot. They are exhausted and tired. So, other than counselling, we are trying to uplift their mood through humour. And comedy is the best way to keep them entertained,” said Dr Henal Shah, head of the psychiatry department, Nair Hospital.Last week, actor and stand-up comedian Ali Asgar performed for the doctors at Sion hospital. He held a 45-minute programme for the doctors in the hospital premises, while maintaining social distance and Covid-19 precautionary measures. “The health system is completely dependent on the shoulders of these young doctors. When I heard them laugh, I felt that, in some way, I have also contributed to the society during this pandemic,” Asgar said. “After the programme, so many students came and told me that they laughed so loudly after days. I have performed in different shows but never felt so happy,” he added.Last week, stand-up comedian Sahil Shah, who is also the founder of East India Comedy, performed a virtual pro bono show for doctors of the medical colleges. Talking to HT, he said, “Both my parents are doctors, so I know the stress that they are going through. So, as soon as I got the invitation, I immediately accepted it, because that was my way of thanking them for their service. There were jokes about Covid-19 and viruses, which helped make the doctors laugh.” Mumbai Dharkan, a group of NGOs, has tied up with medical colleges for the well-being of doctors. Other than providing nutritional food, they are also arranging different programmes for the mental health of the doctors. Under their initiative, well-known stand-up comedian Atul Khatri will perform for the doctors at Nair hospital on May 9. Talking to HT, Khatri said this is the least he can for the young bravehearts who are fighting against an invisible enemy. “Laughter releases happy hormones, so even though I won’t be able take away their worries permanently, if I can make them forget their worries even for 30 minutes, my mission will be successful,” he said. When asked about the topic of his stand-up, he said, “The current situation is extremely sensitive as everyone has lost their dear ones. We are all overwhelmed, so I don’t know if they would like to hear about Covid-19. So, I am yet to finalise it.”Other than professional stand-up comedians, medical colleges are also inviting senior doctors to give a moral boost to the juniors through comedy. Dr Tushar Shah, an alumni of Nair hospital, also performed stand-up for the doctors. Along with this, medical colleges are also trying to keep the doctors motivated through yoga, games and dancing. Dr Anjali Chhabria, psychiatrist, Founder of Golden Citizens Trust and Mumbai Dharkan, said, “Soon, we will start dance therapy for doctors in medical colleges. All the doctors who are interested can participate in the virtual sessions.” Dr Ajita S Nayak, head of the psychiatry department at KEM hospital, said they have started yoga sessions for the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-stand-up-comedians-bring-smile-on-tired-faces-of-doctors-101620414721682.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota: Ready to call special session, says Ajit Pawar; cabinet sub-committee to meet on May 8||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the state government is ready to send a delegation, along with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Supreme Court’s order scrapping Maratha reservation. He said they may also hold a one-day special session of the state Legislature if required.Meanwhile, the cabinet sub-committee formed to take decisions related to the reservation issue is likely to meet on Saturday where a decision over the next course of action may be taken.“We are committed to provide justice to the Maratha community and for that, injustice will not be done to any other community. If required we will hold a special session of the state Legislature or pass a proposal in the monsoon session. We are also ready to send a delegation headed by the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) to PM Modi along with leaders from the opposition party (BJP),” Pawar said in Pune on Friday.The Supreme Court on Wednesday quashed the reservation to the Maratha community saying people from the community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment, setting a 50% cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018.“We had given two days to legal teams and counsel to study and examine the 569-page order of the Supreme Court. Tomorrow, we will have point-wise discussions on the verdict, based on which a decision on the next step is likely to be taken,” said an official privy to the development.According to legal experts and counsels, the state may go for enacting a new law by addressing the flaws pointed out by the SC, but this will take place only if the Centre takes the legal recourse to empower the state to do so.The state government has already declared approaching the National Commission of Backward Classes (NCBC) following the Apex court’s order that says states do not have powers to create a class to provide reservation to any community based on their backwardness in the social and educational sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-ready-to-call-special-session-says-ajit-pawar-cabinet-sub-committee-to-meet-on-may-8-101620414662389.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Manora hostel project leads to war or words between BJP and Congress||The bid floated for the construction of Manora MLA hostel by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has led to another war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress. The BJP has questioned the escalation in construction cost, while the Congress has defended the decision by saying the cost went up due to the delay in construction by an agency appointed by previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government. BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar raised question over cost escalation for reconstruction of the hostel at Nariman Point to ₹900 crore, from ₹600 crore during the BJP government. “How can the cost go up by 66% in just two years? Whose scam it is? Why was it floated in haste when the state government has no money to spend on Covid-19 management? I have asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to scrap the contract, or else we will make a complaint to the central vigilance commission against it,” he said.Bhatkhalkar also said that the Congress does not have the right to raise questions over the Central Vista project as it comes under the public works department, which is led by Ashok Chavan of the Congress. Responding to the allegations, Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said the previous Fadnavis government went for reconstruction of the MLA hostel instead of repairs. “The hostel could have been repaired (instead of reconstruction), but the repair work was embroiled in a scam during Fadnavis government’s tenure. The decision of reconstruction of the hostel was taken by the Fadnavis government in 2018 and National Builders Construction Company was engaged to demolish the old structure. Due to the delay in the reconstruction, there has already been a significant escalation of cost along with paying a compensation of ₹1 lakh per month to the legislators for accommodation in Mumbai,” he said.Sawant said there cannot be a comparison between Central Vista and Manora hostel redevelopment projects as the Centre’s project is being implemented despite the Prime Minister and members of Parliament having residents in fair conditions. “While the hostel meant for the MLAs in Maharashtra has been demolished. The allegations (by BJP) are desperate attempt to save face of Shahensah Modi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtramanora-hostel-project-leads-to-war-or-words-between-bjp-and-congress-101620414663133.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to set up paediatric taskforce||The Maharashtra government plans to set up a paediatric task force to guide the state to deal with Covid-19 infections among children and infants in the possible third Covid-19 wave expected later in the year. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state will prepare to ramp up hospital beds and other infrastructure for children based on the recommendation of the task force. As projections suggest that children could be hit in the next wave of infections, the state aims to streamline the treatment protocol and set up health infrastructure to deal with such cases. Earlier this week, environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray suggested the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation set up a paediatric Covid care ward. A 300-400 bed facility is expected to come up at Nesco in Goregaon East. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting via video-conference with leading paediatricians from Mumbai and other parts of the state on Thursday. Thackeray, in a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office, said, “Medical experts have projected that the third wave could be dangerous for children. Therefore, we will set up a paediatric task force in the state.” Tope said that as the state is inoculating citizens above 18 years, those below it will fall under the vulnerable category when the third wave strikes between June and September. “Keeping the third wave in mind, we are planning some important decisions. We are setting up a paediatric task force immediately. We are not vaccinating those under 18, so we have to take more precautions for them... Children and infants need their mother with them. So, we need separate planning for them. The state will prepare a plan based on their (taskforce’s) recommendation,” the minister said. He added that separate ICUs, ventilators, medicines would be required for children. “Beds, paediatric SNCU (special newborn care units) beds, ventilators, medicines, etc are needed for children,” he said, adding the state is not just preparing for minors, but for all age groups for the third wave. The second wave of Covid-19 has impacted children between the age group of 0 to 10 and those in the 11 to 20 age group. As per the data of the State Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), the state has seen a jump of 113% in Covid cases in the age group of 0 to 10 from between February 15 and May 6. The jump is even more in the 11 to 20 age group—146%. Since February 15, Maharashtra has added 79,408 cases in the 0 to 10 age group, while it added 201,223 cases in the 11 to 20 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-set-up-paediatric-taskforce-101620414001656.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Despite restrictions, Mumbai witnesses traffic snarls||Despite restrictions by the state government amid the soaring Covid-19 cases and deaths in Mumbai, the vehicles on city roads are increasing, most often resulting in traffic jams at entry and exit points of the city as well as on some important arterial roads. A Twitter user named Mehlman Kaku tweeted that at 9am on Friday, there was traffic on Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road, while two days ago, the closure of Phoenix Mills flyover led to traffic jam on southbound roads. The traffic police, however, attributed the vehicular traffic to delivery vehicles and construction vehicles as well as infrastructure. According to traffic police officers in south Mumbai, the maximum snarls are caused by two-wheelers. “Delivery boys on two wheelers are observed in this region since the past one month. There are no tourists as the Marine Drive promenade, Gateway of India and other attractions are closed for public,” said police inspector Mubarak Shaikh, in-charge of Colaba traffic chowky. The police also said that as many hospitals are located in south Mumbai, people are traveling for vaccinations or to get admitted. Senior police officers said that the increase in traffic is also due to people traveling on their private four-wheelers as there are travel restrictions on local trains and BEST busses. “Many are traveling to reach vaccination centres and drive in vaccinations,” said a senior officer. The system of colour-coded sticker, introduced by the Mumbai Police to ensure the smooth movement of vehicles engaged in emergency and essential services during the ongoing restrictions was recently discontinued after the move to reintroduce the e-pass system for inter-state and inter-district movement was chalked out. Last year, 5,095,478 drivers had received challans for various traffic-related violations, despite total lockdown for six months. This was a steep surge from 4,938,485 violations in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-restrictions-mumbai-witnesses-traffic-snarls-101620413941765.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Fall in number of sealed buildings in Mumbai, daily positivity rate falls to 8%||With the drop in Covid-19 cases, the number of sealed buildings and floors in the past one month has reduced too, reveals the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. This is partly owing to the fall in the daily positivity rate in the city to 8% on Friday.The city recorded 3,040 cases and 71 deaths on Friday. The city’s case tally is now 671,125, while the toll is 13,651. The city’s recovery rate is 89.63% with 601,545 recoveries. The mortality rate in the city is 2.03% and there are 54,162 active cases in the city. The city’s former hotspot Dharavi reported 18 cases on Friday taking the total to 6,592 cases. There are 822 active cases in Dharavi.As per the BMC data, 789 were building and 9,785 floors were sealed on April 6, 2021, while on May 6, around 617 buildings and 8,658 floors are sealed. According to civic body officials, this is one indicator of the cases going down in the city. The high-rises in the city have been contributing over 85% of the daily cases in the second wave that started in the city from around February 10, 2021.“This fall in the number of sealed buildings and sealed floors is owing to the dip in growth rate in the city in the last one month. In the first week of April, the growth rate was around 25%, which has now gone down to around 8-10% daily,” a BMC official said.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician said, “The number of sealed buildings and sealed floors going down is also an indicator that the level of antibodies has increased in citizens. For our better understanding, we should take a bigger sample size and conduct a serosurvey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fall-in-number-of-sealed-buildings-in-mumbai-daily-positivity-rate-falls-to-8-101620413881557.html
08-05-2021||Other||Need Remdesivir? Grab one at Varanasi Collectorate soon||Remdesivir injection, which is in huge demand for treating corona patients, will soon be available at Collectorate here, said a statement from district administration. The decision regarding this was taken at a meeting of UP ministers Neelkanth Tiwari, Ravindra Jaiswal with MLC AK Sharma, divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma on Thursday, said the press statement. “The injection will be available for Covid patients under treatment in private hospitals or in home isolation. It will be made available free of cost for the patients at government hospitals as previously. Kin of the patients of those in home isolation or in private hospitals will have to show the doctors’ prescription and they will be given the injection at a minimum possible price,” read the statement. The anti-viral drug is being used to treat some critical Corona cases due to which it is in high demand. This has even led to shortage and black marketing of the injection.Also, a counter will be set up at each hospital where number of vacant beds and availability of the oxygen will be displayed, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-remdesivir-grab-one-at-varanasi-collectorate-soon-101620413822436.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Co-WIN: No easy victory here, amid cancellations and server problems||Every evening for the past six days, Sneha Sedani, a 28-year-old Kandivli resident, is glued to her computer screen between 7.30pm and 8pm, attempting to register for her Covid-19 vaccine shot on the Co-WIN portal. However, she has still not secured an appointment. Since May 1, when Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began vaccinating citizens in the age group of 18 – 44 years, every evening its Twitter handle announces the time registration window. With few slots to fill per day, only those citizens who manage to register themselves in the short duration of 20-25 minutes before all slots are reserved, can get vaccinated the next day. On Thursday, BMC suspended walk-in vaccination for all age categories, to avoid overcrowding at vaccination centres. Now, citizens above age 45 years also have to book a slot on the previous evening and get an appointment for the next day. Mumbaiites are reporting frustrating failed attempts during the registration process, last-minute cancellations of appointments, and server problems. Sedani said, “I get automatically logged out within minutes of logging into the application. Then I have to repeat the procedure. By the time I reach the end of the process after the second or third attempt, all slots are taken.”“Sometimes, registration starts two or three minutes before the time announced by BMC on Twitter. So we constantly refresh the application to make sure we are online as soon as registration starts. Because all slots are booked right away,” Sneha added.Sedani’s brother, Harsh, 22, was lucky in this regard. He managed to get registered on the application on his first attempt and was vaccinated at SevenHills Hospital on May 3. Registering on the government of India’s Aarogya Setu application is equally challenging. Some citizens who have been allotted slots have been told last minute that their slots have been cancelled. Disgruntled, they have taken to social media to express their frustration. A Twitter user, Keyur Kenia, tweeted on Friday morning with a screenshot of his confirmed appointment, “I had been to BKC vaccination centre today as I registered from Aarogya Setu app but they refused as the below appointment is not valid. Then what is the point of registering through it.” Another Twitter user, Prasad said, “I had booked a slot for May 8 at BKC jumbo centre. Within half an hour, received a message scheduled vaccination has been cancelled. It is some kind of joke played on common man.” Manish Keswani, 44, a resident of Borivli said, “The Co-WIN application was allowing me to book a 12.30pm slot at 2.45pm. The application is not updated on time. I have been trying to book an appointment for a while now, but I am unable to register.” A senior civic official from BMC’s public health department said, “It is essential that citizens get an appointment for vaccination to avoid overcrowding or long queues at vaccination centres. We also don’t want senior citizens travelling long distances only to find out stock at the vaccination centre is over. So prior registration is a good solution. Due to shortage in vaccine doses, we have fewer shots available at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cowin-no-easy-victory-here-amid-cancellations-and-server-problems-101620413821550.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Most relief material is distributed in BJP states, Maharashtra Congress alleges||Maharashtra Congress has once again slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government for its alleged discrimination towards the non-BJP state governments including Maharashtra. The party has said that most of the relief material received from around 40 countries as Covid-19 ravaged in the country, was distributed to the select state under the rule of BJP.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that the aid which was received in about 25 aircraft from various countries has been distributed mostly to BJP-ruled states. “Most of the states are BJP-ruled including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana. Maharashtra has got nothing from it. States governments have right on the relief material,” he said.Sawant raised questions about why it being distributed through Central agencies instead of handing it over to the state governments directly. “Just like #PMcares fund, this centralised approach is with an intention to give extra power in hands of Modi. It is against federal structure as well…first they sat on it (the relief material) and when they started distributing it, Maharashtra is not in the list (sic),” Sawant has tweeted.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “NITI Aayog CEO (chief operating officer) Amitabh Kant has already explained in detail how the aid received from all across the globe is being distributed transparently. According to the government data, 38 institutions in 31 states and union territories have received the aid. Just because Congress exists in hardly a few states they feel that the relief material is distributed more in BJP ruled states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-relief-material-is-distributed-in-bjp-states-maharashtra-congress-alleges-101620413761552.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 54,022 cases, 898 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 54,022 new Covid-19 cases pushing the count to 4,996,758. The tally of active cases has now slightly increased to 654,788 as 37,386 recoveries were reported in a day.The toll is now 74,413, with 898 deaths recorded on Friday. Nashik reported the highest toll with 133 deaths. Nashik district recorded 102 deaths while Nashik city reported 31 fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai with 71 deaths.Surge in Covid-19 cases is yet to come down in Maharashtra, despite a lockdown imposed across the state since April 22. However, there is a slight improvement in average daily cases. While 59,647 cases were reported last month, it has reduced to 56,326 in the first week of May. In this month, maximum cases were reported on May 1 — 63,282.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a recent address said that the state would have crossed one million active cases if lockdown wasn’t imposed. “Going by the predictions made by the experts, the tally of active cases would have crossed one million mark, but we have been able to contain the spread and we have restrained them under 700,000. It is because of the lockdown and the restraint shown by the people,” he said last Friday.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state task force said, “The daily cases in the state are not increasing. Some of the districts that didn’t have a surge in cases until now are not recording more cases. The districts that had witnessed a surge in cases, for example, Mumbai, have started experiencing a decline. That’s the reason our average daily cases of the state are still plateauing and not falling as expected.”By the end of May, the situation of the state would be better than what it is today, he added.Maharashtra’s effective reproduction number (R) for Covid-19, which indicates how fast the infection is spreading, has also declined to 1.29 from 1.45 from last week, according to an analysis prepared by the state health department.For a pandemic to come to an end, the R-value has to be sustained under 1. This infection rate was recorded 0.36 in February when the second wave hit the state. By March, it rose to 1.33.“Our situation would have gone out of hand if lockdown was not imposed. As we all can see the daily cases have hit stability and by the end of this month or from the first week of June we are expecting a gradual decline,” said a senior official from the state health department.Officials also said that there are many districts where the rise in daily cases is yet to stabilise. In addition, some districts are currently experiencing a surge in cases, as a result of which, the average daily cases of the state is not showing an expected decline. This is despite the daily average cases of Mumbai coming less than 5,000.These districts are Ratnagiri, Buldhana, Parbhani, Beed and Sindhudurg and their average weekly positivity rate (till May 4) recorded were 3.18%, 2.83%, 2.67%, 2.64% and 2.60% respectively.On Friday, Mumbai clocked 3,040 cases and took the total cases to 671,125.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 268,912 samples and had a positivity rate of 20.08%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 17.27%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-54-022-cases-898-deaths-101620413702571.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Only citizens who have received slot should arrive at vaccination centre: Mumbai civic body||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday appealed to all citizens against crowding at vaccination centres if they have not received an appointment after registering on the CoWIN application, the previous day. In a statement, BMC said, “The crowding is making it difficult to take the necessary precautions and maintain social distancing. Only those citizens who have been registered and have received a slot should arrive at the vaccination centre during the allotted timing.” Authorities said that there is a systematic way in which a particular number of slots are allotted to respective vaccine centres.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department said, ‘’We decide how many vaccine doses each centre should receive based on the average turn out of the past week. Usually, each vaccine centre receives stock to suffice three-four days to a maximum of one week’’.Now that BMC has made it mandatory for citizens of all age groups to take an appointment for vaccination and has disallowed walk-ins. Kakani said, “When citizens register on the Co-WIN application, they are allotted a time to visit the vaccine centres based on the availability of the slot. Vaccine centres are allotted between one and 10 slots per day, depending on the available stock at the centre. A maximum of 100 beneficiaries can be vaccinated in every slot.”At the end of each day, vaccine centres submit data to BMC of the number of vaccine shots utilised during the day, which helps the civic body keep track of the availability of stock at the centre. When stocks run out, BMC informs the state government to place an order for more vaccine shots. BMC then collects the stock allotted to the civic body by the state government, from the state’s storage facility in Pune. This is then brought to BMC’s main storage facility at Kanjurmarg and the public health department’s head office at F/South ward in Parel, and delivered to vaccine centres the next morning, before the vaccination drive for the day begins. Among stocks available at vaccine centres approximately 1% doses are wasted. Kakani said, “Mumbai has one of the lowest percentage of wastage of vaccine doses, at 1%. Wastage usually happens because every vial accommodates 10 vaccine shots. If a vial is opened at the end of the day, but only nine beneficiaries are left to get vaccinated, one dose goes waste, for example.” On an average, BMC vaccinates 35,000 to 40,000 beneficiaries per day. On Friday, 41,107 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 16,310 received their first dose, and 24,797 received their second dose. 3,613 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years were vaccinated on Friday. Presently, BMC has less than 100,000 vaccine shots left in its stock, and more are expected to arrive on Saturday or Sunday night. After suspending walk-in vaccination for all age groups on Thursday, Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Friday directed the administration to allow walk-ins for beneficiaries in the 45 years and above age group, only if they are receiving their second dose. This will happen after the immunization manager at each centre verifies vaccine certificates received by these beneficiaries after the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-citizens-who-have-received-slot-should-arrive-at-vaccination-centre-mumbai-civic-body-101620413701579.html
08-05-2021||Other||Prayagraj: State govt provides 100 additional monitors to SRN hosp ICU||For a better treatment of corona patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) Hospital, the state government has provided 100 more monitors for the ICU to the hospital for close monitoring and betterment of patients. The machines were handed over to the hospital administration by Uttar Pradesh Civil Aviation, Minority Welfare, Political Pension, Muslim Waqf and Haj Minister Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi on Friday. During this time, the Principal of SRN Hospital, Dr SP Singh and district magistrate of Prayagraj Bhanu Chandra Goswami were also present. The minister held an inspection accompanied by doctors and officials and learned about the arrangements at the hospital. At the same time, he encouraged the doctors and other health workers who are serving the people in these difficult circumstances.The minister said that close monitoring of admitted patients in ICU is the need of the hour, in which these computerized monitors will prove to be helpful.The principal of SRN Medical College, Dr SP Singh said that through the monitors, the SPO-2 oxygen saturation level of the admitted patients in the ICU will be monitored. Accordingly, the doctor will be able to see the flow of oxygen. When oxygen is in the BIPAP or on a ventilator, the entire parameter is visible on a vital monitor. The pulse rate, blood sender and ECG will also be displayed, so that there is no problem in monitoring a patient, he explained.Everything is visible on the monitor, which remains connected to the doctor’s duty room. The doctor can also monitor the patient’s vitals through the monitor from the duty room. If the saturation falls, the monitor starts beeping, he explained.There were 140 monitors already available in the hospital and these new 100 machines will allow more patients to remain under better observation, he said.When asked about the arrangements and supply of oxygen by the minister, Principal Dr SP Singh said that SRN has two liquid tanks for the supply of oxygen with a capacity of 40,000 litres. The per-day need is about 20,000 to 22,000 litres of oxygen. The liquid supply in the tank is from Jamshedpur. Two tankers arrive per day due to which the supply of oxygen in the SRN remains constant. There is no shortage of oxygen so far. Minister Nandi directed increasing the capacity and installation of an additional tanker for oxygen supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-state-govt-provides-100-additional-monitors-to-srn-hosp-icu-101620413401594.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 8,998 fresh Covid cases, 63 deaths in 24 hrs||As per authorities, Pune district reported a spike with 8,998 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Over 63 Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of deaths reported in the district on Friday, 11 deaths were in Pune rural and 52 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 454,277 Covid cases and 5,840 deaths till Friday. Whereas PCMC has reported 220,342 cases so far and a total of 1,530 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 233,738 total cases so far and 2,635 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 908,358 Covid cases. Of this, 777,783 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 10,063 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 120,512 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 37,386 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 4,265,326 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 85.36%.Across Maharashtra, 54,022 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Friday and 898 Covid -19 deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%.The state health department stated that of 28,930,580 laboratory samples, 4,996,758 have been tested positive till Friday. That is 17.27% patients till Friday.Currently 3,841,431 people are in home quarantine and 28,860 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-8-998-fresh-covid-cases-63-deaths-in-24-hrs-101620410581112.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Preparing for third wave: Paediatric Covid units for children in Pune||Following observation from medical experts that the possible third Covid wave may severely affect children, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar has told Pune Municipal Corporation to reserve hospitals for paediatric patients. He instructed officials to arrange paediatric facilities in rural and urban area. In Pune, officials said the civic body has planned to set up a dedicated paediatric unit for children diagnosed with Covid at its Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada. Since last year, 3.05% (149,224) of total Covid cases so far are from the age group of 0 to 10 years while 6.92% (338,397) are between 11 and 20 years, according to a report of medical education and drugs department. While all above the age of 18 years are covered for inoculation, there is no vaccine available for below 18 age group. Referring to cases among children, state health minister Rajesh Tope said a special task force for paediatrics are being constituted at the state level. Speaking to reporters after a Covid review meeting in Pune, Pawar emphasised the importance to be prepared for the third wave. He acknowledged the warning given by experts about infection of children in the third wave and claimed that the administration is taking steps to prepare for this situation. “It is decided that Rajiv Gandhi hospital in PMC limits will be reserved for children. Similar instructions have been given to Pimpri Chinhwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). I have instructed the divisional commissioner, collector, CEO zilla parishad, PMC and PCMC commissioners to arrange paediatric facilities in corporation limits and also at each tehsil level. Currently it is a prediction by experts, but we should be prepared,” Pawar said. In Mumbai, Tope announced the plan to deal with the third wave and ensure the safety of children. “We are constituting a special task force for paediatric cases. We are not vaccinating those below the age of 18 years. So, they have to be taken care of. We have to make the paediatric medical infrastructure such as paediatric beds, paediatric ventilators, paediatric FNCU beds ready. On Thursday, CM talked to many paediatricians through a video conference,” Tope told reporters in Mumbai. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray during a meeting with paediatric doctors across the state instructed them to prepare for the third wave. Pawar said the issues faced during the second wave should be avoided in the third. “We faced scarcity of oxygen, ventilators, Remdesivir and vaccines in the second wave. We want to avoid these problems and better the medical infrastructure, like the oxygen plant in Dalvi hospital has started. Sassoon plant will be fully operational soon,” Pawar said. Age-wise distribution of Covid cases in Maharashtra for 4,893,349 cases Age cases Up to 10 years – 149,2243.05 % of total cases11-20 years – 338,3976.92% of total cases21-30 years – 867,36917.73% of total cases31-40 years – 1,088,15722.24 % of total cases41-50 years- 886,80918.12% of total cases51-60 years – 734,66415.01 % of total cases61-70 years – 505,29110.33 % of total cases71-80 years – 243,4724.96% of total cases81-90 years- 69,4311.42 % of total cases91-100 years – 9,7530.20% of total cases101-110 years - 7820.02% of total casesTotal cases: 4,893,349Source: Medical education and drugs department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/preparing-for-third-wave-paediatric-covid-units-for-children-in-pune-101620410401139.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Jabs for 18-44 age group to be launched in 11 more UP districts on Monday||The state government would launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 years’ age group in 11 more districts of Uttar Pradesh on Monday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made the announcement at a Covid-19 review meeting here on Friday.He also asked the medical education minister to be in regular touch with the vaccine making companies for securing supplies for the state.The districts where vaccination for the 18-44 age group will start on Monday are Aligarh, Agra, Ghaziabad, Jhansi, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Firozabad, Mathura, Ayodhya, Shahjahanpur and Gautam Buddha Nagar, according to a government statement. The vaccination will be done at some centres, the names of which pop up when one registers on the Co-Win portal.The vaccination campaign for the 18-44 category was initially started in seven districts with a high active caseload—Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Meerut and Bareilly —on May 1. Since then, 85,566 people in this age group have been vaccinated in these seven districts. Yogi said that so far, the state had vaccinated 1.34 crore people statewide (since the start of the overall Covid-19 vaccination campaign on January 16). The state has 75 districts.The chief minister also asked for suspending on-the-spot registration for inoculation, adding that jabs should be given only to such persons who have pre-registered for their dose.Besides, he said people with the Covid-19 infection, or its symptoms should not be given the vaccine till a month after recovery.On the day of the launch of the vaccination in 11 districts, the minister in charge of those districts or local people’s representatives should be present at one or the other vaccination centres there, the chief minister said.Regarding pre-registration, he said: “On-the-spot registration may cause chaos. So that there is no unnecessary crowding at vaccination centres, it would be appropriate to do the vaccination through online registration. If possible, also contact the pre-registered beneficiaries a day or two before their appointed vaccination date.”About not giving jabs to Covid-19 positive patients, he said, “Health experts have advised that those with the Covid-19 infection or symptoms should not be vaccinated. The experts have said that those with the Covid infection should be vaccinated not before a month after recovery. Spread this advice among the people.”He also said the vaccine wastage had come down further.“The best part of vaccination in this (18-44) age group is that the vaccine wastage is minimal, perhaps due to enthusiasm in the age group. The wastage percentage that was 0.39% has further come down to 0.11% and our target is to make it 0%.”He once again emphasised on the “trace, test, treat, vaccinate” policy to control the Covid-19 infection, saying that it was giving favourable results.“On April 30, the state had 3.10 lakh active cases, and, in a week’s time, they fell by 55,000. The highest number of positive cases was recorded on April 24 and since then there is a regular decline in the fresh positive cases. At the same time, the number of people recovering is steadily rising,” he said.He said that in the last 24 hours a total of 28,076 fresh cases had been recorded while a total of 33,117 recovered and were discharged from hospitals.Earlier on Thursday night, the chief minister held the first meeting with the medical experts’ panel that the state has constituted for expert advice to Team-9. Team-9 is an administrative and policy-making team of top bureaucrats and two senior ministers engaged in Covid management during the second wave of the pandemic. The medical expert panel has 14 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jabs-for-18-44-to-be-launched-in-11-more-up-districts-on-monday-101620408240979.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Rajiv Gandhi zoo masterplan in the works despite Covid interruption||The master plan for redevelopment of the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre has been put to work in phase one and two simultaneously but has fallen behind schedule due to restrictions imposed by Covid-19. PMC approved the plan to develop a new ecosystem making use of the unused land existing in the 130 acres which will house 10 new exotic species, reptiles and mammals in the next three years. “Although this pandemic has put a spoke into the plans and its implementation, we have managed to complete 95 per cent of the work on some of the enclosures for mouse deer, three species of jungle cats in 150 sq. metres in four enclosure and the lion enclosures. The second phase of the plan was to develop the Katraj lake post desilting into a roosting ground to attract migratory and local birds by creating small islands in the lake,” said Rajkumar Jadhav, director of Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre. He also added that the relocation of the snake park is stuck due to paucity of funds. “We have planned according to the Central Zoo authority’s housing plan for animals and reptiles. The new space is around 12,000 sq. metres and 150 reptiles of 29 species in the zoo’s collection at an estimated ₹2.5 crore. Initially we were to create space only for native reptiles but now we have added four exotic reptiles including anaconda and six exotic animals which include giraffe and zebra, meanwhile the lion enclosure spread around 2,500 sq. metres are almost ready,” Jadhav said. According to the official, the newly built four enclosures are for leopard cat, jungle cat, spotted cat and the giant Indian squirrel which will be interesting for visitors who will get to see three cat species together. “It will take another year or so to complete, the next three years will be vital for the zoo, seeing the way, the work is progressing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rajiv-gandhi-zoo-masterplan-in-the-works-despite-covid-interruption-101620401940245.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Fuel prices in Pune reach new high, petrol ₹97.31 per litre||Petrol prices in Pune reached a record high on Friday at ₹97.31 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.The petrol and diesel prices surged for the fourth consecutive day with the rate of petrol breaching the previous record on February 27, when it was ₹97.19 per litre.Besides petrol, the price of diesel also reached a record of ₹87.17 per litre, more than the previous high of ₹86.88 per litre. After the break in March and April, when prices had either stabilised or declined, they have started to soar from May 4.The transporters have expressed deep discontent over the price fuel price hike and especially the record prices of diesel.“Now passenger transport is completely closed and only goods transportation is going on. Most transportation is of the essential goods as the pandemic is raging. The hike in diesel price is a major blow to the transporters. The ultimate cost of these excessive prices will have to be sustained by transporters because traders won’t negotiate the transportation rates. How are we supposed to carry on? We are constantly writing to the central government to control the prices and give us some concessions,” said Baba Shinde, director (Maharashtra), All India Motor Transport Congress.Sagar Ghare, a delivery person associated with a food home delivery app in the city said that their profit margin is getting impacted because of the petrol price hike. “The companies already have reduced our per home delivery commission. In addition to this now fuel prices have started to increase again. There are restrictions imposed and we do not have any other opportunity but to continue with this to earn a livelihood. But it is becoming difficult now,” Sagar Ghare said.“The members across the board suggested that the government should be proactively engaged to address the concerns of the transport sector,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fuel-prices-in-pune-reach-new-high-petrol-selling-at-rs-97-31-per-litre-101620401880149.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Urns gather dust at crematoria as Covid fear keeps kin away in Pune||The rise in Covid deaths and bodies arriving at crematoriums has left the bereaved hesitant to visit the premises again to collect urns containing ashes of their near and dear ones over fear of Covid infection.According to civic officials, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had to conduct mass awareness campaigns in September last year after the Covid outbreak in March and virus deaths caused fear among residents about spread of the infection even from bodies. The authorities said that after the body is cremated at 650 to 750 degrees Celsius, the virus does not exist.“Though people are aware that ashes does not contain the Covid-19 virus, the spike in death in the second wave and the long wait to cremate bodies have caused residents to develop cold feet over visiting the crematoriums again to collect ashes,” said one of the official from Vaikunth, Navipeth, on the request of anonymity.Arun Jangam, body disposal officer deployed at Amardham Hindu Smashan Bhumi, Yerawada said, “Though people are coming to collect urns unlike last year, many are taking a long time after the last rites to collect ashes.”Few residents are visiting the crematorium in Talegaon to collect urns.“As the number of daily cremations has increased over the past 10 days, few are visiting again to collect. The situation was normal till the second week of April,” said Kailash Patil, body disposal officer, Talegaon.Body disposal officers said that there will not be any need to hold mass awareness programmes like last year. PMC has allowed all 21 crematoriums in the city to conduct the final rites of Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/urns-gather-dust-at-crematoria-as-covid-fear-keeps-kin-away-in-pune-101620401760250.html
08-05-2021||Pune||No jab drive for 45-plus today, only 4 centres for 18-plus in PMC||Only four vaccination centres for 18-plus beneficiaries will be functional on May 8, as per the officials of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The vaccination drive for beneficiaries of 45 years and above age will not be functioning from May 8, as the district again faces shortage of vaccine doses.Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner, said only four vaccination centres will be functional for 18-plus beneficiaries where only Covaxin will be administered.“The stock for Covishield is over. And so, there will be only Covaxin given to 18 to 44 years of beneficiaries at four centres across Pune. These centres are Jayabai Sutar hospital, Annasaheb Magar hospital and Murlidhar Laygude hospital where there will be 500 doses each given to the centre. Also, Sassoon General hospital will have 200 doses of Covaxin on May 8,” said Agarwal.She said the 45-plus beneficiaries will not receive any vaccine on May 8 as there is no stock remaining. “When the new vaccine stock arrives, we will resume the vaccination drive,” said Agarwal.On Friday, 6,155 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune district. Of these, 2,592 beneficiaries were in PMC, 2,015 in Pune rural and 1,548 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).Speaking about the vaccine stock, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that the doses are likely to get over by Friday evening.“There are fresh vaccine stocks expected on May 9 for 45-plus beneficiaries. However, the vaccination drive until then will be slow due to the shortage. On Thursday late night, we had received 25,000 doses of Covishield which were utilised on Friday. There is no Covaxin stock with us as of now,” said Dr Deshmukh.He said the vaccine stock for 18-plus beneficiaries is available with local authorities.“Vaccination drives for 18-plus beneficiaries will continue smoothly for the next few days as doses are available, but senior beneficiaries will have to wait for a while to get the jab,” said Dr Deshmukh.On Friday, 35,457 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune district. Of these, 29,302 were above the age of 45 years. There were a total of 367 centres in the district that inoculated 12,994 beneficiaries in PMC, 10,947 in Pune rural and 5,361 in PCMC on Friday.Four centres for 18-plus vaccinationFor Covaxin only*Hospital--Doses*Jayabai Sutar Hospital--500*Annasaheb Magar Hospital--500*Murlidhar Laygude Hospital-- 500*Sassoon General Hospital--200*Source: PMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-jab-drive-for-45-plus-today-only-4-centres-for-18-plus-in-pmc-101620401640157.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Lonavla, Bhor and Baramati talukas under total lockdown||The administration on Friday has imposed complete lockdown in Lonavla city and Maval and Bhor talukas to check the spread of Covid infection. These popular tourist spots in Pune district have seen an alarming spike in positive cases, forcing the local administration to announce lockdown. Sub divisional magistrate Rajendra Jadhav of Bhor taluka was given additional charge of Maval taluka at a review meeting held on Thursday with local authorities in Maval. Maval taluka will be under strict lockdown from May 7 to May 12. “Marketplaces will be closed till May 12 and only emergency medical services and medical shops will remain open. Milk delivery is allowed only between 7 and 9 am,” said Jadhav. Lonavla city police have launched rapid antigen tests (RAT) of people seen on the streets from Friday morning.Dilip Pawar, senior inspector and incharge of Lonavla city police station said, “We started nakabandi and checking of people from 7am. At least 215 tests were done and 36 tested positive, which is almost 20 per cent. All of them were immediately taken to nearby Covid care center for checkup and treatment.” In Bhor taluka, villages showing surge in cases are sealed and entry-exit points are monitored. In Baramati taluka, strict lockdown is imposed since last two days. “Baramati city and taluka is under seven-day strict lockdown. Only companies and factories in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area will be running as per the state government guidelines. We have instructed police to lodge an FIR on people out on streets without any reason,” said Dadasaheb Kambale, sub divisional magistrate of Baramati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lonavla-bhor-and-baramati-talukas-under-total-lockdown-101620401580159.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Medicinal plants in demand for terrace and balcony gardens||The current scenario of medical oxygen scarcity during the Covid pandemic has seen a preference among residents to opt for medicinal plants, known to improve air quality as per the traditional medicine system, for their private gardens. Nurseries in the city are seeing a rise in demand for plants like tulsi, turmeric, ashwagandha (withania somnifera) over the past few months.Medical experts caution residents to contact doctors before consuming any medicinal plant or herb as a cure or prevention against Covid-19. “Many customers are buying tulsi nowadays as it is known to increase the supply of oxygen and absorbs harmful gases like carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide. Even as the shop is closed because of the lockdown timings, many are contacting us and visiting us in person. Demand for turmeric and ashwagandha is also on the rise,” said Ravi Dhole, who runs a nursery in Vimannagar.Bapu Survase from Krupa plant nursery, Uruli Kanchan, said, “Generally, the demand for tulsi increases during Aashadi Ekadashi festival, but this time it is seen as we are in the grip of Covid pandemic. Customers are going by the advice of elders and following the traditional medicine system and buying plants that purifies the air.”“The demand for indoor and garden plants is seen during the last weeks of May as monsoon starts in June. Rose plants are the favourite, but residents are now buying tulsi and other medicinal plants,” said Ulhas Patil, Balaji Rose nursery, Singhad road.Swapnil Deshmukh, an Ayurvedic doctor, said, “As per the traditional medicine system, certain plants are good for health and its constituents are scientifically proved to provide health immunity.”“We get oxygen from tulsi and planting more than one rope of the plant is beneficial. Intake of certain medicinal plants daily is important for health,” said Dr Ashwini Varpe.Ajay Aggarwal of Wanowrie, who has a big terrace garden at his place, said, “I believe in growing my own oxygen and food so I grow herbs and veggies at my place. Every plant gives oxygen so maintaining a habit of plantation is important.”Pooja Kale of Baner said, “I have a separate section of medicinal plants at my terrace garden. Earlier people used to question on why I give so much space to these plants which are not attractive, but now they are following suit because of the pandemic situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/medicinal-plants-in-demand-for-terrace-and-balcony-gardens-101620401460127.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Local authorities should decide on total lockdown as per virus cases, bed availability, says Ajit Pawar||With Covid caseload on the rise in rural parts of Pune district and new hotspots emerging, Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said that the decision on complete lockdown should be taken by the local authorities considering virus cases and bed availability. The minister said the current curbs imposed in Pune will continue. Pawar was speaking in Pune after the Bombay High Court instructed the state administration to impose complete lockdown in Pune to check the virus cases. “As the head of the state, the CM will decide on HC suggestions. In the meeting, most favoured the continuation of current curbs and stricter implementation. If the number of people roaming around unnecessarily is reduced, then it will show good results,” Pawar said. In the last few days, the positivity rate in urban parts of the district has reduced, but cases are rising in rural areas.“Regarding rural parts, officials from Baramati have taken the decision to impose seven-day lockdown and I approved it,” he said. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said that Pune city doesn’t need complete lockdown. “The number of cases in Pune is going down. There is no need to impose complete lockdown. I fear that the numbers presented before the court were not correct,” Mohol said. Pawar said the Pune mayor should appoint a lawyer to represent the case of PMC. “Collective numbers from Pune district, and not of PMC alone, were presented before the court and the court may have felt the necessity to suggest complete lockdown. The mayor should appoint a lawyer to put the case of PMC before the court,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/local-authorities-should-decide-on-total-lockdown-as-per-virus-cases-bed-availability-says-ajit-pawar-101620401340201.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Motherless Children||You do not have to give birth to be a mother. It is neither a function of biology, nor a title, nor even a noun. Motherhood is a verb. It means to love, to protect, to shield, to shelter; to put another’s interests ahead of one’s own. It calls for courage, sacrifice, heroism, unconditional love and deep reservoirs of empathy and compassion. A mother is a repository of our hopes and dreams, as well as of our pains and sorrows. No matter how old a person is, their mother is who they will call out to for help in their moment of agony or need. Minutes away from his certain death, with his murderer’s knee on his neck, George Floyd called out to his long-departed mother, when he could not breathe. It is said that Jacinda Arden brings many qualities to her role as the Prime Minister of New Zealand, but perhaps the greatest one is that she sees her job as being a mother to her people. A mother will not favour one of her children over the other and even if she does, will never want it to be known. A mother is someone who feels her child’s pain without having to be told of it. She is someone whose side you hurry to when you are anxious and unwell. And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay… ************************************************“No language can express the power and beauty and heroism of a mother’s love,” said Edwin Chapin. “Motherhood: All love begins and ends there,” said Robert Browning. If you want to put an end to all wars, ask the mothers of soldiers to sit across a table and negotiate for conflict resolution. If you want to feed an ever-expanding congregation of hungry stomachs when supplies are low, put a mother in charge of the kitchen. In the long list of dictators, despots and tyrants who inflict genocide and suffering on their citizenry, you’d be hard pressed to come up with more than a couple who are mothers. Of all her epoch-making achievements, singer and activist Joan Baez, who once marched with Martin Luther King and had sung at the fall of the Berlin Wall, declared that motherhood was her most momentous one. Of all her iconic titles, Vice-President of America and major glass-ceiling-shatterer Kamala Harris says being called “Momala” is her most cherished. There’s no bond as strong in the entire world as that of a mother and child, nor is there a love so all-encompassing and protective. The natural world abounds with stories of mother goats that have nurtured newborn pups and of mother wolves suckling human cubs. A mother’s primary dharma is inclusivity; she is someone who will always look out for the weakest child in her litter. And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay… ************************************************The art of mothering is to teach the art of living to children. Barrack Obama credits his idealistic, single mother for all that is good and noble in himself. Philanthropist, award-winning filmmaker and celebrated chef Vikas Khanna says his feisty, octogenarian airplane-flying mother is his abiding inspiration. A mother is someone who will think nothing of going hungry, even as she cooks a meal for her child. The mythologies of the world are full of examples of mothers like Yashodhara, Parvati and Sita who protected and nurtured and safeguarded their offspring. A mother occupies pole position in the world’s collective consciousness. It is said that the most memorable dialogue heard from all of award-winning screenwriters Salim and Javed’s vast body of work is the one delivered by Shashi Kapoor in Deewar, when he utters the simple words “mere paas ma hain”. Princess Diana believed, “A mother’s arms are more comforting than anyone else’s.” A mother would rather die than betray the faith and trust that her children have placed in her. And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay… ************************************************So, not for the cheesy sentimentality of a Hallmark holiday, nor for the crass commercialisation of a spurious slogan, (Anna Jarvis, the instigator of International Mother’s Day, actually devoted the remainder of her life to protest against it), but to stress the fundamental truth of it: having a mother and dying are the only two universal human conditions. Mothers have been immortalised in great literature, iconography, popular culture and art. Brecht’s Mother Courage and single mum-on -welfare, JK Rowling’s big-hearted mother Molly Weasley in the Harry Potter series. NGO Mothers Without Borders was created by Kathy Headlee to nurture orphans across the world. Earth Mothers who don’t have to be told that the health of our planet and the health of every creature on it, however small, are inextricably bound. Modern-day Momagers, who step in to make their children’s dreams come true. Mothers like Irena Sendler, who smuggled 2,500 Jewish children out of the Warsaw Ghetto during the Holocaust. The righteous mother played by Nargis in Mehboob Khan’s Mother India, who puts her principles above her maternal love. The anguished mother in the Bible’s Judgment of King Solomon, who begs that her child be taken from her rather than cut in half. The natural state of motherhood is selflessness. The highest undertaking that a person can aspire to is to be a mother to the world. A mother will put aside her own prejudices and partisanships, when her child is in danger. She will rush to their bedside if they are ill and dying. A mother will soothe their fevered brow and keep vigil all night, until they are nursed back to health. The planet would be better served if all manmade constructs of nationhood, economy, jurisprudence, administration, and leadership were predicated on the principles of motherhood. Fortunate are those families that have a mother amid them; favoured are those people who have a mother to call their own; blessed is that country led by one who embodies the qualities of a mother. The best place to cry is in a mother’s arms. Minutes away from his certain death, with his murderer’s knee on his neck, George Floyd cried out for his long-departed mother when he could not breathe.And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-motherless-children-101620399960888.html
