16-05-2021||Other||52-yr-old dies of black fungus infection in pvt hospital||LUCKNOW: A 52-year-old man suffering from black fungus infection died in a private hospital in Chowk area here. “The Covid positive man was brought to our hospital from Gorakhpur in a serious condition late on May 14 and he died the next day, about 24 hours after he got admitted,” said Dr RK Mishra of SIPS hospital, where the man was admitted. Black fungus or mucormycosis is an uncommon opportunistic invasive fungal infection which occurs in immunosupressed patients. Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment with steroids are at heightened risk of mucormycosis. Dr Mishra said, “The eyes and brain of the man were infected with black fungus, and he was put on ventilator support soon after reaching here. Unfortunately, he died during treatment.” The city has at least 20 black fungus patients under treatment at different medical facilities, including King George’s Medical University where 13 patients are under treatment. Lohia institute also has three black fungus patients. Earlier, death of a suspected black fungus patient, a woman, had been reported in Lucknow. “We have four other black fungus cases of which two are being treated in OPD and two are admitted. Of the latter two, one has been operated to remove dead tissues,” said Dr Mishra. Experts said Covid patients with history of diabetes were particularly at risk. “Black fungus is a risk for those Covid patients who have a history of diabetes and are spending long time in hospital for recovery. Any other comorbidity is also a risk factor,” said Dr Suryakant, HoD, respiratory medicine, at the King George’s Medical University. Chief medical officer of Lucknow Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar did not respond despite repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/52yrold-dies-of-black-fungus-infection-in-pvt-hospital-101621189267625.html
16-05-2021||Other||Another AMU prof passes away||Agra : Professor Mohammad Nasiruddin of the department of pharmacology, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), passed away in Aligarh. He was 55. The reason for his death is not known. “We are not in a position to assign reason for death of prof Nasiruddin,” said AMU spokesperson Dr Rahat Abrar. To note, 17 serving professors in AMU have died so far. On his recent visit to the varsity, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had condoled these deaths and had stressed on vaccination. “Prof Nasiruddin’s demise is a great loss to the university. He was an excellent teacher, held in high esteemed by the students,” said AMU vice chancellor, professor Tariq Mansoor. Prof Rakesh Bhargava (Dean, Faculty of Medicine) said that Prof Nasiruddin taught and mentored students and helped them achieve success. Prof Nasiruddin was also associated with various committees and organisations. He had been the coordinator of ADR Monitoring Centre at JNMC, under the aegis of Pharmacovigilance Programme of India (PvPI), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. He also published many papers in peer-reviewed journals, authored academic books, wrote book chapters, and edited many books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-amu-prof-passes-away-101621189087433.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 11,699 deaths, fatality rate of 1.58% in 15 days||Even though the daily Covid-19 cases have witnessed a steady drop over the past week, the state has logged 11,699 deaths in the first fortnight of May, recording a 1.58% case fatality rate (CFR) during the period.The state recorded 34,389 new Covid-19 cases and 974 deaths, second-highest single-day record, on Sunday. The case tally is now 5,378,452, while the death toll stands at 81,486.Against a total of 7,38,618 people infected between May 1 and 15 and 11,699 deaths reported during the period the CFR stands at 1.58 %. An average of 799 deaths took place daily, while 32 deaths were reported per hour during this period.The CFR in the first 15 days of April stood at 0.51%, as 4,225 deaths were reported against 826,799 infections reported in two weeks. The first fortnight of the last month saw average daily death of 281. The CFR is the number of deaths recorded during the period in proportion to the total cases in that period.According to Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), the CFR will reduce in the next few days as the fatality curve always lags by three-four weeks behind the infection cases curve. “Most of these deaths are of patients who were admitted before two to three weeks. We will see the decrease of deaths in the coming days,” said Dr Lahane.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, attributes the high CFR to the surge in rural pockets. “There are at least 12 districts in Maharashtra like Ahmednagar, Satara, Sangli and Beed where both new cases, as well as deaths, are increasing by the day. They tend to increase the CFR of the state. These districts suffer from two factors, a casual approach towards the virus and lack of medical facilities. Many people in rural parts do not wear masks, nor they practice social distancing. In addition, fewer tests are being conducted in these districts. The longer turnaround time for results of the tests lead to more infections and subsequently the high death rate,” said Gilada.Mumbai continued to log fewer cases by reporting 1,535 cases and 60 deaths. Pune city has recorded 1,359 new cases, while Nashik city saw 1,022 new cases. Aurangabad and Kolhapur city recorded 214 and 217 cases respectively.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 468,109. Pune tops with 82,397 active patients followed by Mumbai with 33,574 and Thane with 30,492 active patients. The total number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours were 264,587 with a positivity rate of 12.99%.In Solapur, there was a large procession at the funeral of a social worker throwing all social distancing norms at the wind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-11-699-deaths-fatality-rate-of-1-58-in-15-days-101621189027471.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Vax drive to resume in Mumbai from Tuesday; more stock expected this week||The shortage of vaccine doses has slowed down the vaccination drive in the state and Mumbai. After stalling the drive for two days, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expected to resume it from Tuesday. Presently, Mumbai has only 50,000 vaccine doses in stock and is expecting more doses this week, according to civic authorities. The state government is expecting new stock of vaccines on Monday or Tuesday. The short supply of the shots has witnessed a drastic drop in the vaccination rate in the state. Maharashtra could vaccinate less than 200,000 people daily last week, and BMC has been vaccinating around 25,000 per day. On Saturday, Maharashtra vaccinated a total of 192,742 beneficiaries. In Mumbai, the drive has been suspended on Monday, for a day, given the warning issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) of heavy rainfall and gusty winds due to cyclone Tauktae, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Sunday. In a statement, Chahal said, “In view of the warning of high-intensity cyclone issued by IMD, the vaccination program in Mumbai for Monday (17th May) is cancelled.” The vaccination drive will resume in Mumbai on Tuesday. There are presently 260 vaccination centres across the city, of which 166 are operated by BMC, 74 are private and 20 are operated by the state or Central government. Chahal on Sunday also announced that walk-in vaccination will be allowed for beneficiaries above age 60 years who are getting their first dose but only for the Covishield vaccines. According to BMC, there are about 300,000 beneficiaries 60 years of age remaining to be given their first dose. BMC plans to complete this within a week. On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday (May 18 to 20) beneficiaries in the 60 years and above age group taking their first dose of Covishield, those who are due for a second dose of Covaxin, and differently-abled beneficiaries will qualify for walk-in vaccinations. On these three days, only health and frontline workers can get their second dose of Covishield as many have completed 12 weeks since their first dose. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday vaccination will be allowed via online appointment through the Co-WIN app.According to the BMC data, so far 2,841,349 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 2,121,573 have received their first dose and 719,776 administered second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-drive-to-resume-in-mumbai-from-tuesday-more-stock-expected-this-week-101621188968129.html
16-05-2021||Other||Ghazipur man launches firewood bank to help cremate bodies||Lucknow: Sanjay Rai (50), a native of Sherpur village in Ghazipur district, has launched a ‘firewood bank’ near the cremation grounds located on the bank of river Ganga to assist the poor people in the last rites of their near and dear ones. Rai, who runs a business in Kutch area of Gujarat, was in his village when he came to know that villagers were dumping bodies of suspected Covid -19 patients in the Ganga as they were unable to perform the last rites due to poverty. The issue was highlighted by the media. Photographs of bodies floating in the river were carried in both print and electronic media and environmentalists expressed concern over increase in Ganga pollution. “People from various parts of the country called me to know the facts. The dumping of bodies as well as floating corpses in the river seemed disgraceful,” Rai said. “I discussed with my associates and family members how to assist the poor people in cremating the bodies. We decided to launch a firewood bank on the nine ghats located near the river. We informed the district administration about the plan and after getting the nod we transported firewood from various parts of the districts, procured from the timber merchants. On May 14 the firewood bank was launched near the nine cremation grounds,” he said. The poor people visiting the ghats for cremation got wood free from the bank and volunteers were working round the clock, distributing the firewood and maintaining the stock at all the ghats. “Along with assisting the needy, we are also working to protect the Ganga from pollution, Rai said. An official said the district administration had launched an awareness campaign in the villages located near the Ganga, urging the people to not dump the bodies in the river. The flood company of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) was regularly patrolling the river to check dumping of bodies. The administration had told the newly elected gram pradhans that if the villager has no money to perform the last rites of dead family member, the administration would assist them. The initiative of Sanjay Rai had helped the administration in reaching the rural masses and assisting them in cremation, he said. Rai has also launched Youth Rural Entrepreneur Foundation in his village to enlighten the farmers about new agriculture technology and marketing of products. “We are also assisting the youths in education, skill development and entrepreneurship,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghazipur-man-launches-firewood-bank-to-help-cremate-bodies-101621188967526.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Majha Doctor: Family doctors key in fight against Covid, says Maharashtra CM||To seek cooperation from local doctors in the fight against Covid, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state-appointed task force of doctors, under its Majha Doctor initiative, interacted with more than 17,500 doctors across Maharashtra on Sunday. They guided the local doctors on various aspects, including treatment protocol, treating patient during home isolation or institutional quarantine, reasonable use of drugs and oxygen and treating mucormycosis, among others. In what was termed as a one-off attempt of interaction with the family doctors, the state leadership urged the doctors to manage patients taking treatment at home well. Thackeray said that as 75% patients do not show any symptoms for the virus, they are treated at home by their family doctors, which, in turn, increases their responsibility multi-fold. He said the late referral to hospitals makes it difficult to treat them, thus increasing the fatality rate. “If the patients are treated well in home isolation with appropriate management, the mortality rate can come down significantly,” said Thackeray. The webinar, Managing Covid-19 in Primary Care, was organised by OneMD and was attended by state task force members Dr Sanjay Oak, Dr Shashank Joshi and Dr Rahul Pandit; Director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research Dr TP Lahane and Dr Ashish Bhumkar. r“A family doctor plays an important role while treating a Covid-19 patient at home as he is monitoring his oxygen level, treating comorbidities and guiding him on medicines. The doctor needs to take a call on admitting the patient to the hospital at the appropriate time. Maintaining the sugar level during infection is also a major task before the family doctor. If this management is done properly, it may help reduce the fatalities,” said Thackeray. He also urged the family doctors to extend their services by serving at the nearest Covid care centres. “This will not only be a service to society, but will also give relief to patients as they are being treated by their own doctor. There is a challenge of keeping monsoon-related diseases such as dengue, malaria, leptospirosis in control amid the pandemic. I have directed the state machinery to increase rapid antigen testing so that such diseases can be contained,” he said. Doctors from the task force insisted on the reasonable use of drugs, including steroids and even oxygen. “Patients tend to avoid Covid-19 tests for obvious reasons, but there is no alternative to RT-PCR test. Six-minute test and breathlessness among patients could help doctors in early diagnosis of the infection. It has also been observed that CT scans are being done unnecessarily and their scores are given undue importance. Doctors should also treat oxygen as a drug, ensuring its rational use at clinics and primary health centres and hospitals,” said Dr Oak. Dr Oak said the task force has recommended treatment of Covid-19 patients with no symptoms at community halls at village level, instead of keeping them in home isolation. According to a statement by the CMO, they received more than 3,000 reactions from doctors and general public and was shared by over 1,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/majha-doctor-family-doctors-key-in-fight-against-covid-says-maharashtra-cm-101621188907451.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||No coercive action to be taken against Daund hospital accused of over-charging till May 19: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has restrained the authorities from shutting down a hospital in Daund, Pune which is a dedicated Covid care centre after receiving complaints of over-charging and having four Covid deaths in a single day. The shutdown order was passed on May 7 after the authorities conducted an inspection on receipt of the complaints and found that the centre had not been following stipulated operational norms. However, in light of the fact that 18 patients were still being treated in the centre and the authorities had not allowed the hospital to explain, the court restrained them from shutting the centre till the next hearing on May 19.The division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition filed by Mohan General and Multi-Specialty Hospital at Daund, Pune, was informed by advocate Dr Uday Warunjikar that the petition was challenging a May 7 cancellation of license order by the sub-divisional officer, Purandar taluka, Pune. The petition also challenged the direction by the sub-divisional officer to the hospital to refund the excess fees they had charged from patients who underwent Covid treatment at the facility.Dr Warunjikar informed the court that the 60-bed hospital had 12 intensive care units (ICU) units and 10 invasive and non-invasive ventilators. He submitted that the hospital was having all the modern amenities and also had the wherewithal to treat Covid patients and had also arranged for a sufficient supply of oxygen.The bench was informed by additional government pleader Kavita Solunke that after receiving numerous complaints from patients who received treatment at the hospital, the tehsildar inspected the hospital and its records and prepared a report. The report states that four Covid patients had died on April 27 due to lack of proper treatment and the hospital had not maintained proper records of patients. The report also pointed to the fact that the hospital had recovered ₹2.75 lakh from an insurance company for treating a patient whose actual bill was only ₹87,000.Solunke submitted that in light of the above it was clear that the hospital violated several provisions of the Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act, hence the show cause notice issued to the hospital asking it to respond in three days failing which its license would be cancelled and its registration would be suspended was valid. She also sought time to file an affidavit with regards to the report. Dr Warunjikar submitted that 18 patients were still receiving treatment at the hospital and if the hospital was not allowed to function it would have an adverse effect on the condition of the patients. He added that as the proper procedure was not followed as per the Act and the hospital did not have a chance to have its say, the implementation of the May 7 order should be stayed. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the authorities to file their reply by May 18 and retrained them from taking any coercive action against the hospital till the next date of hearing on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-coercive-action-to-be-taken-against-daund-hospital-accused-of-over-charging-till-may-19-hc-101621188908124.html
16-05-2021||Other||Thane civic body nod to 85 private hospitals to carry vaccination drive||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has permitted 85 private hospitals to conduct vaccination drive in its vicinity. The civic body has also permitted to conduct training at the centres to carry out the vaccination. To vaccinate as many as people in Thane, the TMC has decided a policy to allow private establishments, industrial establishments and housing societies to hold vaccination drives. “As per the government guidelines, it is mandatory to register on Co-WIN portal for the vaccination for all the employees. While those who wish to start a vaccination centre, procurement of the vaccine is their responsibility. While the civic body will guide on the technical aspects to them,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC. Meanwhile, the TMC has decided to purchase 5 lakh vaccine doses through a global tender. The decision was taken by the TMC commissioner Vipin Sharma, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, and mayor Naresh Mhaske. “After increasing the beds, making provision for the oxygen and medicines, the civic body is now also looking forwards acquiring more vaccines. The global tender will help speed up the vaccination drive,” said Malvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-civic-body-nod-to-85-private-hospitals-to-carry-vaccination-drive-101621188788244.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||PIL seeking separate vaccine booking portal for Mumbai filed in HC||A public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a dedicated vaccination booking portal for Mumbai has been filed in the Bombay high court by an Andheri based teacher. The petition has claimed that the existing Co-WIN portal is not user-friendly as it does not have a fixed opening time, hence a fixed time for booking vaccination appointments should be made available for citizens, especially those in the age group of 18-44 years. The PIL has also sought a system to ensure that senior citizens are not made to return home without getting their jabs as centres have a tendency to administer available vaccines to walk-in citizens, even though time slots have been allotted.The PIL filed by Yogita Rajesh Vanzara points to the fact that the vaccine booking portal does not have a fixed schedule and timing for citizens to log on and book a slot for getting jabs at the vaccination centres as a result of which precious time of people in the age group of 18-44 years is wasted in keeping track of when the booking function on the portal gets activated.The PIL has also cited the erratic timing of the booking function becoming activated and stated, “Various centres show the availability of seats at midnight or thereafter and yet booked within seconds of the same being offered to the public.” To avoid this situation the petition has sought directions to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to open slots for booking vaccine at a pre-determined time with due intimation for a full week, instead of on daily basis.The PIL has also raised the issue of non-availability of vaccines for citizens who have got appointments for the jab especially senior citizens who have to return home without the jab as the centres that have walk-in facilities exhaust the vaccines. In light of this, the PIL has prayed for directions to administer the vaccine to walk-in citizens only after ensuring that people who have booked vaccines through the portal are given the vaccination.The petition also highlights the issue of citizens from economically backward finding it difficult to get vaccine bookings due to their technical ignorance or inaccessibility due to lack of a proper internet connection. The petition also points to the fact that the servers are unable to take load due to the large number of people trying to book vaccination slots.On the issue of centres not being senior citizen and disabled friendly, the PIL has sought directions to make the centres’ wheelchair friendly as well. The petition also complains of the portal deleting bookings after which the citizen is unable to secure another booking.In light of the above, the PIL has sought to set up a separate portal for Mumbai and to streamline the booking process by having fixed timing and providing information in real-time on the availability of vaccines at the centres. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-seeking-separate-vaccine-booking-portal-for-mumbai-filed-in-hc-101621188787514.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Testing goes up at Mumbai airport: 1.25L of total 3.45L tests done in less than two months||With the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave and some states including Maharashtra announcing lockdown-like restrictions, the number of RT-PCR tests at Mumbai airport has witnessed a massive increase. The airport saw around 125,000 RT-PCR tests since March 7 till the first few days of May. The total number of tests done at the airport till date stands to 345,000.From November 26, 2020 till last week, passengers travelling to Maharashtra from specific states, marked as “sensitive areas”, were required to have a negative RT-PCR report. However from Friday, the state government made negative RT-PCR test report, obtained within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state, mandatory for all arriving passengers. Considering the issues with delayed test reports, the state allowed air and rail travellers to de-board at their destinations in Maharashtra but asked them to get tested upon arrival.Due to the impact of the second wave that largely started around April, air traffic has fallen from around 650 movements per day to around 200-250 movements per day, sources from Mumbai airport had told HT earlier in the week.“Around 5.3 million passengers travelled to/from Mumbai airport between January and April 2020. However, the traffic fell when foreign countries imposed travel bans. Domestic traffic largely saw the impact from the first week of May,” said an airport source. Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) set up testing facilities in September 2020 and it was gradually extended to encompass arriving and departing passengers as well as non-passengers arriving at the airport. With the increase in demand for testing at the airport in the wake of various testing and quarantine regulations across borders, CSMIA then went ahead to introduce an express molecular technology developed by Abbott ID Now to provide test results in 13 minutes.“Since the launch of its testing facilities in September 2020, CSMIA has registered over 345,000 tests. The airport has established over 30 testing counters for international and domestic passengers. The testing centres include those equipped with molecular testing facilities which offer passengers the option to process their test results in 13 minutes post sample collection,” a senior airport official said.However, passengers getting tested after arrival are allowed to head to their destinations and the reports are emailed to the after a minimum of 24 hours.“As per the government resolution of Maharashtra government dated May 12, any passenger arriving from any part of India should bring negative RT-PCR report. Without a negative report, they are not allowed to board. Previously, passengers arriving from seven states were screened compulsorily...If passengers don’t have negative RT-PCR report, then the passengers were allowed to leave the airport after giving their swab samples for testing at the testing counters at the airport. The lab informs the concerned ward if a passenger is found positive and the respective ward monitors such a passenger,” said Devendra Kumar Jain, officer on special duty (OSD) in-charge of domestic and international operations, Mumbai civic body.“The system is developed and every passenger is tracked. Passengers are equally worried and they take precautions themselves too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/testing-goes-up-at-mumbai-airport-1-25l-of-total-3-45l-tests-done-in-less-than-two-months-101621188727469.html
16-05-2021||Other||Keep tabs on riverine areas for people dumping bodies: Adityanath tells cops||Noida: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked the police and provincial armed constabulary (PAC) jawans to keep strict vigil on the last rites of bodies in their areas so as to ensure bodies are not be found disposed of in or near rivers in the state.Addressing the press at the NTPC Institute in Noida’s Sector 16A, Adityanath said Sunday that even village-level officials have been asked to ensure that no corpses are thrown in the waters. “As per our policy, the state government is paying ₹5,000 to each poor family to cremate or bury the bodies. The police and PAC jawans have been asked to intensify patrolling in the riverine areas to stop this inhumane practice, in which families are reportedly abandoning the dead bodies for fear of Covid-19,” he said. The CM’s statement came in the light of media reports that several bodies of possible Covid victims were found in or near rivers in the state. On reports of exorbitant prices allegedly being charged by private hospitals from Covid patients, the chief minister asked the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to take stern actions against anyone found doing so. “The admin has also been asked to arrange separate hospitals for the free treatment of women and children. At the same time, the admin has been asked to take a tough stand in enforcing the Covid curfew as it is the only way to break the virus’ chain,” he said. Earlier, meeting with the MLAs and the MP of the district, the CM said that oxygen consumption at private hospitals will be audited. “The districts must have a Covid team on the lines of the state, which can keep a constant tab on the situation. Every vaccination centre should also have a call centre that can intimate the beneficiaries on time about their slots,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Jewar, Dhitendra Singh, requested the CM to give priority to local residents in vaccination and hospitalisation. “It is really heart-breaking that even those, who had given their ancestral land for the construction of the hospitals, are running pillar to post,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-tabs-on-riverine-areas-for-people-dumping-bodies-adityanath-tells-cops-101621188607392.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae alert: BMC suspends vaccine drive in Mumbai for Monday||The Covid-19 vaccination drive for all age groups has been suspended in Mumbai on Monday, for a day, in view of the warning issued by IMD of heavy rain and gusty winds due to cyclone Tauktae, civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Sunday. In a statement, Chahal said, “In view of the warning of a high-intensity cyclone issued by IMD, the vaccination programme in Mumbai for Monday (17th May) is cancelled.” The vaccination drive will resume in Mumbai on Tuesday. There are presently 260 vaccination centres across the city, of which 166 are operated by the Brihanmumbai MunIcipal Corporation (BMC), 74 are private and 20 are operated by the state or central government. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s public health department and disaster management department, said, “Mumbai can expect heavy rainfall and speedy winds on Monday. BMC’s disaster management department is on alert for any incidents of waterlogging, tree collapses, traffic diversions. Mumbaiites are advised not to venture out of their homes at public places. Hence, vaccination is also suspended.” Chahal on Sunday also announced that walk-in vaccination will be allowed for beneficiaries above age 60, who are getting their first dose, but only for Covishield vaccines.On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday (May 18 to 20), beneficiaries in the 60 years and above age group taking their first dose of Covishield, those who are due for the second dose of Covaxin, and differently abled beneficiaries will qualify for walk-in vaccinations. On these three days, only health and frontline workers can get their second dose of Covishield as many have completed 12 weeks since their first dose. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday vaccination will be allowed via online appointment through the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-alert-bmc-suspends-vaccine-drive-in-mumbai-for-monday-101621187767416.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two arrested for stabbing 26-year-old||Three people allegedly stabbed a 26-year-old man and assaulted him with an iron rod two days after the man had intervened and stopped the trio from assaulting a neighbour. Trombay police arrested two of the accused on Sunday while the third is absconding. The arrested accused — Farukh Saidul Shaikh, 21, and Imran Shaikh, 23 — have been booked under charges of attempt to murder, assault, and punishment for criminal intimidation and common intention, said a police officer. The third accused, Yasin Saidul Shaikh, is wanted in the case.The victim, Taslim Sayyed Salar, a 26-year-old resident of Mankhurd, had intervened when the three accused had a heated argument with Salar’s neighbour four to five days ago. Salar, who was present at the neighbour’s home at the time, dispersed the accused who threatened and questioned Salar on his involvement and left. The accused returned on Friday night armed with an iron rod and allegedly assaulted Salar at his residence. One of the accused was carrying a knife and stabbed Salar in the abdomen, said senior inspector Siddheshwar Gove, Trombay police station.The accused fled from the spot while neighbours took Salar to Sion hospital where he has been recuperating and he is out of danger, said Gove. The police was informed about the incident. A team visited the spot and verified the attack and recorded statements of the locals. Following Salar’s statement, a first information report (FIR) was registered on Saturday and two accused were arrested from the vicinity, added Gove.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-arrested-for-stabbing-26yearold-101621187347340.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fuel prices continue to rise, petrol inches towards ₹100-mark||Fuel prices kept rising steadily over past one week with petrol price inching towards ₹100 mark for one litre on Sunday. After the hike of 23 and 29 paise, petrol and diesel prices touched ₹98.88 and ₹90.40 for a litre on Sunday, respectively. On Saturday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹98.65 while diesel was available at ₹90.11 for a litre. About a week ago on May 10, petrol cost ₹97.86 and diesel ₹89.17 for one litre. Fuel prices have increased steadily since May 3. Earlier on April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 for one litre and diesel at ₹87.81, as opposed to ₹96.98 and ₹87.96 for petrol and diesel on April 14, respectively.The rise in the fuel prices has irked citizens as well as transporters as it could lead to inflation. They have also urged both the state and Central governments to work on reducing fuel prices.“There has been a constant increase in fuel prices, which is causing financial problems to citizens. People are stepping outside their houses only for urgent travels. Local trains are shut and people have no other option but to travel by their personal vehicles. In this backdrop, the government should reduce the prices of both petrol and diesel. Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel should be reduced immediately,” said Ankita Deshpande, a Parel resident.All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) stated that excise duties on petroleum products should be cut. “The government should have cut excise duties and asked states to lower VAT to provide some relief, but its insensitivity towards the plight of people continues unabated,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fuel-prices-continue-to-rise-petrol-inches-towards-100mark-101621187288551.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae to pass Mumbai on Monday; IMD sounds orange alert||Cyclone Tauktae is expected to pass by Mumbai on Monday sometime during late morning to early afternoon, at a distance of about 380kms from the city’s coastline, officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) confirmed on Sunday. Wind speed between 55 and 70kmph (kilometre per hour) is expected to lash the city, along with heavy rainfall at isolated locations. Light to moderate rains commenced in the city on Sunday night with winds touching 30 to 35kmph speed and gusting up to 52kmph. The shower will increase by late night and may continue till Monday afternoon.The weather bureau’s initial yellow category storm warning for Mumbai for Sunday has been upgraded to orange category warning for Monday, indicating very likely chances of rough weather.“The weather system has slowed down a bit after initial forecasts suggested that it would cross Mumbai’s latitude on Sunday. It is now expected to cross the city sometime after 11.30am on Monday, though effects of the cyclone began to be felt on Saturday night itself when wind speeds in Mumbai touched as much as 40kmph. Showers and gusty winds may be felt on Sunday night,” said Jayanta Sarkar, scientist and head of IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, on Sunday .Officials said heavy rainfall due to the cyclone would not pose a major problem to Mumbai’s civic infrastructure. “But citizens should be mindful of the weather when stepping out, especially along the coast, due to the strong winds,” said KS Hosalikar, senior scientist with IMD in Pune. “Some wind damage to property cannot be ruled out. Orange alert has also been sounded for Thane and Palghar districts, while Raigad is in the red category because the impact of the rain and winds might be felt more severely due to the district’s hilly topography.”With the slowing down of the weather system, temperatures in Mumbai remained high on Sunday, with a maximum daytime temperature of 36 degrees Celsius, down from a 10-year high for the month of May at 37.4 degrees Celsius the day prior. This was due to the dense cloud cover that has formed over the city and is acting as a heat trap. However, mercury is expected to dip to 31 degrees Celsius on Monday after heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-to-pass-mumbai-on-monday-imd-sounds-orange-alert-101621187228534.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||139 more fatalities, 9,115 virus cases in Haryana||Haryana on Sunday reported 139 Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 6,685, while 9,115 new cases pushed the infection count to 6,94,427.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the new deaths include 16 from Hisar, 12 each from Gurgaon and Jind, 10 from Rohtak and nine from Ambala district.Among the districts which reported a big spike in daily cases include Gurgaon (1,864), Faridabad (702), Hisar (713) and Sonipat (520), it said.The total active cases currently stands at 90,066 while the overall recoveries so far stands at 5,97,676.The positivity rate is 8.41%, while the recovery rate is 86.07%, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/139-more-fatalities-9-115-virus-cases-in-haryana-101621184947846.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till May 24||To contain the upsurge of cases in the state, the Haryana government on Sunday yet again extended the lockdown till May 24. A week-long lockdown had been first imposed in the state on May 3. It was extended for another week on May 10 with stricter restrictions such as capping gatherings to 11 put in place. The lockdown was to end on May 17 at 5am but it has been extended for another week. In a single-page order chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said the decision to extend the lockdown had been taken after duly considering the fact that the number of Covid positive cases are still high in the state.”Announcing the decision, health and home minister Anil Vij tweeted, “Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana extended from May 17 to May 24. Stringent measures will be taken to implement the alert.”Ever since the lockdown was clamped there has been a marked improvement in the overall situation with fresh cases and active cases coming down and recovery outnumbering the new cases.The recent surge had overwhelmed hospitals with demand for medical oxygen also increasing manifold. The government has maintained that it is doing its best to tackle the present situation.The government has also stepped-up efforts to check the spread of the virus in rural areas with many villages seeing a surge in infections. During the lockdown, the government had urged residents to stay indoors. However, several categories of people, including those tasked with the maintenance of law and order, emergency and municipal services and the government machinery engaged in anti-Covid duties, have been exempted from the lockdown restrictions.To curb the virus’ spread, the state government had recently put several other restrictions in place including the imposition of restrictions orders under Section 144 of the CrPC and daily night curfew.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the number of covid cases were coming down in the state and that it was unanimously decided that the lockdown with the same terms and conditions should be extended for one more week. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-may-24-101621184408632.html
16-05-2021||Bangalore||Cyclone Tauktae: 98 villages affected in Karnataka, 4 human lives lost so far||With Cyclone Tauktae wreaking havoc in the coastal and surrounding malnad districts of Karnataka, a total of four deaths have been reported in the state so far, officials said on Sunday. According to a situation report by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials, till this evening, 98 villages, 20 taluks in seven districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan have been affected by the cyclone so far.Among the 98 villages affected, a maximum of 31 are from Uttara Kannada district. Of the four deaths reported so far, one each are from Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga, officials said. While one fisherman who went to tie his boat died in Uttara Kannada as he got hit by another boat, a person died in Udupi due to electric mishap, they said, adding that one death each were reported in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga due house collapse and lightning respectively. A total of 516 people have been evacuated so far, as per the situation report, and 253 people are currently taking shelter in the 10 relief camps that have been opened. Damages to a total of 216 houses, 491 poles, 27 transformers, 3,000 meters of lines have been reported so far, it added. Meanwhile Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa today asked in-charge Ministers of coastal districts and Deputy Commissioners (DCs) there to visit affected areas and carry out rescue and relief works. Yediyurappa called Ministers incharge of coastal districts and DCs and took stock of the situation there, his office said in a statement. He has directed the officials to call the Ministers concerned or him directly if in need of any emergency assistance from the government. According to a tweet in the evening by the CMO, the Chief Minister once again spoke to three DCs and the Chief Secretary in the evening and directed the Dakshina Kannada DC to take necessary measures to rescue the crew of a tug boat that is caught in the sea. He also directed the Chief Secretary to stay in touch with the Centre for the rescue of crew, and make all the necessary arrangements, including chopper if required. A tugboat named Coromandel has nine crew members, sources said. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, due to very severe cyclonic storm from 08:30 am to till 07:30 pm rainfall was observed over parts of the state. Widespread moderate to heavy rains were observed over Uttara Kannada, Belagavi and Udupi districts. The officials said as the system is moving further north, towards Maharashtra coast, the impact of cyclone will likely to come down from tomorrow over the State. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that rain or thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over coastal and South Interior Karnataka and at many places over North Interior Karnataka. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said around 1,000 trained personnel from fire force, police, coastal police, home guards, SDRF have been deployed in the three coastal districts and they will work with coordination in rescue and relief operations, also NDRF teams have also been roped in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cyclone-tauktae-latest-updates-98-villages-affected-in-karnataka-4-human-lives-lost-so-far-101621183590529.html
16-05-2021||Noida||Noida authority starts home delivery of oxygen cylinders||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Sunday said it has started delivering the oxygen cylinders to homes of Covid patients on call. “Many patients in Noida do not have even one family member who can pick up cylinders from the authority’s counters. Therefore, the authority released numbers on which patients can call and get a cylinder delivered,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.She said cylinders will be delivered within two hours. The formalities such as Aadhaar card, Covid report and copy of the doctor’s prescription will be accepted at home itself. The authority will charge ₹200 for a small cylinder with ₹2,500 refundable security, and an oxygen concentrator will be provided with a refundable security of ₹7,500. People can call AK Jain at 9205691612, Pradeep Kumar at 9205692763, Rohit Singh at 9205691601 and Rajesh Kumar at 9582793787. The service is available from 8am to 8pm. The cylinders will have to be returned after use within one day while a concentrator can be returned in seven days. Maheshwari also said that owners of industrial units have been asked to set up Covid help desks at the factory premises for their workers. “The help desks are operational in 6,732 industrial units in Noida to handle Covid-related queries in small and big units. Besides, at least 1,500 beds isolation facilities are operational in around 500 industrial units in the city to treat patients,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The micro, small, medium enterprise association said that several companies which had the space have developed isolation facilities with a minimum of ten beds so that workers in need can get treatment. “The chief minister’s visit has benefited us, as all officials are now on their toes and have intensified the fight against Covid. We are following all instructions and have set up help desks for workers from Covid-19,” said Surendra Nahta, president of the association’s Noida chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-starts-home-delivery-of-oxygen-cylinders-101621184047318.html
16-05-2021||Noida||Liquor shop owner held for violating lockdown guidelines||Noida: A liquor shop owner in Surajpur was nabbed by the Noida police for allegedly selling alcohol beyond the stipulated hours on Saturday and violating lockdown guidelines. The suspect, identified as Rakesh, a native of Bulandshahr, was running a liquor shop in Malakpur village under the jurisdiction of Surajpur police station. According to police, he was nabbed when the police were patrolling the area in the evening. “Around 7pm, the patrolling team noticed that he was selling alcohol to locals from a house adjacent to his shop,” said Ajay Kumar, station house officer at Surajpur police station.He said that a team apprehended Rakesh and seized 10 bottles and 38 quarters of imported whiskey from his possession. Police said his staff was also aiding him in the illegal sale of liquor and a search is on for them. The suspects were not only violating excise mandates but also Covid protocols as they were working without masks and social distancing, said police. According to the state and district administration guidelines, liquor shops in Gautam Budh Nagar reopened on May 11 and are allowed to operate between 10am and 5pm. Selling after the stipulated hours is a violation of the lockdown guidelines.Officials said action can also be taken against people found purchasing liquor in an illegal manner.Kumarsaid Rakesh has been found to have sold alcohol beyond the stipulated hours regularly. He and five others have been booked at the Surajpur police station under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Excise Act.“Our inspectors are working in the field to ensure the lockdown guidelines are followed. Large crowds can no longer be seen at the shops now barring the initial few days. In case owners violate the guideline of selling liquor after hours, they are liable to pay a fine of ₹5,000,” said district excise officer R B Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/liquor-shop-owner-held-for-violating-lockdown-guidelines-101621183989119.html
16-05-2021||Noida||Four new oxygen plants planned to meet demand||Noida: In a bid to meet the shortage of medical oxygen in the city, four new oxygen plants have been planned at different hospitals to tide over the crisis, said officials aware of the matter. The pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, which separate and retrieve oxygen from ambient air, are expected to start operations from June, said officials. “We are arranging oxygen through different channels but the demand is still high. So four new oxygen plants have been planned at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) in Sector 30, one at Government Institute of Medical Sciences and two at a Covid hospital in Sector 39. One of the plants at Sector-39 will be made operational by May end,” said additional district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, Diwakar Singh. According to officials, two PSA plants, each having a capacity of 300 litres per minute, will be developed at the Covid hospital in Sector 39, of which one is being built using funds from the state budget while the other will be constructed with funds collected through corporate social responsibility (CSR). Meanwhile, the PSA plant at the paediatric hospital will have a capacity of 15 cubic metres. “The plant proposed at Government Institute of Medical Science, Greater Noida, will be developed from CSR fund,” said Singh. “We have received a few proposals of installing an oxygen plant at the institute. However, the work has not been initiated yet. Currently, the demand for oxygen is around 11 kilo litres per day. We are receiving oxygen and also have a liquid oxygen plant installed here. However, a new oxygen plant will be of great help,” said Brig (Dr) Rakesh Gupta, director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences. Currently, the city faces a shortage of 28.13 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen per day. Officials said the total demand of oxygen in the city’s hospitals and medical college — both private and public — is around 125 MT while the city is being supplied with 96.87 MT of oxygen.The city currently requires to refill 1,890 D-type cylinders, each of quantity 0.01 MT and 200 B-type cylinders, each having a quantity 0.0021 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-new-oxygen-plants-planned-to-meet-demand-101621183988537.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar inaugurates 500-bedded Covid centres in Panipat, Hisar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated two 500-bedded Covid centres — Guru Teg Bahadur Sanjeevani Hospital in Bal Jatan village near Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery and Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjeevani Covid Hospital in Hisar — on SundaySet up in around 20 days at a cost of around ₹28 crore with the help of the DRDO and the PWD department, the hospital in Panipat will have around 325 staff members, including doctors, paramedics. The hospital in Hisar was set up by the Haryana State Road and Bridge Development Corporation (HSRBDC) in 18 days at a cost of around ₹28.79 crore in the school building owned by the Jindal family. The hospital became functional two days before the May 18 deadline. The newly setup hospital will have 30 medical officers and MBBS interns, 43 pharmacists, 16 regular doctors, 27 staff nurses, 48 intern staff nurses. The hospital has been divided into four blocks and all the 500 beds are equipped with oxygen supply. The oxygen will be supplied from the Jindal steel unit.Speaking at Panipat, the CM said, “The second wave has reached its peak five times faster than the first wave. With the setting up of two hospitals in Hisar and Panipat, the strength of hospital beds in the state has reached 19,500.” On the black fungus disease, he said,”Sixty cases have been reported in the state and four centres have been set up to treat the fungal disease one each in Hisar, Rohtak, Karnal and Gurugram.”Haryana health minister Anil Vij said the state government was in touch with the Centre for increasing Haryana’s quota of oxygen supply. “We will require more oxygen to increase the strength of oxygen beds,” he said. Union Minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan said around 13,000MT of liquid medical oxygen was being imported from countries such as Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). “The Panipat refinery has increased its oxygen generation capacity to 280 MT. The centre has also imported 200 cryogenic tankers. Free Covid jabs will be provided to all residents of Bal Jattan village and officials of IOC’s Panipat refinery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-inaugurates-500-bedded-covid-centres-in-panipat-hisar-101621183987977.html
16-05-2021||Noida||In Noida and Ghaziabad, slots for 18-44 age group vaccination fill up in an hour||Ghaziabad: Slots for Covid-19 vaccination for the 18-44 years category, which opened up on Sunday for the coming week, were almost fully booked within hours in Ghaziabad, while the same in Gautam Budh Nagar were mostly gone in just a few minutes.According to the Ghaziabad health department, they had received 35,000 doses on Saturday and correspondingly, increased the number of vaccination centres from 16 the previous week to 28, for the drive from May 17 to 22.“We created the sessions Sunday morning and the slots got booked within minutes. Twelve more centres were added for the upcoming week, with an average of 200-300 doses per centre. More centres could be created as we had received stock of 35,000 doses for the 18-44 age group, apart from 25,000 for the 45+ category on Sunday evening from the store at Meerut,” said Dr Vishram Singh, district immunisation officer of Ghaziabad. The slots opened up at around 11am and within an hour, a majority were booked, the Cowin portal showed. Vaccinations for the 18-44 years’ age group started in the two districts on May 10.Beneficiaries who have registered online said they were eagerly waiting for slots to open up.“It was like fastest finger first as slots were getting booked within minutes. It was almost as if tatkal tickets for railway trains are being sold. I had filled in all the details and opted for the centre nearest to my house. Luckily, I got a slot for Monday. I tried last week but I missed the opportunity as there were no slots,” said Prateek Kaushik, 32, a resident of Delhi Gate in Ghaziabad. Residents in Gautam Budh Nagar booked slots at a faster pace on Sunday. However, some still missed the registrations. “We kept trying to book a slot in Noida but to no avail. Eventually we gave up. Every time we logged on, it showed booked for all centres near us and ‘not available’ for later dates. Finally, my wife and I booked a slot in Delhi for later this week,” said Lalit Garg, a resident of Sector 56, Noida. By Sunday afternoon, the CoWin portal showed very few slots available in GB Nagar. Majority of the bookings were in rural centres at community health centres at Jewar, Nagar Panchayat Jahangirpur, Rabupura, sub-centre and Ghijore. “We created about 32 centres for vaccinations of those from 18-44 years. The slots got booked very fast on Sunday. We received about 42,000 doses from the vaccine depot at Meerut for this week. We are trying to provide 7,000 doses daily to beneficiaries in this category,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-noida-and-ghaziabad-slots-for-18-44-age-group-vaccination-fill-up-in-an-hour-101621183927262.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||40-year-old man refuses to pay back ₹100, stabbed by couple in Delhi||A couple allegedly stabbed a 40-year-old man to death following a quarrel over ₹100 in Delhi, police said on Sunday.The police have arrested Reshma in connection with the incident, while her husband Jitender is on the run.The deceased has been identified as Ajeet, a resident of Mangolpuri, they said.On Sunday at 2:45 pm, police received information regarding the incident.Police reached Sanjay Gandhi Hospital where on enquiry, it was found that Ajeet was brought to the hospital by his father. He was declared brought dead, having one stab injury behind his right knee, a senior police officer said.During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that Jitender asked Ajeet to repay him ₹100 on Sunday. On the issue, a heated argument ensued between them which led to a quarrel. Ajeet beat the accused on the spot and refused to pay money, police said.Thereafter, Jitender went to his home, brought a knife and his wife also accompanied him. They attacked Ajeet with the knife and fled from the spot thereafter, the police said.Ajeet succumbed to his injury due to excessive bleeding the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/40yearold-man-refuses-to-pay-back-rs-100-stabbed-by-couple-in-delhi-101621183663349.html
16-05-2021||Noida||ILI/SARI cases show declining trend in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) have started witnessing a decline in the current month after such cases peaked in April this year, according to data of the district health department. Health officials said that the decline in ILI and SARI cases is a good sign as about 15-20% of such cases turn out positive for Covid-19. According to the health department data, there were about 41 cases of ILI/SARI in Ghaziabad in February which increased to 106 in March and further spiked to 3,249 in April when Covid-19 caseload was high in the district. However, during the first 15 days of May, only 570 such cases have come in so far. The ILI and SARI cases show Covid-19 symptoms like cough, cold, fever and respiratory issues and need to be tested and treated early to avoid any patient going into stages of aggravation. The officials said that the decline in ILI/SARI cases is a result of door-to-door surveys, surveillance and testing taken up by the health department teams. “We have 618 surveillance teams and 20 static centres where testing takes place to detect suspected cases. About 15-20% of both ILI and SARI cases generally turn into positive for Covid-19. So, early detection of ILI/SARI cases helps contain the spread of virus,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. In September last year, of 6,093 Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad, 2,531 patients had shown symptoms of ILI/SARI, showed the data. The figure was 1,319 of 4,174 Covid cases in October, while it was 1,089 of 4,198 Covid cases in November and 315 of total 1,238 Covid cases in December last year. “So, their (ILI/SARI cases) early testing and treatment is a must. We have also intensified surveillance and door-to-door surveys in rural areas to detect and test such cases. In urban areas, localities like Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Sahibabad and Raj Nagar have high number of ILI/SARI cases. The trend is, however, on a decline,” Gupta said. Experts said that they have also witnessed a decline in ILI/SARI cases in May. “About 80% cases coming in around mid-April were having ILI/SARI symptoms. We have observed that the rate of such patients coming in has declined to about 50-60% during past one week, and it is encouraging,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “It is vital that anyone having ILI/SARI symptoms should get tested at the onset and isolate self, besides starting with treatment,” he added. Ghaziabad has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases after April 15 this year. On April 15, the sample positivity rate was low at 2.8%, but it shot up to 8.84% on April 30 and further spiked to 19.3% on May 6. The official records indicated that it was 14.55% on May 15. Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested. Sometimes patients take more than one test for confirmation and so, total positive samples can be higher than total positive cases, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ilisari-cases-show-declining-trend-in-ghaziabad-101621183867293.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amid rising virus cases, Bhiwani villagers set up their own isolation centre||Amid increasing coronavirus cases and deaths in rural areas across the state, residents of Mandholi Kalan village, nearly 60 km from the district headquarters in Bhiwani, have set up an isolation centre in a private school’s building. The state government had announced that it will be releasing ₹50,000 per gram panchayat to set up isolation centres in villages but the residents of Mandholi village started their own isolation centre. Almost every family in the village, which has approximately 6,000 people, has been touched by the virus. The health department had collected samples of 60 people, of which eight were found positive in rapid tests. Mandeep Chaudhary, a postgraduate, who runs a coaching centre, said they had established a10-bedded isolation centre at KCM School this week.“We have four oxygen cylinders and five doctors are available for online consultation free of cost. We have equipment such as oximeters, thermometers, steam machines and blood pressure monitoring machines. Thirty-eight patients are admitted at the centre, which was set up with the help of donations,” he said. Chaudhary, who had started an ambulance service in the village in January, has purchased two more ambulances amid the second wave.“If patients’ condition worsens, they are taken to hospitals in Bhiwani or Hisar. The poor are ferried free of cost and well-to-do patients are also only charged for fuel. Our team has been delivering oxygen cylinders and medicines to patients’ door step. Only refilling charges are taken,” he said.The director of the private school, Jaibir Boora, said, “Most students in our school are from Mandholi Kalan and other neighbouring villages. Thus, in this hour of crisis, we offered our building as an isolation centre so that lives can be saved. School authorities in collaboration with the village youth are planning to increase the number of beds.” Chotu, a resident of the village said his mother was admitted to the isolation centre after her oxygen saturation levels dropped. “Now, my mother is fine and her saturation level is 97. This centre is very helpful for patients whose lungs are affected. If oxygen is provided to such patients, they can be shifted to hospitals,” he said.Devender Sheoran, a resident of Sidhanwa village, who had supplied 14 oxygen cylinders to those in need free of cost said they too were planning on setting up an isolation centre in their village on their own.” “ We have identified a school building and the isolation centre will be started in the next three to four days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-rising-virus-cases-bhiwani-villagers-set-up-their-own-isolation-centre-101621183688654.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||AAP leader behind 'PM Modi why did you send vaccines of our children' posters: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Sunday said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Gautam was behind the posters criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the reports of shortage in Covid-19 vaccination doses in the country that emerged in Mangolpuri area. This comes a day after the police arrested 25 peope for allegedly pasting these posters on walls across the city. Delhi police said AAP leader Gautam is absconding. "Police while patrolling to enforce lockdown announced by DDMA, created by GNCTD, noticed walls in several areas being defaced by pasting posters. Accused persons on questioning told an AAP member & President of Ward 47, Arvind Gautam was behind it in Mangolpuri. He is absconding," tweeted the Delhi Police, which comes under the Union Home Ministry.The police alleged that AAP leaders were involved in pasting the posters in other parts of the national capital as well.The police have registered 25 FIRs and arrested as many people for allegedly pasting the posters, reading "Modiji humare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (PM why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)", in several parts of the city.Police registered the FIRs under sections of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act. The number of first information reports (FIRs) and arrests could increase in the coming days as more posters reading “Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya? (Why did Modi send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?)” are being found across the city, senior police officers privy to the development said.Since the legal sections mentioned in the FIRs were all bailable, a majority of those arrested till Saturday afternoon were released on bail from the concerned police stations itself. Those arrested after Saturday afternoon were likely to be released by late in the night after completing the legal formalities, the officers said.The police are trying to ascertain if all the posters were printed at one printing press and whether the order for the same was given by an individual or any political party. However, the initial investigations in most of the registered cases and interrogation of the arrested people have not yielded much of a result.A few of the arrested persons claimed that they were given money for pasting the posters. The police are now trying to identify the people who paid the money. Their questioning may lead to the key players behind the critical posters, the officers said.The first such posters, nearly 1,800 in number and not bearing any logo or mention of any political party or organisation, were found in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri between Wednesday and Thursday, after which a case was registered and four persons were arrested. Their interrogation pointed towards the involvement of a local politician.“We are probing the role of the politician. Our investigation is still on. It’s too early to comment on any individual’s involvement,” said a police officer, who did not want to be identified.As similar posters were found in other parts of the city from Thursday onwards, more FIRs were registered. Till Saturday evening, the number of FIRs reached 25 in 13 different police districts.All the cases were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other sections including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act across various districts. In total, 25 people were arrested till Saturday evening.As per details obtained from the police, except New Delhi and outer-north, all other 13 districts registered between one and four cases each. In four cases registered by the north-west district, two people were arrested while the outer, west and north-east districts filed three cases each.Two cases each were registered in the south, central and Rohini districts while the remaining six districts – Shahdara, Dwarka, North, south-East, south-west, and east – registered one case each. West district police made five arrests, while in the east and central districts, four people each were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-leader-behind-pm-modi-why-did-you-send-vaccines-of-our-children-posters-delhi-police-101621180303545.html
16-05-2021||Other||J’khand doc threatens to ‘thrash’ state health minister, video goes viral||Furore rose over a viral video in which a doctor and owner of an Adityapur-based private hospital said he would have “beaten up a health department’s team and health minister Banna Gupta” on whose alleged “verbal” order the team went for a probe to his hospital on Saturday.“Had there been not seven Covid-19 patients and two patients on ventilator in my hospital, I would have beaten up the probe team led by the district civil surgeon and the health minister. They kept me stuck in their frivolous probe for hours while patients needed me urgently. The government is spending crores on ministers and politicians but has fixed ₹7,000 for common people. Do they know the cost of medicines and equipment?” Dr OP Anand, owner of 111 Save Life Hospital, was heard saying in the viral video.According to Dr Anand, the probe team wanted to investigate alleged exuberant service charges at his hospital. “They didn’t have any written order from the health minister. When I asked for the package fixed by the government, they couldn’t produce that. The government has not provided any such package to us detailing cost of medicines and processes involved in treating Covid-19 patients either. So, what will they probe?,” Dr Anand said. Seraikela-Kharsawan district civil surgeon in-charge Dr Barial Mardi, who led the probe team, said on Sunday that he reported the matter to the health minister and filed an FIR against Dr Anand and hospital management for not allowing them to investigate, misbehaving and threatening the probe team. “I am sending a detailed report to the health minister and further action will be taken as per the health department’s guidelines. I have also lodged a FIR against Dr Anand for obstructing government work, threatening us and violation of the Epidemic Act, DM Act and government orders,” Dr Mardi.The civil surgeon said the probe came after repeated complaints against 111 Save Life Hospital management for levying exuberant and arbitrary charges on Covid-19 patients despite the state government’s fixed rates for such patients being treated in private hospitals. “We sought details of patients, payments charged and received from them and the detailed bills therein after the health minister asked us to investigate the matter. But, Dr Anand didn’t show any documents. Moreover, he kept us waiting. We were also threatened and abused,” alleged Dr Mardi. Health minister urges Dr Anand to do dutyMeanwhile, health minister Banna Gupta refused to be dragged into the controversy and urged Dr Anand to focus and perform his “doctor’s’ duty”. “This is no time to get into any debate or war of words. We all are busy in fighting Covid-19 emergency and arranging facilities for the spiralling number of cases across the state. I believe in constructive work and not bothered about who is abusing me or threatening to beat me up,” said Gupta.The minister, however, said law will take its own course in the matter. “We have been receiving complaints of exuberant charges by 111 Save Life Hospital and Uma Mukti-speciality Hospital following which I directed probe. Suitable legal action will be taken against people found disobeying government orders,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkhand-doc-threatens-to-thrash-state-health-minister-video-goes-viral-101621181647123.html
16-05-2021||Ranchi||Huge rush on govt portal leads to ‘slow’ e-pass generation||As the state entered the fourth week of lockdown on Sunday, additional lockdown restrictions were imposed with prohibition of inter and intrastate bus services and making e-pass mandatory for movement of all private vehicles. However, slow generation of e-passes on the state government’s portal resulted in a chaos-like situation in many parts of the state. According to officials, places, where internet speed was slow, witnessed the problem. Joint transport commissioner of state transport department, Ravi Shankar Vidyarthi, said, “The system is being rectified and the issue will be resolved very soon.”Samir Mahto, a resident of Ranchi’s Nagri area, claimed that he tried to open the website, epassjharkhand.nic.in for an hour in the morning but failed. “The government should have upgraded the system first before making e-pass mandatory,” he said.Many other users said they were unable to complete the entire procedure of e-pass generation due to slow system speed. An official in the Ranchi transport office, who requested to remain anonymous, blamed huge traffic on the website to be the reason behind the slow system.“We have received reports of people facing problems in e-pass generation from few places. The system is partially slow where the internet speed is weak, ” said the transport commissioner.He said more than 1.20 lakh e-passes were issued on Saturday. According to the transport department officials, around 70,000 more e-passes were issued till 4pm on Sunday.The state government extended the lockdown till May 27 morning. It also additional restrictions in bid to contain the spread of coronavirus infection. In a bid to ensure their strict implementation, adequate security personnel were deputed at all strategic locations in capital city Ranchi. Ranchi police also enhanced vehicle checking drive, and no vehicle was allowed to ply without the mandatory e-pass. People found violating the government order were booked under Disaster Management Act and Motor Vehicle Act in many parts of the state.During the lockdown, major city roads wore a deserted look. Few people were seen at vegetable markets and grocery shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/huge-rush-on-govt-portal-leads-to-slow-e-pass-generation-101621181587308.html
16-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: GA slams state govt over Covid-19 mismanagement||Leaders of the Grand Alliance (GA) on Sunday slammed the state government for alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, which complicated miseries of people owing to various crises, and urged the chief minister Nitish Kumar to have the say of legislators in using the local area development (LAD) fund to refurbish health infrastructure in their areas. Last month, the state government had allocated ₹2 crore out of the total ₹3 crore of the LAD fund of each legislator to the health department for management of the pandemic, which infected nearly 6.50 lakh people in its second wave. Legislators of the opposition parties were feeling handicapped to help the people during the pandemic as they were unable to provide monetary help to the distressed lots. The GA, which held a virtual meeting under the leadership of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday, issued a 15-point charter of demands, which also included the issuance of a status report on purchases of ambulances purchased from LAD fund MPs/MLAs in the last 15 years. They alleged that the government was indulging in tampering with data on pandemic instead of focussing its attention on ensuring proper care to the people under treatment. This is for the first time when leaders of the opposition parties, including those of the Congress and left parties, held a joint meeting to discuss the chaos and various crises the people are grappling with to access suitable medical facilities in the state. RJD senior Alok Mehta, who conducted the meeting, said that the GA wrote a letter to the CM asking him to provide a monthly allowance of ₹750 to those left jobless due to the pandemic and ration to those who don’t pay income tax. Yadav questioned the rationale behind allocating a major chunk of LAD fund to the health department without seeking the legislators’ consent and claimed that people of Bihar were suffering the most owing to the state government’s inefficiency and mishandling of the pandemic by a select group of bureaucrats. The opposition leaders alleged that the government had taken ₹50 lakh from each legislators’ quota in the name of improving health infrastructure last year. But we were completely unaware of what happened with the fund. They also demanded payment of ₹4lakh as exgratia to those who died waiting for the Covid test. The leaders also asked for increasing the number of RT-PCR test instead of less reliable tests like rapid antigen and TrueNat modes. They also sought to know the progress in setting up the expert committee, which they had suggested during a meeting with the governor. Arrangement of sufficient quantity of vaccine, the appointment of doctors and medical staff on an urgent basis and issuance of a white paper on the equipment procured under the PM Cares fund were among other demands. Meanwhile, Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma also wrote a letter to the CM, asking him to arrange the purchase of one fully equipped ambulance in each district from the ₹2 crore discretionary quota fund, which the state government has already taken, to take care of covid-infected people of their respective areas. The Congress party has also proposed to set up a district-level task force of its office bearers to monitor the quality of medical facilities being offered to the covid-infected people in the government and private hospitals and pressurise the district administration and health officials to discharge their duties properly. Earlier on Saturday, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief Srinivas BV reviewed the functioning of the state Youth Congress volunteers, who are part of the SOSIYC, for extending help to the people suffering from the pandemic and their families by way of facilitating the availability of suitable beds in hospitals, arranging oxygen and necessary medicines and providing food to those under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharga-slams-state-govt-over-covid-19-mismanagement-101621181527284.html
16-05-2021||Patna||Two more black fungus cases detected in Bihar; Covid cases on the decline||Two new cases of mucormycosis or black fungus were detected at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) while three others were suspected to be infected of the fungus, taking their total number to 24 on Sunday, when 6,894 new infections of coronavirus — the lowest in a day this month — and 89 deaths were reported in Bihar. “We got two new confirmed cases of mucormycosis, taking its total cases at our institute to six,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent, IGIMS. Details of the patients were awaited, he added. Of the new Covid-19 infections reported Saturday, Patna topped with 1,103 cases, followed by Gaya 381, Samastipur 331, East Champaran 297, Begusarai 270, Madhubani 267, Supaul 240, and Araria 236, among other districts. Bihar’s test positivity ratio (TPR), which is the people testing positive for the virus out of the total tested, had declined to 6.7% on May 15, the lowest this month. Bihar’s TPR was 15.6% when it went in for a 10-day lockdown on May 5. The state’s lockdown has since been extended to May 25. The average growth rate of Covid-19 infection between May 8 and 15 also slid to 1.5%. Bihar inoculated 1,09,706 people against Covid-19 on Sunday as against 1,24,104 people on Saturday and 1,16,441 on Friday because of closure of many vaccination session sites. Meanwhile, Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said 14,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection, a specific drug for treatment of cases of mucormycosis, were made available to the health department through the World Health Organisation. Some hospitals had earlier claimed that the injection was not available in the state and they had written to the state drug controller about it. Around 6,000 vials of injection from this stock were made available to different hospitals in the state. These include AIIMS-Patna (2000 vials), IGIMS, Patna Medical College Hospital, Nalanda Medical College Hospital, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Bhagalpur (300 vials each), Darbhanga Medical College Hospital, Government Medical College Hospital, Bettiah,, Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya, Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri (200 each) and 1,600 vials to the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), Patna. Pandey said that injections for patients admitted at private facilities would be stored at the RMRIMS. Around 24 cases of black fungus, associated with Covid-19, have so far been reported in the state. He also said that 37,430 doses of Remdesivir, for treatment of coronavirus patients, had been made available to various district hospitals while 50,321 doses were available in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-more-black-fungus-cases-detected-in-bihar-covid-cases-on-the-decline-101621181467187.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 311 more Covid-19 deaths, 10,682 fresh cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 17,546 with 311 more fatalities while the infection tally climbed to 16,19,645 as 10,682 fresh coronavirus cases were reported, officials said on Sunday.Of the fresh deaths, Meerut reported 27 followed by Lucknow (20), Kanpur (13), Chandauli and Basti (12), Mathura (10), the state government said in a statement.At 701, the maximum number of new cases were reported from Meerut followed by Lucknow (525), Varanasi (496), Deoria (471), Bulandshahr (451) and Saharanpur (437).In the last 24 hours; 24,837 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease taking the total number of patients discharged so far in the state to 14,39,096.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 1,63,003; the statement said.More than 2.67 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, over 4.46 crore samples have been tested in the state, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-311-more-covid-19-deaths-10-682-fresh-cases-101621179474515.html
16-05-2021||Other||5,221 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 5,221 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The district also reported 62 deaths due to the infection. This takes the total case count in the district to 0.973 million, of which 0.80 million have recovered.The death toll for the district stands at 10,434 and currently, 82,397 active cases are undergoing treatment in hospital or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,990 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count up to 2,64,984. With 18 deaths, the toll in rural areas went up to 2,795. Pune city reported 1,359 new cases, which takes the progressive count up to 4,73,076. With 44 more deaths, the toll stands at 6,040. PCMC reported 872 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 2,35,625. No deaths were recorded in PCMC, where the death toll stands at 1,541.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5221-new-covid-19-cases-62-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101621179847105.html
16-05-2021||Pune||After Goa and Mumbai, NDRF teams airlifted to Gujarat||The National disaster response force (NDRF) operation in Pune has deployed five more teams for relief work on Sunday in light of cyclone Tauktae. The teams were airlifted from Pune to Ahmedabad and Goa. Five other teams were deployed until Saturday - one in Goa and four in Mumbai. “Five teams of NDRF will shortly airlift from Pune technical airport to Ahmedabad, Gujarat amid Cyclone Tauktae,” read a statement from an NDRF official on Sunday. In Goa, vehicles were stuck in Margaon as the rainfall and winds had caused tree felling. The ambulances and vehicles heading towards a major hospital were stuck due to the blockages. “Road leading to TB hospital, Margao was blocked due to falling of heavy trees and was cleared by Goa team amid of heavy rain as supplies are cut to the hospital due to this block,” read the NDRF statement. The ministry of Earth Science of India predicted the movement of the cyclone and issued warnings and possible measures to be taken. “It is very likely to intensify further during next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) around May 18 early morning,” read a statement from the ministry of Earth Science of India. Rainfall warnings were issued until May 19 in parts of Kerala, Karnataka, South and North Konkan, Goa, Gujarat, and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-goa-and-mumbai-ndrf-teams-airlifted-to-gujarat-101621178287114.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Unscientific pruning of tree branches by MSEDCL poses a risk in monsoon||A large number of trees felling incidents might be reported this year during monsoon, as the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) authorities have carried out pruning of tree branches and chopped off portion of trees in an unscientific manner, according to experts. Trees along the roads in Sinhagad, Bibwewadi, NIBM road, Salunke Vihar, Padmavati, Kothrud, Baner, Pashan, Ahmednagar Road, Bhavani peth and other suburbs were pruned, according to the mandatory advisory of MSEDCL authorities. The mandate was to prune the branches of those trees which have grown into electricity cables of high-tension supply lines and also the general electricity supply lines. But environmentalists and commuters have argued that balancing the weight of the trees has not been taken into consideration while carrying out the cutting exercise and the unscientific way of axing could lead to incidents of tree felling during monsoon. The MSEDCL advisory states that the branches and portion of trees which are threats to high tension cable wires are cut off in the month of May before the onset of monsoon season. There is a threat to life if trees fall onto the electricity supplying cables or there is a possibility of electricity supply breakdown. “However, the contractor appointed by the authorities seems to have pruned the branches and chopped off the portions in such a way that a major disaster is in the offing due to haphazard way of pruning the branches. There is a way to deal with tree cutting and the balance has to be maintained. One can see that the trees are bending towards the roadside as the branches from the other side have been cut in large number and weight imbalance has been created,” said environmentalist Madhusudan Kore. PMC garden superintendent Ashok Ghorpade said, “The tree branches are to be axed in the presence of the regional ward staffers of the PMC and there are directions to the effect. However, the branches are cut off indiscriminately without taking safety into consideration.” MSEDCL authorities maintained that a review of the tree cutting exercise would be undertaken and necessary steps will be initiated for citizens’ safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unscientific-pruning-of-tree-branches-by-msedcl-poses-a-risk-in-monsoon-101621177207051.html
16-05-2021||Other||Petrol station staff assaulted for refusing fuel to mask-less customers; 6 booked||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police have booked six men for assaulting a petrol-pump worker who refused to give them fuel, as they had not worn masks. The incident happened on Friday afternoon at 1:30pm at Shubham Bharat petrol pump in Mhanlunge, Khed.Two of the six people have been identified as Shambhu Bhosale and his mother, according to the complainant.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Namdev Dilip Jare (27), a resident of Varale in Khed.The others working at the petrol pump, who were also assaulted by the six, have been identified as Lakshman Mamde, Gajanan Mhase, Kiran Jare, and Ashwini Jare.The accused allegedly used wooden rods and stones to beat up the petrol pump workers.Assistant police inspector Madhukar Pansare of Mhalunge police outpost is investigating the case.A case under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt); 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace); 506 (criminal intimidation); 188, and rioting of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Mhalunge police outpost of Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-station-staff-assaulted-for-refusing-fuel-to-mask-less-customers-6-booked-101621177027001.html
16-05-2021||Other||Sewage water flowing via Chakan canal directly into Bhima river||PUNE Farmers on the outskirts of Chakan have complained about sewage water flowing directly into the Bhima river, affecting their crops. An entire river stretch flowing from Agarkarwadi, Rakshewadi, Patharwadi, until Kalus, which is a village one-km from the Bhima Askhed dam, is allegedly polluted with chemicals and sewage, creating a bluish tinge on the surface of the water. Foam has also filled the canal (odha) running through Chakan city.“My family is part of the farmer’s group in Kalus and I own 2.5 acres of farmland. Initially, this odha was a narrow one, but with expansion and population growth all the water flowing through reaches the Bhima river faster,” said Vicky Koutkar, a lawyer and farmer.Factories and manufacturers, in MIDC and the small scale industries set up along the Chakan nagar parishad area, are being blamed for releasing pollutants into the odha.“One can see a sticky, thick greenish hue on the top layer of the water near the dam, while every day, we see soapy bubbles and foam running through the odha,” added Koutkar.Nanasaheb Kamthe, CEO, Chakan nagar parishad, denied chemical waste was floating through the odha, but agreed that sewage water from residential areas is being released into the canal.“I am aware that sewage water from the Chakan area is flowing into the odha and we are working towards a solution. We already have a work order to build an underground drainage line for the entire Chakan city. Besides this, a sewage treatment plant is also in the pipeline. I have taken over six months ago and this nagar parishad is fairly new, formed in 2015; hence, we need time to plan and implement basic things,” said Kamthe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sewage-water-flowing-via-chakan-canal-directly-into-bhima-river-101621176726997.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Gusty winds, rainfall to continue until May 17: IMD||With the very severe cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’ passing through the coast of Maharashtra and Goa, Pune district and Pune city has experienced gusty winds and sporadic rainfall on Sunday. According to IMD officials, strong winds and rainfall will continue in Pune district until May 17. The city reported light rainfall with cloudy weather throughout the day, and many ghat areas in Pune district were on alert for heavy rainfall. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune said that gusty winds and heavy rainfall at ghat areas in the district is expected until May 17. “We have already issued a warning for heavy rainfall for ghat areas in the Pune district. This may continue on May 17 as well. Cyclone Tauktae is moving slowly towards Gujarat. However, along with the cyclone, there is a trough line over Konkan and Goa and Madhya Maharashtra which is further regulating the weather over Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi. He added that from May 17, strong winds will not grip Pune city and district. “From May 18, the rainfall is likely to decrease in Pune district and the city,” forecasted IMD. Kashyapi added that cyclone Tauktae is very likely to reach Gujarat as a very severe cyclonic storm. As per IMD, cyclone Tauktae is very likely to intensify until May 17. It is also very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) around May 18 early morning. “The areas where it will make landfall in Gujarat may cause huge losses to life and property. Due to the cyclone, in Konkan and Goa isolated places may witness heavy rainfall in the next few days. Gusty winds will be experienced until May 17 in Konkan and Goa,” said Kashyapi. He added that in Central Maharashtra, ghat areas will see heavy rainfall on Sunday and May 17. “Marathwada and Vidarbha may experience light rains for the next few days,” said Kashyapi. Pune on Sunday reported rainfall of 2.8 millimetre in Shivajinagar, 1.2 mm rainfall in Lohegaon and 2.3 mm rainfall in Pashan. The day temperature on Sunday dipped as low as 30.2 degree Celsius as per IMD. Whereas Lohegaon reported day temperature at 31.5 degree Celsius during day. Along with Pune, Kolhapur, Mahabaleshwar, Nashik, Ratnagiri, Sangli and Satara also reported rainfall. Panjim on Sunday reported 124 mm rainfall.Aurangabad and Parbhani in Marathwada and Akola and Amravati also reported rains on Sunday.The highest maximum temperature reported across Maharashtra on Sunday was at 42.7 degree Celsius at Brahmapuri. And the lowest minimum temperature reported was at 17.7 degree Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gusty-winds-rainfall-to-continue-until-may-17-imd-101621176607007.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Fire department responded to more tree falling incidents than fire in 2020||Due to concretisation of roads and development, tree falling incidents are increasing continuously in the city. According to the Pune fire department statistics, in the past two years, the department has responded to more tree felling incidents than cases of fire in the city. The fire department registered 1,269 incidents of tree falling against 975 fire incidents from January- December-2019. In 2020, the fire department recorded 1,152 tree falling incidents whereas they got calls of 699 fire incidents. Due to cyclone Tauktae, Pune city is also experiencing rain and strong winds. In the last two days, the fire department has registered more than 20 tree falling incidents across the city. According to fire department statistics, tree falling incidents are increasing from 2015 in the city. In 2017, a total of 1,201 tree falling incidents were reported. Not only environmentalists but also garden department officials allege that most of the trees that were standing on public land suffered damage or were lost due to negligence as the soil cover around these structures were lost to unscientific trimming or concretisation around them, forcing many to tilt during the rains and lose their stability. Excessive concretization, road digging Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent of PMC garden department said, “A major stretch of roads in the city along the internal roads owned by societies, have witnessed rampant concretisation over the last few years. In several areas, there is no soil left around the trunk of the tree. It is completely concertized thus stunting their growth. It does not get oxygen to grow, and it leads to plunge trees. Such trees will eventually collapse during the rains. Digging of roads for lying service lines or underground cables damages the roots of trees and uneven trimming of branches of trees is another reason trees fall in the city.” During former civic chief Mahesh Pathak’s time, the garden department had issued circulation to the road department which had mentioned details of concretisation near trees. The PMC road department is also not following instructions of the garden department. As per PMC road department officials, most of the corporators use their local ward development funds to concertise lanes and internal roads, more than ₹300 crore are spent on concretization of small roads. Demand of maintenance cell City based environmentalist Dr Sachin Punekar said, “The PMC has started rampant cement concretisation of internal roads or areas. It has completely stopped water percolation. Therefore, water is logging in the city and the tree’s holding capacity has gone down and they are falling down often in the city. The PMC garden department and tree authority should have to form a mechanism for tree maintenance. Trees are suffocating due to concretization. We cannot blame it on heavy rain. Trees are living entities. The PMC should have to diagnose tree falling phenomena as it is increasing in the city and work to minimise or stop it.” NGT order In 2014, the National Green Tribunal ordered in one of the hearings of Navi Mumbai based environmentalists that a three feet circumference around the trees must be kept free of any concretisation. This will help in the growth of the trees and will help retain their stability. VG Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department, said, “It is not the major reason for tree falling, it may be one of the reasons for tree falling. Uneven chopping of tree branches also imbalance trees and they plunge during heavy rains. We are taking precautions to provide adequate space for trees to breathe and grow naturally.” PMC chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise said, “Due to the lack of soil around the trunk weakens the roots of trees and it falls down. Tree falling incidents have increased since the last few years in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-department-responded-to-more-tree-falling-incidents-than-fire-in-2020-101621176427073.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Some trains cancelled due to cyclone alert, flight operations unaffected||The Pune railway division on Sunday cancelled some of their train operations due to the Tauktae cyclone alert to prevent any mishap in the train journey. The two trains which are cancelled due to the cyclone alert are special train number 01192 Pune-Bhuj express departing on May 17 and special train number 01191 Bhuj-Pune Express departing Bhuj on May 19. In addition to these, two trains which railways have cancelled due to the low occupancy are special train number 01493 Pune-Danapur Express leaving on May 16 and train number 01494 Danapur-Pune Express departing from Danapur on May 18 towards Pune. Earlier, Pune railway division had cancelled several trains due to the low occupancy, one of them was special train run as per the Deccan Queen scheduled time between Pune and Mumbai. While last month, some other trains were also cancelled due to poor occupancy and not getting passengers. These trains include - Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special train and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains were originating from Pune railway division, due to less occupancy of less than 15 per cent these trains were cancelled by the railways. On the other hand, none of the flight operations were either cancelled or diverted from the Pune international airport due to the cyclone alert. All the scheduled flights arrived and departed as per its timings from the airport. “There is no change in the flight operations from the Pune airport until now due to the cyclone alert,” said Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/some-trains-cancelled-due-to-cyclone-alert-flight-operations-unaffected-101621176306912.html
16-05-2021||Other||PMC takes 150 beggars of the streets for vaccination and tests||PUNE As many as 150 beggars, picked up by the anti- encroachment cell of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and housed in a facility for the homeless, are now awaiting guidelines for vaccination.The PMC has housed the beggars in its 150-bed Niwara facility, and will out vaccinations and Covie tests. The initiative started on Thursday after PMC teams fanned out to Moledina road, Yerawada, Navi peth and Bopodi.During the last lockdown, as many as 1,800 beggars and homeless persons were brought to PMC schools, including 150 to the Niwara facility, for temporary rehabilitation. Madhav Jagtap, head of the anti-encroachment cell, who looks after the welfare of homeless, said, “PMC has taken the responsibility of vaccinating the beggars and also conducting tests. We are awaiting guidelines.”Dr Dilip Patil, the state vaccination chief and deputy director of health, said, “The beggars don’t have any documentary proof and have no proof of residence. How can they be registered? The state government has sought guidelines from the centre and till date it has not sent any such information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-takes-150-beggars-of-the-streets-for-vaccination-and-tests-101621176187031.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 34,389 new Covid-19 cases, 974 fatalities||Maharashtra on Sunday logged 34,389 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, while 974 succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. In comparison to Saturday, the state reported a net decline of 459 infections and a rise of 14 deaths.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The new addition in the cases and deaths took the case tally of the state to 5,378,452 and toll to 81,486 on Sunday, the bulletin showed. The active caseload of the state with one of the highest number of currently positive cases in the country reached 494,032 on Sunday.As many as 59,318 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, outnumbering new cases for the seventh straight day or a week. A total number of 4,826,371 patients have come out of the clutches of the deadly virus since the pandemic hit the state. There has been a net increase in the number of new recoveries in the last 24 hours, as on Saturday the state reported 59,073 discharges.More than 264,00 samples were tested to detect Covid-19 in the state's population, a rise of 27,323 tests done on Saturday. The total number of tests done so far for Covid-19 stands at 3,11,03,991, according to the bulletin.Mumbai on Sunday reported 1,544 new viral infections and 60 fatalities due to the disease, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC) bulletin. The number of new cases rose by 97 in the last 24 hours, while fatalities increased by two.Also read: Shiv Sena accuses Modi government of Covid-19 mismanagementEven with less testing in the last 24 hours, there has been a net incline in the number of new cases. On Saturday, 24,896 samples were tested for Covid-19 in comparison to 22,430 tests done in the last 24 hours, the BMC data showed.At present, the active cases in the state capital stand at 35,702, with 86 active containment zones (slums and chawls) and 339 sealed buildings.2,438 patients recovered on Sunday taking the total discharges to 636,753. The recovery rate from the disease stands at 92 per cent, same as on Saturday, according to the BMC data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-34-389-new-covid-19-cases-974-fatalities-101621172937911.html
16-05-2021||Other||4 arrested for Bibwewadi murder||PUNE The Pune Police arrested four people late on Saturday night for the murder of 28-year-old Madhav Hanumant Waghate in Bibwewadi on Saturday morning. The deceased is a resident of Sahakarnagar.The arrest was confirmed by inspector (crime) Anita Hivarkar of Bibwewadi police station.The arrested men have been identified as Gopal alias Aba Ganesh Dhaware (30); Shubham Sachin Tanpure (21), Sunil Bhausaheb Ghate (22), and Pawan Satish Gawali (25), all resident of Ota Scheme in Bibwewadi.Dhaware, Tanpure, and Ghate were arrested by a team of Sahkarnagar police station officials, led by assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar, from a rickshaw stand in upper Indiranagar.Gawali was arrested by a team of Unit-5 led by inspector SV Tasgaonkar. The arrested men have also revealed names of three others involved in the murder.Waghate was attacked with tubelights, metal rods and cement blocks while he was waiting for a friend. Waghate’s friend, who had asked him for help, had gotten into a fight with a man over a WhatsApp status. The man with whom Waghate’s friend was in a fight, is on the run. A case under Sections 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 37(1) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-arrested-for-bibwewadi-murder-101621175767033.html
16-05-2021||Other||SPPU’s second semester exams to begin from June 15||PUNE The second-semester examinations of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), for its diploma, graduate and post graduate courses, will begin from June 15.The exams will take in phases and soon, registration for the exam will be open.Currently, first-semester exams, which began on April 10 online, are going on. These exams are for 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) being conducted by the university’s own Edutech Foundation. For the second-semester exams, other methods of conducting the exams are being explored by the SPPU. “This important decision to explore the ways of conducting the exams for the second semester was taken at the SPPU’s board of examination meeting, held on Saturday. Discussions were held about the pattern and how to make it more transparent. The exam will be held online mode and registration will start soon,” said Mahesh Kakade, head of the SPPU examination and evaluation department. “Students demanded that the second-semester exams be held immediately, as most need to take further admissions for higher studies, and need the results for job opportunities,” he added. Meanwhile, the SPPU instructed all affiliated colleges to conduct practicals and internal tests before June 15, and to submit the marks by June 25, as the university cannot declare the results without practical and internal marks from the colleges.Shweta Karale, a Science student said, “Most students were demanding that both semesters be held together. Now, second-semester exams will go on till August and results will be declared after that. There are various courses for which students want to take admission and there process starts from June.” Law student Jay Adwani said, “It is good that SPPU is conducting back-to-back exams for both semesters. It will not create pressure on students. We get time to study.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppus-second-semester-exams-to-begin-from-june-15-101621175406910.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Covaxin for those above 45 years to last only one day, says Delhi govt||Delhi has only one day of Covaxin stock left for those aged above 45, healthcare and frontline workers, while Covishield doses for this category can last up to five days, AAP MLA Atishi said on Sunday.She said 1.18 lakh beneficiaries received the jabs on May 15. Around 10.50 lakh people have got both the doses since the inoculation drive began on January 16.Delhi has so far received 44.94 lakh vaccine doses for this age group, of which 41.68 lakh have been administered, Atishi said.“After Sunday evening, the city will have only one day of Covaxin stock and five days of Covishield doses left. We appeal to the central government to make more vaccines available for this category immediately,” she said.The capital has received 8.17 lakh doses for the 18-44 age group so far, of which 5.25 lakh have been used till Sunday morning.“Since there are no Covaxin doses left for this category, all such vaccination centres have been shut. We have six days of Covishield stock left,” she said.“We appeal to the Centre to provide more doses of Covaxin and Covishield. If Covaxin cannot be arranged, more doses of Covishield should be given to keep the inoculation drive going at this pace,” she said.A total of 44.90 lakh doses have been administered in Delhi so far, according to the latest “vaccination bulletin” released by the government.The Delhi government had received over 1.73 lakh doses of Covishield on Saturday.A government panel has recommended increasing the gap between two doses of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine to 12-16 weeks.Those whose vaccination is due this month will not be administered the vaccine and will only be given the dose according to the new guidelines, a government official said.Healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45 are being vaccinated at 470 centres, whereas beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group are being inoculated at 353 centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covaxin-for-those-above-45-years-to-last-only-one-day-says-delhi-govt-101621174818640.html
16-05-2021||Other||SPPU forms committee to explore new methods of conducting exams||PUNE With the second semester exams to be held from June 15, the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) board of examination has formed a committee to study and explore new options to conduct the exams. Methods like open-book exams, projects and work-based assignments will be explored by this committee. Despite using a proctored test method for the first-semester exam, 362 cases of cheating were discovered. Students were using electronic gadgets and the internet to answer the online exams. Many students have suddenly got high marks, so to make the examination more transparent, new alternatives are been explored.“In the online exams conducted by the SPPU, the number of students appearing has increased and similarly, the passing percentage is also high. We noticed a large number of cases of cheating in the proctored method. As a solution, a decision to form a committee to study and explore examination methods and continuous evaluation has been taken,” said SPPU vice-chancellor, Prof Nitin Karmalkar. While Karmalkar will appoint the experts on this committee, it will explore 22 options of conducting the exams. The recommendations given by the committee are likely to be implemented in the next academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-forms-committee-to-explore-new-methods-of-conducting-exams-101621174746932.html
16-05-2021||Other||70 persons arrested for taking part in bike procession for funeral of man killed in Bibwewadi||PUNE The Pune police, on Sunday, arrested 70 of the 150-200 people booked for organising and participating in a bike rally from Dhankawadi to Katraj, after death of a man named Madhav Hanumant Waghate (28).Waghate, who has a record of cases of physical violence, was killed by a mob of 10 people in Bibwewadi on Saturday.A complaint in the matter was lodged by sub-inspector Harishchandra Kenjale of Sahakarnagar police station.“We have arrested 70-75 people. Our senior police inspector and officers have to take a decision about what to be done about their custody (until they’re produced in court),” said su-inspector BS Khengare of Sahakarnagar police station.The rally began from the Balajinagar area of Dhnakwadi around 12:45pm, and went on till 1pm, when it reached Katraj.A Pune police order, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, prohibited public gatherings or vehicle movement without an emergency reason. The number of attendees at funerals was capped at 20 by the local administration.The participants of the rally flouted multiple provisions of the standing police orders.A case under Section 143 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)(3)with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/70-persons-arrested-for-taking-part-in-bike-procession-for-funeral-of-man-killed-in-bibwewadi-101621174326859.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||Over 45 million Covid-19 tests done, 15 million people vaccinated in UP: Yogi Adityanath||Over 4.5 crore Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Uttar Pradesh so far, while 1.5 crore people have been vaccinated for coronavirus, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday.The chief minister said the state did not have "much capacity" for Covid testing till March last year but is now conducting 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh tests every day."On March 2, 2020, we did not have much capacity for Covid tests nor isolation beds for treatment of Covid patients in the state.'With support from the Centre, the state government's machinery along with help from various organisations, today we are conducting 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh tests every day,” Adityanath told reporters in Noida during a visit here to review the pandemic situation."Over 4.5 crore Covid tests have been conducted in the state so far. The state has 80,000 hospital beds in L2 and L3 category where coronavirus positive patients can be treated," he said.He said the Centre is providing vaccines for free to people above the age of 45 years while the state government is doing it for the people aged between 18 and 44 years."We have so far vaccinated 1.5 crore people in the state and continue (to do so) at war-footing as per a comprehensive strategy," Adityanath said.He said vaccination for people aged above 45 is being done at 2,500 centres and for the 18-plus category, the government had started the vaccination process in seven districts in the first phase where active cases and positivity rate were the highest."In the second phase, we brought all municipal corporations on board and in the third phase, which starts tomorrow, we will begin vaccination at all headquarters of commissionaries. From tomorrow, vaccination will begin in 23 districts of the state," he added.In the wake of suspicions being raised that the virus is spreading to rural areas, the government had implemented a comprehensive strategy for it on May 2, the chief minister said."We have a monitoring team in every village. Keeping 97,000 revenue villages in focus, the monitoring teams are screening people for Covid," he said.Those who are positive or show symptoms for the infection are provided medicine kit and a data is prepared of such people which is given to the Integrated Covid Control Centre (ICCC) from where rapid response team (RRT) goes to the village and conducts tests on contact persons of the patient and makes necessary arrangements for them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-45-million-covid-19-tests-done-15-million-people-vaccinated-in-up-yogi-adityanath-101621170690995.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae to cause very heavy rains in parts of Konkan, Mumbai||The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae could cause heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in north Konkan, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar in Maharashtra on May 17, the IMD said on Sunday.The Met department has predicted extremely heavy rainfall in Raigad on Monday.The IMD had informed the Mumbai civic body that Mumbai is not in the direct line of the threat of the cyclone. However, as it will pass through the sea near the Mumbai coast, its effect is likely to be accompanied by rain and strong winds."Latest track forecast, CS could come at arnd 19N Lat on 17 May afternoon, but could far more than 200 km. Still N Konkan; Mumbai Thane Palghar could hv hvy-vry hvy RF at isol places. Raigad Extremely HR possible. Strong winds, rough sea, Rain 16-17 May," tweeted KS Hosalilar, head SID, Climate Research and Services, IMD, Pune.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai has not received rains since Sunday morning though the sky is mostly overcast.However, the weather mainly remained windy in the city, resulting in the falling of four trees in the western suburbs.Mumbai had received light rain on Saturday night.Meanwhile, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday took stock of the cyclone preparedness after visiting the BMC disaster control room.Pednekar appealed to citizens to strictly follow the instructions given by the civic administration from time to time.The very severe cyclonic storm is likely to intensify during the next 24 hours and reach the Gujarat coast on Monday evening, the IMD had said in its bulletin earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-to-cause-very-heavy-rains-in-parts-of-konkan-mumbai-101621166196482.html
16-05-2021||Other||Time to make laws dealing with hoarding, black marketing more strict||Even though the second wave of Covid-19 seems to have peaked, the numbers are still high and the downward journey is expected to be long. Besides, unlike the first wave, this time the virus is spreading rapidly in rural areas with poor health infrastructure. So the gap between demand and supply in terms of hospital beds, medicines, medical devices will continue to be wide, giving hoarders and black marketers ample opportunities to fish in troubled waters. The rural markets will also give all those rapacious gangs selling fake medicines and oxygen cylinders, a wide opening.Going by the huge haul of fake Remdesivir being ‘manufactured’ and sold in different parts of the country, including Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra, the racket seems widespread. While the Gujarat variety, which was also supplied to consumers in Madhya Pradesh, resulting in the death of at least ten patients, contained glucose and salt, those seized in Nagpur had plain water. More recently, there are reports of cheap antibiotics being sold as Remdesivir in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh. There are also cases of fire extinguishers being sold as oxygen cylinders in different parts of the country. The need of the hour, therefore, is continuous and consistent action to curb not just black marketing of beds and essential medical supplies, but also sale of fake medicines and medical devices. And such action can no longer be limited to urban areas, but should extend to rural India. This requires all agencies enforcing different applicable laws such as the Indian Penal code, the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, the Essential Commodities Act, the Prevention of Blackmarketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, the Epidemic Act and the Disaster management Act, to come together and set up an exclusive cell to deal with all covid related unfair practices. Besides their own investigations, these cells in each state should follow up on consumer complaints of overpricing and fake drugs provided through toll-free telephone and WhatsApp numbers .It is equally important to hand over the maximum punishment to those found guilty through summary trials and fast track courts set up exclusively for the purpose. While retired police personnel can be called back to take some load off the enforcement agencies, retired judges and even lawyers could adjudicate over these cases. Even though the laws provide for imprisonment (can go up to seven years under the Essential Commodities Act ) or fine or both for hoarders and blackmarketers, the quantum of fine prescribed under the Essential Commodities Act is too meagre and the Centre needs to provide for higher penalty through an ordinance.The financial penalties should be stiff enough to pay for the following: reimbursement of the extra amount collected from consumers, remunerations for the extra staff required for enforcement work and the running of the fast track courts and also contribution towards Covid relief work. Where it is possible to establish a direct link between hoarding and black marketing and loss of life, the financial penalty should also cover compensation to the victim’s family.Under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, sale of spurious drugs likely to cause death or grievous hurt carry a sentence of ten years to life, besides fine of ₹10 lakhs or three times the value of the drugs seized. This fine also needs to be increased. The law provides for compensation to the victim or his family.In addition to jail term, those convicted should also be made to work in Covid wards for at least a fortnight, cleaning toilets and wardsLastly, adequate publicity should be given to each of these cases , particularly the severity of the punishment, so as to create the fear of the law in these Covid vultures. Today, these people are emboldened by the paralysis that seems to have gripped many governments. It’s time the governments showed that political will and determination to end the menace and instill confidence in the people that the state will protect them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/time-to-make-laws-dealing-with-hoarding-black-marketing-more-strict-101621166406623.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: BMC suspends Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai on May 17||The Mumbai civic body on Sunday decided to keep its Covid-19 vaccination drive suspended for the third day on May 17 in view of the warning about cyclone Tauktae, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had on Friday announced that there would be no inoculation on May 15 and 16 considering the India Meteorological Department's cyclone warning.The vaccination programme will now be implemented on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, Chahal said.According to the IMD, cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" and is very likely to reach the Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross it between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around the early morning of May 18.A BMC official had earlier said that the civic body has shifted 580 patients from Covid care centres in the city as a precautionary measure in view of the warning that cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close to the city.Meanwhile, Chahal also said the central government has issued directions to maintain a gap of 12 to 16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. Hence, nobody except health care workers and frontline workers will be eligible for the second Covishield dose at present as vaccination for other categories had commenced on March 1."Due to this change, the civic body has decided to extend the walk-in (vaccination) facility for citizens above 60 years of age for the first Covishield dose during May 18- 20," he said.Last week, the BMC had announced that the citizens above 60 years of age, who are waiting for the second dose of Covishield vaccine, the beneficiaries yet to get the second dose of Covaxin and the disabled person can opt for walk-in vaccination from Monday to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-bmc-suspends-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-on-may-17-101621164665903.html
16-05-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi ward boy performs last rites of 2-yr-old Covid victim deserted by parents||A ward boy of Jharkhand’s premier hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) performed the last rites of a two-year-old Covid infected kid after his parents allegedly deserted him in the hospital, officials said on Sunday.“I was told that parents have deserted this two-year-old kid after he was detected positive for Covid-19 disease. There is no one to perform his last rite. When I was told to do the job, I readily accepted it,” ward boy Rohit Bedia said.Following the Covid-19 guidelines, Bedia took the body from RIMS to Ghaghra Muktidham in Ranchi and performed the rituals, which are generally done by family members.Hospital authorities said the parents of the toddler said they were residents of Jamui in Bihar and had brought their two year old son to RIMS for treatment late at night on May 10. The kid was admitted at the paediatric ward of the hospital with a complaint of breathlessness.Dr Hirendra Birua, head of paediatrics surgery department of the hospital said the parents told the doctors that the boy had suddenly developed breathlessness and both of them were attending to the child when he was admitted at 12.15 am on May 11.“We thought something might have got stuck in the child’s windpipe. When his X-Ray was done, we found the kid was suffering from Pneumonia. By the afternoon, he was confirmed positive for the coronavirus. His parents suddenly went traceless after the Covid positive report came,” said Dr Birua.He added that the kid died at 3pm on May 11. “Hospital authorities tried to contact his parents on the numbers provided by them, but they could not be contacted despite repeated efforts,” he said.After the parents failed to respond for three days, the hospital authorities, with the permission of the Ranchi administration, requested Bedia to perform his last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-ward-boy-performs-last-rites-of-2-yr-old-covid-victim-deserted-by-parents-101621164907175.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Your Space: Scale up medical oxygen supplies||Prime Minister has recently lauded Maharashtra government’s efforts to check the spread of Covid-19 during the ongoing second wave. While the medical oxygen crisis is hitting the headlines after the shortage of beds and vaccine, should not the authorities take steps for hospitals to generate their own oxygen to meet the rising demand? Sugar factories should produce medical oxygenHospitals with independent oxygen manufacturing ability are the need of the hour. We need to invest around 20 per cent of budget in health infrastructure to mitigate the crisis. There is a need to train every youth of the country for Covid-19 management. Dedicated online and offline education is required for teachers and youth to fight against Covid-19 and related requirements. Why are we late when medical experts have observed that the second and third wave is expected? Spike in positive cases and deaths is reported across India. It seems that the health system is unable to handle the crisis and residents are apprehensive and confused about hospital treatment. Even the WHO says that they know much about the virus, and they are still learning.India is a country with huge population, expert medical professionals and big pharmaceutical companies, then why not a proper strategy is laid down at the national, state, district and local administration level? Medical oxygen is an indispensable medicine in the treatment of Covid-19. We have to ask for help from other countries. Why not all our sugar factories produce oxygen and supply across the country. Medical oxygen logistic and supply chain also matters. Dr Aftab Anwar ShaikhRamp up medical infra in district Each district collector has to manage adequate supply of medical oxygen, hospital beds, isolation wards for Covid-19 patients and a well-planned vaccination drive at a time when the country is struggling to meet the logistical challenges which a collapsing healthcare system of our state is being exposed every day. There is a need for the administration to have prepared a detailed plan to tackle the deadly second wave of coronavirus and put in place a contingency plan. The government had not anticipated that the cases could shoot up any moment and that an oxygen plant could come in handy if more people fall sick because of the disease. Without much ado, they should have set up oxygen plants. Money is a crucial requirement for setting up a robust healthcare system that needs many ambulances, ventilators, beds, oxygen plants, vaccines, medicines, trained medical staff, nurses and policy makers among others. The government must use a combination of resources, including district planning and development funds, state disaster relief funds, and mobilised the CSR units to meet the expenses for starting up oxygen plants. Efforts should be made to utilise medical resources and set up oxygen plants in the district. This is the best way to lead forward and become self-sufficient.Sanjay KumarSet up more oxygen plantsThe mechanism of setting up oxygen plants will further strengthen public health system and enable long-term systematic augmentation of its availability in a cost-effective manner. Adequate and uninterrupted supply of oxygen is an essential pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid -19, in addition to various other medical conditions where this need arises. Installation of PSA Oxygen Concentrator Plants in public health facilities is an important step to reduce the health facility’s dependence on the system of store and supply and to enable these facilities to have their own oxygen generation capacity. This will not only increase the total oxygen availability pool, but also facilitate providing of oxygen support in timely manner to patients in public health facilities. Ashlesha DetheTake proactive steps to ensure adequate supply of O2While talking about the medical oxygen availability in healthcare facilities across the country, the government must take various proactive steps to ensure adequate supply of medical oxygen. The government should believe in proactive and graded response to the pandemic to augment oxygen supply and we are in an extremely comfortable position when it comes to supply of medical oxygen. Various steps need to be taken for infrastructure augmentation, ensuring uninterrupted oxygen supply, monitoring and coordination with state governments and proactive interventions.Ashish BalgudeIn-house O2 generation facility mustThe basic aim behind establishing oxygen generation plants at government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility. Such an in-house captive oxygen generation facility would address the day-to-day medical oxygen needs of these hospitals and the district. In addition, the liquid medical oxygen (LMO) would serve as a “top up” to the captive oxygen generation. Such a system will go a long way in ensuring that government hospitals in districts do not face sudden disruption of oxygen supplies and have access to adequate uninterrupted oxygen supply to manage the Covid-19 patients and other patients needing such supportAnita BishtCentre has approved setting up of O2 plantsPrime Minister Narendra Modi has given direction of boosting availability of oxygen to hospitals, the PM CARES Fund has given in-principle approval for allocation of funds for installation of 551 dedicated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Medical Oxygen Generation Plants inside public health facilities in the country. The availability of Liquid Medical Oxygen has to be increased each day with contributions from private and public steel plants, industries, oxygen manufacturers as well as through prohibition of supply of oxygen for non-essential industries. The state government has to ensure that oxygen supply to various states happen in a smooth, unhindered manner and there is a need to fix responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction. We have to also explore various innovative ways to increase production and supply of oxygen. Various measures are being undertaken to rapidly increase the availability of cyrogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tankers, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them, but setting up oxygen plants is essential all district places.Judicious use of med oxygen vitalThe PM stressed on the need to ensure faster transportation of oxygen to states and it was discussed that railways is being used for rapid and non-stop long distance transport of tankers. The medical community also pointed out about the need for judicious use of oxygen and how an audit in some states has decreased oxygen demand without affecting the condition of patients to be done. Oxygen plants are the answer and judicious use of oxygen is the need of the time.Saleem Hakim||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-scale-up-medical-oxygen-supplies-101621162208794.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: The story of adapting for stage||I have written a few plays some years back, but I know I am not a writer. But at the same time, I would say that if I had some source material at hand, the process becomes relatively easy for me. Though it’s been a few years since I have written a play, I would like to talk about my personal process of adapting a story into a play. The first play that I adapted and directed was a short story named “Cycle” by a renowned writer in Marathi, Vyankatesh Madgulkar (I am about to narrate the gist of the entire story here, so in case you want to experience the story in its original form first, please refer to his book called “Jaambhlaache Diwas”). “Cycle” is about a school teacher in Pune who has promised a bicycle to his son if he secures the first rank in class. The son keeps securing it for three years and the teacher is still unable to afford it, making him feel extremely guilty. Finally, he buys a used cycle on a whim making his son extremely happy and reliving himself of the guilt. But the teacher finds out that one of his own students has died in a road accident while riding that same cycle and his happiness turns to fear. When he returns home that evening he finds his son absent and the cycle missing. His wife and two daughters are crying at a corner and he fears the worst! They are too afraid and distraught to tell him anything. But seeing his desperation, his wife finally breaks her silence and tells him the truth – their son has lost the cycle and has gone outside to search for it! The son returns home, unsuccessful in his attempt at retrieving it. He looks at his father, waiting for him to explode. But the teacher seems happy instead, leaving the entire family pleasantly confused! The descriptions of the teacher’s state of mind at various places were heart-wrenching. It had transported me to the world of the protagonist and I was so engrossed that by the end of it I felt this gush of warmth in my heart. The minute I heard it, I knew what the scenes were going to be. The overall scene outline wasn’t a challenge. The real challenge was getting the craft of conveying the emotions. During that period of time I was personally not fond of a narrator in a play. I used to find that format of writing extremely escapist. Of course, I do submit that it was my lack of experience back then. The plays which had a narrator who spoke directly with the audience, that I had read or seen by then, did not hold my interest. Since then, I have come across plays that have used that format really well. Anyway, so I had decided not to use this format. Then, the question arose – how to convey the information in the story which is written as the mental turmoil of the teacher? He doesn’t express his emotions to anyone in the story! So, I introduced new characters and new situations that would make the protagonist speak his mind. To give an example, in the first scene itself, when his son tells him that he has secured the first rank, the teacher gives him a chalk as a prize. Even the son accepts it gracefully and leaves. All this is witnessed by a school peon who notices to his surprise that the teacher doesn’t seem too happy about this. When he asks the teacher about it, he reluctantly confesses what his predicament is. It is the peon that encourages the teacher to just go and buy a bicycle and get done with it. This, I believe, is a catalyst for the next scene where he actually purchases it. He finally expresses it to someone and when that person, one who is economically weaker than him, tells him to go for it, really sets the ball rolling. When he learns about his deceased student, the teacher goes through a roller coaster of emotions about how fast youngsters ride their bikes and how can they be so careless and not worry about their parents. For these emotions to come out, we had a new situation wherein, when he is thinking about all this at a bus stop, a school-going kid falls from the cycle in front of him. This triggers the teacher and the emotions flow through words aimed at the student in front of him but the subtext really is different. One thing that I realised involuntarily after adapting this story in a play is that the most important thing is to envision and build the world the story is set in. The craft of writing and staging will follow when that choice is made. This helped me a lot when I adapted two more stories of extremely different genres — “Baapjanma” and “Dalan”. But more about that in the next segment. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-the-story-of-adapting-for-stage-101621161967673.html
16-05-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: Local train services continue to remain suspended in West Bengal||A day after the West Bengal government announced new restrictions in the state for the next 15 days to prevent the Covid-19 virus from proliferating, the state government said that the local train services will continue to remain suspended, reported news agency ANI.The state government said all local, suburban and EMU train services will continue to remain suspended till further advice. However, other special trains, mail, express special trains, parcel trains and freight trains will continue to be operational as per schedule, till further advice, the government said, reported ANI.West Bengal on Saturday announced a complete lockdown in the state from 6am of May 16 to 6pm of May 30.Under the new lockdown rules, all private and government offices, except for emergency service providers will remain closed. Gyms, cinema halls, salons, swimming pools, schools and intra-state bus services are ordered to remain shut. The imposed restrictions prohibit any kind of academic, political and social gathering. For wedding functions, more than 50 people are not allowed.Also read: How India's once-in-a-century budget may crumble as coronavirus strikes back"Academic, cultural, administrative, political and religious gathering remain prohibited. No more than 50 people allowed in wedding functions. Movement of private vehicles, taxi, auto to be suspended from May 16 till May 30. Schools to remain close," the news agency quoted chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as saying.Bandyopadhyay said that retails shops will be open for three hours in the morning from 7am to 10am.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on May 5 first announced the suspension of local train services in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic.West Bengal is one of the ten states with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. According to the Union health ministry data, the active caseload in the state reached over 131,000. The state is also one of the top contributors to the new Covid-19 infections added to the country's tally on Sunday. West Bengal reported 19,511 fresh coronavirus disease cases and 144 deaths in the last 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-local-train-services-continue-to-remain-suspended-in-west-bengal-101621156158182.html
16-05-2021||Kolkata||3 Bengal kids drown in rainwater collected in ditch||Three minor children drowned on Saturday in a ditch filled with rainwater at Nandanpur village in Bengal’s Murshidabad district. The ditch was dug in a field to collect mud for a local brick kiln, police said.The children were identified as 8 years old Sahidul Sheikh, 6-years old Rashid Sheikh, and an 8-years old girl Asha Khatun. They were cousins.The incident took place in the Ranitala police station area of Murshidabad.Villagers told the police that it had been raining for the last few days and the water filled up the ditch. On Saturday afternoon, the children went out to play in the field after a norwester- a stormy weather pattern, but did not return home till late evening.Later, the bodies were found floating in the stagnant water. The children were declared dead on arrival at Nashipur hospital.Maksedh Sheikh, a relative of the children, said, “The incident has shattered us.”Sheikh said, “A local brick kiln owner dug the ditch a few days ago. The field is part of the brick kiln. The children apparently failed to spot the stagnant water since it was dark.”An officer from Ranitala police station said a case of unnatural death has been registered. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/3-bengal-kids-drown-in-rainwater-collected-in-ditch-101621156506891.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||As Tauktae nears, Maharashtra amps up oxygen, power supply in Covid-19 hospitals||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said an alert has been sounded in coastal districts of the state in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, and the state administration has braced up to ensure uninterrupted electricity and oxygen supply in Covid-19 hospitals.Thackeray gave the assurance to Union home minister Amit Shah during a virtual meeting in the morning on the preparedness for tackling the cyclonic storm.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" and is approaching the Gujarat coast.The IMD has forecast high-speed winds along and off south Maharashtra-Goa and adjoining Karnataka coasts over the next couple of days.During the meeting, Thackeray said jumbo Covid-19 centres and other facilities can protect patients from rain. But, in view of the cyclonic storm, some patients from Mumbai and other areas have been shifted to safer places.He said all steps have been taken to ensure oxygen production plants on the coastline and transport of oxygen to rest of the state remain unaffected.Thackeray also informed that residents along the coastline have been moved to safer places and disaster management units have been activated.Collectors of Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad and Palghar districts and Mumbai municipal commissioner have been instructed to ensure that the oxygen production plants of 900 metric tonne capacity along the sea coast are safe, he said.Officials of the electricity and public works departments are also on alert, the CM said.He said arrangements have been made to ensure 12 to 16-hour oxygen backup in districts to be affected by the cyclonic storm."A total of 160 metric tonne of oxygen is expected to reach Maharashtra from Jamnagar in Gujarat by Monday. If there are problems in the Jamnagar plant due to the cyclone, arrangements have been made to get the additional stock from other places," he said.Thackeray said fishermen were also returning to the coast from the sea.He also informed the Union minister that the state has adequate stock of medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-tauktae-nears-maharashtra-amps-up-oxygen-power-supply-in-covid-19-hospitals-101621155709652.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended till May 24: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the ongoing lockdown in Delhi has been extended till May 24 morning. It was earlier supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, May 17.On April 19, a weekend curfew in Delhi was turned into a full lockdown from the next day in the light of an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital which left the city’s health infrastructure creaking. Since then, this is the fourth time the lockdown has been extended.Also Read | Delhi Covid-19 cases dip to 6,430, CM urges caution“The lockdown has been extended till 5 am next Monday,” the chief minister said during his visit to a Covid-19 health facility set up outside the government’s GTB hospital.For the past few days, Delhi has been witnessing a steady decline in Covid-19 infections. However, the positivity rate still remains well above 5% -- a level considered relatively safe by the WHO.Also Read | Delhi sets rates for hearse vans for Covid-19 victims“The recovery rate is going up. And the positivity rate is going down. In the last 24 hours, around 6,500 new cases have been recorded in Delhi and the positivity rate has dropped to 10% -- down from 11% the previous day. We cannot let our guards down now,” Kejriwal said and added it was hoped that the situation would get further better in another week.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued the official order regarding the lockdown extension around 12.30 pm. “The situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has again been reviewed and [it has been] observed that Covid-19 positive cases and positivity rate is still high and [the] bed occupancy (oxygen beds/ICU beds) in the dedicated Covid-19 government and private hospitals and nursing homes is also on [the] higher side,” said the order explaining the rationale for extending the lockdown.Also Read | Covid: Delhi govt to start oxygen concentrator bank, announces CM KejriwalDr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: "Delhi is still facing a shortage of hospital beds, ICUs, ventilators. The government has to implement policies to ensure minimum interaction of people and make sure that there are no gatherings. So the lockdown is essential. We cannot let guards down at this point."As on Sunday noon, 15,340 (66%) of 23,213 total oxygen beds in the city's Covid-19 wards were occupied. Of the 6,415 total ICU beds, 5,728 (89%) were occupied, the government's app on hospital beds showed.While no new restriction has been imposed this week, no existing restriction has been lifted too. General movement of people and economic activities are prohibited in the lockdown with exemptions for those engaged in essential services and the supply chain of essential goods. Metro services are suspended and public buses have been asked to cater only to essential service providers. When asked if Delhi metro service would resume, the chief minister said: “Restrictions will remain as it is this week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-extended-till-may-24-arvind-kejriwal-101621149966714.html
16-05-2021||Pune||‘Leader with huge potential’: PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi pay tributes to Rajeev Satav||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Satav breathed his last on Sunday morning, succumbing to complications related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), for which he tested positive nearly three weeks ago. Satav, who represented his home state of Maharashtra in the Upper House tested negative last week; he passed away at around 5am on Sunday, after being diagnosed with post-Covid complications.Also Read | Congress MP Rajeev Satav dies of post-Covid complications in PuneHere’s how leaders, including those from his party, the Congress, paid their condolences after Satav’s demise at a young age of 46:Vice President Venkaiah Naidu (chairperson of Rajya Sabha): “I’m deeply shocked by the untimely demise of Rajya Sabha member, shri Rajiv Satav due to Covid-related complications. He was a dynamic parliamentarian and deeply committed to serving the people.”I am deeply shocked by the untimely demise of Rajya Sabha member, Shri Rajiv Satav due to Covid-related complications. He was a dynamic parliamentarian & deeply committed to serving the people. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members & his followers. Om Shanthi!Prime Minister Narendra Modi: “Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters.”Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters. Om Shanti.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman (Rajya Sabha MP): “Saddened by the passing away of Shri Rajeev Satav. He was an active member of the Rajya Sabha. Condolences to his family and friends.”Saddened by the passing away of Shri Rajeev Satav @SATAVRAJEEV. He was an active member of the Rajya Sabha. Condolences to his family and friends.Rahul Gandhi (Congress MP and former party president): “I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress.”I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress.It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family. pic.twitter.com/mineA81UYJPriyanka Gandhi Vadra (Congress general secretary): “In Rajeev Satav, we’ve lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress and devoted to the people of India.”In Rajeev Satav we have lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress & devoted to the people of India.I have no words, just prayers for his young wife & children. May they have the strength to carry on without him pic.twitter.com/Z1q6UPmkbKDefence minister Rajnath Singh: Saddened by the untimely demise of young Rajya Sabha MP, Shri Rajeev Satav. His passion to work towards the progress of his home state Maharashtra was noteworthy.”Saddened by the untimely demise of young Rajya Sabha MP, Shri Rajeev Satav ji. His passion to work towards the progress of his home state Maharashtra was noteworthy. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.In a statement, Congress president Sonia Gandhi described Satav’s demise as a “personal loss.” Calling the late Congress leader a “trusted colleague” and a “friend to all of us,” Gandhi called Satav a “rising star” of the party. Born in the city of Pune, Satav breathed his last in his home city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leader-with-huge-potential-pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-pay-tributes-to-rajeev-satav-101621148502715.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown extended till May 24; metro services to remain shut||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of Covid-19 lockdown in the national capital till May 24. "We are extending the lockdown for one more week. Instead of tomorrow, lockdown is extended till next Monday, 5am in Delhi," Kejriwal said while speaking to reporters.Kejriwal said that the lockdown is being extended as the gains made so far in combating Covid-19 cannot be lost due to relaxations now."The recovery rate is going up and the positivity rate is going down. In the last 24 hours, around 6,500 new cases have been recorded in Delhi and the positivity rate has dropped to 10% -- down from 11% the previous day. We cannot let our guards down now," the Delhi CM said.When asked if Delhi metro service would resume, the chief minister said,"Restrictions will remain as it is this week."Movement of people and economic activities are prohibited in the lockdown with exemptions for those engaged in essential services and the supply chain of essential goods. Metro services will continue to remain suspended and public buses have been asked to cater only to essential service providers.#WATCH | Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal says, "We are extending the lockdown for one more week. Instead of tomorrow, lockdown is extended till next Monday, 5 am in Delhi." pic.twitter.com/Z7cO361LlRThe is the fourth time that the lockdown, which was first imposed on April 19, has been extended in the national capital. It was scheduled to end at 5am on Monday.Talking about the Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Kejriwal earlier on Saturday said that the national capital has recorded less than 10,000 cases in the last 24 hours which is the first time this month.In a virtual press conference on Saturday, Kejriwal said that the lockdown has played an important role in checking the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi and asserted that people must take all necessary precautions to ensure that cases do not rise.Delhi on Saturday recorded 6,430 fresh Covid-19 cases and 337 more fatalities, while the positivity rate dipped to 11.32 per cent, authorities said. The national capital had recorded 8,506 new cases on Friday.Kejriwal had also talked about starting an oxygen concentrator bank. "Essential to provide oxygen to Covid patients, on time. We have started this for such patients. 200 such banks set up in every districts. Our team will provide the concentrator at doorstep of patients in home isolation, if needed," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-may-24-says-arvind-kejriwal-101621147111068.html
16-05-2021||Patna||Bihar traders demand Corona warrior status; promised special vaccination camp||Traders in Bihar are requesting status of Corona Warriors so that a special camp could be held to vaccinate them. They reason they have been running their businesses for people’s convenience despite the threat presented by the pandemic and therefore merited such classification.On Friday, in an online interaction with the deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, the members of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) in Bihar also requested for the appointment of a nodal officer in every district to solve their issues.“Though the government is yet to consider them, they are the real Corona warriors. They need vaccination on priority basis... Also, the government should provide them with life insurance,” CAIT state president Ashok Kumar Verma said.Healthcare professionals, security personnel such as defence and central armed police forces, NGOs, frontline workers and volunteers employed with allied and health care services, accredited social activists such as Anganwadi and ASHA workers, essential services providers such as postal services, fire services, police men, treasury, public utilities including petroleum, CNG, LPG, PNG, disaster management, power generation and transmission units, National Informatics Centre, early warning agencies, civil defence, emergency services, prisons, municipal-level services such as sanitation, water supply etc are classified as Corona warriors by the Central and state governments and they are insured for ₹50 lakh and given vaccination on priority.The traders association said if given a list of migrants returning from other states, they were willing to help them. It also raised the issue of private owners overcharging for ambulance services in rural areas.Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said a vaccination camp will soon be arranged for traders, who he described as the “backbone of the economic system of the state”. “The government has already planned nodal officers in all the districts for the convenience of traders,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-traders-demand-corona-warrior-status-promised-special-vaccination-camp-101621142106503.html
16-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's deputy CM suggests new app for Covid-19 vaccination of people in 18-44 age group||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Saturday suggested that a new application is needed to be developed for administering vaccine to the people of 18-44 age group.While speaking to ANI, Narayan said, "With regard to administering vaccine for 18-44 years age group, a new app needs to be developed and this will be interfaced with Co-WIN App and later the vaccination schedule will be prepared taking into account the availability of vaccines."Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal has urged the Cente to allow states to develop a separate mobile application and mechanism for effective and smooth Covid vaccination drive amid reports of glitches being reported in the Co-WIN app."A priority list will be prepared. This may include those who are working in the postal department, agricultural department, bank employees, internet service providers, etc", said Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister and Head of State Covid Task Force, Dr CN Ashwath Narayan.Karnataka has been witnessing surge in Covid-19 cases and recording the highest Covid-19 related deaths .The state emerged as the country's new Covid-19 hotspot with 5,98,625 active cases, the highest in the country, followed by Maharashtra with 5,21,683 active infections, the union health minister informed.Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 41,664 new Covid-19 cases, 34,425 discharges, and 349 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department on Saturday. The active cases in the state stand at 6,05,494.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-deputy-cm-suggests-new-app-for-covid-19-vaccination-of-people-in-18-44-age-group-101621140044741.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Congress MP Rajeev Satav succumbs to Cytomegalovirus||Congress MP Rajeev Satav passed away at a private hospital in Pune on Sunday, days after recovering from coronavirus infection (Covid-19), confirmed hospital authorities."After a prolonged illness, Congress MP Rajeev Satav succumbed to secondary pneumonia with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome on May 16," Medical Director, Jehangir Hospital, Pune said in a statement.The 46-year-old leader was on ventilator support at the hospital after his health deteriorated.Satav, considered close to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on April 22. He was later diagnosed with a new viral infection called Cytomegalovirus and was in a critical condition.Expressing his condolence, Gandhi said, "I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress. It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family.I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress.It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family. pic.twitter.com/mineA81UYJ"Satav's Covid test had come negative around four days back after suffering from it for almost 20 days. However his lungs were heavily infected," said Maharashtra minister Vishwajeet Kadam.Earlier on Saturday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said Satav is suffering from fresh infection due to Cytomegalovirus.Cytomegalovirus is a common herpes virus. The virus, which remains dormant in the body, can cause complications during pregnancy and for people with a weakened immune system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-mp-rajeev-satav-succumbs-to-cytomegalovirus-101621138875164.html
16-05-2021||Patna||Bihar enrols ward committees to check Corona in rural areas, says it’s helping||Bihar Panchayati Raj department has now entrusted the task of tracking and isolation of Covid patients in the villages to the ward implementation and management committees, comprising ward members, in each gram panchayat with an aim to check the spread of Covid-19 cases in rural areas. Bihar has a total of 8,387 gram panchayats spread in the rural areas.Ward level committees have also been told to report entry of outsiders in the villages to block level officers (BDOs) or medical officers while monitoring the health of high risk groups including villagers above 60 years of age, pregnant women, persons having serious ailments and children.The department is also taking daily updates from panchayats on distribution of masks, testing, and awareness about vaccination in the rural areas, where vaccine hesitancy is a serious issue, an official of the department said.“The ward implementation and management committee in each gram panchayat have been given specific roles and responsibilities to ensure the spread of Covid could be lessened in rural areas through fast tracking, isolation and proper medical care to affected persons. We are taking daily updates from all districts and panchayats about the Covid cases,” said additional chief secretary (ACS), panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena.Meena said the ward members have also been assigned the task of house to house visits to track any suspected patients with the help of local administration. “The ward members have been asked to extend all help to families where Covid cases have been detected during the quarantine period and ensure that the affected persons are not neglected or left helpless,” the ACS said.Ward members have also been told to ensure strict compliance to Covid protocols including social distancing, wearing of masks and preventing large gatherings in rural areas.“The assemblage of people in social events in rural areas has come down after lockdown. We are trying to minimise it through coordination with ward members and trying to create awareness. Instructions have been issued that cases be filed against those flouting Covid protocols in villages, said another senior officer in the panchayati raj department, who didn’t wish to be identified.The official claimed several gram panchayats have done good work in the past few weeks by distributing masks, sanitising market places and creating awareness about the need for inoculation among the rural population.For instance, Brahampur Karman gram panchayat in Motipur block in Muzaffarpur has reported 94% mask distribution to listed households and 60% vaccination among residents above 45 years age group. In Fatehpur gram panchayat in Belchi block in Patna district, 9,000 masks have been distributed with vaccination of residents in the 45 plus age group nearing 100%, officials said.Similarly, Bithuna gram panchayat in Bhagwanpur haat block in Siwan district has reported distribution of masks to 2,168 families out of the 2,600 families till date, apart from organising camps to vaccinate residents. This time, the panchayat department is providing six masks to each of the 1.80 crore rural households in the state while the urban department is providing masks in municipal limits.“In mask distribution, over ₹150 crore would be paid to rural self help group members. This decision has provided doorstep employment opportunities to poor women in these pandemic times,” said ACS, panchayati raj department.The state government on Saturday said that the Covid situation was improving rapidly and the positivity rate had dipped by more than half in just 10 days from a high of 14.04% to 6.7%. According to the health department, 7,336 out of the 1.10 lakh samples tested over the 24 hour period had tested positive. However, 73 deaths took the toll to 3,743 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-enrols-ward-committees-to-check-corona-in-rural-areas-says-it-s-helping-101621137486149.html
16-05-2021||Bangalore||Auto driver in Karnataka's Kalaburagi offers free service to Covid-19 patients||With the state of Karnataka emerging as the country's new COVID-19 hotspot, medical services and public health facilities have been stretched thin and people are struggling for access.Rapidly rising cases have resulted in the state government imposing a lockdown, making it harder for many without private vehicles to reach hospitals easily.Amid this turmoil, a young auto-rickshaw driver in Kalaburagi has started a free service for COVID-19 patients who are unable to book ambulances.While speaking to ANI, the driver - Akash Denur, said that he had dreamt of serving the country at the borders in the Army. Since that dream could not be realised, he decided to serve the people on the ground amid the pandemic."Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, there's a dearth of facilities, be it ambulance or autos. That is why I'm giving free services. I have been driving auto for four years. I had a dream to join the Army but it could not be fulfilled. So I am serving the people like this," Denur told ANI.He added, "I have been doing for the last few days. Those who need my services just give me a call, I reach their home and drop them to the hospital. The public is really suffering. This is the least I can do."Over the few two days, Karnataka overtook Maharashtra as the state with the highest number of active coronavirus cases (5,98,625) in the country, the Union Health Ministry informed.So far, 15,10,557 recoveries and 21,085 deaths have been reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/auto-driver-in-karnataka-s-kalaburagi-offers-free-service-to-covid-19-patients-101621136429436.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||Corona curfew extended in Uttar Pradesh till May 24||The Uttar Pradesh government decided on Saturday to extend the partial coronavirus curfew till 7 am on May 24.A decision was taken at a virtual meeting of the cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.Earlier, the government had decided to increase the duration of the curfew till 7 am on May 17."The partial corona curfew has helped in controlling the Covid-19 spread in the state," Adityanath said in a statement. "Keeping this in mind, the duration is being increased."Adityanath said the state government was already providing free testing and treatment of Covid-19, as well as vaccination.The chief minister said the state government would provide 3-kg wheat and 2-kg rice free of cost to the holders of 'antyodaya' and ration card for three months. This will benefit almost 15 crore people of the state.He said daily-wage earners in urban areas would be given ₹1,000 for one month. This will benefit around one crore people. The provision to arrange food for the needy should be done using community kitchens.Essential services will continue. Barring the basic education, online classes can resume, directions have been issued in this regard, the statement said.He said the state government was running two insurance schemes to give social security to all the labourers. This includes ₹2 lakh insurance in case of death or disability to any labourer and a health cover up to ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/corona-curfew-extended-in-uttar-pradesh-till-may-24-101621128517266.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM slams Yogi Adityanath over his Malerkotla tweet||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday slammed Yogi Adityanath over his inflammatory tweet on the declaration of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of Punjab, terming it as an attempt to incite communal hatred in the peaceful state as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) divisive policies.An official press release stated that contrasting the communal harmony in Punjab with the divisiveness being promoted by the Yogi Adiyanath government in Uttar Pradesh, Amarinder Singh asked the former to stay out of his state's affairs, which are in much better shape than those in UP under the divisive and destructive BJP government, which has been actively promoting communal discord in the state for the past over four years."What does he (Yogi Adityanath) know of Punjab's ethos or the history of Malerkotla, whose relationship with Sikhism and its Gurus was known to every Punjabi? And what does he understand of the Indian Constitution, which is being brazenly trampled every day by his own government in UP?" asked the Chief Minister, in a strong reaction to his UP counterpart's tweet, describing Malerkotla's new status as a "sign of the divisive policies of the Congress."Mocking the UP chief minister's comment, Amarinder Singh said that given Yogi Adityanath government's and BJP's track record of spreading communal hate, such a remark was utterly ridiculous, apart from being totally unwarranted and uncalled for. The whole world knows of the communally divisive policies of the BJP, and particularly the Yogi Adityanath government in UP, said the Chief Minister. Pointing to the spate of changes in names of various UP cities, including Mughal Sarai to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar, Allahabad as Prayagraj, and Faizabad as Ayodhya, he dubbed it an attempt by the Yogi government to rewrite history, which the peace-loving people of India will never condone.Citing media reports, the CM recalled that UP was the first state in the country to approve `love jihad' laws, and Yogi Adiyanath's open hatred for Taj Mahal (which he sees as a legacy of the Mughals) has been the subject matter of criticism in the international press. In fact, the UP chief minister is reportedly the founder of Hindu Yuva Vahini, an organisation that was responsible for starting cow vigilantism, which led to lynching of Muslims in his own state, the Punjab Chief Minister further pointed out.It was obvious that the tweet of the UP government head on Malerkotla was nothing but a provocative gesture aimed at creating conflict among the communities living in perfect harmony in Punjab, said the Chief Minister. He termed it a conspiracy on the part of the BJP to spread disharmony in Punjab ahead of the Assembly elections, which are just months away. "But the UP chief minister seems to have forgotten that his own state is also going to the polls at the same time, and if the recent Panchayat poll results are any indication, the BJP is in for a complete and shocking rout," he quipped.Yogi Adityanath should focus his energies on saving his own state, where the Covid situation is spirally out of control, with bodies of the victims of the pandemic being found dumped in rivers, thus depriving them of even the dignity of a decent cremation/burial, said Amarinder Singh."A chief minister who cannot protect even the basic human rights of his state's people and allows them to be treated with such shocking disrespect has no moral right to continue in office, leave alone comment on the functioning of another state government," declared the Punjab Chief Minister in a press note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-slams-yogi-adityanath-over-his-malerkotla-tweet-101621127859305.html
16-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal hospital issues death certificate, Covid patient later found alive||A hospital in West Bengal's Nadia district issued the death certificate of a Covid patient on Saturday but when the crematorium staff reached to take his body for the last rites, they found him sitting on the hospital bed.The incident happened at Netaji Subhas Sanatorium Covid Hospital in Kalyani.A 26-year-old resident of Hijuli in the Dhantala police station area was first admitted to the Ranaghat Sub Divisional Hospital with fever and chest pain, his family said.As his condition deteriorated after he was found to be Covid-positive, the patient was referred to the hospital in Kalyani on May 12. He has been undergoing treatment there since then, they said.On Friday, the hospital authority allegedly sent a message to the family that he has died, the family said.His family was also given the death certificate on Saturday.When the crematorium staff reached the hospital ward to take his body, they found him sitting on the bed, the family said.Further, the death certificate also mentioned that his father was dead, but that was not the case, they said.The family said they have shifted the patient out of the hospital after the incident.A senior district official refused to comment on the issue, stating that he would be able to do so after collecting information from the medical officer concerned."I have received no written complaint about the issue," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-hospital-issues-death-certificate-covid-patient-later-found-alive-101621124408207.html
16-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal goes under complete lockdown from Sunday: What's allowed, what's not||West Bengal will go under a complete lockdown for two weeks starting from Sunday. The state government has said that the overall Covid-19 situation in the country is stabilising, though it is a mixed picture across the states in terms of the trend in daily new cases and deaths.Bengal on Saturday registered 144 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest so far in a single day, pushing the toll to 13,137, a health department bulletin said. It also recorded 19,511 fresh infections, which took the tally to 11,14,313.This time, the state government has announced additional restrictions in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.Here's what's allowed and what's not during the complete lockdown:10.All industries and manufacturing units will remain closed except for food and medical supplies and medical packaging services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-goes-under-complete-lockdown-from-sunday-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101621124047645.html
16-05-2021||City||₹1,051 cr given to MCDs to pay staff: Sisodia||The Delhi government has disbursed ₹1,051 crore to the Capital’s three municipal corporations so that they can pay the salaries of employees engaged in Covid-19 management, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation confirmed the release of the amount but sought clarification if it was a special fund or money already due to them.Addressing a digital press conference on Saturday, Sisodia accused the east, south and north civic bodies of not paying salaries of employees regularly amid the pandemic.“It reflects very poorly on the MCDs if they are unable to even pay salaries to medical staff, doctors and nurses who are putting their lives on the line to save people in these unprecedented times. To cope and emerge from this pandemic, Delhi government has issued assistance of ₹1,051 crore to the three MCDs. The amount can effectively disburse salaries to employees who have not received it until now. The Delhi government hopes that MCDs will guarantee that this assistance is not used for any other activities, not diverted in any way, but used only to pay salaries of MCD employees involved in Covid-19 duty,” he said.Of the ₹1,051 crore, ₹366.9 crore will be given to the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), ₹432.8 crore to the North MCD and ₹251.6 crore to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation.“Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has ensured that despite the scarcity of resources Delhi is facing due to Covid-19, the state government will aid and support all dedicated frontline workers who are on Covid-19 duty, so that they are able to receive their salaries in a streamlined manner. We have to make sure that our frontline workers in the civic corporations are paid their due salaries on time, by any means,” he said.Confirming the release of the amount to the three civic bodies by the Delhi government, north Delhi mayor Jai Prakash, however, said on Saturday that the Delhi government should clarify if the allocated amount was the first-quarter fund due to the city corporations, or a special fund for the salaries of employees.“If it is the grant amount of the first quarter then why was it released after a delay of two months? The first quarter amount is released to all the three corporations in the month of April. I had written several letters to the chief minister to release the amount for the first quarter,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-1-051-cr-given-to-mcds-to-pay-staffsisodia-101621115643506.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sets rates for hearse vans for Covid-19 victims||The Delhi government has fixed the rates for booking hearse vans and related services for deceased Covid-19 patients, an order issued by the state disaster management authority on Saturday showed.“The rates of hearse van facility for deceased Covid-19 patients has been fixed at ₹1,300 per trip for initial 10 kilometres and ₹100 per kilometre thereafter. This will include the cost of transportation with a driver and one attendant wearing PPE kits,” stated the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The order further stated that the family members of the deceased will have to pay additional ₹700 to avail the “body wrapping” facility as per Covid protocols. “In case the services of an additional person is required by the family of the deceased patients to handle the body/wrapping etc, the charges would be ₹500, which includes charges of safety gear to be worn by the additional person. No extra charge for sanitisation will be charged by the vendor,” it said.Mortuary services for coronavirus patients are provided free of cost in private as well as government facilities, the order said.The order, which comes on the direction of the Delhi high court, is going to give a major relief to people as there were several cases of overcharging.The Delhi Police have arrested at least four hearse van drivers in the city for charging exorbitant amounts to transfer bodies from hospitals to crematoriums and burial grounds, including one who charged ₹14,000 for driving six kilometres from Mukherjee Nagar to Nigambodh Ghat on May 2.A committee, constituted under the chairmanship of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner, had recommended the rates for hearse/mortuary services to be provided to deceased coronavirus patients, the DDMA order said.Last week, the government also capped rates charged by private ambulance services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sets-rates-for-hearse-vans-for-covid-19-victims-101621115379302.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Govt sets up O2 device banks for patients in home isolation||The Delhi government is setting up oxygen concentrator banks across the city to ensure Covid-19 patients being treated at home get access to oxygen therapy should they need it, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday.Addressing a digital press briefing, Kejriwal said, “It has been often observed that whenever a person gets infected with the virus, their oxygen levels drop suddenly. If they are given oxygen immediately, their health can be prevented from deteriorating further. If they do not get oxygen on time, things then tend to get worse. Therefore, it is imperative that Covid-19 patients get oxygen when they need,” he said.These banks will be set up in each district, Kejriwal added.A senior Delhi government official said each district will have at least 200 oxygen concentrators, to be given to patients on the advice of a doctor.If a Covid-19 patient is not enrolled for Delhi government’s home isolation programme, they may dial 1031 to get themselves enrolled, and avail oxygen concentrators from the bank.However, the district administration’s team of doctors will first ensure whether the person needs an oxygen concentrator or not. After their affirmation, the oxygen concentrator will be delivered to the patients’ home.“If patients under home isolation require oxygen, our team will ensure the concentrator reaches their home within two hours. A technician will also accompany the team and explain how the oxygen concentrator is to be used. Apart from this, several people in recovery too are often advised to take oxygen at home for a few days, and such patients too, can get concentrators from these banks,” Kejriwal said.Delhi government’s doctors will stay in touch with all those who are given oxygen concentrators from these banks.Once the patients recover, the oxygen concentrators will be taken back from them, sanitised, and handed to another patient for use, the government said in a statement.“Organisations such as OLA Foundation and GiveIndia are helping us deliver oxygen concentrators to every house. We are very grateful for their support,” it said.Atul Satija, GiveIndia’s CEO said, “Through this initiative, we will provide oxygen concentrators to those who are in home-isolation or in recovery right at their doorstep. We hope this will give easy access to patients in need and help combat the acute shortage of medical oxygen.”“Infections are reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope they diminish completely and do not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent. On Friday, we prepared 500 additional ICU beds, and 500 similar beds were prepared four days ago. Within 15 days, our doctors, engineers and workers have prepared 1,000 ICU beds,” Kejriwal said.Dr Nikhil Modi, senior consultant, respiratory critical care and sleep medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals in Delhi, said the establishment of a bank of oxygen concentrators is a good move to ensure supply for everyone.“I feel that this is an important step as many people are getting moderate to severe disease and are not able to get beds on time. A back-up of oxygen can go a long way in stabilising such patients and hence we will save many lives. But, it is a step taken a little late as cases are now settling and most people will now be able to get a bed in hospitals. It was needed a month earlier when people were facing shortage of oxygen,” Dr Modi said.Lockdown likely to be extendedThe Delhi government is also likely to extend the ongoing lockdown in the Capital by a week, said state officials aware of the matter.Kejriwal announced a lockdown on April 19 (after a weekend curfew on April 17 and 18),. The protocol has now been renewed several times and is currently scheduled to be in place till at least 10am on May 17. The order for the likely extension till May 24, will be issued on Sunday, officials said.The crisis stretched the city’s hospitals and triggered a severe shortage of medical oxygen that did not get resolved until at least May 5, when the Capital finally received over 700MT of oxygen stock in a day after a long-drawn battle between the state and the Centre, which also played out in the high court and the Supreme Court.Integrated centre for Covid-19 managementThe Delhi government on Saturday also opened an integrated common command and control centre (ICCC) for Covid-19 management.This centre has been opened at the already existing ICCC of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) at its headquarters - Palika Kendra, Parliament street.“The Delhi government has started an Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). Data related to hospitals, oxygen, vaccination and other aspects of Covid management are collected, collated and analysed on a real-time basis. It will help us in making informed decisions,” Kejriwal said after launching the centre on Saturday along with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and senior government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-sets-up-o2-device-banks-for-patients-in-home-isolation-101621114942611.html
16-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 cases dip to 6,430, CM urges caution||Delhi on Saturday reported 6,430 fresh Covid-19 cases, and the positivity rate dipped to 11.32%, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that infections were “slowly and steadily” reducing in the national capital, where the health care system was overrun by spiralling cases amid a raging fourth wave of the pandemic.The Capital has been under a lockdown for about four weeks, a “last resort” measure taken by the Delhi government to arrest the alarming spread of the infectious disease, which led to hospitals being overburdened and medical supplies running short. While the current lockdown is supposed to end on May 17, there are indications that it could be extended.There were 337 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, according to the government’s health bulletin on data from the previous 24 hours.Saturday was the second consecutive day when Delhi recorded fewer than 10,000 cases in recent weeks. On Friday, the Capital recorded 8,506 cases, the lowest since April 10. The city conducted only 56,811 tests, according to Saturday’s bulletin, as compared to almost 70,400 tests conducted on average daily over the last seven days.Earlier in the day, Kejriwal said: “The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway.”At the peak of the positivity rate in the fourth wave, more than one in three people in Delhi who got tested were found to have the infection.Experts urged caution over the dip in the cases, saying that Delhi needed to keep its guard up until the burden on the health care system reduced and the positivity rate came under control.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said: “Delhi has a large floating population, there are children, and there is the threat of new variants so spikes can happen. We need to keep following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and the government should remain prepared to tackle a surge in cases.”The number of cumulative cases on Saturday stood at 1,387,411. Over 1.2 million patients have recovered from the infection, which began spreading in the country in March last year. Saturday’s cases were the lowest in 38 days since April 7, when the city reported 5,506 new cases.The number of cases of the viral infection spiralled in the city in recent weeks, reaching a high of 28,395 cases reported on April 20.Experts also warned that a third surge in infections could be in children. “If a third wave does come, children would be the most vulnerable as many adults have either had the infection or are being immunised. We need to prepare for management of cases in children; all the treatment protocols and SOPs will have to be made afresh,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Dr Anupam Sibal, a paediatric liver specialist and group medical director Apollo Hospitals, said: “…If we do have a third wave a few months down the line and a lot of adults are vaccinated, those below the age of 18 years will remain vulnerable and infections in that age group will become more common. So, even if a small percentage of them fall ill and need hospitalisation, given a large number of infections, the numbers will be significant. So, it stands to reason that we plan ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-dip-to-6-430-cm-urges-caution-101621114437285.html
16-05-2021||Other||Himachal cabinet extends state curfew till May 26||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Saturday decided to extend the Covid-induced curfew in the state till May 26. It has, however, allowed all shops dealing in construction materials to remain open twice a week — Tuesday and Friday—for three hours, to check the exodus of labourers.Residents will not be allowed to book any marriage palaces, community halls or tent houses, catering or DJ/Band services for functions. However, marriage functions at home are allowed with a gathering of 20 persons, and in court. Procession of baarat has also been barred.Vans for dead bodiesThe cabinet also gave a go-ahead to all medical colleges, zonal and regional hospitals with a bed capacity of over 200 to hire dead body vans. All municipal corporations will also be allowed to hire such vans. It was decided that the forest department will provide free wood for cremation of Covid victims. Other key decisionsThe cabinet also reviewed the progress on projects announced by the chief minister and decided that each minister will have the responsibility of reviewing the projects pertaining to their departments within 15 days, and ensure that the works are started within three months. The cabinet gave its consent to fill up 219 posts of different categories on contract basis under the National Health Mission. The cabinet also gave its nod to procure CT scan 128 slice and MRI 1.5 Tesla Machines worth ₹20 crore for Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba. It accorded ex post-facto permission for executing agency of makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk, Mandi, to include construction of a labour room and an operation theatre. It also decided to open a health sub-centre at Sartyaula in Mandi along with the creation of requisite posts to man the sub-centre. The cabinet gave its nod to construct a new rest house at Dhanotu in Sundernagar tehsil of Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-cabinet-extends-state-curfew-till-may-26-101621111866400.html
16-05-2021||Other||J&K announces ₹2.94 crore relief package for tourism sector||As Kashmir’s tourism sector is witnessing constant decline and losses due to the second wave of Covid-19, J&K government has announced a package of relief for the people associated with trade, especially shikarawalas and tourism guides.On Friday, J&K’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha approved a package to the tune of ₹2.94 crore. The money will deduce from the J&K Relief Fund.For the past many months, people associated with the tourism sector, which is one of the biggest trades in Kashmir, have been demanding a relief package, especially for those who make meagre earnings. Even big hoteliers and trade and travel agents have suffered heavy losses.As per the government notification, issued by deputy director, budget finance, the relief of ₹2,000 will be transferred to 4,444 shikarawalas, 1,370 tourist guides, 6,663 ponywalas, 2,150 dandiwalas/sledgewalas/palkiwalas for two months.“The relief will be transferred to only who are registered with the tourism department,” said an official.“The package doesn’t have anything for travel agents, house boats adventure sports operators, tourist transport operators and hotels as well. This package should have an amnesty for power and water bill related to tourism infrastructure,” said Dr Umar Nazir Tibet Baqal, member, TAAK travel agents association of Kashmir, and coordinator, IATA forum, Kashmir International Air Traffic Association.President KCCI, Shiekh Ashiq said that announcement of relief package is welcome but all the people who are daily earners in all sectors should be part of this package be it transport, vendors, small time shopkeepers, artisans and weavers registered with handicrafts department. “We hope the Lt Governor will increase the amount of financial assistance and free ration to all people who are below poverty line also,” he said.Tourism in Kashmir had a good beginning with the start of New Year but as the second wave of Covid-19 wracked havoc across the country, the tourist inflow suddenly started to dry up and most of the advance bookings got cancelled.According to people associated with trade, winter was very good but it now they are back to square one. With the start of summer in April many tourists from states like Gujarat and Maharashtra visited the Valley. The tourism had nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on movement of people and communication shut for months. The situation was then further aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown after mid-March 2020.“This year we were expecting a bumper tourism season which would break all past records. From December onwards I think more than 1.5 lakh tourists have visited the valley already. Unfortunately the second wave hit the region and the season is gone,” said officer bearer of a tour and trade association Kashmir.“The cancellation of bookings have affected all including Shikara wala, houseboat owner, hotelier, dhaba wala or even a Kashmir art dealer,” he said.Despite the surging Covid-19 numbers in Kashmir, the government had opened Tulip Garden on the banks of Dal Lake from March 25 which saw a huge inflow of tourists both locals and domestic travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-announces-rs-2-94-crore-relief-package-for-tourism-sector-101621111265208.html
16-05-2021||Other||20 detained for pro-Palestine protests in Kashmir||Police have detained 20 persons for holding pro-Palestine protests in Kashmir.A police spokesman said that people are trying to leverage the situation in Palestine to disturb the peace in Valley.“J&K police is keeping a close watch on elements attempting to leverage the unfortunate situation in Palestine to disturb the peace and order in Kashmir valley. We are a professional force and are sensitive to public anguish. But J&K police has a legal responsibility to ensure law and order. It, however, wouldn’t allow cynical encashment of the public anger to trigger violence, lawlessness and disorder on Kashmir streets,” said the spokesperson.A senior police official confirmed to Hindustan Times that 20 people have so far been detained in Kashmir for pro-Palestine protests. Recently, a person who had designed a pro-Palestine graffiti in Srinagar was questioned by the police.Over the last few days, several people from Kashmir have been posting their views and comments on social media against the killing of civilians in Gaza by Israel.In a statement released on Saturday, J&K Police warned of legal action against those making “irresponsible social media posts”. The statement further said that expressing opinion is a freedom but engineering and inciting violence on streets is unlawful. “All irresponsible social media comments that result in actual violence and breaking of law, including Covid protocol, will attract legal action,” read the statement. According to the statement, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar had sought public cooperation.Kashmir had, in the past, witnessed a series of pro-Palestine protests, especially during the killing of civilians by Palestine, and many social media users had been equating the situation in Kashmir and Palestine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-detained-for-pro-palestine-protests-in-kashmir-101621111085155.html
16-05-2021||Other||J&K saw 808 Covid-19 deaths in first half of May||As many as 63 people lost their lives to Covid-19 while 3,677 fresh infections took Jammu and Kashmir’s toll to 3,090 and cumulative count of cases to 2, 40,467 in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Saturday.Of the 63 deaths in UT, 37 were reported in Jammu division and 26 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,949 are from Kashmir while 1,728 are from Jammu, besides 31 travellers.May is turning out to be the worst month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections have reached 64,384 and fatalities 808 on Saturday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 40,461.Officials said with 621 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 404 in Srinagar district, 390 in Pulwama, 262 in Budgam and 250 in Rajouri. The number of active cases has reached 51,475, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Doctor speak Dr Nisar Ahmad Shah, professor of medicine, gastroenterology, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that besides the respiratory issues Covid is known to cause a variety of gastroenterological problems like dyspepsia, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, oesophageal, gastric and duodenal ulcers, hepatitis and pancreatitis like illness.“All these problems are self limiting and need only symptomatic treatment,” he said. “Besides Covid is known to cause anxiety symptoms; but it is Covid itself and not anxiety which causes gastroenterological symptoms,” Dr Nisar Ah Shah stated.Officials said that some 4,140 patients have recovered from the disease, including 3,054 from Kashmir and 1,086 from Jammu. As many as 1,85,902 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 77.30% against around 98% in the first fortnight of February. The officials said that 33,539 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours taking overall tests to 7.88 million.Dr Nisar also cleared the misconception regarding the risk to patients suffering from gastroenterological problems and said that those having gastroenterology problems are not at any additional risk of superadded infection.As most doctors recommend paracetamol for mild Covid related symptoms, Dr Nisar asked for limited intake of paracetamol. “A normal individual can take up to 2 gms (4 tablets of 500mg tablets) per day without any problems whereas those having liver problems and severe renal problems need caution,” he said.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed about one lakh cases and 1,468 deaths in all. The Jammu district has taken over as the one with the highest number of 802 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 666 deaths. The administration on Saturday extended the Covid lockdown by another week across the UT.“The corona curfew imposed in all 20 districts of J&K till 7am on Monday, May 17 is extended further till 7am on Monday, May 24. The curfew will be strict and only a few essential services will be allowed,” a government spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-saw-808-covid-19-deaths-in-first-half-of-may-101621110485298.html
16-05-2021||Other||J&K LG extends curfew till May 24 in all 20 districts||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday extended the curfew in all 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir till 7am on May 24.The decision was taken after a series of meetings with the members of the Covid Task Force, deputy commissioners, senior superintendents of police, and other officials concerned.During the curfew, only a few essential services will be allowed. Standard operating procedures for weddings etc, outlined earlier by the administration will also remain in force.During the meetings, the Lt Governor sought district-wise feedback on important aspects of Covid management pertaining to testing, impact of curfew, hospital referral system, functionality of oxygen generation plants, availability of Covid dedicated beds, daily trend of Covid cases, recovery rate etc. Stressing on bringing uniformity in the patient care system across J&K, the Lt Governor called for coordinated efforts from all the stakeholders to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Emphasising on intensifying vaccination drive, the Lt Governor set the timeline of 10-days for achieving the target of 100% vaccination of the above 45 years age group with the first dose of Covid vaccine.Taking note of the rise in positive cases in rural areas, the Lt Governor directed the health department to intensify testing in rural areas and other urban localities with high positivity rate.Special vaccine drive for 45+ todayTo cover remaining two percent population in 45 plus category to undergo Covid vaccination, the Jammu administration on Saturday announced to hold a special vaccination drive at 100 sites in Jammu district on Sunday. Jammu district commissioner Anshul Garg said, “Under government strategy, a drive to inoculate people above 45 years of age was undertaken on April 1 and in the past 45 days 98 percent of the population under this age group have been covered in Jammu district. However, two percent, who have not taken their first dose, are still left. To afford them a special chance, a special drive will be undertaken on Sunday at 100 sites where they can come and get inoculated with first dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-lg-extends-curfew-till-may-24-in-all-20-districts-101621109944510.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Drug smugglers shoot two ASIs dead in Punjab’s Jagraon||Car-borne drug smugglers shot dead two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and injured another in the new grain market in Jagraon, about 45 km from here, on Saturday. The accused also opened fire on a group of youths, who tried to record the incident on their phones, while fleeing the spot. The youngsters, however, escaped unhurt. Jagron DSP Jatinderjit Singh said ASI Bhagwan Singh died on the spot while critically injured ASI Dalwinder Singh succumbed on the way to hospital. Both were posted in the state’s crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon. Ludhiana rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said the assailants have been captured in the CCTVs installed in the area. An alert has been sounded and special teams have been formed to nab the accused. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has condemned the attack. “Unfortunate fatal attack on two of our brave CIA policemen in Jagraon. Intensive manhunt is on and the culprits would be nabbed soon. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and we will ensure that they are taken care of in every possible way,” the CM tweeted. According to the SSP, the police received a tip-off about a drug deal at the new grain market. “A team reached the spot around 6.30 pm and saw the accused shifting drug packets from a truck to their car. The police asked them to surrender but the accused opened fire. In the shootout, two ASIs were killed, and another cop Rajwinder Singh suffered injuries,” he added. The police suspect that the accused have fled towards Moga, said the SSP. Later, police managed to recover the truck that was spotted during the deal at the grain market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-smugglers-shoot-two-asis-dead-in-punjab-s-jagraon-101621108986623.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Few takers for Covid-19 test in rural Gurdaspur||Despite the coronavirus pandemic continuing to spread rapidly across the countryside, testing of villagers is proving to be a Herculean task for the health department in Gurdaspur district 71 per cent population of which resides in rural areas. Health department organised a Covid-19 testing camp at Hemrajpur village, 10 km from the district headquarters, on Friday and only five people turned up. The village has two panchayats and a population of over 2,200. This happened despite personal requests by both the sarpanches and announcements from the gurdwara loudspeaker. Among the five people who got tested included the two sarpanches. According to the health department officials, the situation is similar in other villages of the district. “The camp was organised on the direction of Gurdaspur sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). Only three people turned up for testing,” said Kuldeep Singh, one of the two sarpanches of the village. Describing the reason behind the hesitancy among the villagers, Kuldeep said, “There is a misconception that if anyone is found to be positive, he or she will be shifted to hospital. Many of them believe the misguided propaganda on social media. It is despite our assurance that a separate hall has been spared in the village for treatment of the Covid-19 patients.” He said so far no one has died in his village due to the coronavirus. Gurdaspur civil surgeon Harbhajan Raj said, “It’s the same story everywhere. Our teams have been visiting various villages, but people are not showing up for the test. Lately, a vaccination team had visited a brick kiln in a village, but, after seeing the health team, all the workers fled from the spot.” On Friday, 11 people died due to the coronavirus in Gurdaspur district. Among the 11 fatalities, 8 were from rural areas. The district has recorded overall 600 deaths and 18,287 positive cases. Punjab Health Systems Corporation’s chairman Amardeep Singh Cheema said they were roping in elected representatives of the panchayats and urban local bodies to motivate people for testing and vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/few-takers-for-covid-19-test-in-rural-gurdaspur-101621108745594.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC Bar withdraws resolution on boycott of CJ court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) has withdrawn its May 7 resolution boycotting chief justice RS Jha’s court.In a statement on Saturday, the Bar body said that differences have been “ironed out” in a meeting between the chief justice (CJ) and Bar body members. The Bar association has also withdrawn its appeal from Bar Council of India (BCI) against the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana’s (BCPH) decision to stay the resolution on the boycott, the Bar body said.It was on Friday last that PHHCBA had decided to boycott hearings before the chief justice and sought his transfer, a decision stayed by BCPH, a statutory body, within hours. Subsequently, PHHCBA had also moved BCI against the Bar Council decision, but got no relief. The BCI had said that it was not the “right time” for any agitation and more than livelihood the issue at hand is of safety.HC Bar had passed a resolution announcing boycott claiming that even urgent nature cases were not being taken up by the high court and accused the chief justice of non-cooperation. Their main contention was that out of 46 courts only 11 are functioning and cases were being listed with prior permission from the bench — called mentioning, due to which only a handful of cases are being listed. Subsequently, the high court administration had also allowed direct listing of petitions in some categories of cases. In February too, the Bar association had decided to boycott his court.Restore Nanda’s membership, says BCIIn another development, the BCI has asked the Bar association to restore the membership of Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda observing that “(he) has always played an exemplary and appreciable role”. His membership was revoked by the Bar association in a resolution in February for allegedly working against the interests of the lawyers. The decision was later stayed by the state Bar council.The BCI said that differences and dissatisfaction are bound to occur in every institution, but the matter should be reported to the state Bar council concerned, which will pitch in to resolve the matter. The February resolution of HC Bar had “no leg to stand on”, said the BCI adding, “The Bar association should desist from taking such reckless and irresponsible decisions.”The PHHCBA is a body of lawyers with around 4,000 members, who mainly practice in the high court. BCPH is a statutory body with over one lakh members in both the states and Chandigarh. The council regulates entry of lawyers into the legal profession including those practising in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-hc-bar-withdraws-resolution-on-boycott-of-cj-court-101621108513118.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to seek more oxygen from Centre, abroad||To bridge the gap between rising demand and supply of medical oxygen in the state, the Punjab government would seek additional oxygen tankers from the Centre.Besides, Punjab has also expedited the process of procuring on its own more oxygen tankers from different parts of the country and abroad.This was disclosed by chief secretary Vini Mahajan after chairing a high-level meeting to review the availability, need and distribution of medical oxygen in the state besides taking stock of the ongoing initiatives to check further spread of Covid-19 in the state, here on Saturday.Briefing the present status of the supply chain, principal secretary (transport) K Siva Prasad said efforts have been intensified to bring oxygen tankers from Belgium and Australia. “Hopefully, the supply of oxygen tankers from abroad will reach Punjab soon,” he added.Rahul Tiwari, who is supervising the oxygen control room, said Punjab’s first oxygen express train left for Bokaro in Jharkhand on Saturday morning to pick up its 80 metric tonnes (MT) quota of oxygen, which would further strengthen the stock of life-saving medical supplies in the state. He said the services of Markfed were being availed to speed up the process of oxygen procurement and ensure there was no shortage of the life-saving gas in the state.Principal secretary, water supply and sanitation, Jaspreet Talwar, while sharing the district-wise information of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, said a total of 44 PSA plants would be set up in Punjab at a cost of ₹4.71 crore for which several NGOs and big companies have come forward to help the Punjab government in this endeavour.Regarding the status of oxygen concentrators in the state, the chief secretary was informed that Punjab has around 1,060 concentrators at present, which were being distributed in the districts as per the requirement, while more concentrators would be available soon and would be sent to the districts as per the need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-seek-more-oxygen-from-centre-abroad-101621108511728.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man carries 11-year-old daughter’s body for cremation, video goes viral||A video of a man walking up to the crematorium in Jalandhar with the body of his 11-year-old daughter on his shoulder is making rounds of the social media, a week after the incident. There are conflicting versions on whether or not the girl was infected with Covid as the family says the hospital told them that she was positive while the administration claims otherwise. Eleven-year-old Sonu died at Government Medical College, Amritsar, on May 9 and the video that appeared on Saturday is of May 10. Dalip Kumar, a migrant labourer from Odisha who lives in Ramnagar area of Jalandhar, told the media that his daughter developed fever around two months ago. Initially, he took her to a quack and when her condition didn’t improve, Dalip took her to Jalandhar civil hospital, from where she was referred to GMC, Amritsar. Dalip said they returned to Jalandhar from Amritsar on May 9 night and were verbally informed by the Amritsar hospital staff that Sonu was positive for coronavirus. On May 10, when Dalip informed his neighbours about the death of his daughter and sought help for her cremation, they refused to give a shoulder to the body up to the crematorium. Dalip then carried the body up to the crematorium on his shoulder, his son walking beside. Dalip said his neighbours did reach the crematorium but kept a distance throughout. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said as per the inquiry conducted by the sub-divisional magistrate, the cause of the girl’s death was not Covid-19 as she was tested negative for the virus. “The girl was admitted to Jalandhar civil hospital from where she was referred to GMC Amritsar. An ambulance dropped the patient at Amritsar. After her death, an ambulance dropped the body at Jalandhar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-carries-11-year-old-daughter-s-body-for-cremation-video-goes-viral-101621108510778.html
16-05-2021||Other||45+ group left in lurch as Patiala stops vaccine drive amid jab crunch||With the district health department’s sudden decision to stop vaccination of the 45+ age group due to shortage of doses, beneficiaries in have been left in the lurch.As per the official notices pasted outside the jab centres in Patiala, the 45+ population will not be inoculated against Covid-19 till June 15 owing to a vaccine crunch in the district.In the hope of finding doses on Saturday, some people of the said age group were seen doing making rounds of hospitals and various vaccine centres, but were turned away by the staff as only young adults were being inoculated there.From Friday onwards, the state health department began administering Covid jabs to the 18-44 age group. This drive was supposed to kick off on May 1, but an acute vaccine shortage resulted in the delay.“When I went to Nabha civil hospital to get my 69-year-old mother vaccinated, the medical staff told me they had run out of vaccines and that I should check for jab availability at the outreach camp at Government Ripudaman College,” said Chamkaur Singh, a local resident.However, when he reached the college, he was told that the vaccine was only available for the 18-44 age group.Another beneficiary Manpreet Singh said his parents had to return without jabs as the health staff asked them to come in mid-June, stating that the government was currently prioritising those below 45 years of age.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said they were conducting fewer vaccination drives as they were receiving very limited stock of doses.“As many as 7,052 people were vaccinated on Saturday as the department received 5,600 doses under the state pool on Friday. Around 3,000 doses were received on Saturday, which will be divided among sub-divisional hospitals to carry the jab drives on Sunday,” said Dr Singh.He added that the outreach vaccination camps have been closed temporarily due to the shortage of vaccines.“Due to this, we have stopped giving jabs to people above 44 years of age and are concentrating on the priority group under the third phase of vaccination drive,” said the civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/45-group-left-in-lurch-as-patiala-stops-vaccine-drive-amid-jab-crunch-101621108446007.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dalit activist Bant Singh battling Covid at his home in Punjab village||The Dalit singer-activist, who bravely took on caste oppression of agricultural labourers and fought for justice when his minor daughter was raped in 2002 by two upper-caste men, leading to their conviction, is now battling Covid-19 in his village Burj Jhabbar, some 20km from Mansa.Bant Singh is popularly referred to as the Singing Torso for he had to pay a heavy price for taking on the landlords and lost his arms and legs in 2006 when Jat youths of the village beat him up to a pulp and left him to die in the fields. Defying death, he went onto become a symbol of Dalit resistance in the country singing songs of protest even after his arms and legs were amputated.The man whose biography is being made into a movie is currently in the clutches of Covid infection. His daughter Hardeep Kaur said, “He had been getting fever for the past month, but we thought it was just a seasonal infection because it is believed there is no Covid in the villages.”However, he tested positive on May 6, but no follow-up was taken, leading to loss of appetite, continuing fever, cough, and health deterioration. At the intervention of some media persons, health workers of nearby Aklia village visited his home and provided him with a medicine kit.Talking on the phone to HT amid bouts of cough, he said, “I have fought much else in life and will fight off Covid too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalit-activist-bant-singh-battling-covid-at-his-home-in-punjab-village-101621108444994.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||VB detects ‘shady deals’ involving Navjot Sidhu, wife, aides||At a time when former Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has been strenuously slamming chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on a variety of issues, the Punjab Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau has fast-tracked its investigation into some ‘shady deals’ involving the Sidhu couple and their close associates. The agency comes under the direct control of the chief minister.The focus of the vigilance bureau (VB) is on some controversial decisions taken during the tenure of Sidhu as local bodies minister when Sidhu’s wife and former MLA Navjot Kaur, Sidhu’s close friend and his OSD Bunny Sandhu, Navjot Kaur’s personal assistant Gaurav Vasudeva and clerk Rajiv Kumar allegedly colluded to favour certain firms. Even as these leads are not new with the VB as the agency was already zeroing in on them ever since Sidhu resigned from the Amarinder cabinet on July 14, 2019, after he was stripped off the local bodies portfolio and allotted power department. However, the agency learnt to have given a fresh push to probe the cases. The timing of the VB probe is being questioned as Sidhu is hitting out at the chief minister almost daily through social media on different issues. At least seven ministers from Amarinder cabinet have already sought action against Sidhu for his outbursts. As per officials privy to the probe, earlier the focus of the probe was limited to certain “deals” done during Sidhu’s tenure as minister in Zirakpur and Nayagaon, but now more instances have been identified where financial favours were allegedly given by the Sidhus to their near and dear ones. On Saturday, Amritsar SSP (VB) Parampal Singh met his superiors in Chandigarh and submitted a detailed report on some “murky deals”. The SSP during his probe had found more than five shady deals, a senior VB official involved in the probe said. The findings involve allotment of a booth for peanuts to Navjit Kaur (wife of Navjot Kaur’s PA Gaurav Vasudeva), discrepancies in allotment of advertisement tenders to a company owned by Vasudeva and flooring tender given again to yet another firm owned by Vasudeva. ‘Navjot Kaur paid ₹1 cr to Zirakpur’s realtor’ According to findings of the bureau accessed by Hindustan Times, the VB probe has established Navjot Kaur paid ₹1 crore to a Zirakpur-based realtor Gagandeep Singh alias Prince. Two payments were made to Prince by her through two SBI cheques for ₹50 lakh each on March 12, 2019, one cheque in Gagandeep’s name and another in his company’s, found the VB probe. “Prince has told the VB that Navjot Kaur wanted to buy a house and payments were made in advance. However, no such written document about the purchase or any booking was found during the probe. It appears that the sum was collected to float a company,” a top VB functionary said. “Gagandeep, in connivance with Vasudeva and Rajiv Kumar (a clerk in health department who is an associate of Navjot Kaur since her tenure as parliamentary secretary), got approved the site plan without depositing the required fee and plan,” the probe found. The probe found that they got G-8 receipts through Zirakpur executive officer Manbir Singh Gill by submitting cheques, which were never sent to the bank for collection and the site plan was approved. The VB probe in this case found that ₹4 crore was pending against Gagandeep’s firm, still he was given all clearances. “Gagandeep in his statement to VB has said that he used to pay Rajiv Kumar ₹25,000 for approval to each residential plan and ₹50,000 for each commercial plan. Kumar collected ₹3,42,500 from Gagandeep,” the probe found. The VB officials claim when Sidhu was the minister, Navjot Kaur had visited Gagandeep’s office in Zirakpur where the latter had also called senior officials to show his proximity to her. The VB has also done analysis of call details and found 100 calls made by Rajiv Kumar to various Zirakpur MC officials, Gagandeep, Bunny and Vasudeva and Navjot Kaur during the period when these files were approved. ‘Bunny managed mega projects as OSD to Sidhu’ The VB probe claims that Bunny Sandhu allegedly was instrumental in getting CLU files cleared after striking deals with the contractors and builders. “In one such case, Punjab and Haryana High Court had passed an order that the areas of the Nada and Karoran villages be included in the MC limit of Nayagaon. The Nayagaon MC challenged the decision in the Supreme Court and the high court decision was stayed. Bunny influenced then Nayagaon MC executive officer to get a resolution passed in the House to withdraw the petition from the Supreme Court,” claims the VB. The agency claims Bunny was active on behalf of the minister in connivance with WWICS director Davinder Singh Sandhu for developing a big chunk of land in Nadda and Karoran villages. Since the VB hasn’t registered any FIR even after claiming such gross irregularities, the conduct of the agency is under cloud. Navjot Sidhu, his wife and Bunny couldn’t be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts. Navjot Kaur did not reply to text messages either. After reports about the probe, Sidhu tagged chief minister a tweet, saying: ‘Most Welcome…Please do your best @Captain_Amarinder’.“If Sidhus have done wrong why state government waited for two years. I am amazed to see that the vigilance has not carried a single probe into sand, transport and other deals done during Badals’ rule but is so quick on Sidhus,” said Jalandhar Cantt Congress MLA Pargat Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vb-detects-shady-deals-involving-navjot-sidhu-wife-aides-101621108266215.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ union to observe May 26 as black day marking 6 months of protest||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday announced that it will observe May 26 as “black day”, marking six months of their protest at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s three farm laws.In a virtual press conference, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations.“On May 26, we will complete six months of this protest and it also happens to mark seven years since PM Modi formed the government. We will observe it as black day,” Rajewal said.The government has not heard the farmers demands to repeal the three farm laws and “with increasing prices of fertilisers, diesel and petrol, the farming business is not possible”, the farmer leader said. Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-union-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-marking-6-months-of-protest-101621108204957.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||PUDA’s housing project: Over 1,000 trees axed in Faridkot, residents fume||Over a 1,000 full-grown trees over 135 acres at a defunct sugar mill in Faridkot have been axed to clear the land for developing a housing project of the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA), leaving the residents fuming.The Aam Aadmi Party and area residents protested against the axing of the trees on Saturday. A major part of the process has been completed amid lockdown.The cooperative sugar mill was set up in Faridkot in 1988 over nearly 50 acres. A total 135 acres were acquired for the mill, and farmers of Faridkot, Moga, Ferozepur and Muktsar districts used to bring sugarcane to the facility. After it turned into a loss-making unit, the mill was closed in 2006.On June 11, 2014, the state cabinet headed by the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had put its stamp on the closure of the sugar mill. A contract was granted to a Ferozepur-based company cutting 2,057 trees.Bikramjit Singh Shergill, additional chief administrator, Bathinda Development Authority (BDA), said the land of sugar mill at Faridkot has been transferred to PUDA under the state government policy of optimum utilisation of the lands. “This area will be developed accordingly once we get the possession. The clearing of the land is being done by the department of cooperation after taking all the necessary approvals,” he added. Bhogpur sugar mill general manager Arun Kumar Arora said: “The department of cooperation has started the work of clearing the land after which it will be handed over to PUDA and all the machinery of Faridkot sugar mill will be shifted to Bhogpur. We have taken all the necessary approvals from forest department for the cutting of trees,” he added.AAP MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan along with supporters reached the spot and protested against the axing of the trees. He said that the government had sold trees for just ₹67 lakh. “This naturally developed mini-jungle is home to many species, including peacock, so this process must be stopped. At these desperate times, the state government is destroying natural source of oxygen. We will start an agitation if cutting of tree did not stop by the government,” he said. After strong protest by residents and leaders of political parties, deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia ordered to stop the cutting of trees. “I have directed the police to investigate the matter and stop the cutting of trees for now. I have called meeting of the officials concerned to probe the matter,” he added.Members of a non-governmental organisation, Naroa Punjab Manch, have written to National Green Tribunal and Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh demanding to stop cutting of fully grown trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pudas-housing-project-over-1-000-trees-axed-in-faridkot-residents-fume-101621107965128.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti dead||Former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti died of a heat attack in Amritsar on Saturday night. He was 80. According to a spokesperson of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Vedanti was admitted to Guru Ram Das Hospital in Amritsar at around 8pm where he breathed his last. Vedanti, who served as jathedar of the highest temporal seat of Sikhs from 2000 to 2008, was well-versed in Gurbani grammar. He also served for a long time as the head granthi of the Golden Temple. During his tenure Vedanti had taken several landmark decisions. In 2003, the former jathedar had approved the Nanakshahi calendar, prepared by Canada-based Sikh scholar Pal Singh Purewal. He had also declared Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale a martyr 19 years after Operation Bluestar. He was also the first jathedar who declared to commemorate the death anniversaries of the Sikh militants. Soon after becoming the jathedar, Vedanti had revoked the decision of his predecessor Giani Pooran Singh to excommunicate Jagir Kaur (the then president of the SGPC). He also remained in the thick of controversy over his reported tough stand against the Dera Sacha Sauda, offering support to militants and his opposition to political interference in the SGPC affairs. Citing “political pressure” and “bad health”, Vedanti had quit his post in August 2008. Later, he himself made it public that he was ousted forcibly when he inadvertently praised former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh. In her condolence message, SGPC chief Jagir Kaur said Vedanti was a great leader of the Panth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-akal-takht-jathedar-giani-joginder-singh-vedanti-dead-101621107905026.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||State reports 217 Covid deaths, 6,867 new cases||Punjab on Saturday registered another dip in positive cases with 6,867 fresh infections as against 8,068 on Friday. The state reported 217 more coronavirus fatalities, taking the death toll to 11,693.So far, 4,90,755 people have been infected with the virus. It is for the second consecutive day that the single-day recoveries (8,125) surpassed the number of new infections (6,867). The state’s positivity rate also dropped from 11.29% on Friday to 9.48%. Twenty-six deaths were reported from Amritsar, 24 from Bathinda, 20 from Fazilka, 19 from Patiala and 18 from Ludhiana in the past 24 hours, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported the maximum 1,132 cases, followed by 573 in Jalandhar, 536 in Patiala, 535 in Mohali and 515 in Bathinda. Meanwhile, 8,125 people recovered from the infection in the state. The number of active cases also dropped from 79,359 on Friday to 77,789, the bulletin said. The state’s positivity rate also dropped from 11.29 per cent on Friday to 9.48 per cent. With 8,125 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,01,273, the bulletin said.There are 429 critical patients on ventilator while 9,902 are on oxygen support, it said. A total of 81,40,404 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.Over 40% deaths in 45 daysOver 40% of the total Covid-19-related fatalities in Punjab took place in the last 45 days, indicating the severity of the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic.Punjab had reported a total of 6,868 deaths due to the infection as on March 31. The death toll rose to 11,693 as on May 15, showing 4,826 more people succumbing to the disease since April 1 this year, the state health department’s data revealed.The health officials had earlier pointed out that the delay in approaching hospitals for treatment by patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities were the main reasons behind fatalities.Ludhiana is one of the worst-affected districts in Punjab as it has registered 538 deaths between April 1 and May 14, 2021, as per the data.The case fatality rate in rural areas is 2.6% as against 0.8% in urban areas, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-reports-217-covid-deaths-6-867-new-cases-101621107725092.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder slams Yogi’s ‘inflammatory’ tweet over making Malerkotla as dist||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday slammed his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over his “inflammatory” tweet on the declaration of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of Punjab, terming it an attempt to incite communal hatred in the peaceful state as a part of the BJP’s divisive policies.In a Tweet in Hindi on Saturday, Adityanath said: “Any differentiation in the name of any religion or creed is opposed to the basic principles of the Constitution. At this time, formation of Malerkotla (as a district) is an example of divisive policy of the Congress.”The UP chief minister’s tweet came a day after Amarinder announced the only Muslim majority town in Punjab to be the state’s 23rd district on the occasion of Eid.Contrasting the communal harmony in Punjab with the “divisiveness” being promoted by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, Amarinnder asked the former to stay out of his state’s affairs as they are in much better shape than those in UP. “What does he (Yogi Adityanath) know of Punjab’s ethos or the history of Malerkotla, whose relationship with Sikhism and its Gurus was known to every Punjabi? And what does he understand of the Constitution, which is being brazenly trampled every day by his own government in UP?” asked Amarinder. Mocking the UP chief minister’s comment, Amarinder said given the Yogi Adityanath government and the BJP’s track record of spreading “communal hate”, such a remark was utterly ridiculous, apart from being totally unwarranted and uncalled for. The whole world knows of the communally divisive policies of the BJP, and particularly the Yogi Adityanath government in UP, said Amarinder.Pointing to the “spate of changes in names” of various UP cities, including Mughal Sarai to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar, Allahabad as Prayagraj and Faizabad as Ayodhya, he dubbed it an “attempt by the Yogi government to rewrite history”, which the peace-loving people of India will never condone.Citing media reports, Amarinder recalled that UP was the first state in the country to approve “love jihad” laws, and Yogi Adityanath’s open hatred for Taj Mahal (which he sees as a legacy of the Mughals) has been the subject matter of criticism in international press.In fact, the UP chief minister is reportedly the founder of Hindu Yuva Vahini, an organisation that was responsible for starting cow vigilantism, which led to lynching of Muslims in his own state, the Punjab CM said. Meanwhile, Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol also opposed carving out of Malerkotla district out of Sangrur. “With this announcement, the government has made Sangrur a small district. This is against Constitution. India is a secular country and to divide the society for political benefit is not right,” said Deol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-slams-yogi-s-inflammatory-tweet-over-making-malerkotla-as-dist-101621107606388.html
16-05-2021||Other||Two convicts among 3 held with 819gm heroin, ₹4.9 lakh drug money in Ludhiana||The special task force (STF) of Ludhiana police has arrested three men, including two convicts, with 819gm heroin and ₹4.9 lakh drug money through two separate operations in Ferozepur and Ludhiana.The drug peddlers had cross-border links and were arrested on Thursday following human intelligence inputs, police said on Saturday.Two of them, Gurminder Singh, alias Lali, 52, of Cheecha village, Amritsar, and Harjinder Singh, alias Sunny, 26, of Sarai Amanat Khan village, Tarn Taran, were caught near the octroi post in Ferozepur.“They were crossing the area in a Mahindra Verito when they were stopped for checking. 410gm heroin and ₹4.9 lakh drug money were recovered from the car, which was also seized,” said inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge, STF Ludhiana.Both accused were already facing trials in at least 10 cases of drug peddling, illegal weapons and attempt to murder, the inspector said, adding that Gurminder, who had been peddling drugs since 1996, had even been convicted in two cases.“Harjinder turned to crime in his teenage years and has also been convicted previously. Both are currently on parole, yet returned to drug peddling,” he said.They were produced in court on Saturday and sent to two-day remand. Police are investigating the source and destination of the contraband recovered from the duo.Similarly, Sanjay Chawla, alias Sanju, 27, a driver with a printing press, was arrested near Harkrishan Public School, New Janta Nagar. A resident of New Janta Nagar, Chawla was found carrying 409gm heroin in a Hyundai i20 car, which was also impounded. He was sent to five-day police remand by a court.Separate cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act have been registered against the accused at the STF station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-convicts-among-3-held-with-819gm-heroin-4-9-lakh-drug-money-in-ludhiana-101621107605418.html
16-05-2021||Other||Jailed gangster orchestrates murder attempt on Ludhiana youth||A 21-year-old man was attacked by a group of men over an old rivalry near Division Number 3 police station at midnight on Friday. During the attack, the accused made a video call to local gangster Puneet Bains, who is lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail, saying that they had taken revenge, the victim, Karan Kalia, 21, of Harikartar Colony of Janakpuri, told the police. A case was registered against Puneet Bains, Vishal Gill, Steem Sahota, Aju Sahota, Kartik Baggan, Akhil Sabharwal, Rohit Hans, and Ravi and their unidentified accomplices, sub-inspector Madhu Bala, station house office at Division Number 3 police station, said. Karan, along with his friend Dikshit Tandon, 24, of Hargobind Nagar, had come to the area to celebrate a friend’s birthday. Dikshit was riding a scooter while Karan was on a bike. While they were returning home, a group of men, riding bikes and carrying sharp-edged weapons, intercepted them. While Dikshit managed to hide, Karan was caught and assaulted. Meanwhile, one of the accused made a video call to Bains and said that they had taken revenge. After assaulting Karan, they fled. Tandon rushed Karan to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Rajpura Road, where his condition is stated to be critical. The 21-year-old underwent surgery for grievous injuries on Saturday and will undergo another one on Sunday, doctors at the hospital said. The SHO said the attack seemed to be a fallout of an old rivalry. “We are scanning CCTV footage in the area for more clues. A manhunt has been launched to nab the accused,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jailed-gangster-orchestrates-murder-attempt-on-ludhiana-youth-101621107485114.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine shortage: Punjab’s pvt hospitals in talks with makers to procure doses||Amid shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the government sector, private hospitals in Punjab are trying to procure jabs from manufactures to boost the inoculation drive. The move comes after the new vaccination policy of the central government, which came into effect on May 1, allowing states and the private hospitals to directly procure 50% of India-made vaccines from the makers. According to the Punjab health department, at least eight private hospitals across the state have already approached manufacturers, including the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, to place purchase orders for Covishield and Covaxin vaccines.At present, only two private hospitals chains in Punjab — Max Super Specialty Hospital, and Fortis Hospital, both in Mohali — have procured vaccines and are administering it to beneficiaries, including people in the age group of 18-44 years, who are yet to get jabs at government facilities. Though the government has started vaccination in this age group, it is initially administering doses to kin of industrial and health workers. Of the 30 lakh Covishield vaccines ordered by the Punjab government for the 18-44 age group, the state has so far received only 1 lakh doses.“Many private hospitals in Punjab have shown their interest in joining the government in the inoculation drive. Eight private hospitals have already started talks with the vaccine manufacturers and they will soon place the order. Due to vaccine shortage, private hospitals may get the vaccine stock a bit late,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, adding that due to non-availability of vaccine in private hospitals, the state’s vaccination drive has been hampered amid the second wave of pandemic.Dr Bhaskar further said: “Though the vaccine in private hospitals is paid as compared to free inoculation in government centres, people are coming forward to avail the facility. In the past week, private hospitals (Max hospital and Fortis hospital) have administered the first dose to 4,512 beneficiaries and second dose to 371 beneficiaries and the numbers will improve with more private hospitals joining the drive.” Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan has also urged people to book vaccination appointments at the two private hospitals. “Max and Fortis hospitals have procured vaccines and have begun vaccinating 18-44 age group beneficiaries. Max is charging ₹900 for Covishield and Fortis ₹1,250 for Covaxin (per dose). Please register on CoWin Portal to book a slot at these hospitals,” she tweeted.“Since the manufacturers are unable to supply vaccines demanded by the state governments in large quantities, not many private hospitals are trying to procure the stock. The eight private hospitals, which are trying to buy vaccines, have not got any confirmation from the companies yet. Also, placing a purchase order requires a huge investment and not many people will agree to take a single dose at such a high price. More private hospitals will make efforts to procure vaccines once easily available,” said the director of an Amritsar-based private hospital.“Some 15 private hospitals are willing to join the drive but due to vaccine shortage, not many of them tried to place orders as of now. Our association is also trying to buy vaccines to join the government’s efforts in containing the Covid-19 spread,” said president, Indian Medical Association, Punjab, Dr KD Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-shortage-punjab-s-pvt-hospitals-in-talks-with-makers-to-procure-doses-101621107425392.html
16-05-2021||Other||Covid toll touches 1,700 in Ludhiana with 18 more deaths, cases lowest in 15 days||The district’s Covid-19 toll on Saturday touched 1,700 with 18 people succumbing to the virus, the youngest among them a 36-year-old man.Ludhiana added the last 100 deaths in just five days, as it was on May 11 that the toll had crossed the 1,600 mark with a record number of 30 deaths. Before then, the death tally had risen from 1,500 to 1,600 in also five days, from May 7 to 11. The daily deaths, however, remained below the 20 mark for the second day in a row, and even the cases, at 1,132, were the lowest in 15 days. At 792, the last lowest number of cases was on April 30. Thereon, May had begun with 1,600 cases and the cases also touched the all-time high of 1,729 on May 9. But, Saturday’s cases took May’s total to 20,287, surpassing April’s tally of 20,176 in just 15 days. With fewer recoveries, the active cases also rose to a record 12,832.The district’s total cases stand at 74,873, of which 60,321 patients have been cured, a recovery rate of 80.56%, which is lower than the state average of 81.76%.Those who died on Saturday included 14 men and four women, the oldest being a 75-year-old man from GK Vihar. Among the fatalities, the majority at 12 were aged between 50 and 70. Two each were in their 30s, 40s and above 70 years of age.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents not to lower their guard and adhere to all safety protocols not only to save themselves, but to keep everyone around safe.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and a member of the panel of doctors of the Dr KK Talwar committee to manage Covid-19 in Punjab, sent out a video message to the rural population, asking them to get tested early at the slightest of symptoms, as timely testing can save lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-toll-touches-1-700-in-ludhiana-with-18-more-deaths-cases-lowest-in-15-days-101621107186953.html
16-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman murdered by husband was beaten up before being strangled||Aarti Arora, 48, who was allegedly murdered by her husband with the connivance of their son, daughter and daughter-in-law on Friday, was brutally beaten up and tortured before being strangled to death, the autopsy report has revealed.The team of doctors that conducted the post-mortem examination at the Ludhiana civil hospital on Saturday confirmed that Aarti was strangled to death with a piece of wire. Multiple internal and external injuries on her body also revealed that she was beaten up and tortured. Continuing their probe on Saturday, police questioned the family’s domestic help, who revealed that Aarti and her husband, Harmesh Arora, 50, had strained relations and for the past few days, arguments had become common at their Atam Nagar house in Model Town.Aarti’s brother Rajan Kundra, who had contacted the police after her neighbour saw her family dragging her body into a car, had stated in his complaint that his sister was being mistreated by her husband, son, daughter and daughter-in-law. His brother-in-law had been beating her up and also not allowed her any food for two days. Kundra had met his sister on May 13 and asked her to accompany him for her safety, but she had told him to pick her up the next day so she could pack her luggage. But, before he could return to his sister, she was murdered, he alleged.After Aarti’s neighbours alerted him, he had also asked his two male cousins to rush to her house, while he drove to the hospital. At the house, his cousins found that Harmesh had fled and his son, daughter and daughter-in-law had taken Aarti to hospital, claiming she had attempted suicide by hanging. She was declared brought dead there.“Harmesh has been apprehended, while his son Lovish Arora, 26, daughter Ritika Arora, 20, and daughter-in-law Saina, alias Lovisha Arora, are at large. They are all facing a case of murder and will be nabbed soon,” said inspector Inderjt Singh, station house officer (SHO), Model Town police station, adding that they will get a detailed autopsy report of the victim on Monday.All for property?Aarti was the whole-time director of the family’s factory, Arora Alloys, located in Phase 7, Focal Point, according to her brother Rajat Kundra, who lives in Ludhiana at Karnail Singh Nagar.In his police complaint, Kundra had shared that Aarti’s husband Harmesh was the factory’s managing director, while their elder son, Parmesh Arora, who is settled abroad, is the director.Aarti also ran a boutique, Aarti Embellishments, in Atam Nagar. Harmesh had tried to remove her from the company as the whole-time director and tried to grab her shares by forging her signatures, and was also eyeing her boutique, Kundra had alleged, while demanding a fair investigation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-murdered-by-husband-was-beaten-up-before-being-strangled-101621107004978.html
16-05-2021||Other||Can’t ignore Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra: Fadnavis write to Sonia Gandhi||Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking her “attention” to the state, which is ruled by a coalition of three parties, including hers. Fadnavis said that the pandemic situation in Maharashtra is the worst and that her party should not indulge in politics or create a negative atmosphere and must instead play the role of a constructive Opposition in the Centre, like his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is doing in the state. The four-page letter by Fadnavis comes following Gandhi’s suggestions to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the handling of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. Fadnavis said that though questions have been raised on the Central government’s handling of the outbreak, one cannot ignore the situation in Maharashtra either. “As on May 13 (Thursday), of the total cases in the country, 22% came from Maharashtra. The state still contributes to nearly 31% of the fatalities in the country. If we talk about the active cases in the country, 14% are from Maharashtra… you would agree that if the situation in Maharashtra improves faster, then the load on the nation’s machinery would reduce,” Fadnavis wrote. The former chief minister further said that though Maharashtra is not ruled by BJP, the Centre has stood with the state and provided it with the maximum help in terms relief and other equipment. Fadnavis also alleged that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has reduced testing in Mumbai, even as rapid antigen tests form a considerable chunk of the total tests conducted. “The deaths due to Covid-19 are hidden. While other districts in the state account to 0.8% of deaths in the ‘deaths due to other reason’ category, Mumbai has 40% deaths... In 2020, 9,603 deaths had been hidden,” Fadnavis alleged. He added, “MVA government has left the fate of the backward regions such as Marathwada, Vidarbha and north Maharashtra to God. No help is being rendered here. In rural areas, neither beds nor treatment are available in hospitals. People have to struggle for Remdesivir and oxygen.” Responding to the allegations, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole in a statement said that the letter is an attempt to deviate attention from the failure of the Centre. Patole added that Fadnavis should show the “courage to write a letter to Modi, who has turned the country into a cremation ground”. On Fadnavis’s allegation on Mumbai, Patole said that the Centre and the Niti Aayog have praised the ‘Mumbai model’. He asked if the Centre and Niti Aayog are lying. State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “This party [BJP] cannot think beyond political opportunism and power, and is completely unconcerned about the plight of people.” “The party of superspreaders, including PM and HM (home minister) are blaming every other person for the crisis that their government failed to handle,” he added, referring to the campaigning for Assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-ignore-covid-19-situation-in-maharashtra-fadnavis-write-to-sonia-gandhi-101621106824412.html
16-05-2021||Other||Rollback of 33% quota in promotions could lead to stir: Maharashtra minister||The trouble for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) could mount further with state energy minister Nitin Raut from the Congress party warning of an agitation for the rollback of the state’s decision to scrap 33% reservation in promotions for those employed through quotas in the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (SC), Nomadic Tribe (NT) and Special Backward Class categories. Earlier this week, Raut – who heads the ST cell of the Congress – met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to express his objections over the scrapping of the promotions. On Friday, Raut warned of a state-wide agitation to put pressure on the government to withdraw the decision. Raut could also have the backing of two of his cabinet colleagues from Congress, tribal development minister KC Padvi and education minister Varsha Gaikwad, over the issue. The state had on May 7 issued a government resolution (GR) scrapping the promotions—a decision that could lead to tension in the wake of the Supreme Court’s judgment to scrap the Maratha reservation in education and government jobs. Though it is being alleged by community members that the decision to scrap the promotion was a move to pacify the Maratha community, state government officials said it was based on a decision by the Bombay high court. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party-backed legislator and Shiv Sangram party leader Vinayak Mete on Saturday announced that a section of the Maratha community will hold an agitation in Beed on June 5. His outfit had planned an agitation against the government’s alleged failure to secure the Maratha quota in the Supreme Court on May 16, but had to postpone it after the state extended the lockdown restrictions to contain Covid-19 till June 1. Mete claimed that the extension was the state government’s tactic to curb the protests by the community. He claimed that his outfit will stage the agitation even if the government extends lockdown beyond June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rollback-of-33-quota-in-promotions-could-lead-to-stir-maharashtra-minister-101621106704363.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt forms 3-member panel of VC’s for recommendation for promoting students without exam||The state government on Friday formed a committee consisting of three vice-chancellors to suggest measures on how to promote students to the next semester without exams across all universities and degree colleges of the state. The committee is expected to submit its recommendations in a week because in this Covid-19 situation conducting the physical examination is a difficult task, an official said.The vice-chancellors in the committee are prof Alok Kumar Rai, vice-chancellor of Lucknow University, prof Vinay Kumar Pathak, vice-chancellor of Chhatrapati Sahuji Maharaj University, Kanpur and prof Krishna Pal Singh, vice-chancellor of Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University in Bareilly, according to a letter issued by Abdul Samad, special secretary, UP government.“It is a critical situation. Last year students were promoted without exams under special circumstances. This year the situation is even worse. We had to work out a solution,” said Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak.Lucknow University vice-chancellor prof Alok Rai had already sent a letter to the government to allow to promote students without examinations. He said, “The three-member committee will discuss and try to reach out at a consensus on how to promote students.”University Grants Commission had recently stated that it had requested the universities to keep the offline examinations in abeyance during May 2021. The UGC in the notice released on May 6, had requested the higher education institutions to keep the offline examinations in abeyance during May 2021 to avoid physical gathering at the campuses and also to provide much-needed relief to the students, faculty, and the staff who are presently occupied in fighting Covid-19 in one way or the other.Last year also the state government had formed a panel headed by Chaudhary Charan Singh University (Meerut) vice-chancellor prof NK Taneja to recommend promoting students to the next semester without exams.After a committee of four vice-chancellors recommended the cancellation of annual examinations in universities across the state given a spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said a final decision on the issue will be taken by the state government.Finally, in July it was decided that in Uttar Pradesh Universities, the students of final year or final semester for undergraduate and postgraduate courses were asked to appear in the final examinations, while the first and second-year students of undergraduate level and first-year students of postgraduate level were promoted to next class without exams, on basis of internal assessments as per the UGC guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-forms-3-member-panel-of-vc-s-for-recommendation-for-promoting-students-without-exam-101621106584360.html
16-05-2021||Other||IIT-K to study impact of immersion of bodies||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)- Kanpur (IIT-K) is set to undertake a study to assess the adverse impact of the immersion of bodies and their burial on water and soil, said Prof Vinod Tare, advisor to the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG).The development comes in the backdrop of mass graves being discovered on the banks of the Ganga in Rae Bareli, Unnao, Kanpur, Fatehpur and Kannauj, and fears about possible contamination of water and soil if the bodies were of Covid-19 patients.“We are going to study the impact of immersion of bodies and their burial on water and soil,” said Prof Tare, adding that the issue had been discussed at the NMCG level.“Immersing a Covid body in Ganga would wash the virus, but it won’t be destroyed; you need different agents such as heat and others to destroy (it),” said Prof Tare, who is with the institute’s environmental science department and has been part of all top panels formed to rejuvenate the Ganga.Seeking a complete ban on immersion and burial on the riverbed, he said the government should make arrangements in order to prevent the practice.Prof Tare has issued an appeal for the people not to dump the bodies in the river or bury them close to it.Many graves have been found in Unnao, Kanpur and Kannauj in the last few days. The bodies were buried at less than two-to-three-foot depth. This has heightened the fear that these corpses would be washed away once the river rises. A unit of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), one platoon of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and jawans from river police would patrol the rivers on boats in these districts. Kanpur police commissioner Aseem Arun said the arrangement would be made in several districts. In Kanpur, a team would ensure that bodies were not immersed or buried along the river, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitk-to-study-impact-of-immersion-of-bodies-101621106524358.html
16-05-2021||Other||Dr Payal Tadvi suicide: HC stays Maharashtra Medical Council’s inquiry against 2 accused||The Bombay high court (HC) last week temporarily stayed a disciplinary inquiry initiated by the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) against two King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital senior residents booked in connection with the death by suicide of their junior colleague Dr Payal Tadvi. Acting on separate petitions filed by the accused – Dr Bhakti Mehare and Dr Ankita Khandelwal – the division bench of justice KK Tated and justice NR Borkar restrained MMC from proceeding ahead with the inquiry till June 11, when their petitions will come up for further hearing. Dr Mehare and Dr Khandelwal moved HC challenging the inquiry initiated by MMC against them last November on the basis of a complaint lodged by Dr Tadvi’s mother Zubeda. They contended that the MMC has initiated the inquiry on the same set of charges for which they are facing prosecution. They claimed that if they are forced to disclose their defence in the inquiry, their defence in the criminal cases will be prejudiced, and therefore urged HC to stay the disciplinary proceedings till the conclusion of their trials. HC found force in the submissions and temporarily stayed the inquiry observing, “Bare reading of the notice of charges dated 04.11.2020 prima facie shows that the respondents started departmental inquiry against the petitioner on the basis of the criminal case.” Dr Tadvi, a second-year postgraduate student of Topiwala National Medical College – which is attached to the state-run KEM Hospital – died by suicide on May 22, 2019, inside her hostel room in the hospital premises. She had left behind a suicide note, blaming her three seniors – Dr Mehare, Dr Khandelwal and Dr Hema Ahuja – for compelling her to take the drastic step by harassing her over her caste and the fact that she had secured admission for the post-graduate course through quota earmarked for her category. A week after the death, the police arrested all the three doctors on charges of making casteist slurs and driving Dr Tadvi to end her life. The trio were booked under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3(2) (v) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The trio were released on bail by HC on August 9, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-payal-tadvi-suicide-hc-stays-maharashtra-medical-council-s-inquiry-against-2-accused-101621106524898.html
16-05-2021||Other||Five killed, 10 injured after slab of building collapses at Thane district’s Ulhasnagar||Five people were killed, while 10 others suffered minor injuries after the slab of a ground-plus-five-storey residential building Mohini Palace at Ulhasnagar’s Charandas Chowk collapsed on Saturday afternoon. The victims have been identified as Milind Parche, 12, and his grandmother Savitri, 60, who lived on the first floor; Haresh Dotwal, 43, his wife Sandhya, 40, and daughter Aishwarya, 23, who lived in a single terrace flat above the fourth floor. The incident took place around 1.30pm when the ceiling of fourth floor fell on the floors below. As per UMC, eight families lived in the building at the time of the incident, with the ground floor housing shops. As soon as the portion collapsed, residents rushed out of the structure. “I lived with my wife on the fourth floor. I was watching TV when I heard loud noises thrice one after another. My wife and I rushed out of the building through the staircase, which is behind the structure,” said a resident, Devidas Bachwani, 61. A team of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation’s (UMC) fire brigade with three fire tenders reached the spot and initiated the rescue operations to pull out those trapped inside the building. Around 10 people were evacuated from the building. The team managed to evacuate some of the residents after breaking the grilles of their windows. “A portion of the roof of the hall on the fourth floor collapsed. Our fire brigade team managed to rescue 10 persons, out of which two are admitted to Central Hospital with minor injuries, while others were released after treatment,” said UMC commissioner Raja Dayanidhi. Meanwhile, the rescue operations for the five people trapped inside the debris was initiated by the Thane disaster response force (TDRF) around 5.15pm. Thirty minutes later, Milind was pulled out from the debris. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) also reached the spot around 6.40 pm and joined the rescue operations. The other four victims were also pulled out from the debris. They were rushed to Central Hospital, where they were declared dead. The rescue operations were called off around 10 pm after the last body was removed from the debris. NDRF’s deputy commandant Ashish Kumar said, “As the slabs on the centre of the building had collapsed, we had to be very careful during the rescue operation, as we still had to find one body that was missing. The remaining portions of the slabs were hanging due to which we had to do the work slowly.” According to UMC records, the building was constructed in 1994 (27 years old) and is not in the list of dangerous structures. However, Ganesh Shimpi, assistant commissioner ward committee 1, UMC, said, “The terrace flat which the building had above the fourth floor is illegal. We will inquire on this angle and take necessary action.” Bachwani claimed that he had been complaining about the dilapidated state of the building to UMC and the local police since the past three years. “A year ago, my son and his wife left the house saying they didn’t want to live in danger. I have been complaining about the state of the building since three years but nobody cared about it. A year ago, the building had developed cracks on the backside. People have now died due to negligence,” said Bachwani. In August 2013, a structure, Mahak Apartments collapsed, leaving around 200 homeless. As residents took to protests, the state government asked the civic body chief to regularise illegal structures and redevelop the dangerous ones. Though UMC had begun the process, it has now come to a standstill. “The civic body has already started serving notices to dangerous buildings. The owners are asked to conduct structural audits. From June, the civic body will be taking action against those buildings that are in the dangerous structures’ list,” added Dayanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-killed-10-injured-after-slab-of-building-collapses-at-thane-district-s-ulhasnagar-101621106464409.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||Now, life-saving injection to treat ‘black fungus’ out of stock in Lucknow||As cases of black fungal infection, a post-Covid complication, are being reported from all across Uttar Pradesh, including the state capital, the Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, used in treating the rare fungal infection is out of stock in the drug stores. Till the last week, one could easily find this injection in most of the prominent drug stores in Lucknow, but on Saturday, Liposomal Amphotericin B injection was not available even in a single drug store across the city. It was out of stock even in the government drug store operating from the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office. “Our CMO store does not have this injection,” said Dr Anup Srivastava, nodal office, CMO drug store. The doctors say that the Black Fungus infection (Mucormycosis) could be life-threatening if not treated timely. After the recent crisis of Remdesivir injection in Lucknow and the rest of the state, the shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection is a new challenge before the state government. The Pharma industry is also grappling to tackle this new crisis. “Till the other day, everything was fine. There was no shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. In the last three days all of a sudden the demand for this injection increased manifold and the drug went out of stock from all medical stores across the state,” said a senior official of Bharat Serums and Vaccines Limited, company which manufacture the injection, pleading anonymity. “The state government will have to distribute this injection like Remdesivir through the Red Cross or any other sources to check the crisis and prevent its black marketing,” added the official. It was after the Red Cross society started distributing Remdesivir injection from its office that its crisis ended in Lucknow. “We are providing Remdesivir injection to everyone whoever is approaching us. After fulfilling all formalities, including doctor’s prescription and patient’s aadhar card, injection is being provided to patient’s kin,” said Gaurav Maheshwari of Red Cross, Lucknow. According to doctors, the maximum retail price of the Liposomal Amphotericin B injection is around ₹7000. The number of doses per patient varies from four-six injections per day depending on the patient’s weight. The complete course of the drug varies from 10 to 21 days depending on the patient’s condition. Dr Usha Dubey, whose father Suresh Prasad Dubey is undergoing treatment at the Vivekanand Hospital, Lucknow, has developed the Black Fungus infection after he was admitted to the hospital’s ICU for treatment of Covid-19. Dr Usha had to come down to Lucknow from Varanasi, where her husband lives, to attend her ailing father. “For the last two days, we have been desperately searching for the Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. Right from Bihar to Uttar Pradesh, the injection is not available anywhere,” said Dr Usha. “Alternate injections available in the market are also hard to find and they have a side effect on patient’s kidney,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-life-saving-injection-to-treat-black-fungus-out-of-stock-in-lucknow-101621106465019.html
16-05-2021||Other||UP reports 12,547 fresh Covid-19 cases, 281 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 12,547 fresh Covid-19 cases and Lucknow’s daily case count dropped to 617 after 45 days amid 281 more fatalities statewide in the past 24 hours, according to official data.The maximum 15 deaths were recorded in Chandauli in eastern UP followed by 14 in Kanpur and 12 in the state capital, the data showed. All the 75 districts reported below 1000 fresh cases on the day.The state’s total case count is now over 16 lakh or 1.6 million (1,609,140) since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year and the death toll has gone up to 17,238, also since March last year. On May 14, UP reported 15,747 fresh cases and 312 more deaths.Among the fresh cases on Saturday, Meerut reported the maximum 879 followed by 801 in Gorakhpur, 617 in Lucknow, 527 in Ghaziabad, 480 in Gautam Buddha Nagar, 476 in Varanasi, 315 in Jhansi, 197 in Kanpur, 172 in Prayagraj and 150 in Agra, according to the state health department data.Chandauli reported 15 deaths, Kanpur 14, Lucknow and Auraiyya 12 each, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Jhansi 10 each, Varanasi and Ghaziabad seven each and Prayagraj four.“The number of active cases under treatment now is 1,77,643. This figure is close to the number of active cases a month before. We had 1,70,059 active cases on April 17,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (Information).The recovery rate in Uttar Pradesh was 87.9% while the fatality rate was about 1%, said Sehgal. UP had reported its first case on March 2, 2020.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,33,211 cases of which 2,18,509 have recovered and the recovery rate is 93.69%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Lucknow has reported 2,228 deaths so far. At present, there are 12,474 active cases (patients under treatment) in the state capital.The state has tested over 4.44 crore (4,44,27,447) Covid samples till now, including 2,56,755 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-reports-12-547-fresh-covid-19-cases-281-more-deaths-101621106104320.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to conduct oxygen audit at govt hospitals too||The UT administration will now carry out oxygen audits at government hospitals and mini Covid centres in the city too. In view of the rising demand for oxygen and reports of misuse, the administration had earlier started the audit at all private hospitals being provided oxygen from Chandigarh’s centrally allocated quota of 20 metric tons (MT). This quota is also being utilised to cater to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16; and the dedicated Covid hospital in Sector 48. Yashpal Garg, UT nodal officer for oxygen supplies, said: “We have now decided to include government hospitals and mini-Covid centres under the ambit of audit, so that there is no wastage of oxygen. Our team will visit them and collate information.” Garg chaired a meeting on Saturday to discuss proper oxygen usage and ways to avoid fatalities caused by its insufficient supply. It was decided that while increasing hospital beds, especially in ICUs, oxygen supply and maintenance of its pressure need to be taken into account carefully. The officials said that there should be proper system for deicing vaporisers and bypasses will have to be provided, so that they can be used alternatively to avoid any untoward incident, due to possible choking. Staff deployed on oxygen supply related duty should be provided gasman kits immediately. All oxygen points must be checked by technicians to ensure there is no leakage and are properly closed after use.The team will visit the three government hospitals over the next few days to educate and sensitise the staff about optimum utilisation of oxygen and avoiding wastage. The team also presented its observation regarding oxygen management at the government hospitals. For example, at GMCH, apart from the oxygen generated by the recently-installed pressure swing absorption (PSA) plant, the daily consumption of liquid oxygen is more than 10 MT per day. Presently, there are 130 D-type cylinders and more are being shifted from the Sector-48 hospital, which will increase the number to around 200. In case of delay in supply of liquid oxygen, the manifold along with PSA plant, may be sufficient for about eight hours. Similarly, at the Sector-48 hospital, in case of delay, there is sufficient oxygen for about 24 hours, and at GMSH, it is sufficient for eight hours.Meanwhile, till 7pm on Saturday, 12 online applications were received from residents seeking access to medical oxygen at their homes. Of these, 11 were approved. The lone application that was rejected did not have a doctor’s prescription.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-conduct-oxygen-audit-at-govt-hospitals-too-101621105624962.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ten days on, no ICU bed still available in Punjab’s Mohali||It’s been 10 days and all intensive care unit (ICU) beds remain occupied across all hospitals in Mohali, forcing patients to move to other districts. The district has been hit hard by the pandemic’s second wave, which has claimed more than 150 lives in just a fortnight this month, while around 14,000 people have tested positive for it.There are 395 ICU beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients at various private hospitals in Mohali district, while there is none at any of the government facilities. While all are occupied for the past 10 days, even oxygen beds are nearing saturation, with just 79 available, according to the data released on Saturday evening.There are around 30 big private hospitals in the district, which has emerged as a medical tourism hub, but all are finding it difficult to meet the surge as patients are pouring in from other parts of the region as well.Meanwhile, the civil hospital in Phase 6, which is the government’s lone Covid facility in the district and was upgraded from 60 to 120 oxygen beds — is treating as many as 135 patients, with even two patients occupying one bed, it is learnt.Civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said: “The second wave is witnessing more complications among patients, with a large proportion needing critical care or oxygen support. We are left with no bed for such patients in any government hospital, and they are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala or PGIMER in Chandigarh.”Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “We have already told private hospitals that they should not deny admission to any patient requiring critical care and accommodated them on oxygen beds till the next discharge from the ICU, subject to the approval of the patient’s kin.”The district administration has also directed subdivisional magistrates and doctors posted at subdivisional level to redress issues faced in Covid management. The DC has approved mortuary fridges at subdivisional hospitals Covid deaths occurring late at night besides allowing hiring of three funeral vans each to facilitate families of patients in the time of distress.Chandigarh to get 20 more ventilatorsHospitals in Chandigarh and Panchkula are also struggling, with only 15 and seven ventilators available, respectively, on Saturday evening.In Chandigarh, there are 178 beds with ventilators, of which 146 are at government facilities, including the PGIMER, and 32 at private hospitals. In some respite, the Centre allocated 20 more ventilators to Chandigarh on Saturday. UT adviser Manoj Parida said it would help the city tremendously in treating critical patients and save lives. Meanwhile, only 288 oxygen beds of the total 1,324 were available in the city.In the neighbouring Panchkula district, 315 of 349 oxygen beds were occupied and 113 of 120 ICU beds were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ten-days-on-no-icu-bed-atill-available-in-punjab-s-mohali-101621105565661.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||1,405 test Covid+ in Chandigarh tricity, 46% drop in 5 days||Continuing with the downward trend, the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the tricity on Saturday plunged to 1,405 from 1,729 the previous day.The daily case tally has been on a consistent decline since peaking at 2,612 on May 10, a drop of 46% in five days.Even the number of deaths dropped below 20 for the first time in a week, as 19 people succumbed to the virus.With more people being discharged than those testing positive, the active case load, too, has fallen by 12% over two days, and stands at 20,500.Chandigarh recorded 660 cases on Saturday, followed by 535 in Mohali and 210 in Panchkula. Both Chandigarh and Mohali reported eight deaths, while three people died in Panchkula.In Chandigarh, those dead included two women and a man in their 30s. The toll has reached 625. Of 54,703 people tested positive so far, 46,231 have recovered, including 963 discharged on Saturday, and 7,847 are still to be cured.In Mohali district, 1,336 patients were discharged, taking the total to 49,202 and bringing the active case load down to 10,109. However, the total number of cases crossed yet another grim milestone, reaching 60,059 on Saturday. As many as 748 people have died so far.In Panchkula district, a 32-year-old Kalka woman who had no other underlying medical condition was among the three dead. Though the number of cases saw a drop to 210, it could be attributed to a drop in number of tests. Only 1,200 tests were conducted on Saturday, while around 2,000 are done on other days.As many as 27,281 have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 24,460 have recovered, 277 have died and 2,544 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1405-test-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-46-drop-in-5-days-101621105506947.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration plans to ease lockdown restrictions||The Chandigarh administration is planning some relaxations in the lockdown currently in force in the city. It has been more than two weeks since the administration imposed the lockdown to break the chain of Covid-19 infection. With cases rising sharply in the past month and a half, the authorities had first imposed a night curfew, followed by a weekend curfew and then a weeklong curfew, which was further extended.For now, the daytime restrictions imposed from 5pm on May 4 are to continue till 5am on May 18. The administration is expected to take a fresh call during the review meeting on May 17.Even though the number of cases being reported daily is on a decline, the weekly positivity rate is still very high at around 25% and has not seen any significant dip since the lockdown was first imposed. “We will study the effectiveness of the lockdown as well as the necessity to continue with it. If the lockdown is not completely withdrawn, we will consider allowing opening of non-essential shops for a couple of days. The other option is to allow the odd-even formula for opening shops,” said a senior UT official, wishing to remain anonymous.The final decision on relaxations and lockdown will be taken in the review meeting to be chaired by the UT administrator on Monday, said the official, adding that the withdrawal of the weekend restrictions and night curfew will not be up for discussion as yet. The administration has come under mounting pressure from the business community, who want it to allow reopening of non-essential shops. Trader associations, such as Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, have made a number of representations, seeking some relaxations in the lockdown. Their contention is that the lockdown is leading to a loss of livelihood.Centre wants strict curbs to continueMeanwhile, the central government has advised states and UTs with over 10% positivity rate to continue with “stringent containments” even if they are witnessing a declining trend in the pandemic.According to weekly data shared by the health ministry, Chandigarh’s positivity rate is the ninth worst among states and UTs and has dropped down just slightly from 26.7% (May 1-7) to 25.7% (May 8-14).At a press briefing on Saturday, joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that there are 24 states and UTs with over 15% positivity rate and only three under 5%.Stating that stringent containment is the key to manage spread of infection, Agarwal said: “According to the Government of India, wherever there is over 10% positivity rate, there is an urgent need to work on intensive action and local containment. A comprehensive approach is needed.”Agarwal said that even in states where a decline or plateau trend is noticed, their containment activities should continue as it is, so that cases decline further and this trend continues. 28 more micro-containment zones declaredMeanwhile, the Chandigarh administration on Saturday declared 28 micro-containment zones in the city. District magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas will continue and frequent sanitisation will be conducted. Residents have been advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. The affected areas are spread across Sectors 19, 20, 29, 33, 37, 41, 44, 45, 46, 48, 51 and 63, besides Dadumajra Colony, Maloya, Daria, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran and Manimajra.The administration had announced curbs in 30 areas on Thursday and 23 areas on Friday, taking the total to 81 in three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administration-plans-to-ease-lockdown-restrictions-101621104786220.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to see heavy rain on Sunday as result of Cyclone Tauktae||A low-pressure zone over the Arabian Sea, which began to form on Thursday morning, is expected to intensify into the first cyclonic storm of the year for India’s west coast. Named Cyclone Tauktae, the weather system is expected to bring heavy rains to parts of Mumbai and Thane districts on Sunday, as it will pass by the Konkan region at a distance of 300 to 500km from the coast.The cyclone was named by Myanmar. Tauktae means gecko in Burmese.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) placed Mumbai and Thane under yellow category storm warning, indicating very likely chances of “heavy rain at isolated places”, for one day. Districts towards the southern leg of Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra (including Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara) have been placed under an orange category alert, indicating more severe weather, on Saturday and Sunday.“The influence of the storm in Maharashtra is likely to subside after May 17 (Monday) as it would travel northwestwards towards Gujarat around May 18,” said an official with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. The official added the storm will not meet directly with the coast in Maharashtra, and that it may also delay the arrival of the monsoon along India’s west coast by a few days. However, they did not specify the exact influence it is likely to have on monsoons in Mumbai.“Cyclone Tauktae is likely to become the first severe cyclonic storm in 17 years to travel so close to the coast of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa & Maharashtra. As per the IMD Cyclone e-atlas, not a single severe cyclonic storm managed to do so after May 2004,” Akshay Deoras, a meteorologist at the University of Reading, tweeted earlier this week. Deoras also said that in Maharashtra, most of the storm’s impact is expected along the Konkan coast in the form of wind damages to trees and weak structures. He said, “People must remain vigil and try to remain at a safe distance from hoardings, power lines, and trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-see-heavy-rains-on-sunday-as-result-of-cyclone-tauktae-101621017962698.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: BMC readies plan to shift patients from BKC Jumbo facility||As gusty winds and rain is expected in Mumbai on Saturday and Sunday in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae which is forming over the Arabian Sea, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said it is ready for disaster response, if needed.BMC has made all necessary arrangements in case the need arises to shift Covid-19 patients from the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo facility. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “There are not more than 300 patients at the BKC jumbo facility. We have put in place a plan to shift them if the need arises.”Over the past two days, BMC stopped admitting Covid patients at BKC jumbo facility in anticipation of the cyclone, Kakani said. “So, not many patients are there at present. We have vacant beds at Nesco jumbo facility in Goregaon and at SevenHills Hospital in Andheri, where patients can be moved. Ambulances with oxygen, doctors, ICU beds are all on stand-by,” Kakani added.In a statement on Friday, BMC said, “All dangerous trees around jumbo facilities have been pruned. 384 such trees were pruned. At these centres, required manpower has been made available along with equipment and vehicles, keeping in view the fact that there is a possibility of falling trees or branches in case of strong winds.”All waterlogging spots are equipped with dewatering pumps, the statement said.BMC has activated temporary shelters in all 24 wards, and citizens living along coastal Mumbai have been alerted, the statement said.Considering the possibility of strong winds and rains, the Mumbai Fire Brigade has been directed to deploy flood rescue squads at all six beaches in BMC limits. In addition, instructions have been given to keep Mumbai Police’s mobile vans operational at these places. Citizens are not allowed near these beaches, BMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-bmc-readies-plan-to-shift-patients-from-bkc-jumbo-facility-if-needed-101621017900540.html
16-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae building in Arabian Sea has Pune on yellow alert for rain, winds||PUNE Pune received light rain on Friday, a possible foretaste of what is to come in the next few days, based on the fact that as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, this is the third consecutive year a cyclonic storm is hovering over the Arabian Sea close to the Indian coast. Pune, on Friday, reported 0.9 millimetres of rainfall in Shivajinagar and traces of rain at Lohegaon and Pashan. IMD has issued a forecast of moderate rain for Pune city (15.6mm – 64.4 mm) on May 15 and May 16, with isolated heavy (64.5mm-115.5mm) rainfall likely in the ghat areas. Thunder, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) are also likely on May 15 and May 16. “We have issued a yellow alert which means that citizens and authorities have to be alert. There may be a partial reduction in visibility, and slippery roads during periods of intense rain spell in some areas. There can also be a major disruption of traffic flow. Moderate water logging in low-lying areas adjacent to river banks is also possible, with a possibility of trees falling/uprooting on May 15 and May 16,” said Anupam Kashyapi, IMD. He further added that there is a possibility of minor landslides in the elevated hilly areas near Pune on May 15 and May 16. Cyclone watch In 2019, Cyclone Vayu moved parallel to the coast and then later weakened just before landfall in Gujarat. In 2020, Nisarga hit Maharashtra in May. And this year, a low-pressure area has a depression and later is forecast develop into Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea. Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of Meteorology, IMD, said that the forecast as of now is that the cyclone will travel towards Gujarat. “The exact path and intensity will get clearer in the next 24 hours. We have issued a high alert in Gujarat. In Maharashtra the impact will be only of strong winds and rainfall,” said Mohapatra. As of Friday, the low pressure area over Lakshadweep and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea has moved east-north-eastwards, and concentrated into a depression. “It is very likely to intensify into a deep depression during the next 12 hours (Friday evening) and into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 12 hours (May 15 morning). It is very likely to reach near the Gujarat coast by May 18 morning,” said IMD officials. Vineet Singh, researcher at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), who is currently studying cyclones, said, “It is related to the wind pattern in the mid- to upper-atmosphere, say at a height of five to 10km, which governs a cyclone track in general.” “In the last 40 years, for the first time, four consecutive years (2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021) will have a cyclone in the Arabian Sea, in the pre-monsoon season. If this cyclone hits Gujarat with the least cyclonic storm strength, then for the first time since 1980, a cyclone will hit Gujarat in May, with strength of wind speed at least 65kmph as per data by the weather department,” said Singh. Pre-monsoon cyclones near the Indian west coast 2019: Cyclone Vayu moved parallel to the coast and then later weakened just before landfall in Gujarat. 2020: Nisarga hit Maharashtra in May. 2021: Cyclone Tauktae, a low pressure area has concentrated into a depression and later will develop a cyclone. It is likely to move towards Gujarat. Source: IMD Monsoon over Kerala likely on May 31 As per IMD, this year, the onset of the southwest monsoon over Kerala is likely to be on May 31. IMD said it is difficult to say when the monsoon will reach Maharashtra. Conditions will get clear after the dissipation of the cyclonic storm currently over the Arabian Sea, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-building-in-arabian-sea-has-pune-on-yellow-alert-for-rain-winds-101621001159105.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police foil man’s bid to courier 10kg cocaine to Australia||In their biggest narcotic seizure ever, the Chandigarh Police on Thursday recovered 10.24kg cocaine from a 36-year-old Chennai man, who was preparing to courier it to Australia.The cocaine, packed in two cartons of crockery boxes, was discovered by the employees at Excel Worldwide Courier Agency in Industrial Area, Phase 2, who further alerted the police.After the accused, Ashfaq Rahman, reached the courier company with the parcel request, the firm’s employees sought his identification card. But, he presented an ID bearing the name “Amanjeet”, which made them suspicious and they summoned the police.As cops arrived at the scene and asked Rahman to open the sealed boxes, he panicked and fled, but was apprehended at the police beatbox near the courier company’s office.“Inside each crockery box were seven wooden trays, which were sealed with plywood. The trays were making a hollow sound, so these were opened and cocaine wrapped in plastic packaging was found,” said UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal.Investigators said Rahman had been staying at the Satsang Bhawan in Sector 26 for about a week. He had confessed to collecting the consignment from the Chandigarh Railway Station during this period. He had also come to the city a month ago to conduct a recce to execute the plan.However, police officials privy to the matter said, it was likely that Rahman was only a carrier. A Class 10 dropout, Rahman had claimed that he was paid ₹1 lakh to ship the contraband through crockery boxes.Police have contacted their counterparts in Chennai to look into his criminal history. The accused has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Sector 31 police station. He will be presented in court on Friday, when police will seek his remand to investigate the involvement of other people in what they suspect could be a drug racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-foil-man-s-bid-to-courier-10kg-cocaine-to-australia-101620934792842.html
