19-05-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, civic agency’s teams step in as kin prefer to bid adieu from afar at crematoriums||Ghaziabad: Suraj Kumar is one of the non-regular staff members of a small, six-member team roped in by the Ghaziabad municipal corporation to make arrangements for the cremation of Covid-related and suspected deaths at the Hindon cremation ground. He says that the effect of the pandemic is such that families stay away from handling or touching bodies, with him and his team members providing them all possible help.An HT visit to the Hindon cremation ground revealed that several families preferred to stay away from handling bodies of their kin or even placing them on the platforms due to fear of infection. The bodies of suspected cases, too, arrived packed in bags, as per Covid protocols. “They look upon us to help them out and we don’t deny them. The situation is such that people are scared. But this is work for us. We unload bodies and place them on platforms, placing wood over them to start the cremation. Only those family members come near the bodies which have PPE kits on. Still, they keep a safe distance. Our team works in time slots, and we handle the burning pyres as late as midnight,” said Suraj Kumar, one of the members of the team at the Hindon cremation ground.“Generally, kin leave after the pyre is lit. It usually takes four-six hours thereafter, but people leave within half-an-hour to one hour, maximum. They do not want to stay in a high-risk area for long. But our team works in time slots and ensures till midnight to ensure blaze is spread to all parts the entire body. We also ensure that masks and PPE kits are disposed of safely. Sometimes, they are thrown about in the open, but we take care of them,” Kumar added.A family which arrived at the cremation ground to collect the ashes stayed away from the platform and a majority of the work was taken up by the team members for them. “They are really a great help as people stay away from the platforms and some are scared to even get close to the pyres. The team performs many tasks during the last rites and helps out families who have suffered losses. The situation is such that people do not want to even touch the bodies,” the family member of a person who died of Covid, requesting anonymity, said. The officials of the corporation said that the team members were not regular staff of the corporation but were roped in under the “Kendriya Ajivika Mission” scheme, which would earn them a monthly sum of about ₹8000 each. “We have also roped in more team members to look after the drinking water and parking arrangements and another team of three-four is working at the other crematorium at Noor Nagar. We have given them protection kits, masks and sanitizers for safety. This team was roped in this year as the burden increased suddenly during April, and they are managing the work in a proper manner,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner. Mohammad Yusuf, another team member at Hindon, said that given the present situation, the team members go out of the way to help families. “Like in cases when one has to collect ashes, people prefer to pick only a few and our team helps them out with the rest. Cleaning platforms and preparing them for the next cremation is also part of the work. The remnants of the ashes also need to be disposed of safely. It is now a routine job for us and if we begin to feel scared, we will not be able to perform our duties. Helping out families in their painful moments in turn helps us be at peace,” he added.Officials said they have worked out a plan for testing and vaccination of the team members. According to officials familiar with the development, cremation of about 370 Covid-19 and Covid-suspected cases took place at the Hindon cremation ground in April. “At present, the numbers have reduced to a maximum of 15 cremations of confirmed or suspected cases per day. The team is still on the job. We will get them tested at regular intervals and will also ensure that they get vaccinated at the earliest, as their job is of such nature that it requires their regular health monitoring,” the additional municipal commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-civic-agency-s-teams-step-in-as-kin-prefer-to-bid-adieu-from-afar-at-crematoriums-101621448855111.html
19-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin begins exercise to make over 400 more ICU beds for kids||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has started the process of creating 425 paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds in the district. The move comes in the wake of predictions that a third wave of Covid-19 is possible which will likely affect children.Officials said that 350 PICU beds will be created at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, while 75 such beds will be set up at the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, better known as Child PGI, in Noida. At present, there are 150 PICU beds in Child PGI, the officials said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the PICU beds will provide exclusive care for children needing treatment for the coronavirus disease. “At Child PGI, we are trying to increase the number of PICU beds from 150 beds to 225 beds. On the other hand, there are 350 ICU beds ready at GIMS, which can be converted into PICU beds any moment. Being a paediatrician himself, it’ll not be a tough task for the GIMS director to convert them into PICU beds,” he said. “Besides, we are also looking for private medical colleges and hospitals in the district, where PICU beds can be arranged in case of any emergency,” Suhas said.The DM further said that following the instructions given by the chief minister during his recent visit to Noida, the health department officials have been asked to make proper coordination with all departments concerned to control any critical situation. “The training of health officials for working in PICUs has already begun,” he said. GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that a meeting regarding PICU beds will be held on Thursday, where the further course of action will be determined. Dr Rakesh Gupta, the GIMS director, said, “During the first and second waves, our doctors and paramedics won the accolades for their exemplary services to Covid-19 patients. I am pretty sure that even if a third wave comes, we’ll not let the chief minister down,” he said. Dr Akash Raj, medical director of Child PGI, said that if the beds available in the district hospital – which is presently being run from Child PGI’s building – will be added to our kitty, the number of beds to accommodate paediatric patients here will go up to 350. “At the moment, we are ready with 150 beds and it can be increased to 225 any moment,” he said. Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of Sharda hospital, said that they have proper infrastructure to convert their ICU beds into PICU beds. “We’ll follow all the directives of the government in this connection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-admin-begins-exercise-to-make-over-400-more-icu-beds-for-kids-101621448795773.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Black fungus drug in shortage in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida/Ghaziabad: Patients suffering from Mucormycosis or black fungus, as it is commonly dubbed, are having a hard time fetching drugs for its treatment in Noida and Ghaziabad. Doctors are prescribing the drug Liposomal Amphotericin B to such patients. However, SOS (save our souls) calls looking for the same have increased on social media since the last week.Sector 61 resident Sukhpal Singh Toor said he was unable to find the injection for an acquaintance of his in Noida for two days.“I made several calls all over the city looking for the injection but it is not available anywhere. We ultimately had to source the injection from Delhi,” he said.Doctors also said that patients are getting frustrated over the unavailability of the drug. “Number of black fungus patients has increased in our OPD since last week. However, patients are unable to procure the drug, Liposomal Amphotericin B, used to treat it. The shortage is not just in Noida but seems like the problem persists all over the National Capital Region,” said Dr Sudhir Gupta, chest physician and bronchoscopist at Kailash Hospital, Sector 27, Noida.The drug is being prescribed in large quantities, which makes it further difficult to procure, say kin of patients. “My sister-in-law was prescribed 30 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B as the fungus has almost reached the eyes. We could only buy around 10 such vials from Delhi,” said Diwarkar Varshney, a resident of Vaishali, Ghaziabad.According to doctors, earlier the drug used to be available at pharmacies and hospitals. “This drug was very low in demand earlier but due to the sudden spike in cases, it has gone out of stock. However, it is available at our hospitals,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman and managing director, Felix Hospital, Sector 137, Noida.Dr Savyasachi Saxena, an ENT surgeon at Fortis Hospital, Noida added that while OPD patients are unable to find the drug in Noida, “the injections are available at the hospital as of now and are being given to IPD patients. However, OPD patients are unable to find the drug anywhere else,” he said.Doctors said that black marketing of the drug seems to have begun as well. “I had prescribed Amphotericin B Deoxycholate to a patient on Tuesday that is generally available for ₹300 per vial. However, he told me that he could not find it in Ghaziabad and had to procure it for ₹3,000 from a seller in Delhi,” said Dr Nripen Vishnoi, senior ENT and cochlear implant surgeon, Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital Ghaziabad.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has requested the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation Limited to provide the drug to the district. “We have sent a request to the UPSMC to procure Liposomal Amphotericin B. We hope that the district will not have a shortage of this drug,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar, adding that the total tally of black fungus cases in the district has not been documented officially.Meanwhile, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “We are aware that there is a shortage of the drug for black fungus in the district. For this, we have created a list of verified distributors of Liposomal Amphotericin which will be issued to the public soon.”As per doctors, there are generally three types of Amphotericin B available in the market and patients who have been prescribed Liposomal Amphotericin B should not confuse it with the other two variants.“The first variant is the Amphotericin B (conventional) or Deoxycholate, which is available for ₹300 per vial in the market. However, this one is not prescribed to patients of black fungus because it can result in kidney damage, as most patients of Mucormycosis are diabetic. However if the patient is taken care of properly by the physician and if they do not have a history of kidney issues, they can be administered this drug,” said Dr Vishnoi.“The second variant is lipid complex Amphotericin B, which is also rarely used because of its toxicity. The most commonly used is the third variant, Liposomal Amphotericin B, which is renal safe and is being commonly prescribed by doctors to treat black fungus patients,” he added.One 50 mg vial of Liposomal Amphotericin B is generally available in the market for ₹6,000. However, since its dose is high, patients are prescribed multiple vials at once.“The dosage of Liposomal Amphotericin B is prescribed at five-seven milligram per kilogram of the patient’s weight per day. As a result, if a person weighs 60 kg, they will need 300 mg of the drug; so a patient has to buy six vials a day which comes to around ₹30,000,” said Dr Vishnoi.For mild cases of Mucormycosis or patients who have completed one course of Amphotericin B, Posaconazole tablets or Noxafil (posaconazole) syrups are prescribed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/black-fungus-drug-in-shortage-in-noida-ghaziabad-101621448795134.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Test positivity rate at 5-week low in Ghaziabad, experts say peak almost over||Ghaziabad: The weekly average test positivity rate (TPR) in the district, which started rising from mid of April, has come down to five-week low at 5.37% during May 13-19, indicating that Covid-19 cases have started to decline. According to an analysis of the health department records for five weeks from April 15 to May 19, average TPR started with 7.34% in the week April 15 to 21 (6,212 average tests yielding 456 positive cases) and fell to 5.37% in the last week (6,754 tests giving 363 cases). The World Health Organization (WHO) states that the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control.During the five weeks, the average TPR had increased to 13.04% (730 cases out of 5,598 tests) from April 22-28. It further peaked to a new high of 40.73% during April 29 to May 5 when 2,660 tests gave 1,083 positive cases. The test positivity rate is the ratio of positive cases resulting out of tests conducted in a day. The district was given a daily target to conduct 1,700 RT-PCR tests and 3,500 tests through rapid kits. On May 11, the target was revised by the government to 2,900 RT-PCR tests and 5,250 rapid antigen tests. The district implemented the order from May 16. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the distribution of medicine kits has proved a great help in early treatment. “We have been largely able to control the spread of infection which was high from mid of April to first week of May. The number of cases is on a decline. Now, we are focussing on testing in rural areas. We have 161 gram panchayats, and we have given two days to our officials to open up 140 health sub-centres where testing will start,” he said. Pandey said that once the sub-centres start, the focus will be initially to screen suspected cases with rapid antigen kits and later RT-PCR tests will also be conducted. “The Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) workers will be trained for the purpose of testing, and we are also hiring more lab technicians. The sub-centres will be monitored by the primary health centres of the area,” he added. Experts said that though the cases seem to be declining, examining further two weeks would indicate whether the situation is of a decline or a plateau. “The peak seems to be over. The overall figures indicate that we are either at a plateau situation or there is a decline. At present, only a few positive cases are coming in, but a high number of patients are still in ICU or on ventilators due to severity of infection. So, we need to examine situation for another two weeks to safely say that there is a decline,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Augmentation of oxygen capacityThe DM said that the district has decided to augment the capacity of the oxygen plant at Bhojpur and also to open a new plant at Modinagar. “The augmentation of the existing plant will be over two acres of land for which we have received a proposal. Also, there is a proposal for a new plant at Modinagar. Work for the other nine new plants is in progress and will be completed shortly. We have also asked the hospitals having more than 50 beds to install oxygen plants. All these measures will give a major boost to oxygen capacity in Ghaziabad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/test-positivity-rate-at-5-week-low-in-ghaziabad-experts-say-peak-almost-over-101621448735083.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav converts his govt residence into Covid care centre; ruling parties call it ‘drama’||Continuing his offensive stance against the Bihar government over alleged mismanagement in handling Covid-19 surge in the second wave, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday converted his official residence at 1 Polo Road in the state capital as a Covid care centre as a gesture to extend help to Covid-19. In a letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar, Yadav urged the state government to take over the centre for its operationalisation.“There is already a huge shortage of beds and isolation centre. Poor people infected with Covid have no space in their dwellings to go for isolation or get quarantined. As a responsibility towards those affected with Covid, I have converted my official residence to a covid care centre. I want to hand over the centre to you and your department to run it. I will always be ready for any further help,” the 31-year-old Yadav scion said in his letter. Yadav, who is in New Delhi, dashed out a fresh letter to the chief minister on Wednesday, saying that he had opened the Covid care centre from his funds with all facilities like oxygen cylinders, beds, medicines as well as meal facilities for patients and attendants.He also posted a video on his official Twitter handle, slamming the government for its alleged insensitivity and poor health infrastructure to handle the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Yadav also rued the fact that the chief minister had not responded to his letters wherein suggestions were made to tone up the health system and contain the spread of the deadly virus, especially in rural areas. On Tuesday, the opposition leader had written to the CM seeking his permission to visit hospitals and primary health centres and make field visits to assess the various initiatives that were being taken by his party to provide beds, oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients.Yadav said he had written a letter to health minister Mangal Pandey to take over the covid care centre for its smooth operation so that those patients who could not get beds could be admitted there.The ruling JD(U) and BJP were quick to dub Yadav’s move as “drama”.“Tejashwi is enjoying luxury in New Delhi during this period of Covid. It is his old habit to run away whenever there is a crisis in Bihar. At a time when the state has made all arrangements to handle the pandemic, he is seeking permission to come to Bihar. By whose permission did he go to New Delhi that he is seeking permission to come back?” said Nikhil Anand, state BJP spokesperson. Anand said Yadav is afraid of the growing popularity of former MP Pappu Yadav and now wants to come back to save his so-called Muslim-Yadav politics.Senior JD(U) leader and MLC Neeraj Kumar called Yadav’s move a political stunt to mislead people. “Tejashwi should tell first whether he would reside at his official residence to boost the morale of the covid patients? Opening a covid care centre at the official residence is only an eyewash. The intentions are not clear,” he said.“It is hilarious that Tejashwi has opened a covid care centre at his official residence and wants the government to run it. What does he want to prove? Tejashwi has all resources and there are doctors in his family. They can easily run a covid centre at their residence. This is all big drama,” said Suheli Mehta, JD(U) spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-converts-his-govt-residence-into-covid-care-centre-ruling-parties-call-it-drama-101621448495616.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||‘Will permit door-to-door vaccination if Centre doesn’t’: Bombay HC tells Maharashtra||The Bombay High Court has directed the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to wait for the central government’s permission to conduct door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for the elderly and disabled persons who cannot go out to get themselves inoculated, HT has learnt. “They (expert committee members) are all academic experts but they seem to have zero knowledge about the ground reality. If this decision is taken from Delhi, you should think about the local situation... If the corporation wants to start door-to-door vaccination. If the centre does not permit it, we will. Saving lives is more important,” said the bench.The HC, while rapping the Centre for consulting experts who did not recommend the door-to-door vaccination initiative, said that the experts were probably unaware of ground realities wherein people live in such houses where even a stretcher cannot be manoeuvred. The court has asked the state and the BMC to file an affidavit on how it proposes to conduct the door-to-door vaccination by Thursday. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed that the Centre was to respond to the court’s direction in an earlier hearing on May 12 on whether the door-to-door vaccination could be implemented. The PIL sought directions to the Centre, the state government and the BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination for people ageing over 75 years, the specially-abled and the bed-ridden. Kapadia further added that the BMC had failed to devise a formula to identify beggars without photo IDs required for vaccination and that helpline numbers should be provided to enable senior citizens to book an appointment for a home visit for vaccination stating that all citizens cannot access the online platform.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India informed the court that the direction was referred to the committee of experts and they had filed a response stating that as there were post-vaccination protocols to be observed and the same could not be facilitated at individual homes, door-to-door vaccination could not be permitted. He, however, added that transport arrangements could be made to take elderly citizens to the centres. However, Kapadia submitted that some of the elderly and disabled persons lived in extremely difficult conditions and if they had to go to centres they would have to be taken on wheelchairs or stretchers. However, due to the constrained spaces they lived in, it was not possible to take such people to the centres. Thus, in light of the committee’s denial, such persons would not be able to get vaccinated at all. After hearing the submissions, the court expressed dissatisfaction at the expert committee’s recommendations, termed it to be the opposite of door-to-door vaccination and said, “I am not aware of Mumbai, but in North Kolkata, there are buildings wherein even stretchers cannot be taken inside. If somebody is bedridden and there is no room for a stretcher to manoeuvre, how will you bring them outside for vaccination?” Justice Kulkarni then pointed out that there are old buildings in congested areas with wooden staircases even in Mumbai and elderly citizens and specially-abled persons living there may not be able to come out. The bench then directed the BMC Commissioner to apprise it as to whether the civic body could introduce door-to-door vaccination under proper medical care and upon the consent of citizens/beneficiaries to be administered being well aware of the consequences. HC will hear the PIL next on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-permit-door-to-door-vaccination-if-centre-doesn-t-bombay-hc-tells-maharashtra-101621448015397.html
19-05-2021||Noida||25-year-old woman ends life in Noida||Noida: A 25-year-old woman, who was pursuing doctor of medicine (MD) from a private university in Greater Noida, allegedly took her own life in her house under Sector 24 police jurisdiction.The incident came to light on late Tuesday evening when the woman’s brother found her body in a room on the first floor of the house, police said.“The family then informed us and a team was rushed to the spot. The woman had shot herself with her father’s licensed revolver. A suicide note was recovered from the spot,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that nothing incriminating was found in the three-page suicide note. There were stanzas of a poem and information related to donation of her body following her death, the officials said.“The family did not hear the shot and they claimed that everything was fine with her. We are waiting for her phone records to get more information. A probe in the case is underway,” said the ACP.Noida does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helplines are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/25yearold-woman-ends-life-in-noida-101621447894902.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Three security guards killed in accident on Noida expressway||Noida: Three security guards, on their way to work, were killed after being hit by a speeding car on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway on Tuesday. According to police, the three men on foot were trying to cross the expressway near Sector 125 when the accident took place. They worked as guards at a private company in Sector 125, police said.The deceased were identified as Ompal (55), Jagannath (51) and Krishanpal (38), all residents of Sadarpur Colony in Sector 45. They were rushed to the nearby hospital where Ompal was declared brought dead, while the other two were referred to a higher centre in Delhi. They both died on Tuesday night while undergoing treatment, said police.“They were hit by a speeding Eeco van. It appears that the driver tried to apply brake but the sudden action caused the vehicle to flip over after it hit the three men,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.Police officials said that the driver fled from the spot leaving his vehicle. The vehicle was seized and it has been traced to a Delhi resident, the officials said, adding that efforts are on to nab the suspect.Based on a complaint from Ompal’s family, a case has been registered at Sector 39 police station against the unidentified driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The bodies were handed over to the families following an autopsy, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-security-guards-killed-in-accident-on-noida-expressway-101621447835699.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Tauktae’s effect: Mercury falls 14°C below normal in Noida||Noida: The maximum temperature in Noida fell 14 degrees below normal on Wednesday, weather analysts said, as the remnants of cyclone Tauktae, which is passing over Delhi-NCR, brought heavy rain to the city. As a result, the air quality of Noida and its adjoining areas improved considerably on Wednesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that the rainfall is likely to continue on Thursday.The maximum temperature in Noida on Wednesday was 23.6 degrees Celsius -- 14 degrees below normal-- and the minimum was 21.6 degrees Celsius, against a maximum and minimum reading of 30.6 degrees Celsius and 27.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The data showed that the maximum temperature on Wednesday was down by seven degrees Celsius from Tuesday and by 14 degrees from Monday. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, the maximum temperature was 23.8 degrees Celsius – 16 degrees Celsius lower than the season’s average – and the minimum was 21.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the season’s average.The city saw an average rainfall of one millimetre till 8.30am on Wednesday. Data for the rest of the day for Noida is yet to be ascertained, experts said. Meanwhile, the average rainfall measured at the Safdarjung monitoring station in Delhi, considered an average for the National Capital Region, was 31.3mm between 8.30am and 5.30pm.According to the IMD, the mercury is expected to rise on Thursday, while a drizzle is likely to continue till the morning hours of Thursday. However, the skies will remain cloudy.“The heavy rainfall on Wednesday was the remnants of cyclone Tauktae, which after it subsided, formed low pressure spots, and induced a cyclonic circulation over north-east Rajasthan and southern Haryana. Thursday will see light rain in the morning hours but the mercury will hover around 30 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad improved to the ‘satisfactory’ category.According to the CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 78 against 108 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 72 against 79 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 73 on Wednesday against 122 a day earlier. An AQI level up to zero to 50 is considered ‘good’, 50 to 100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to marginally improve. “Surface winds are east-north-easterly and high. Widespread rainfall is likely for Wednesday and aerosol washout is expected. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of ‘satisfactory’ to ‘good’ for Thursday and ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ on May 21 and 22,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tauktaes-effect-mercury-falls-14-c-below-normal-in-noida-101621447835013.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Noida to take stern action against quacks, rumour mongers||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has directed the health department to take stern action against self-styled doctors, also known as “quacks”, in rural areas, who are allegedly duping gullible villagers at a time when the second wave of Covid-19 is wreaking havoc in many rural areas. The administration has also decided to book rumour mongers misleading people by spreading fake information through social media networks. The matter came to light on Tuesday when a 65-year-old man was found allegedly spreading false information about lack of treatment in Gopalgarh village under Jewar block in Greater Noida. Based on reports by the sub-divisional magistrate, who is also the Covid-19 incident commander of the area, the police have lodged a complaint against the man, who they said is the husband of a former pradhan of the village.District magistrate, Suhas LY, said that he had asked the chief medical officer (CMO) to launch a crackdown against quacks in the district under provisions of the Drugs and Magical Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954. “Only enforcement of law can stop their activities. He has also been asked to hold awareness drives in villages. We’ve also received information that these quacks are turning villagers against vaccination, which would increase the immunity level among the people and subsequently hit their business,” he said. In the Gopalgarh incident, the DM said that the suspect allegedly said that a man had been receiving treatment from a quack under a neem tree in Greater Noida on May 14. “The incident commander in her probe found that the patient had undergone a rapid antigen testing and was provided an oxygen cylinder on May 14. He was also referred for treatment at the local health centre. The suspect said that despite that, the patient continued to take treatment by an unqualified doctor in that area. This is an attempt to taint the image of the government while spreading incorrect information,” he said, and added that the antigen report of that date states that the patient has tested negative for Covid-19. IF HE TESTED NEGATIVE THEN HOW WAS CYLINDER PROVIDED TO HIM??Dr Deepak Ohri, the CMO, said he has asked officials to launch a crackdown against such fake doctors in their respective areas. “Raiding teams have been formed on a large scale to take necessary action against such quacks and have also been asked to take the help of the concerned police station. They have also been told to issue legal notices to such quacks,” he said.District commissioner of police, Alok Singh, said that as per the provisions made under the Pandemic Act, the police will take adequate action against such persons. “The in-charge of Jewar primary health centre filed a complaint with the local police on Tuesday. An FIR will be filed against the suspect and under IPC sections 188, 269 and 270, and under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said.When contacted, Dhirendra Singh, the BJP MLA from Jewar assembly constituency, said: “I am keeping a close tab on the testing and vaccination in my area and I appreciate the efforts being undertaken by the district administration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-take-stern-action-against-quacks-rumour-mongers-101621447534812.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s once infamous underworld den to be replaced by skyscrapers||Dagdi Chawl, the once infamous den of underworld don Arun Gawli in Mumbai is all set to be redeveloped. Ten chawls in this compound at Agripada in south-central Mumbai and owned by Gawli will be replaced by multi-storey towers, HT has learnt.Geeta Gawli, the corporator and daughter of Arun Gawli confirmed the development. “We have approximately 350 tenants in our chawls and they will get houses of 450 square feet area,” said Geeta. “We are at the planning stage and we have finalised a local builder to undertake this redevelopment,” she said.The redevelopment will take place mostly under the cluster redevelopment scheme.Arun Gawli ruled the underworld from Dagdi chawl and held regular darbars for the people. People would dread coming to Dagdi chawl due to its ill-reputation. It was also often in news due to police raids in the mid-nineties after the Mumbai Police decided to take the underworld head-on.Currently, the Gawli family, which lives in the redeveloped building on the 4th floor, will also be part of this project. The ground floor houses the office of the Akhil Bhartiya Sena (ABS) which was founded by Gawli.The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) has given the initial sanction for the project. “We have given the Letter of Intent (LOI) for the redevelopment of Dagdi Chawl,” said MHADA Chairman (Repair Board) Vinod Ghosalkar. This was issued after the residents of Dagdi chawl gave their consent to the revamp process.The chawl is a virtual fortress and no one is allowed inside without the mandatory checks by Gawli’s men. After 1987, when gang wars erupted in the city, Gawli and his men remained confined to these chawls. Most tenants were supporters of Gawli. In fact, police officials point that the gang members constructed tunnels, holes and cavities in their houses as their hideouts.Gawli also had a stint in politics when he formed the ABD and contested assembly as well as municipal elections. He was elected an MLA in 1999. His daughter is a corporator of the city’s civic body the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Saat Rasta-Byculla area around Dagdi Chawl has seen vertical development in the past two decades with several old buildings making way for skyscrapers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-once-infamous-underworld-den-to-be-replaced-by-skyscrapers-101621445015288.html
19-05-2021||Other||Five die of black fungus in Haryana’s Sirsa||Five people have died due to black fungus in Sirsa district, officials said on Wednesday.“Mucormycosis or black fungus, which is primarily affecting people recovering from Covid-19, has claimed five lives in district in the last two days,” Sirsa chief medical officer (CMO) Manish Bansal said. He said 25 people from districts adjoining Sirsa were admitted to a hospital, of whom some were referred to other major health facilities.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the infection has become a matter of concern and directed officials to make necessary arrangements for its treatment. He directed that all medical colleges, including PGIMS, Rohtak, be notified for treatment of the disease.PGIMS, Rohtak has been authorised to treat patients coming from Rohtak, Jind, Mahendergarh and Charkhi Dadri, who are suffering from black fungus.Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh has been authorised to treat patients from Hathin sub-division, Palwal and Gurugram. Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College at Khanpur Kalan in Gohana, Sonepat has been authorised to treat patients from Panipat and Sonepat.For patients coming from Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Bhiwani, Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, Hisar has been authorised and Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal has been authorised for patients from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.FIVE MORE CASES DETECTED IN KARNALFive more cases of black fungus have been reported at Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday taking the total number of infected persons in district to seven.As per district health department data, the new patients include a 68-year-old woman of Rajiv Colony in Karnal who was also Covid positive and had died on Tuesday; a 70-year-old woman of Arjun Gate; a 54-year-old woman of Ravidaspur locality in Karnal; a 62-year-old man of Sangohi village; and a 70-year-old man of Assandh.The doctors said that they were admitted in Covid hospital and were found to be infected with black fungus during screening of Covid patients.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, a separate ward with capacity of 20 beds has been set up for patients of mucormycosis or black fungus at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College.As per district health department, the hospital will admit patients with black fungus from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts.KCGMCH director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the hospital will provide all facilities and treatment for black fungus patients. He said people need not panic as the disease is curable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-die-of-black-fungus-in-haryana-s-sirsa-101621444595124.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||2.28 lakh new Covid cases, 2.52 lakh recoveries in Haryana in May||Twenty-two patients in Karnal district battling with Covid-19 were among the 153 fatalities recorded in Haryana on Wednesday, pushing the fatality rate to 0.99% and death toll to 7,076, according to the health bulletin.The caseload of daily fresh cases continued registering improvement as 6,818 new cases were recorded despite 69,780 samples taken in last 24 hours across state.The positivity rate on Wednesday was 11.27% and the cumulative positivity rate 8.50%.Another bright spot of the fight against the virus was more people recovering from the infection than the fresh cases as on Wednesday 11,821 people recovering against 6,818 new cases.On Tuesday, Haryana recorded 7,774 fresh cases, 124 fatalities and 14,897 recoveries.This month, total recoveries have outnumbered the new cases. For instance, in last 19 days, the state recorded 2,28,529 new cases and 2,52,473 recoveries.The recovery began outnumbering new cases significantly in the past one week. The recovery rate has risen to 89.14% from 79.14% on April 30 and 78.70% on May 1.Fatalities took place in every district on Wednesday with Karnal recording 22 deaths, Gurugram 15, Hisar 14, Panipat 10, Faridabad and Ambala nine each, Bhiwani eight, Rohtak, Jind and Kaithal seven each, Sonepat and Yamunanagar six each, Rewari and Fatehabad five each, Panchkula and Sirsa four each, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Nuh three each, Mahendergarh, Palwal and Charkhi Dadri two each.The active cases till Wednesday stood at 70,758 while positive cases in home isolation came down to 63,052.Among the fresh cases Gurugram recorded 1,161 cases, Faridabad 435, Sonepat 492, Hisar 565, Ambala 199, Karnal 270, Panipat 407, Rohtak 326, Rewari 283, Panchkula 378, Kurukshetra 145, Yamunanagar 278, Sirsa 249, Mahendergarh 375, Bhiwani 115, Jhajjar 274, Palwal 153, Fatehabad 227, Kaithal 82, Jind 238, Nuh 46 and Charkhi Dadri 120.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/228-lakh-new-covid-cases-2-52-lakh-recoveries-in-haryana-in-may-101621444426488.html
19-05-2021||Other||Screening in Haryana villages on war footing||With Covid-19 spreading roots in rural areas of Haryana, screening of all families living in rural areas of Haryana is on war footing as around 8,000 school teachers, anganwadi workers, asha workers and health department officials have been assigned the task to trace infected persons from every village.Figures of the Haryana health department show that screening of all villages have helped trace 1,511 positive cases, 24,084 people were found to have influenza-like illness or ILI, and 16,787 have been reported at village isolation centres.Between May 15 and 18, screening of around 21.6 lakh people was done in 3,011 villages. Total 486 villages have been screened in Ambala district, followed by 373 in Kurukshetra, 341 in Palwal, 260 in Fatehabab, 256 in Jhajjar.Officials visited every household and screened all members of every family by recording their body temperature, SpO2 level, BP, previous medical history, co-morbidity and Covid-like symptoms including cough, cold and fever.In case any person is found with Covid symptoms, they inform the health department and such people are isolated immediately and taken for Covid test.“Screening of all villagers is a huge task and we have to do it to trace the infected persons to protect entire families from getting infected,” said asha worker Rani Devi, of Karnal district.These village-level teams are also concerned about their own safety as they have to meet all people including those who have symptoms to get their details.“The work is risky as most people in villages hesitate to reveal if they have any symptoms. But as per government guidelines, we take proper care to protect ourselves and our families from the infection,” said an anganwadi worker, requesting anonymity.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said these officials have been asked to follow Covid protocol strictly and have been provided all required facilities for their protection.Ground level officials said the number of positive cases traced in screening is low but this will help cut spread of the infection. In screening of 21.60 lakh people in rural areas, so far, only 1,511 have been tested positive and the highest 335 were reported from Karnal, followed by 239 in Rohtak, 141 in Sonepat, and 104 in Panchkula.Haryana health minister Anil Vij told HT that screening in villages is going on war footing and every necessary step is being taken to curb spread of the virus in rural areas.As per health department officials, the number of positive cases from this screening is poor, but screening in villages was necessitated as Covid cases were reported in many villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/screening-in-haryana-villages-on-war-footing-101621444354987.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Exploring possibility of Sputnik V production in Haryana: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, during a press conference Wednesday, said that he spoke to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to explore the possibility of Sputnik V vaccine manufacture in Haryana.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is in a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell 250 million vials of Sputnik V in India. He said Union minister Nitin Gadkari has suggested that more pharma companies should be allowed to make Covid vaccine in country. “Haryana will explore if there can be tie-ups with companies like Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India that manufacturing vaccines in India to scale up production,” he said.‘SCALING UP TESTING IN VILLAGES’The Haryana government has stepped up testing in rural areas to check Covid spread. Dushyant said that the idea is to screen as many as people as possible after reports that despite showing symptoms people are reluctant to get checked.The JJP leader dismissed Opposition leaders’ claims that there was under-reporting of Covid deaths in rural areas. “Testing has now been scaled up. All DCs have been directed in this regard and rapid antigen testing and RT-PCR tests are being done. Testing capacity has also been increased,” he said.‘REFRAIN FROM STEPPING OUT IN VIEW OF TAUKTAE’Dushyant urged people to stay vigilant over the next 48 hours and refrain from stepping out in view of Tauktae.Dushyant said according to the MeT department, the flow of storm is moving towards Haryana via Gujarat and Rajasthan, and speed of the storm can move up to 50km/hr in most districts of Haryana from Wednesday afternoon to Thursday evening.DCs of all districts have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring. Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exploring-possibility-of-sputnik-v-production-in-haryana-dushyant-101621444234884.html
19-05-2021||Other||Fighting Covid: Haryana yet to improve health infrastructure in rural areas||To combat the spread of Covid-19 in villages, the Centre has directed all states to set up three-tier health infrastructure, including makeshift 30-bed Covid care centres (each equipped with at least two oxygen cylinders), primary health care centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs), and sub-district hospitals.These directions are yet to be implemented across health centres in Haryana.The state government has set up 46 isolation centres in villages of Rohtak, 35 in Rewari, 47 in Dadri and over 80 in Hisar but no villager got admitted at these isolation centres.Many CHCs and PHCs are not admitting patients as they don’t have oxygen beds.Sanjay Dangi, of Madina village in Rohtak, said over three dozen unreported deaths have been witnessed in the village since April 24 and the village community health centre has no oxygen bed facility.“These deaths occurred due to lack of facilities at the government community health centre. People are reluctant to appear for testing as local CHC lacks basic facilities. Many villagers are running fever but are reluctant to shift to isolation centres set up by the state government as it has no doctor, nurse or medicines,” he added.People from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s native village, Nindana in Rohtak, have not visited isolation centres and are reluctant to appear for testing.Balbir Sihag, acting president of Sisai municipal committee in Hisar, said the village CHC lacks basic facilities and has no oxygen bed.“More than 40% sanctioned posts are lying vacant. People are reluctant to appear for testing due to shortage of beds in government hospitals,” he added.Isolation centres have been set up by government in schools, community halls, marriage halls and panchayat buildings where beds, two oximetres and a medical kit are available.Dr Joginder, senior medical officer at Madina CHC, said they have 10 beds and 15 gas cylinders.“If any patient’s oxygen level drops to 84, we are referring them to civil hospitals. These cylinders we have are not enough to admit many patients. We have admitted four Covid patients so far. We don’t have oxygen beds and other CHCs are facing similar issues,” he added.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said they have been focusing more on CHCs to improve rural heath facilities.“We have provided oxygen facility at CHCs but oxygen beds are less than 25. If any patient’s saturation level decreases, we shift them to civil hospitals as we have more professional staff and facilities there. We are treating mild symptom patients at CHCs and working on improving facilities at CHCs and PHCs to fight against the virus,” he added. He said that they are providing medicines and equipment at isolation centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fighting-covid-haryana-yet-to-improve-health-infrastructure-in-rural-areas-101621444114902.html
19-05-2021||Other||Police face farmers’ wrath in Haryana’s Hisar||A day after residents of Masudpur village in Hisar decided to ‘boycott’ the corona lockdown alleging that it has been imposed to suppress the farm agitation, two more villages Datta and Danoda (Jind) passed similar resolutions on Wednesday.Datta residents also did not allow a police flag march to pass through the village, following which the cops had to take a detour.The villagers held a meeting led by sarpanch Vinod Kumar and passed a resolution to boycott Covid lockdown, testing and vaccination drive. They demanded shifting of Covid centre out of the village.The villagers condemned the lathi charge on farmers in Hisar. The villagers said a group of youths will impose ‘Thikhri pahra’ to stop the entry of government employees in the village. The BJP-JJP leaders’ entry will be prohibited in the village.The residents alleged that the police gypsy lands in their village and cops harass them by issuing lockdown violation challans every day.Dr Ajit Bishnoi, medical officer at Datta public health centre, said that they had shifted their equipment from the Covid centre.“We have apprised the senior authorities about the decision. If any person comes to PHC, we will collect their samples and the vaccination process will be continued at the PHC. We urge people to take precautions to protect themselves from Covid. There are 12 active Covid cases in the village and one person has succumbed to the virus,” he added.Sadar Hansi SHO Sukhdev Singh said police carried out a flag march to alert the villagers and convince them to follow government orders.“We are not harassing the villagers. They are asking them to wear masks and following Covid guidelines,” the SHO added.Hansi SDM Jitendra Ahlawat said, “We will take strict action against those who try to defy government orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-face-farmers-wrath-in-haryana-s-hisar-101621443995388.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 4,490 positive cases, 52 deaths in 24 hrs||PUNE: Pune district on Wednesday reported 4,490 fresh Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. The district has reported 984,876 progressive cases, of which 906,988 have recovered. The death toll stands at 10,593 and 67,295 is the active number of cases. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,551 new cases taking the total of 271,110. With 25 deaths on Wednesday, the death toll went up to 2,859. Pune city reported 1,223 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the final count to 476,129. And 24 deaths were reported on Wednesday which puts the death toll at 6,128. PCMC reported 716 new cases. With 3 deaths reported on Wednesday, the toll went up to 1,548. Pune district also saw higher vaccination beneficiaries on Wednesday with 10,681 receive the vaccine on Wednesday. Pune city saw only 935 beneficiaries, while Pune rural saw 3,877 beneficiaries, and PCMC saw the highest number of 5,869 beneficiaries get the jab. Of the 10,681 beneficiaries, 6,641 are Covishield and 4,040 are Covaxin doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-490-positive-cases-52-deaths-in-24-hrs-101621441834103.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Black fungus notified as epidemic in Rajasthan||With the increase in cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, in Covid-19 patients, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday issued an order to include the debilitating illness as a notifiable illness.The state government on Wednesday declared mucormycosis (black fungus) as an epidemic that is occurring in patients recovering from Covid19 infection. The health department issued a notification on Wednesday.The notification states a continuous increase in the number of patients with black fungus due to the effect of Covid-19 infection, black fungus has emerged as a side effect of Covid-19. This step has been taken in view of integrated and coordinated treatment.Mucormycosis (black fungus) is notified as an epidemic and notifiable disease in the entire state under the sections of Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020.On the other hand, the availability of oxygen beds in several parts of Rajasthan has increased for the first time during the second Covid-19 wave in the state, albeit ICU (intensive care unit) beds with ventilators remain scarce at hospitals, officials said.The improvement comes as a result of the steep decline in daily Covid-19 cases in the state, the officials said.According to the health department data, daily Covid-19 cases, which were hovering around 18,000 about a week ago, came down to 8,398 on Tuesday.Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said that in the past few days, the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in the state has increased from 21 days to 40 days. The recovery rate is at 80 per cent, which has eased the load on many hospitals, he said.In Jaipur, which has been persistently logging the highest number of cases in the state, 627 oxygen beds were vacant as of Wednesday, as per the government portal that tracks the real-time availability of the beds. A week ago, the city had only 95 beds available to cater to fresh Covid-19 patients.This has come as a major respite to the doctors who struggled to accommodate the increasing number of patients in already overwhelmed health infrastructure. There is, however, a dearth of ICU beds with ventilators in Jaipur. There are 849 such beds in Jaipur of which 831 were occupied by Wednesday, leaving only 18 available for fresh patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/black-fungus-notified-as-epidemic-in-rajasthan-101621441294656.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune teenager's 'clearest image of moon' goes viral on social media||A teenager from Pune gained popularity on social media by capturing one of the clearest pictures of the moon.Prathamesh Jaju, a 16-year-old boy from Pune, shot around 50,000 pictures and stitched them together to get the clearest and sharpest image of the moon. It took him around 40 hours to process the images and videos.Speaking to ANI, Jaju said, "I captured the image on May 3 at 1 am. I captured for around four hours with videos and images. It took 38-40 hours for processing. The reason behind 50,000 pictures was to get the clearest picture of the moon. I stitched them together and sharpened the image to see crisp details of the moon. The raw data was 100 GB and after processing it, the data turned bigger so it was around 186 GB. When I stitched them together, the final file was around 600 MB."Asked about how he got the idea to do such a thing, the teenager said, "I read some articles and saw some YouTube videos to learn how to capture these images. I learned the processing."A post shared by Prathamesh Jaju (@prathameshjaju)Jaju is a student of Class 10 in Vidya Bhavan School, Pune. His father runs a computer sales and repairing business while his mother is a housewife. Besides photography, Jaju likes athletics. He even participated in one national competition in athletics. He is also very active on social media and has more than 26,500 followers on Instagram.Sharing about his future aspirations, the teenager said, "I want to become an astrophysicist and study astronomy professionally but astrophotography is just a hobby for me right now."Jaju shared his images of the moon on social media platforms like Instagram that have over 11,000 likes."This image is an HDR Composite of two different images made to give it a three-dimensional effect. This is my most detailed and clearest shot of the third quarter Mineral Moon," he said."Our eyes cannot resolute the colours of the minerals on the moon. The blue tones reveal areas rich in ilmenite which contains iron, titanium and oxygen. While the orange and purple colours show regions relatively poor in titanium and iron. The white/grey tomes refer to areas of greater exposure to sunlight," Jaju wrote on social media while describing his captured image of the moon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-teenager-s-clearest-image-of-moon-goes-viral-on-social-media-101621434409867.html
19-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt follows strict screening in villages to contain Covid-19, over 1 lakh tests done daily||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in its third phase, has reached the rural and most vulnerable areas of the country — areas with limited healthcare infrastructure required to combat the disease. Amid the surge in the cases in villages, the monitoring committee of Uttar Pradesh government is strictly screening villages following the 'test, trace and treat' rule.The committee is conducting more than 100,000 tests daily for the identification of the suspected cases through the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs). Civil society group representatives like Asha, Anganwadi and ANM are part of the monitoring committee. There are more than 400,000 lakh members of 60,589 committees deployed to battle against the virus in the rural areas.Also read: How are celebrities, politicians procuring Covid-19 drugs? asks Bombay HCThe state government is using a participatory approach where people on the ground level are used for the maximum control of the spread. These members are given oximeters and infrared thermometers to identify the symptoms and post-detection of suspected cases they inform the RRTs.Out of the total 2.99 lakh samples tested for coronavirus on Wednesday, more than 2.19 lakh were tested in the rural areas of the state. Uttar Pradesh chief minister launched the mass Covid screening campaign on May 5 and since then the monitoring committee members have visited 79,512 villages. More than 28,000 villages reported cases of the deadly virus.As much as 68 per cent of the villages in the state are Covid-free due to these efforts undertaken to contain the spread, as per the government.Also read: Yogi govt hits back after Cong points out discrepancy in UP’s Covid-19 numbersBesides this, the Uttar Pradesh government has initiated a special sanitation campaign in the villages for the prevention of the spread. It is known to be the first state to kick start a sanitation drive at such a large scale. Furthermore, the monitoring committee members are on an awareness drive to educate the people about the virus and the significance of washing hands and maintaining social distancing.The members also keep track of all the people entering villages for testing and tracing. Medical kits are also distributed to patients in home isolation and for cases who can't afford quarantine, the committees are facilitating quarantine in schools, community centres and health centres in villages.Also read| UP CM Yogi Adityanath's approach to battle second wave of Covid-19: Key pointsThis comes after the Allahabad High Court earlier this week said that the medical centres in the villages of the state are at God's mercy or as it said verbatim 'Ram Bharose'.Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported 7,336 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since April 30 and 282 deaths in the last 24 hours, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-follows-strict-screening-in-villages-to-contain-covid-19-over-1-lakh-tests-done-daily-101621431016865.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana deputy CM says cyclone Tauktae approaching state, urges people to stay indoors for next 48 hrs||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday alerted the people of his state regarding the storm "Tauktae", saying it is headed towards the state. He urged the people to stay vigilant during the next 48 hours and not step out of their homes for their safety, an official statement said here.According to the Meteorological Department, the flow of the storm is moving towards Haryana through Gujarat, Rajasthan and its speed can move up to 50 kilometers per hour in most districts of the state from Wednesday to Thursday evening.All Deputy Commissioners have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring, Chautala said.Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property in any district, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-deputy-cm-says-cyclone-tauktae-approaching-state-urges-people-to-stay-indoors-for-next-48-hrs-101621438392959.html
19-05-2021||Bhopal||MP minister faces Cong ire after driver named in Remdevisir black marketing racket||Madhya Pradesh water resources minister Tulsi Silawat found himself at the centre of a political storm on Wednesday after a driver working at his Indore residence was named by an accused arrested for allegedly selling Remdevisir vials at a premium.Punit Agrawal, a driver working with Indore’s health official Poornima Garadiya, was arrested on Monday for selling Remdevisir vials in the black market to Covid-19 patients. Punit Agrawal told reporters that he bought two vials for ₹14,000 from Govind Rajput, a driver in Silawat’s household, at the request of a local police officer.The Congress alleged the minister was also involved and demanded a high-level probe. Tulsi Silawat, who represents Indore’s Sanwer seat in the MP assembly, said he had no connection with the activities of the driver, who he had hired via a local travel agency a few months ago to help out at home.“I don’t know about his activities, but a fair probe should be conducted in the matter,” Tulsi Silawat said.Indore superintendent of police (east) Ashutosh Bagri said Punit Agrawal was caught red-handed by the police when he was selling Remdesivir vials worth about ₹4,000 for ₹15,000. Bagri said Agrawal told the police during interrogation that Govind Rajput, a driver in the minister’s household, had given him the two vials that he was caught with.The two drivers, Govind Rajput and Punit Agrawal, worked for the same travel agency which supplies drivers and cars to government offices.Bagri suggested that the police were yet to conclude that Govind Rajput was involved.“We are investigating the matter as there are chances that Agrawal is trying to misguide us by taking the name of a person associated with the minister. We are trying to detain Rajput and also collecting evidence,” Ashutosh Bagri said.A constable and a home guard jawan, who were assigned to ferry Punit Agrawal when he spoke to the media, have been shunted out to the district police lines.Congress leaders said the policemen were penalised because Punit Agrawal’s statement had embarrassed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Asked for his response, Bagri said they were transferred to the district police lines “for negligence in their duty as they compromised the security of an accused”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-minister-faces-cong-ire-after-driver-named-in-remdevisir-black-marketing-racket-101621438654123.html
19-05-2021||Ranchi||NRIs come together to fund rural Covid-19 care centre in Barhi||As spiraling cases of coronavirus infection in rural Jharkhand have put government officials on tenterhooks due to immense shortage of health infrastructure, a group of people hailing from Bihar and Jharkhand and settled in Australia extended financial help in setting up a Covid-19 care centre with 20 oxygen supported beds at Barhi subdivisional hospital. Before this, there were merely 10 beds at the subdivisional hospital that were not enough to accommodate the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in the area, officials said. However, to deal with the crisis, an administrative officer took up the initiative of setting up a Covid-19 centre within a week with financial help from the non resident Indians. “Amid soaring cases, the number of patients in the hospital recently rose to 26. The new Covid care centre has provided great relief. Timely help from people of Bihar and Jharkhand living in Sydney saved many lives here,” said Arvind Devashish Toppo, circle officer of Barhi, whose initiative helped set up the centre. The centre was established at the existing subdivisional hospital by minor modification in design. Now, there were a total of 30 oxygen-equipped beds at the hospital. The Sydney group, named Bihar-Jharkhand Community Australia (BJCA), donated nearly ₹1.80 lakh for arranging infrastructure required for the Covid-19 centre, said the circle officer. On being asked how he got to know about the BJCA, Toppo said one of his batch mates informed him about the group while he was looking for medical help for a friend’s mother. “One of my batch mates, Ashwini Kumar, who is an administrative officer in Bihar, told me about the BJCA, that has provided help in many places of Bihar. This group was in touch with Ashwini, and later its members Praveen Kumar and Manish Kumar from Australia ringed me and offered to help,” Toppo said.Several rounds of virtual meetings ensued before the centre was set up in Barhi. “I communicated the plan to subdivisional officer (SDO) Kumar Tarachand and he readily agreed on the proposal,” Toppo said. “We bought cots, mattress and other medical equipment for the centre with the fund provided by the BJCA. The centre was made operational on May 10 and around 20 Covid patients have been discharged from the centre in past nine days. Currently, there around seven patients undergoing treatment at the centre,” he said. The BJCA also wanted to extend help in other parts of the state. “We are planning a similar kind of facility in tribal areas in Khunti or Godda. A plan will soon be outlined in this regard,” Toppo said. People of Jharkhand who have settled abroad, mainly in the United States of America, are also extending helping hands to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Jharkhand Civil Society member RP Sahi said one Harjit Singh and Gurdeep Ahluwalia, who live in the USA, have provided medical equipment, including oxygen concentrators, to some institutions and hospitals in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/nris-come-together-to-fund-rural-covid-19-care-centre-in-barhi-101621437993547.html
19-05-2021||Other||Alumni goes beyond Sainik School in its Covid outreach||RanchiThe alumni association of Jharkhand’s Sainik School Tilaiya has launched a round-the-clock war room to provide help to former students and their families across the country as they battle the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Sainik School Tilaiyan Old Boys’ Association (SANTOBA) has spread its wings to include those affected on the campus as well as members of the public. It all began a few days ago when news of death of two teachers at school – Mr Sanjay Singh and Mr K C Panda – came in. SANTOBA quickly assessed the situation and set up a virtual war room and volunteers from across the world started working to ensure that immediate help reached all sufferers, association members said. “We launched a campaign to assess the needs while a fund-raiser was also started. The effort soon started yielding results,” said SANTOBA president Ravi Kishore, a Supreme Court lawyer based in Delhi.The association got in touch with top officials of Jharkhand government, who extended prompt help and a health camp was organised on the campus.Among others, Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, former Army commander Lt Gen Gyan Bhushan, former Supreme Court judge Justice Shiva Kirti Singh, senior Uttar Pradesh IAS officer Deepak Kumar – all alumni of Sainik School Tilaiya – also extended their help to the ongoing effort.The school fraternity has lost eight former students to the pandemic, beside some family members. “We are passing through very difficult times. But we will not give up. Our school’s motto is ‘Forward Ever’ and we will live up to it,” said SANTOBA vice-president Ashish Sinha.The association, with the help of its chapters in Delhi, Patna, Mumbai, Bengaluru and elsewhere, also formed a group of doctors to extend medical advice while another group of volunteers was tasked with providing leads on availability of oxygen cylinders, medicines, ambulances and hospital beds.“The work has been continuing. We have decided not to rest,” said Amritesh Singh, SANTOBA’s secretary in Patna. The Patna team, under the leadership of CRPF commandant Munna Kumar Singh, has stepped out to provide face shields, masks and sanitiser bottles to the frontline corona warriors.The effort in Ranchi is being led by school alumnus and vice-chancellor of Amity University (Ranchi) Dr Raman K Jha. Insurance professional Shishir Sandipan is monitoring the situation in the western region while SANTOBA secretary Narendra Mohan, Sneh Priya and Braj Kishore are coordinating the effort. The helpline is manned by Surya Prakash and Satwik Raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alumni-goes-beyond-sainik-school-in-its-covid-outreach-101621437933539.html
19-05-2021||Other||Dhanbad: 32 centres shut due to vaccine shortage||The recently launched third phase of the mass Covid-19 vaccination drive that covers people from 18 to 44 years of age hit a wall in Dhanbad, as 32 out of the 35 vaccination centres in the district were closed on Wednesday due to shortage of vaccine doses, officials said.“Only three centres were open for administering the first dose of the vaccine in the 18-44 group,” said Dr Vikas Rana, district nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination.As per official records, only 500 doses in total were left as on Wednesday at the three centres--Sadar block’s Gujarati School Bank More ( 200), Al Islah School,Wasseypur (200) and Baghmara Community Health Centre (CHC) (100).Many of those who registered for the first dose were made to return from the 32 sites after the District Disaster Management issued a cancellation notice in this regard. . However, officials said the doses will be back in stock soon. “We have sent requisition to state headquarters for vaccine doses and all 32 centres will be reopened soon,” said Dr Rana.According to a senior official of health department, the district was facing vaccine crisis for last five days. Earlier on Tuesday, only 11 vaccination were open. No Covid death after 40 daysFor the first time in 40 days, Dhanbad did not record any Covid-19 death in a day till Tuesday night, officials said on Wednesday. However, as many as 241 new cases were registered during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-32-centres-shut-due-to-vaccine-shortage-101621437873458.html
19-05-2021||Other||Key blood banks in Patna face shortage||PATNAMajor blood banks in Patna are facing shortage of blood as voluntary donors are difficult to come by during the times of coronavirus. The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Institute (IGIMS) and the Jaiprabha Model blood bank are facing acute shortage of negative blood groups. The saving grace for them, however, is that the demand for blood has gone down, as most elective surgeries have been deferred during the pandemic. Surgeries are being done only in emergency cases and delivery, say doctors. The inventory at the Jaiprabha blood bank Wednesday morning showed the stock of O-negative, A-negative and A-positive had exhausted, while there was one unit each of B-negative, AB-negative and AB-positive. “No blood of AB-negative group is available at the PMCH, while the negative blood group stock was in single-digit,” said Dr Rabindra Nath Shukla, in-charge of the PMCH blood bank. Barring having four units of O-negative, there was no stock of negative blood group available at the NMCH, said its blood bank in-charge Dr CK Narayan. No negative blood group was available at the IGIMS, while positive blood groups were available in single-digit. The 50-60 units of O+ blood group contributed to the total stock of 80 units at the blood bank. The thalassemic and HIV patients are the ones facing the problem. No blood bank is supposed to ask for replacement blood from these two categories of patients. Now, with low availability of blood, thalassemic and HIV patients, who need to be transfused blood, are facing a harrowing time. With voluntary donation camps having come to a grinding halt since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic in March this year, the stock was low at most of the blood banks. Government officials at the State Health Society, Bihar, and the Bihar State AIDS Control Society, however, said there was no shortage of blood as its demand had gone down substantially because fewer surgeries were being done during the pandemic. “We have blood to meet our immediate requirement though the inventory doesn’t look healthy. You cannot store blood beyond 35-42 days in case of whole blood and packet red blood cell (PRBC), prepared by removing plasma from whole blood, to transfuse in patients with anaemia. Platelets have a shelf life of five days only while fresh frozen plasma can be stored up to one year. So, we have just enough to meet our requirement,” said the officer. The demand for blood has dipped by almost 90% at each of these hospitals. For instance, the IGIMS, which earlier required up to 60 units of blood every day, now requires barely four unit of blood every day. Similarly, the NMCH, which used to have blood demand up to 20 units per day, now requires 2 units. Both, the IGIMS and the NMCH are now dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The PMCH had up to 50 units consumption, which had now gone down to around 15-20 units, said doctors. Middlemen, with the nexus of blood bank staff, had brought disrepute to some of these blood banks. The one at the PMCH was in the news recently over alleged blackmarketing of blood. Insiders attributed the nefarious activities to shortage of doctors, which left most blood banks in Patna, including the one at PMCH, at the mercy of lowly-paid staff in the evening, encouraging them to manipulate inventory for pecuniary gains.Bihar has 93 blood banks of which 37 are government and six under Red Cross. The remaining are under private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-blood-banks-in-patna-face-shortage-101621437813534.html
19-05-2021||Other||Tejashwi turns his govt house into Covid care centre, wants state to run it||PATNABihar’s leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday converted his official residence at 1 Polo road in the state capital as a Covid care centre and urged the state government to take over the centre for its operationalisation. Yadav, who is in New Delhi, wrote a in a fresh letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar, saying today said he had opened the Covid care centre from his own funds with facilities like oxygen cylinders, beds, medicines as well as meals for patients and attendants. “There is already a big shortage of beds and isolation centres. Poor people infected with Covid have no space in their dwellings to go for isolation or getting quarantined. I have converted my official residence as a Covid care center. I want to hand over the centre to you to run it. I will be always ready for any further help,” the 31-year-old RJD scion said in the letter. He also posted a video on his official Twitter handle slamming the government for its alleged insensitivity and poor health infrastructure to handle the ongoing Covid pandemic in the state.On Tuesday, the opposition leader had written to CM seeking his permission to visit hospitals and primary health centres and make field visits to assess the various initiatives being taken by his party to provide beds, oxygen cylinders to affected patients. Ruling JD(U) and BJP termed it “drama” by the opposition leader. “Tejashwi is enjoying luxury in New Delhi during this period of Covid. It is his old habit. Whenever there is crisis in Bihar, he tends to run away. At a time when the state has made all arrangements to handle the pandemic, he is seeking permission to come to Bihar. With whose permission had he gone to New Delhi that he is seeking permission to come back?” said Nikhil Anand, state spokesperson of the BJP. Senior JD(U) leader and MLC Neeraj Kumar too called it a stunt. “Tejashwi should tell first whether he himself would reside in his official residence to boost the morale of the Covid patients?” he said. “Tejashwi has all resources and there are doctors in his family. They can easily run a Covid centre at their personal house . This is all big drama,” said Suheli Mehta, JD(U) spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tejashwi-turns-his-govt-house-into-covid-care-centre-wants-state-to-run-it-101621437754445.html
19-05-2021||Other||Complaint lodged against hospital for harassment||PATNADaughter of Covid-19 woman patient, who died Wednesday morning, has filed a police complaint against Paras-HMRI hospital in Patna, alleging sexual harassment and misbehaviour with her mother on May 17 night. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has also sought investigation into the alleged incident. Its chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Bihar’s chief secretary and police chief.On Tuesday, the daughter had earlier uploaded the statement of her mother on a social networking site, alleging she was sexually assaulted by three to four persons at the hospital. She made a video of her mother in the ICU ward of the hospital , which went viral. Her mother died during treatment on Wednesday. M S Khan, an executive magistrate who visited the hospital, said the police were looking into the matter.Station house officer of Shastrinagar police station, Ramashankar Singh, said, “We are verifying the allegation.”The Paras hospital management has dismissed the allegations. “We will extend our cooperation in all investigations and related matters of this case,” P D Gupta from Paras management said in a statement released to the press. “The patient, a 45-year-old woman, was admitted to Paras-HMRI Hospital on May 15 with symptoms of Covid. She was evaluated and admitted to the Covid ICU. On May 16 evening, she became restless and was not maintaining proper saturation on high flow oxygen. The doctor decided to put her on CPAP support. When she still could not maintaining proper saturation, a group of clinicians decided to put her on mechanical invasive ventilation. The patient did not show signs of recovery and her vitals and other parameters kept deteriorating. This was explained to the next of kin on several occasions. Unfortunately, the patient lost her battle with Covid on the morning of May 19,” the statement said. “The patient’s daughter has alleged that three persons, who she was unable to identify, misbehaved with her between 6 pm of May 16 and 11am of May 17. This matter was taken up by the hospital management and an internal inquiry was conducted. It was found that such an incident has not happened in the premises of the hospital,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complaint-lodged-against-hospital-for-harassment-101621437753611.html
19-05-2021||Other||Man gets Covishield jab and Covaxin certificate||DARBHANGAA 32-year-old man, who had booked a slot for a dose of Covaxin through Cowin portal, has claimed he was administered a dose of Covishield at a vaccination centre in Samastipur district on May 16 but his certificate mentions he was administered Covaxin.The man, Ankit Sharma, is now worried about the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.The vaccination centre is question is at Middle School, Harpur Alloth in Samastipur.As per the copy of the vaccination certificate, Sharma took the jab on May 16 (Batch no. 37F21047A). The next due date for second dose has been scheduled between June 13 and June 27.According to the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), the beneficiary has to take the second dose of the same vaccine which he/she took in the first jab. The beneficiary cannot change the vaccine. The guideline for spacing between the two doses of Covaxin and Covishield is not the same. “I request all the officials concerned to take action at the earliest and correct details of certification as it may be dangerous for the persons who will take 2nd dose of #Covaxin”, reads one of the threads posted by Sharma on Twitter. Later, he put out a video clips of him explaining things in this regard.As claimed by Ankit more than 100 people were vaccinated there, he had requested the authorities concerned to look into this matter, but in vain.Samastipur civil surgeon Dr Satyendra Kumar Gupta and district immunisation officer Dr Satish Kumar Sinha didn’t take calls. District programme manager (health) S K Das, however, said he was not the competent authority to speak about the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-gets-covishield-jab-and-covaxin-certificate-101621437694712.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune city sees fewer babies in 2020 than 2019||Pune: As per the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, the city saw fewer baby births registered in 2020 as compared to 2019. While the civic body does not have any specific analysis of the same, the restricted movement of people due to the lockdown and also a large number of people moving out of the city could be the reasons, according to civic officials. As per the data, Pune city reported 50,544 births of which 25,967 male births and 24,577 female births were registered in 2020 while in 2019, 52,669 births were registered, of which 27,407 were male births and 25,262 were of female births. The number of births registered within a year fell by 2,125. The number saw a drastic fall compared to the 2018 fall during which over 55,000 birth registrations were seen due to the population rise as 11 new villages were added to the PMC limits. The highest number of births registered in the last five years was in 2018 when 55,516 births were registered of which 28,815 were of male child and 26,701 were of female children. Dr Kalpana Baliwwant, assistant health officer PMC, who looks after the birth/death registration department said, “I cannot say any specific reason for the same. A birth can be registered within one year of the child’s birth and so if a child born in November or December is registered in the coming months then the birth registration is recorded as per the next year.” In 2020, the city was under strict containment measures in view of the Covid pandemic. This restricted movement of the people which could have hampered the registration of births while a large number of people also moved out of the city which might have actually brought down births in the city. Another civic official said, “In the year 2017, 11 more villages were added and so in 2018 the number of births registered went up drastically. In addition, people have a year’s time to record the birth and so maybe people are avoiding stepping out to register. However, even in that case the hospital has to register within 21 days and send the PMC inputs regarding the birth and this report is based on those who have submitted the report. The 23 villages which are yet under consideration are yet to be added officially within the PMC limits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-sees-fewer-babies-in-2020-than-2019-101621437694121.html
19-05-2021||Other||12 deaths in village 15 days, but residents won’t take a Covid test||BHABHATA/HARPUR (West Champaran)At least 12 people have died in last fortnight, almost all having Covid-like symptoms, in a village in West Champaran district, although these may not be recorded as Covid deaths since they didn’t get tested, either because of lack of facility or because of reluctance by villagers. The village in question, Bhabhata in Narkatiaganj block, is located 25 km from Bettiah, the headquarter town of West Champaran district.Badrey Alam, one of the residents, is yet to come to terms with the death his mother Rehan Khatoon (60) on May 8. “She picked up fever on May 6. Medicines were administered by a local doctor but her oxygen level plummeted drastically two days later before she collapsed,” said Badrey Alam.On the same day, Rafique Ahmad (70), Rehan Khatoon’s neighbour, died following bouts of breathlessness accompanied by fever and coughing, said his son Zakir Hussain.Earlier, Radha Saha (69) collapsed after bouts of fever and loose motion on May 5. Later, a medical team reached the village and detected four Covid positive cases in Alam’s family and one in deceased Rafique Ahmad’s. Navin Prasad, village head of Bhabhata panchayat, said at least 12 people, including two children, had died in a fortnight. “After the medical team detected eight Covid cases and quarantined them at home, villagers even with symptoms have refused to undergo tests,” he said. “Even the family members of some of the deceased got angry and refused to go for testing on one pretext or other. As a result, just 50 people could be tested during our two visits,” said Ravi Shankar Singh, health manager, Narkatiaganj subdivision.Asked why thhis reluctance, one of the villagers, Mahtab Alam, shot back, ““Why rule out? Let this be for all at one go.”Elsewhere in the district, villagers say they don’t have access to testing or vaccination. “No camp has ever organised in our village to administer vaccine. We are simply unaware where to go for vaccination,” said Maqsood Alam of Bakhari village, located 7 km from Narkatiaganj.On the other hand, Brij Ram, a resident of Harpur village in the same area, fears harm from vaccination. When contacted, Sahila Heer, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Narkatiaganj, conceded poor response for testing in some pockets. “So far as vaccination is concerned, we are administering the same nearly 100% as per the availability of the doses. But then, the villagers must reach the centre for vaccination,” Heer said.According to official records, as many as 6,54,797 tests have been conducted for Covid-19 in West Champaran, of which 16,711 have been detected positive so far. “We are compiling records of tests per block also,” said Dr. Arun Kumar Sinha.A total of 232,829 vaccination shot have been administered in the district so far, as per officials. Meanwhile, the district administration has pressed 1,428 teams comprising Asha workers, sevika and observers to collect micro details from villages. “We have adopted two- pronged strategy, which includes door-to-door visit and telecommunication. While doctors at control rooms are taking stock of patients over phone, 1428 teams visited 12,780 and 17,460 houses on May 16 and 17 respectively to trace persons having symptoms of the disease,” said Kundan Kumar, district magistrate, West Champaran.“This apart, two mobile testing teams are being run to do the testing in the containment zones,” said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-deaths-in-village-15-days-but-residents-won-t-take-a-covid-test-101621437693527.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Refuge area turned into office at Ganga Satellite society, PMC, fire department issue notices||The society office bearers of Ganga Satellite, Wanowrie have turned a blind eye to repeated notices against illegally turning the refuge area in C2 building of the society into an office. Yezdi Motiwalla, a 60-year-old resident of Ganga Satellite, Wanowrie, approached the authorities on April 29 when he along with three members objected to the refuge area being used as an office, a party hall. The refuge area has a working toilet, and a kitchen has also been constructed. The space is is used as a storage space for furniture and it is under lock and key 24x7. It was during the annual general body meeting held on November 1, 2020, that Yezdi Motiwalla, Mariam Lakdawalla, Arun Mahajan and Marut Jain expressed their disapproval on the expenditure on the refurbishment of the refuge area. “We did not pass ₹5, 65,000 being spent on refuge area and I lodged a complaint with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) who duly sent an engineer from the building control department on April 8, 2021, on site. Even the fire department visited the site on April 10, 2021, and now in spite of issuing legal notices for demolition, the chairman is refusing to do anything,” said Motiwalla. “The refuge area in a building is to be kept open and vacant and is meant to be a meeting point for evacuation in an emergency situation when a fire breaks out. According to state guidelines and the fire department, no construction or conversion of the refuge area into anything else is permitted,” said chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise, who added that if the society does not demolish it, then the fire brigade will take legal action and cut the water and electricity supply to the society. “It is the society’s responsibility to remove the illegal structure in the refuge area and we have served them the notice,” he said. “It is illegal to turn the refuge area into any other space, especially when you have senior citizens also in the society, this refuge area is to help during any kind of disaster, but it is being kept under lock and key and turned into a party place. What good is it to people when it is needed?” said Motiwalla. The society chairman and secretary were issued the notices by the fire department on April 22 and by the PMC on April 26. The society chairman, Hiten Talati, refuted the notice and said, “We have replied to the notices from PMC and fire department, and I have nothing further to add.” PMC building department, executive engineer Harshada Shinde said, “We have given them 30 days to demolish the illegal construction in the refuge area, if they do not follow then we will take action along with police, but since it is Covid, and police are busy with bandobast, we are waiting to get the police personnel for the necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/refuge-area-turned-into-office-at-ganga-satellite-society-pmc-fire-department-issue-notices-101621437573543.html
19-05-2021||Pune||History-sheeter Tilaksingh Taak arrested by cops||The Pune police have arrested the working head of one of the three crime families of Shikalgari community in Pune on Tuesday - Tilaksingh Gabbarsingh Taak. All of 28 years of age, Taak has a history of scores of cases against him and is a resident of Ramtekdi area. Taak was arrested in a case registered at Wanowrie police station in which sections of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked. “One car of Anti-dacoity cell officials was shown to have broken down in the middle of the road and in according to the informer’s information, a Honda City car arrived there at 8:20pm and the police flagged it down,” read a statement from the Pune police crime branch. As the car stopped near the seemingly broken-down car around 8:20pm on Dalingaon road in Pandharsthal village on May 10, the police raided the vehicle and arrested four of its six travellers. The car was reported to have been stolen and a case of theft was registered for it at Kondhwa police station. The four were identified as Taak, Nishant alias Bluck anil Nanavare, Sunil Pakash Gaikwad, and Ganesh Rajjendra Shivadkar, all residents of Ramtekdi area. Two men from the car managed to flee the spot. Upon investigation, the police found five stolen cars, two from Kondhwa, Yerawada, Vimantal, and Nigdi, in their possession. Along with the five, two other cases were also brought to light due to these arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/historysheeter-tilaksingh-taak-arrested-by-cops-101621437393466.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Despite drop in demand, Remdesivir vials found on black market||The police forces in Pune district have found two cases of black marketing of Remdesivir even though the demand for Remdesivir has decreased in the last three weeks, according to the allocation list issued by the district collector’s office. A 25-year-old man was arrested by Pune city police crime branch for selling Remdesivir on the black market on Tuesday in the Lohegaon area. On the same day, the Pune rural police arrested another man for selling the drug Shikrapur. The man arrested by Pune city police was identified as Devendra Kaluram Chaudhury (25), a resident of Chirke Colony in Lohegaon, Pune while the one arrested by Pune rural police was identified as Amit Devidas Pawar. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 188, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940; was registered at Vimantal police station. A case under similar sections was registered at Shikrapur police station. Chaudhury, a pharmacist, had acquired the injection from a person known to him who had procured four vials of Remdesivir for a patient. However, as one vial was not used, the person sold it to Chaudhury who in-turn sold it for ₹45,000. Pawar, on the other hand, has no medical background and was found carrying four vials in the storage of his two-wheeler vehicle. A total of 168 hospitals in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 116 hospitals in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) received allocation of Remdesivir through the district collector’s office on Tuesday. The PMC and PCMC each have about 100 hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, according to the divisional commissioner’s Covid-19 dashboard. On Tuesday, 553 hospitals in Pune district received 6,534 Remdesivir injections. One week before that, on May 12, 626 hospitals received 6,530 injections and on May 5, the allocation was of 9,756 for 557 hospitals. Therefore, the demand has considerably gone down and even though the process is monitored by the district collector office, the injections are landing in the black market and what’s more, they are also finding buyers who are ready to pay over 12 times its market price. The readiness of relatives to pay the amount stands proof of the loophole in the Remdesivir distribution and supply system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-drop-in-demand-remdesivir-vials-found-on-black-market-101621437333418.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Four from Gujarat-based stock broking firm booked for cheating||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police booked four people from a stock broking firm in Gujarat for duping a man from Chinchwad of ₹40.2 lakh within a month between February and March. The four booked in the case were identified only as Prakash bhai, Anil bhai, Anil Sutar and Priya Patel, all believed to be residents of Gujarat. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ajit Krushnaji Devale (57), a resident of Link road in Chinchwad. Devale who holds a job in a private company, was approached by Priya Patel between February 3 and March 8 and she convinced him to invest in the share market through the two men to whom she introduced him. Through multiple transactions, Devale sent ₹50,02,000 to the bank account of the two men identified only as Anil and Prakash bhai. Over the months, Devale received ₹9, 77,110 but the accused failed to return the remaining ₹40, 24,890 to the complainant. He then approached the police and lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chinchwad police station. Police sub inspector GD Mane of Chinchwad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-from-gujarat-based-stock-broking-firm-booked-for-cheating-101621437273447.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune reports first death due to mucormycosis||Pune: The city on Wednesdayreported its first death due to mucormycosis, commonly known as “black fungus”. The reported death was that of a 29-year-old man who was obese and diabetic. This is the first reported death due to the infection, said PMC health officials. The civic body is ramping up its facilities to admit patients fighting with mucormycosis at its hospitals. The city has reported 168 cases of “black fungus” among the Covid recovered patients.On Wednesday, PMC chief health officer Dr Ashish Bharti said the city has reported one death due to the fungal infection and of the 168 cases reported in the city among Covid recovered patients, only two are being treated in civic hospitals and remaining in private hospitals. Dr Bharti said, “Mucormycosis is a fungal infection caused mainly because the immunity is suppressed in Covid recovered patients due to the use of steroids during the treatment course. Of the 166 patients in private hospitals, one has been declared dead as of yesterday’s updates.”The patient declared dead due to mucormycosis was reported from Bharti hospital. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical Director at the hospital, said, “The patient was a morbid obese weighing 110 kgs and suffering from uncontrolled diabetic. He died due to spread of the fungus through the blood which is called as a condition named fugemia. The patient was shifted from another hospital for Covid treatment where he underwent steroid treatment and developed swelling in his eyes before he was brought to our hospital. He had swelling in his face required a ventilator and multiple surgeries.” Dr Bharati said, “We would reserve about 10-15 beds dedicated for the treatment of mucormycosis who would be referred from other civic hospitals and admitted at Dalvi hospital. For medical management we would get anti-fungal drugs like Amphotericin B in probably the next two days and for surgical management we also have an ENT and ophthalmologist surgeon at the hospital and the operation theatre which was shut due to Covid cases since Dalvi hospital is a maternity hospital, we would procure the equipment required for operation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-one-first-death-due-to-mucormycosis-101621437213395.html
19-05-2021||Other||Two rapes reported in 24 hours, accused in one case nabbed||Two rapes were reported in Macchiwara and Samrala area in the past 24 hours.In the first case, Machhiwara police booked a 29-year-old man for raping and threatening to kill a 13-year-old girl.The accused, identified as Mandeep Singh of Machhiwara area, was arrested on Tuesday evening, said inspector Parveen Sharma, Machhiwara station house officer.Mandeep, who was booked under Section 376 (rape), 511(attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life), 328 (whoever administers to or causes to be taken by any person any poison), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, was presented before the court on Wednesday and sent to police remand. The victim told the police the incident took place on May 16. Around 1.30 am when her parents were asleep, the accused entered their house and forcibly took her to an abandoned house in the neighbourhood and raped her. The victim said Mandeep threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed the incident but she confided in her parents, who lodged a complaint with the Machhiwara police.Soon after receiving the complaint, the cops launched a manhunt and nabbed that accused. Second victim differently abledIn the second incident, a 20-year-old girl, who was attending a Covid patient, was raped by a 25- year-old man in a house in Bondli Changi village near Samrala.The case has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s father.He told the police that Jaswinder Kaur, who is his distant relative, was suffering from Covid-19.The victim’s father stated that he had sent his daughter, who has mental disabilities, to look after Jaswinder Kaur.He said that Ravi Kumar, 34, who was a frequent visitor to the house, had raped his daughter during her stay there. He had learnt of the incident when he went to meet her on Tuesday. As soon as his daughter narrated her ordeal, he lodged a complaint with the police. According to investigating officer Lakhwinder Kaur, soon after receiving the complaint, the accused Ravi Kumar was booked under Section 376 of the IPC.Lakhwinder Kaur said that Jaswinder Kaur, the owner of the house, was also booked as she had concealed the incident. But Jaswinder told the police that she could not report the matter as she had been unwell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-rapes-reported-in-24-hours-accused-in-one-case-nabbed-101621437033571.html
19-05-2021||Other||Traffic police, NHAI survey “death stretch” from Navale Bridge chowk till Dari Pul tunnel||PUNE In a bid to reduce the number of accidents with more precautionary measures in place, the Pune traffic police and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), carried out a survey of a stretch of road from the Navale Bridge chowk till the Dari Pul tunnel. The survey was carried out on Wednesday.The stretch has seen a series of fatal and serious accidents. At least 10 people have died in accidents on this stretch in the last six months.“A team of NHAI officials along with our traffic police have done the survey. In last six months there were fatal accidents and people seriously injured, so we had given instructions for proper signage boards, installing rumblers and reflectors, and the repairing of roads, among several other issues,” said Nandkishore Shelke, senior inspector and traffic police division in-charge, Sinhagad road. In the recent past, NHAI and the Pune traffic police lowered the speed limit and installed a police check point at this stretch. “After this initial work, now we are working on the other safety aspects, which need time and public support. We are studying the entry and exit points throughout the highway. There are some illegal accesses which need to be closed,” added Shelke. “It is a daily risk for residents living nearby to traverse this highway stretch. Due to lockdown, vehicle movement is low nowadays, but still there should be a permanent solution. Two-wheeler riders go directly on to the highway from these small access areas, which is very risky,” said Ramesh Vidhate, secretary, Sinhagad Road Residents Forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-police-nhai-survey-death-stretch-from-navale-bridge-chowk-till-dari-pul-tunnel-101621436313318.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Shortage worsens for drug to treat mucormycosis; Remdesivir demand drops in Pune||Pune: The demand for Remdesivir, anti-viral drug used for Covid treatment, in the district has come down following report of less positive cases. According to the district officials, 73 hospitals across the district have not taken their allocated stock of Remdesivir as compared to last week. Meanwhile, requirement for Amphotericin B, drug used to treat fungal infection mucormycosis has gone up. “Until last week, Remdesivir was distributed in 626 hospitals in the district. The count has dropped to 553 by Tuesday this week. The number is expected to further go down in coming days,” said Vijay Deshmukh, Pune additional collector. Pune, according to Deshmukh, is currently getting an average of 4,000-5,000 vials per day. On Tuesday, Pune district recorded 3,741 new cases with active caseload at 67,373, down from 88,851 on May 12. Shyam Pratapwar, assistant commissioner, Food and Drug Administration Pune, said that the demand for Remdesivir has dropped in the district by almost 20 per cent as compared to the last week. A control room has been set up at district collectorate to regulate supply of Amphotericin B to hospitals. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state currently has over 800 active patients of mucormycosis for whom the government has ordered 1.90 lakh injections of amphotericin. “However, these firms cannot deliver the vials directly to us now as the supply has been regulated by the Centre from today. We have demanded to Centre to increase the allocation for Maharashtra,” said Tope in Mumbai on Wednesday. On the efficacy of Remdesivir, after Dr Devender Singh Rana, chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi and also a member of the national task force constituted by the Supreme Court said that the drug may be dropped from the recommended treatment protocol, experts in Pune emphasised the effectiveness of the drug widely depends on the timing of its usage. “Remdesivir has proven to be beneficial if administered in the first 5-6 days of Covid infection. The drug is ineffective if delayed,” said Dr Subhal Dixit, critical care expert and chief of the Sanjeevan hospital, Pune. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, pointed at the results of World Health Organisation’s Solidarity trial. He said the drug is less effective in patients on invasive ventilators. “Ultimately to say that a drug has been effective we need to see how many Covid patients were saved using this drug,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shortage-deepens-for-drug-to-treat-mucormycosis-remdesivir-demand-drops-101621435593311.html
19-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt says Covid-19 test in state double the national average||The Covid-19 positivity rate has come down from 23 per cent to 18 per cent in Uttarakhand and the testing rate at present is double the national average, the state government said on Wednesday.In the last 24 hours, more than 7,000 people have recovered from Covid-19, while 4,800 new cases have been detected, state Health Secretary Amit Negi said at a joint press conference with police and SDRF officials."Covid positivity rate has come down from 23 per cent to 18 per cent. Sampling is also being consistently increased. A total of 35,000 samples were tested on Tuesday. The Covid testing rate of Uttarakhand at present is double the national average," he said.After April 1, the rate of Covid-19 mortality has been the highest in the 40-79 age group, while the positivity rate has been the highest in the 30-39 age group, Negi said.Oxygen supply nodal officer Ranjit Sinha said apart from 96 metric tonnes allocated through three major oxygen plants, 70 metric tonnes of oxygen is being produced from six small oxygen producing units, which is enough to fill 7,700 MT jumbo size oxygen cylinders.About 260 metric tonnes of oxygen has also been received from other states in three separate consignments, Sinha said. About 50 metric tonnes of oxygen has been reserved for the Garhwal region and 40 metric tonnes for Kumaon, he said, adding that many more oxygen plants are coming up in the state.Inspector General (IG) Amit Sinha said action is being taken against hospitals and ambulances for overcharging patients. He also said a case has been registered against a lab in Udham Singh Nagar district for conducting RT-PCR tests without having a license for it.Deputy Inspector General of Police SDRF Ridhim Agarwal said the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) has adopted 20 villages in nine hilly districts of the state to ensure 100 per cent compliance with the anti-Covid standard operating procedures by people in quarantine centres and home isolation.Villages where migrants have returned in large numbers have been selected for the purpose, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-says-covid-19-test-in-state-double-the-national-average-101621434389360.html
19-05-2021||Other||Standing committee okays Rs42 lakh oxygen system for Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee, on Tuesday, gave its approval for the installation of a proper oxygen supply system at the Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada.The standing committee sanctioned the proposal of ₹42 lakh to set up the oxygen plant. The Rajiv Gandhi hospital is one of the prominent PMC hospitals in the eastern part of the city.The PMC has also planned a dedicated paediatric Covid unit at the hospital.Hemant Rasane, chairman, standing committee, said, “We have passed a proposal to set up a liquid oxygen tank with a capacity of 10 kilolitre; it will take 15 to 20 days to set up.”PMC has now increased its production and storage capacity of oxygen to 40 tonnes per day, setting up three new plants at the Naidu, Dalvi and Laigude hospitals. PMC has used funds raised under the banner of corporate social responsibility (CSR).The corporation has also decided to purchase a generator for the oxygen plant at Naidu hospital. The standing committee sanctioned Rs11 lakh for the generator.Madhuri Misal, member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from the Parvati constituency, has given ₹20 lakh from her development funds for the purchase of six ventilators by the PMC.SPPU to start oxygen refilling plant on campusThe Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), has decided to set up an oxygen bottling plant on campus. Daily oxygen cylinders of 25 litres in capacity will be able to be filled here.“Initially these oxygen cylinders will be provided free of cost, while later, nominal charges will be levied. SPPU has always been at the forefront right from the day one of the pandemic,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. SPPU is starting this plant with the help of a Gujarat- based company. “This plant will begin its operations in a month’s time near the Khadki gate. As the third wave of Covid is expected, this will certainly help patients. Also, we are thinking of allowing students to study the as well,” added Karmalkar. This budget for the plant is ₹28 lakh and all the money will be raised under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) banner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-okays-rs42-lakh-oxygen-system-for-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-in-yerawada-101621435353404.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||A day after dipping below 30K, Maharashtra fresh Covid-19 cases rise to 34,031, 594 deaths recorded||Maharashtra on Wednesday found 34,031 people infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 594 lost their lives to the illness, according to the state health bulletin. The state reported a rise of 5,593 cases in the last 24 hours, as 28,438 infections were reported on Tuesday. The number of daily deaths fell by 367 in the last 24 hours.Also read| New RT-PCR kit 97.3% sensitive in detecting Covid mutants: All you need to knowAt present, the state's Covid-19 case tally stands at 5,467,537, with the active caseload at 401,695. The new mortalities pushed the overall toll to 84,371, the bulletin showed. The case positivity rate also increased marginally from 11.36 per cent on Tuesday to 11.91 per cent on Wednesday.The case fatality rate of the state with one of the highest deaths in the country remained the same in the last 24 hours at 1.54 per cent, as per the bulletin.More than 51,000 patients recovered from the virus in comparison to 52,898 recoveries registered on Tuesday. A total of 285,647 samples were tested for the viral infection in the past 24 hours. The number of testing has increased as 250,310 tests were conducted across the state on Tuesday.Mumbai on Wednesday reported 1,329 new Covid-19 cases, an incline from the previous day's infections, as on Tuesday 961 new infections were reported, according to the data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The new fatalities rose in the last 24 hours, as 57 people succumbed to the deadly virus, the data showed. On Tuesday, 44 deaths were reported in the state capital.Maharashtra, which is under stringent lockdown-like restrictions to contain the spread of the virus, is recording a steep decline in its infection rate. The state that used to be the number one contributor to the daily new cases has now dropped to the fourth spot. Maharashtra also reported the second-highest recoveries in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-day-after-dipping-below-30k-maharashtra-fresh-covid-19-cases-rise-to-34-031-594-deaths-recorded-mumbai-sees-1-329-new-cases-101621434592192.html
19-05-2021||Other||After cyclone Tauktae, electricity continues to elude parts of Goa||The electricity department continued to work on a war footing to restore power to parts of Goa that remained without electricity for nearly 100 hours since cyclone Tauktae flattened much of the state’s overhead electricity infrastructure.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant who has been travelling across the state to assess the damage said that while power has been restored in many parts of Goa, in others it might be until tomorrow (Thursday) before they get electricity.“Some people’s power will be restored today, others will have to wait till tomorrow. The major loss has been of electricity infrastructure. We initially estimated it to be around 22-crore but I think it will go beyond that up to 40 crores,” Sawant said.“Because there is no power, people also cannot pump water, so it’s a water problem as well,” Sawant added.“Poles have uprooted in many locations. We do not have the manpower and have to bring the men from other states as well. I have asked them to spend funds from the disaster management funds,” he added.State power secretary Kunal (he uses only first name), said that Goa’s power consumption has reached nearly pre-Tauktae levels pointing that power has been restored in most places.“Goa Electricity Department is working round the clock to restore power supplies,” he said.“With dedicated efforts and hard work of our frontline warriors viz linesmen and engineers, the supply of power is continuously rising and hoping to achieve pre-Tauktae level soon,” he added.According to the electricity department’s data, the power supply which was around 500 megawatt (MW) before the cyclone struck crashed to barely 60MW on the day of the cyclone (May 16) and since then has climbed to nearly 200MW, 300MW and 400 MW on Wednesday. It is expected to reach pre-Tauktae levels by Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-cyclone-tauktae-electricity-continues-to-elude-parts-of-goa-101621434693976.html
19-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae hits fish supply to Pune, retail prices double||PUNE Retail prices of fish doubled in the city in the wake of a lack of fresh stock arriving from coastal districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae over the last three days.The prices of promfret, prawns, and kingfish have all doubled. Before the cyclone hit the state, the price was for one kg of pomfret at the fish markets in Nana peth and Camp (Shivaji market) were between ₹700 and ₹800 per kg. Now the cost of a kg of pomfret is ₹1,800. Similarly, one kg of prawns was selling at Rs600 per kg. It is now selling at Rs1,200 per kg.Tausif Shaikh, fish vendor at the Camp market, said, “There is a shortage of supply from the coastal areas of Maharashtra and Gujarat, so prices have gone up.”Sandeep Pardeshi , a fish vendor from Nana peth said, “There is short supply of fish hence the high prices. Now customers are demanding river fish varieties. Fisheries along the west coast have all almost completely shut. We hope fisheries on the East coast, from Howrah, West Bengal, will ease the supply situation. Demand for fish is high in the city,” he said.Alex Sebastian, a fish lover, said, “Fish is out of reach of the middle class . Instead of buying pomfret, I prefer to buy cheaper varieties. I hope the prices come as the cyclone has passed.“||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-hits-fish-supply-to-pune-retail-prices-double-101621434273209.html
19-05-2021||Other||Pune receives second-highest rainfall in May for the past 10 years||PUNE Pune, on Wednesday, received 7.8 mm of rainfall, taking the overall rainfall received this month, so far, to 47.1 mm. This is the second-highest rainfall reported in May in Pune city for the past 10 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The all-time record for rainfall in May was 181.6 mm reported in 1933. The city received 112.7 mm in 2015, while in 2010 it was it was 5.6 mm. As per the IMD, rainfall across the city is likely to continue till Thursday. “The sky may remain clear during the day, but towards the afternoon, it will get cloudy with chances of light rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning,” said IMD officials. After May 21, the chances of rainfall will reduce, but cloudy skies will continue. Anupam Kashyapi, head of Weather Forecasting at IMD Pune, said that the remaining days of May will be pleasant for Pune city. “As per the forecast, the days will be pleasant with cloudy weather and light rain may continue till the end of May giving Pune a respite from rising temperatures,” said Kashyapi. Along with Pune, rainfall is forecast to continue in the four subdivisions of Maharashtra till May 21. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Wednesday was at 40.5 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri. The lowest minimum temperature reported on Wednesday was at 17.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar. IMD also added that the Southwest Monsoon is likely to advance into South Andaman Sea and adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21. During the same time, a low-pressure area is likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22, 2021. Remnants of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae moved over southeast Rajasthan as of Wednesday evening, and is likely to now move further north-eastwards towards Uttar Pradesh. It is likely to reduce in intensity and form into a well-marked low pressure area, as per IMD. Rain in May, down the years2015 -- 112.7 mm2021 -- 47.1 mm2010 -- 5.6 mm1933 -- 181.6 mmSource: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-receives-second-highest-rainfall-in-may-for-the-past-10-years-101621433554144.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||1000 'corona health consultants' to strengthen Rajasthan government's fight against Covid-19||The Rajasthan government will appoint 1,000 'corona health consultants' to strengthen the fight against coronavirus by speeding up door-to-door survey, delivering drug and providing treatment to patients across the state.The State Civil Defence Department will also select and appoint 'corona health assistants'.The state's Minister of Medical and Health Raghu Sharma said health consultants will be appointed in order to speed up the work of door-to-door survey and drug delivery to break the chain of Covid-19 infection, provide proper treatment to patients and reduce mortality rate.The appointments will be made by July 31.Issuing the guidelines, Medical Department Principal Secretary Akhil Arora said that 1,000 health consultants will be employed in the state.He said that the minimum qualification to be a consultant is an MBBS degree and being a registered practitioner Rajasthan Medical Council.The minimum qualification for being appointed a corona health assistant is Nurse Grade II or GNM and registered by Rajasthan Nursing Council (RNC).The monthly honorarium to be paid to consultants is ₹39,300, while health assistants will get ₹7,900.Arora said the services of the consultant will be taken at the Corona Counseling Center and in house-to-house survey workHe said one health assistant will be employed at each Gram Panchayat, two at Primary Health Centers and three at Community Health Centers.The Principal Secretary said that local residents in each district, rural or urban area will be given priority in appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/1000-corona-health-consultants-to-strengthen-rajasthan-government-s-fight-against-covid19-101621431320200.html
19-05-2021||Bangalore||Orders placed for Covid-19 vaccines, expect to deliver at least one dose to all by December: Karnataka deputy CM||The Karnataka state government aims to inoculate the entire population of the state with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by the end of December 2021, deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan said on Wednesday. The deputy CM also said that the state has already placed orders for the vaccines with the manufacturers and has also requested them to increase the supply.“We have placed orders for 2 crore vaccine doses with SII [Serum Institute of India] and 1 crore with Bharat Biotech. They have started supplying, around 10 lakh vaccines have been supplied by the SII, around 1.5 lakh doses supplied by Bharat Biotech. We are requesting them to scale up the supply,” news agency ANI quoted Ashwathnarayan as saying.“It's a matter of time. By August, we will have huge vaccine availability. Probability by end of December, we can expect the entire population to have at least a single dose,” the deputy CM further added.Also read | Karnataka's BS Yediyurappa announces ₹1,250 cr relief package, oppn says it’s insufficientEarlier in the day, state health minister K Sudhakar also made similar comments when he said that the state government intends to vaccinate all beneficiaries in the state by the end of the year. “Our major objective is to vaccinate all by October end or November end. All our efforts are in the direction of vaccinating every citizen by the end of the year,” news agency PTI quoted Sudhakar as saying.The health minister also confirmed that the state has received over a million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from the two manufacturers in India -- Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India in Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’ Covaxin.“The state has so far received 10,94,000 doses;- 9,50,000 Covishield and 1,44,000 Covaxin, as part of direct procurement from manufacturers. It has also received an additional 1,11,24,470 doses from the Government of India,” ANI quoted the health minister as saying on Wednesday.Karnataka has emerged as the country’s new Covid-19 hotspot in the second wave of the pandemic. With 575,049 active cases as of the day, it accounts for 25 per cent of India’s active caseload, data from the Union health ministry showed. Also, as of 7am on the day, the state has administered 11,361,234 doses of the vaccine, according to the central ministry’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/orders-placed-for-covid-19-vaccines-expect-to-deliver-at-least-one-dose-to-all-by-december-karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-cn-ashwathnarayan-101621431649798.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||People in Kota hiring ‘caretakers’ for hospitalised Covid-19 family members||Family members of Covid-19 patients in Rajasthan’s Kota are hiring ‘caretakers’ for attending to their hospitalised patients in Kota owing to the fear of catching Covid-19 or lack of enough family members who can look after the patients, HT has learnt. Sharda (40) brought her Covid-19 positive husband from native district Sawai Madhopur to neighbouring district Kota for treatment of Covid-19 a week ago. She hired a man on daily wages in Kota to help her take care of her husband at the Covid-19 dedicated hospital in Kota a few days ago. Sharda has no one else in her family other than her husband and kids. She is now looking to hire another caretaker as the one hired earlier left for better-paying work in the city.“I need a male caretaker to help me as there is no one to massage my ailing husband’s hands and legs which pain due to Covid-19 infection,” Sharda said. “Earlier, I hired a male caretaker for ₹700 per day but now I am again in search of an attendant,” she said. “I demand from the hospital administration to provide us with caretakers for looking after my Covid positive husband,” she added.Family members of Covid-19 patients keep these ‘hired’ caretakers in the wards of the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals by making them pose as family members and attendants of the patients.Since there has been a lockdown in the state from the last three weeks, many daily wagers lost their jobs and are forced to work as caretakers at hospitals for Covid-19 patients while putting their own lives at risk.These caretakers are reported to be taking per day wages of ₹700 to ₹1,000 for attending to the Covid-19 patients. One such hired caretaker is fifty-five-year-old Ved Prakash. “Due to the lockdown, I had no work as markets and shops were closed and when somebody asked me to work as a caretaker at the Covid hospital on daily wages I came here and started serving Covid patients,” Prakash said.“We are attending to Covid-19 patients in just face masks and gloves as neither the family members of the patients nor the hospital administration has provided PPE kits,” he alleged.Another caretaker told HT that family members of a Covid-19 patient gave him ₹700 per day for staying overnight in the Covid-19 ward with their hospitalised patient as the family was getting tired of looking after their patient the entire day.As per the people privy to the developments, there are over half a dozen or more people who are working as hired caretakers in the hospital. The reason for hiring such caretakers is either fear among family members of contracting the virus or lack of enough attendants to look after the patient. Superintendent of the Covid-19 dedicated government hospital in Kota, Dr Chandrashekhar Sushil, admitted the presence of hired caretakers in the hospital. “Nearly 10 days ago, hospital authorities caught a couple of people who were hired as caretakers for Covid-19 patients. They said that there were 4-5 women caretakers as well,” he said.“We are checking such hired caretakers but if the family members give us an undertaking that they have authorised some caretaker to look after their covid patient, we will allow them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/people-in-kota-hiring-caretakers-for-hospitalised-covid-19-family-members-101621429893252.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||How are celebrities, politicians procuring Covid-19 drugs? asks Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government and the Centre to file affidavits explaining how celebrities and politicians were procuring anti-Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen and other relief materials for coronavirus patients.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni had asked for such details last week as well from the the Maharashtra government and the Centre, who faced flak during hearing for non-compliance of previous orders.However, on Wednesday the state government submitted a report merely saying it had served show cause notices (on procuring Covid-19 relief materials) to Mumbai Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique and the Sood Charity Foundation (an NGO of actor Sonu Sood), but was yet to receive their replies.Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the HC the Union government had not filed any report since procurement and distribution of Remdesivir (a key Covid-19 drug) and medical oxygen, among other items, were the prerogative of a state and the Centre merely allocated such resources to states based on the latter's demands.The bench took an exception to the responses of the state government and the Centre (represented by Singh).The HC said it had expected better replies and compliance of its previous orders from both the respondents."These persons (celebrities) have no licence (to procure Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen), who will take the guarantee? There should have been a report."You (the state government)) have only issued show cause notices, we said place a report on this. We are not happy with this," the HC said.The bench said its primary concern was that the needy must not miss out on getting relief since all were not in a position to make appeals on social media."Who will guarantee that drugs being given by these personalities are of proper quality?" the HC said."The allocation is by UOI (Union of India), collection is by State, then where is the window for collection or procurement by these personalities? That is our anxiety," the bench observed.The HC directed the state and the Centre to file their detailed reply affidavits by next week.It also directed the Maharashtra government to submit details on the requirements for medical oxygen (needed to treat serious Covid-19 patients) and Remdesivir, among other items, across the state, the supplies it was receiving from the Centre and other entities.The HC was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on the management of issues connected to the Covid-19 pandemic.It also praised the model devised by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to tackle the infection spread, procure, produce and store oxygen, and anti-Covid-19 drugs.Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare, who appeared for the BMC, told the bench that the civic body was making arrangements for vaccinating citizens and improving paediatrics health infrastructure in Mumbai (in view of a possible third Covid-19 wave).He said the BMC had invited a global expression of interest for procuring 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines."Bombay (Mumbai) corporation has had unique vision since ages," the HC said.The court will continue hearing the PILs on May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-are-celebrities-politicians-procuring-covid-19-drugs-asks-bombay-hc-101621428871828.html
19-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's BS Yediyurappa announces ₹1,250 cr relief package, oppn says it’s insufficient||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced a financial relief package for a section of the people who have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns that have affected their livelihood and income.“To provide relief to people who have lost income and livelihood due to the 2nd wave of Covid-19, ₹1,250 crore of economic support has been sanctioned to farmers, workers from the unorganised sector, auto and cab drivers, street vendors among others,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter.“Even when our financial situation is not very good, we are telling the people that we are there with them,” Yediyurappa added at a press conference to announce the financial package for Karnataka.A statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) later, however, said the package amounts to ₹1,111.8 crore.Karnataka's relief package comes weeks after the Yediyurappa-led government reversed its decision not to announce a lockdown on account of its unpreparedness for the impact of the imminent second Covid wave despite warnings from a government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) in November.Karnataka remains in lockdown till May 24; there is a possibility that it will be extended.Yediyurappa announced a ₹1,610 crore package in May last year but many of the targeted beneficiaries said it was hardly able to compensate people for the loss of their income.Karnataka’s large farming population of the calamity-prone state have been struggling for years, particularly since they have faced at least 15 years of droughts and four major floods over the last 20 years. The government is yet to announce any compensation for those hit by Cyclone Tauktae.Congress leader Siddramaiah said the chief minister announced relief packages worth ₹2,100 crore last year but did not spend the money. He said less than 50% of the targeted beneficiaries last time got any relief.Karnataka has seen a steady increase in Covid-19 cases and accounts for 5,75,049 active cases, nearly 17% of the country’s 32,26,719 active cases on Wednesday. While Karnataka’s capital Bengaluru, which accounted for almost 60% of the state’s cases and fatalities, has seen a sharp decline in new infections, data also shows that the state had reduced the number of people being tested on an average.The financial package announced on Wednesday involves a one-time payment of ₹10,000 for about 20,000 flower growers and 69,000 farmers who produce fruit and vegetables costing the exchequer a total of around ₹81.73 crore.Yediyurappa announced financial relief ranging from ₹2,000- ₹3,000 for around 2.1 lakh licensed and registered auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers, around 3.04 lakh people working as barbers, dhobis, hamalis, rag pickers, potters, goldsmiths, mechanics and domestic workers among others. The government also announced that around 2.20 lakh street vendors would get around ₹2,000 each, totalling to ₹44 crore. Yediyurappa announced ₹3,000 each for around 16095 artists and artist groups that would cost the state ₹4.85 crore.Registered construction workers would get ₹3,000 from the welfare fund that would entail a total relief of ₹494 crore.The chief minister also extended the loan period for short, medium and long-term loans availed by around 4.25 lakh farmers and others by three months that would entail the government bearing the interest payment of ₹134.38 crore.The chief minister said the state is extending the relief given by the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana by giving an additional 30 lakh people 5 kg rice. This would benefit a total of 43.4 million people or 12.6 million ration cardholders.Wednesday’s announcement said 10kg food grains will be given to BPL cardholders while APL cardholders would get grains for ₹15 per kg per month for May and June.Yediyurappa said the government was spending around ₹25 crore to provide around 6 lakh people a day with free food that was being distributed at Indira Canteens.Opposition leaders were, however, dismissive of the state government’s package. They said it won’t help.“I had asked for a lockdown in March itself, but no announcement was made. The lockdown took place in neighbouring Kerala in March and a ₹20,000 crore package was also announced. Kerala is a small state compared to Karnataka. But is this ₹1,200 crore compensation for the larger state of Karnataka?” HD Kumaraswamy, former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader said.The Congress insists that all economically weaker sections be paid ₹10,000, and the money should be handed to panchayats.“The government should conduct a survey on how many people have lost jobs.This is not a government that thinks about the poor. Since we insisted on a package, they have announced it. But it has completely failed,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Congress said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-announces-rs-1-250-cr-relief-package-oppn-says-it-s-insufficient-101621429293061.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Gurudwara at Camp launches “Free Oxygen Langar Sewa”||Pune: The Gurudwara Guru Nanak Darbar, Camp, has launched “Free Oxygen Langar Sewa” for Covid patients who are prescribed medical oxygen and are finding it difficult to get hospital beds.The initiative by Gurudwara Saheb, Rotary Club of Poona and Gurudwara Panvel provides oxygen concentrator and oxygen cylinders for home use for free on returnable basis. They have also initiated jumbo oxygen cylinder bank to support hospitals in case of emergency.An ardaas (prayer) was performed attended by joint charity commissioner SM Bokey, Pune Cantonment Board CEO Amit Kumar and members of Rotary Club of Poona and Gurudwara Saheb.“After we launched the service in the city, we received call from Hyderabad and Secunderabad. We immediately dispatched 15 Jumbo, 50 mega and 20 small to gurudwara at Hyderabad and Secunderabad for oxygen support,” said Rotarian Narendra Pal Singh.For locals, there are 25 oxygen cylinders and 20 were provided to needy patients within an hour of launching the service.Kiran Awate, who came to collect an oxygen cylinder, said, “My brother was admitted for one month in the hospital due to Covid. On discharge, the doctor advised him to breathe using oxygen facility. In the market, a new oxygen cylinder cost up to a one lakh and for rent, there are packages starting from ₹25,000 for 15 days. A colleague suggested contacting the gurudwara and I came here to collect the cylinder for free. They gave me the cylinder on trust, for which I am thankful.”Kumar said, “This gurudwara has been offering similar public service since the Covid outbreak last year by supporting migrants, providing medical kits and equipment to hospitals and medical centres, and holding langars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gurudwara-at-camp-launches-free-oxygen-langar-sewa-101621428752258.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Hospital hides Covid-19 patient's death for money, case filed||A case has been registered against a private hospital in Maharashtra for allegedly taking money in the name of treatment from family members of a Covid-19 patient even after his death, police said on Wednesday.The man died on April 21 while undergoing treatment but his death was announced by the hospital authorities only on April 24 until his family members paid the amount asked by the facility, the official said quoting the FIR.The man was admitted in the hospital and his relatives had paid a deposit of ₹50,000."On April 20, he was shifted to the ICU for further treatment. His wife was told to pay ₹35,000 for injections on April 21. However, she requested more time to arrange the money, following which the hospital asked her to pay by April 24," the official said.The complainant claimed she had paid ₹40,000 in cash and ₹50,000 via online mode to the hospital administration on April 24 morning, as per the FIR."The death of the patient was declared by doctors at noon on April 24," the FIR said.The complainant claimed the hospital, however, mentioned the timing of her husband's death as 11 pm on April 21, in the documents.She alleged the hospital authorities were demanding more money from her and not providing her copies of detailed bills.She also alleged the hospital charged exorbitantly in violation of the government norms.The FIR was registered after the complainant approached a local court."A case has been registered at Shivajinagar police station of Nanded city on Tuesday against doctors and employees of the hospital under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for forgery and cheating," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hospital-hides-covid-19-patient-s-death-for-money-case-filed-101621426561290.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Black Fungus declared an epidemic in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government has declared black fungus or mucormycosis an epidemic amid a steep rise in infections among Covid-19 patients, reported news agency ANI on Wednesday. Cases of Black Fungus have been on the rise in the state to tackle which a separate ward has been set up in Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital in Jaipur.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had expressed concern over the rising number of black fungus cases in Covid patients, and instructed officials to include its treatment in the health insurance scheme at a Covid-19 review meeting on Wednesday.Black fungus has been notified as an epidemic and a notifiable disease in the state under the Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020, according to a notification issued by principal health secretary Akhil Arora.Arora told PTI that the state is making a coordinated and integrated effort to treat both black fungus and Covid-19.Currently, the state is treating around 100 patients at the designated ward in Sawai Man Singh hospital in the capital. The state has also issued orders to purchase 2,500 vials of amphotericin-B, the drug used to treat Black Fungus. The Centre has so far provided 700 vials of the drug and promised to provide 50,000 more, state health minister Raghu Sharma told reporters on May 17.Minister of state for chemicals and fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya told reporters on Tuesday that the central government is making efforts to ramp up domestic production of amphotericin-B and bolster imports of the drug from all over the world. He also added that the government has outlined a system for efficient distribution of the necessary drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/black-fungus-declared-an-epidemic-in-rajasthan-101621425518142.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||GS Bajpai is new V-C of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala||GS Bajpai has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), Patiala. Punjab and Haryana High Court chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha, who is the RGNUL chancellor, selected Bajpai from a panel of three names suggested by the search committee formed in October 2020. Bajpai will assume charge on Friday for a tenure of five years. Also read: When to take Covid vaccine after recovery? After 3 months, says CentreProfessor of criminology and criminal justice With more than 30 years of professional experience as an author, researcher, teacher and administrator, Bajpai is at present professor of criminology and criminal justice (law); chair professor at KL Arora Chair in Criminal Law at National Law University, Delhi; and chairperson of the Centre for Criminology and Victimology. He has served as the registrar of National Law University, Delhi, between 2014 and 2021. Bajpai is a member secretary of the Committee of Criminal Law Reforms, appointed by the ministry of home affairs. Promoting research to benefit legal system When contacted, Bajpai said that he will focus on making RGNUL a top research institute. “A university can serve in the best way by doing research on policy issues and submit it, which will enable the legal system, administration, and other stakeholders to bring reforms for better results for citizens. My aim is to promote such research that will benefit the legal system, policy makers and public. I will promote student and faculty initiatives in research,” he said. He said faculty development programmes will also be priority to create quality human resource. “We need to train the faculty according to international standards,” Bajpai said. On the task assigned by the Union home ministry, he said that the report of the Committee of Criminal Law Reforms is almost ready and will be submitted soon. “It got delayed because of the Covid lockdown,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gs-bajpai-is-new-v-c-of-rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-patiala-101621423414483.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sounds alert for possible desert locust attack in Jaisalmer||Following an advisory by the UN’s Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district has sounded an alert for a possible locust attack and directed authorities including the locust control department to plan, coordinate and execute a strategy to repulse it.On May 17, FAO said a few locust bands are likely to form in May in southwest Iran from where they may move east towards Pakistan. “Small adult groups to form in southwest Iran that may be supplemented by groups and small swarms arriving from Arabia, which will move east along the southern coast towards Pakistan,” the advisory said.The desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria) is the most destructive migratory pest in the world. In response to environmental stimuli, dense and highly mobile desert locust swarms can form. They are ravenous eaters who consume their own weight per day by targeting food crops. Just a single square kilometre of swarm can contain up to 80 million adults, with the capacity to consume the same amount of food in one day as 35,000 people.Large swarms pose a major threat to food security and rural livelihoods. FAO has long-standing expertise in monitoring Desert Locust populations and helping countries cope with this devastating crop pest.Following the advisory, Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi directed all officials engaged in the locust control operation to ensure highest priority to containment operations. “If any official [is] found negligent or violating order, he will be personally [held] responsible,” he said while asking them to continue following the Covid-19 guidelines during the exercise.Modi said as per FAO advisory, a locust attack in Pakistan at the end of May or in the first week of June was likely. “There are chances that after entering Pakistan, locust groups may further move towards India,’’ he said.In the past two years, more than 10 states, including national capital Delhi have faced locust attacks. Rajasthan too reported the first locust attack in Jaisalmer district on May 21, 2019, after a gap of 26 years. Many other districts of western Rajasthan including Barmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Ganganagar too bore its brunt. Locusts caused a huge damage to Rabi crops in around 10 lakhs hectares of land in Rajasthan and Gujarat. However, it was contained by the second week of February.On April 11, 2020, the country faced the second locust attack spreading to more than 10 states including Rajasthan, UP, MP, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Uttrakhand, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-sounds-alert-for-possible-desert-locust-attack-in-jaisalmer-101621422391830.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav converts his government residence into Covid-19 care centre||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday converted his government residence into a Covid-19 care centre.Yadav has set up the centre at 1 polo road in Patna from his private funds. He said that it has all the necessary medical equipment, beds, oxygen and provision for free food.While speaking to ANI he said, "I request the state government to convert all the government residence provided to us into Covid-19 care centres, quarantine centres because people are not getting beds, oxygen and other medical facilities at the government hospitals.""Being a responsible opposition, we want to give our residence to the state government for the people," he added.As per the rules, it has been decided to hand over the Covid centre to the state government. In this regard, he has written a letter to the government asking it to take up the Covid care centre.He added that he has written a letter to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar but has not received any reply."I urge the state government to take over the Covid-19 centre and we are there to help in any way. Just let us know what we can do to help them," he further said.Meanwhile, Bihar reported 6,286 fresh Covid cases and 111 deaths on Tuesday in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-converts-his-government-residence-into-covid-19-care-centre-101621420456007.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Have 3 proposals for supply of Sputnik V vaccine to Mumbai: BMC||Mumbai’s civic body, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has received proposals from three companies for supplying Russian Sputnik V Covid vaccine, said its commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in an interview with a news channel on Wednesday. Chahal’s comment comes a day after the civic body extended the deadline for submission of bid to supply 10 million Covid vaccines to the city. The last date for submission of the bid was May 18, but after failing to receive any, the BMC extended the deadline up to May 25.In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Chahal said the BMC estimates to spend about ₹700 crore to buy the shots. “Once we get 15 million vaccine shots, I plan to vaccinate the entire city in the next 60 days and by doing so, I am very sure we will be able to stop the third wave from coming.”Also Read | How Mumbai’s city officials made their city more Covid-ready than DelhiMeanwhile, the three proposals for Sputnik V vaccines have come from a UK-based firm and two companies from India having authorised distributorship of Sputnik. According to BMC officials, their paperwork was incomplete so the companies have been asked to send revised proposals as formal bids.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu told HT, “We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but have come with incomplete paperwork. So we have given the extension.”According to the BMC’s tender document, any interested supplier or manufacturer can bid for the tender. However, it has restricted China from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Central government’s approval will have to get the same on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-3-proposals-for-supply-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-mumbai-bmc-101621419857890.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||AIIMS nurses back in Bathinda after complaint of poor facilities in Patiala||After 50 male nursing officers of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda, exposed the pathetic hostel accommodation allotted to them in Patiala, the Punjab department of medical education and research on Wednesday relieved them of their services and sent them back to their parent institute. The nursing officers from AIIMS, Bathinda, reached Patiala three days ago and were deployed in the Covid wing of the government medical college with Rajindra Hospital. Also read: Delhi Covid-19 cases fall to 3.8K first time after April 5, positivity rate dipsHowever, they found that the college had made poor arrangements for their accommodation. They were put up at the State Physical Education College that has not been maintained. Besides the poor sanitation, the nurses complained of substandard meals in the hostel mess. The nursing officers went on a hunger strike to protest the poor quality of food at the hostel mess, but they kept working in the isolation isolation wards of the hospital. Mukesh Kumar, a nursing officer, said: “Fans were not working in a room where four nurses were asked to stay together. Washrooms were not in a working condition as fittings were broken.” The staff claimed that senior officials from the medical college and district administration assured them of resolving the matter soon. “Despite such deplorable conditions, we continued working in the Covid wards. However, on Wednesday, we were asked to leave the medical college and rejoin AIIMS, Bathinda,” the staffer said. Medical college principal Dr Rajan Singla said talks were held with the nursing staff and they were assured that the issue will be looked into, but they continued to protest. “The matter was taken up with secretary-level officials of the department. It was decided to relieve them from their services,” Dr Singla said. He added that they have informed the authorities that the medical college is available with ample nursing staff, which can take over responsibilities of the male nursing staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aiims-nurses-back-in-bathinda-after-complaint-of-poor-facilities-in-patiala-101621419618714.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar family forced to carry body for cremation on garbage cart; 3 sacked||A family in Bihar’s Nalanda district was forced to use a garbage cart to carry their family member to the crematorium who died of coronavirus disease. The heart-wrenching video of their journey to the cremation ground has provoked local authorities to sack three municipal employees for dereliction of duty.Officials in state capital Patna also stepped in, issuing fresh instructions to municipal bodies to emphasise that it was their responsibility to give people who lose their lives to Covid-19 a dignified funeral at state expense. Ashok Kishore, secretary of urban development and housing department, also directed officials to circulate a phone number that people can dial for help.The latest video from Nalanda, one of the widely-circulated clips that reveal how grieving families that lost a member to Covid-19 had a torturous time trying to arrange for their last rites, shows two persons wearing personal protection equipment pulling the cart through Malliksarai village in Islampur block, about 70 km from Nalanda district headquarters, on May 15. Three more people carried the wood on another cart.Local residents said the dead man, Shankar Choudhary, had died due to coronavirus at home. His wife pleaded with the panchayat officials for a vehicle to take her husband to the crematorium. Her neighbours too shut their doors on her after they learnt that Shankar Choudhary died of Covid-19. Finally, the family used the hand cart; they couldn’t afford anything else.It was a garbage cart, said Jaglal Choudhary, who described himself as a distant relative of the dead man. He said since there was no one to helo, the family covered him with a piece of cloth and took the body on this cart to the cremation ground for his final rites.Hilsa sub-divisional officer Radhakant said the administration formed a three-member committee of additional SDO Shashank Raj, executive officer Navin Kumar and circle officer Ajay Kumar to probe the incident. It turned out that the employees gave the family the garbage cart to carry the body. Nalanda district magistrate Yogendra Kumar, has ordered dismissal of the three sweepers for dereliction of duty.This wasn’t the first such incident in the district.On Monday, the Nalanda police filed a First Information Report against six people including ward councilor and employees of Biharsharif Municipal Corporation under the Epidemic diseases act on charges that they extorted money for cremation of people who died due to Covid. Municipal commissioner Anshul Agarwal has terminated ward jamadar, sweepers and suspended the sanitary inspector when a fact-finding team found that they had carried the body in a garbage cart to the crematorium in Sohsarai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-family-forced-to-carry-body-for-cremation-on-garbage-cart-3-sacked-101621418899467.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Don’t let your guard down, even if Covid-19 pandemic wanes: Delhi LG tells Kejriwal government||The Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of Delhi Anil Baijal on Wednesday said that the Delhi government should not let its guard down despite the improving Covid-19 situation in the national capital. He also stressed that measures and preparedness to deal with any eventuality should be fully undertaken.The remarks were made during a meeting to review the management of Covid-19 situation in the national capital along with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia and other government officials such as the commissioners of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and senior officials from the Delhi Police, a statement from the LG’s office confirmed.“It was felt that a regular monitoring and status update of distribution of free ration and money disbursal to labourers under the schemes announced at the beginning of the lockdown will ensure their effective delivery to the beneficiaries in need,” the statement said.Also read | Singapore calls in Indian envoy, objects to Delhi CM’s comment on new Covid strainHe also asked the government to ensure that distributors and retailers of essential drugs and equipment related to fighting the Covid-19 are made to mandatorily display their stocks and prices.During the meeting, the Baijal also said that the number of Covid-19 tests, especially the RT-PCR tests, carried out in the city should not fall. He also highlighted that due to the existing lockdown, the number of Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) carried out in Delhi has “naturally gone down.”Briefing on other measures, the L-G urged the government to ensure the availability of drugs to treat the emerging black fungus (Mucormycosis) disease. He also asked the state government to take necessary steps for the availability of the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s new Covid-19 drug for patients in need.He also instructed the officials to formulate “monitorable and compressed timelines” for establishing oxygen plants in hospitals and other related infrastructure to deal with similar situations in the future.Watch | Modi govt Vs Kejriwal govt over ‘Singapore strain’ of Covid l Who said whatMeanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that a special task force would be created in Delhi to protect children from the third wave of Covid-19. “If the third wave of Corona comes, then we have to be prepared in advance to fight it, today in a meeting with the officials, took some important decisions- 1. To create special task force to protect children from the third wave. 2. Adequate beds, oxygen and better management of essential medicines,” he tweeted.Delhi, which has been battered in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, has been witnessing a declining trend in its daily new infections. On Monday, the national capital reported 4,482 new cases of the coronavirus infection and 265 related fatalities. The positivity rate has significantly dropped to 6.89% from 8.42% on Monday, when the city had logged 4,524 cases, the lowest since April 5. So far, 1,402,873 people have tested positive and 22,111 patients have succumbed to the disease in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-let-your-guard-down-even-if-covid-19-pandemic-wanes-delhi-lg-tells-kejriwal-government-101621417903331.html
19-05-2021||Other||Covid positivity rate rises by 22% in Himachal in 7 weeks||The Covid positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh has risen by 22% in the past seven weeks. The hill state recorded its highest positivity rate of 28.9% in the week that ended on May 16. That’s the highest since the coronavirus outbreak in March last year. It was 7% in the March 29 to April 4 week, while in February, the positivity rate was as low as 0.67%. Positivity rate is the percentage of positive samples per 100 tests. Also read: Delhi CM does not speak for India, says Jaishankar, Sisodia responds with a barbNational Health Mission state director Dr Nipun Jindal said of the 99,807 tests conducted last week, 28,817 samples were found positive. As Covid-19 cases started rising from February-end, Dr Jindal said, the positivity rate also went up. By March-end, it was 3% and steadily rose after that. “It was 20% between April 26 and May 2 and 26.3% from May 3-9),” he said, adding this was when the second wave was sweeping the state. Positivity rate higher in border districts Dr Jindal said the positivity rate is high in the state’s districts bordering Punjab and Haryana. This is due to the high infection rate as the movement and activities in these regions are more than in the other districts. Kangra, the worst-hit district recorded the highest positivity rate of 38.1%, followed by 37.2% in Sirmaur and 33% in Solan. Six of the 12 districts have a positivity rate of above 30%. Mandi has a positivity rate of 31.9%, Hamirpur 31.5% and Shimla 30.5%. At 8.6%, Lahaul-Spiti is the only district with a positivity rate below 10%, while Chamba and Kinnaur have it below 20%. Bilaspur, Kullu and Una’s positivity rate is below 30%. Testing increased in Kangra Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said Kangra conducted 22,824 tests last week of which 8,686 samples tested positive. “The high number of tests and relatively high number of cases has pushed up the district’s positivity rate,” said Dr Gupta. Overall, since the outbreak, the district’s positivity rate has been 8.8%. Dr Jindal said the test, trace, isolate and treat is the strategy to combat the Covid-19. The state has ramped up testing by introducing mobile testing facility. He said this week the state is recording a dip in infections and if the trend continues, the peak would be over. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said given the spread of virus, stricter curbs have been introduced in the district. Apart from curfew on week days, there is a complete lockdown in the district on weekends. “We are also conducting the highest number of tests in the state and hence the infection rate is high,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-positivity-rate-rises-by-22-in-himachal-in-7-weeks-101621417577786.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Social media songs, videos, memes woo Rajasthan tribals for Covid vaccination||Across the tribal belt of southern Rajasthan, the district administrations are relying on memes, posters, and catchy songs produced in the local Wagdi language to dispel vaccine hesitancy and Covid-19 myths.Officials in Banswara and Dungarpur said that it was important to weave Covid-19 awareness into tribal culture through storytelling because a myth was spreading that different vaccines were used for people in cities and villages.District collector, Dungarpur, Suresh Kumar Ola said the administration roped in several Wagdi social content creators and YouTubers to push as much Covid-19 information as possible. “I contacted all content creators with 1 lakh viewers, their videos and posts are getting scores of viewers every day now,” he said.Local booth level officers (BLOs), block development officers (BDOs) and Sarpanchs forwarded messages in Wagdi that requested people in local phrases to visit vaccination centers. “So far, we have inoculated a significant percentage of elderly citizens through online messaging,” he said.Messages like “Kaka Jaju, Kaki Jaju, vaccination Karvi Avju” (Kaka and Kaki please come for the vaccination) have gone viral.Another message, “Avigyo Tiko Korona No, Jaldi Jaldi Ladado Re,” (Corona vaccination is here, get the jab soon).Bharat Kumar, a native of Sagwara in Dungarpur district said that Wagdi, also known as Vaghri, is spoken across several tribal-dominated villages of southern Rajasthan.“I am presently living in Udaipur, yet I receive WhatsApp messages in Wagdi about the pandemic and vaccination. They have also made some really hilarious memes,” he said, adding that some of the prominent names on YouTube also regularly make shows on covid-19.According to Ola, the social media campaign has now reached far away areas.District collector, Banswara, Ankit Kumar Singh said his social media group now reaches out to 2 Lakh people. “We decided that the best way to remove hesitancy was to speak to local leaders and Sarpanches and get them vaccinated. When their photos receiving vaccination went viral, a lot of people came forward,” he said, adding that new social media messaging is now being also used to spread the latest information on Covid-19.A senior police official posted in Dungarpur said there was a growing fear amongst tribal villages that vaccination may lead to impotency, but many of those rumours have largely subsided.“Tribal areas rely heavily on Bhopas (quacks) and chieftains, they don’t like outsiders, therefore, these social media campaigns in their own language felt like they were personally and respectfully addressed,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/social-media-songs-videos-memes-woo-rajasthan-tribals-for-covid-vaccination-101621416437749.html
19-05-2021||Indore||84-year-old sent alone in taxi from Indore to Mumbai, daughter-in-law blamed||At a time when people across the world are spreading messages to help those suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a case in Indore has shamed humanity.An 84-year-old Covid positive patient was sent to Mumbai from Indore - all alone in a taxi - after he was forcibly discharged from the hospital. The family members of the patient, Ashok Chaturvedi, have accused his daughter-in-law Dipika of carrying out this inhuman act. They further say that Dipika did this to usurp the money of their father."He was admitted to a hospital and was getting treated for the coronavirus disease. Dipika sent him to Mumbai in this condition, without telling any of us. He is all alone, and not even tested negative for Covid-19," said the 84-year-old's younger daughter Jaya Chaturvedi.His elder daughter Jyoti lives in Mumbai and had to run from pillar to post to get the registration number of the taxi he was sent in saying Dipika has severed all channels of communication with them. She is still waiting for her father's arrival.The daughters claims that Ashok Chaturvedi was taken from his native place Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh to Indore by the daughter-in-law without their consent. They last visited their father late in January and the issue was discussed. Both Jyoti and Jaya say that Dipika reached Ghazipur after they left and persuaded him to come with her to Indore where he was mistreated.After reaching Indore, he got sick and after much pressure, the octogenarian was admitted to Noble Hospital, said Jaya. "Dipika got him discharged within three days without even my father receiving proper care. He later tested Covid-positive and we had to intervene to get him admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital," she said."An 84-year-old man is now sent all alone in a taxi from Indore to Mumbai travelling for 16 hours being Covid positive without informing anybody from the family," added Jaya.Both the daughters allege that all the money of their father has been usurped by Dipika, and they don't know where and how it has been used. They have also accused Dipika's mother Sneh Chaturvedi and sister Ritika of being aware of everything and helping her carry out this crime.They have now decided to approach the police for appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/84yearold-sent-alone-in-taxi-from-indore-to-mumbai-daughter-in-law-blamed-101621412600080.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||BJP’s Gotam Lal Meena dies, 4th Rajasthan MLA to lose to Covid-19||Gotam Lal Meena, BJP MLA from south Rajasthan’s Dhariawad constituency, died at MB Hospital in Udaipur on Wednesday due to coronavirus infection. The 57-year-old legislator was admitted to hospital on Sunday but his condition deteriorated. He died on Wednesday morning, his family said.The three-time lawmaker is survived by his wife and four sons.Meena is the fourth MLA in Rajasthan to die of Covid-19. Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi, 65, was the first to lose the battle against Covid in October last. In November, BJP’s Kiran Maheshwari, 59, lost her life and in January this year, the infection claimed the life of Congress MLA Gajendra Shaktawat, 47.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, assembly speaker CP Joshi, BJP state president Satish Poonia and other leaders condoled the death.“The information about the untimely demise of BJP MLA from Dhariawad Gotam Lal Meena is very sad,” Gehlot said.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje recalled that Meena had served his constituency selflessly and honestly and described his death as a “personal loss”.BJP leader and leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria also condoled his death, pointing that the lawmaker’s condition deteriorated over the last two days when he was moved to ventilator support. Kataria recalled how the Dhariawad MLA would always raise issues close to the poor and deprived sections of society.Meena’s death brings down the strength of the Rajasthan assembly to 198.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjps-gotam-lal-meena-dies-4th-rajasthan-mla-to-lose-to-covid19-101621412837097.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP MLA Gotam Lal Meena dies due to Covid-19||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Dhariawad constituency in Rajasthan’s Pratapgarh district, Gotam lal Meena, died due to Covid-19 infection at Udaipur’s MB Hospital on Wednesday. A three time MLA, Meena was 57-years old and he left a wife and four sons behind.Meena was hospitalised on May 16 when his condition deteriorated. He breathed his last on May 19.Corona infection has claimed the lives of four sitting MLAs in Rajasthan.Earlier, Congress MLAs Kailash Trivedi and Gajendra Shaktawat and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari died due to the infection.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, assembly speaker CP Joshi, BJP state president Satish Poonia and other leaders condoled Meena’s death.“The untimely demise of BJP MLA from Dhariawad Gotam Lal Meena is very sad,” Gehlot said. He said he was praying for the peace of the departed soul.Former CM Vasundhara Raje tweeted that Meena’s demise was a personal loss for her. She said he served his constituency “selflessly and honestly”.“His condition deteriorated in [the] last two days and he was [put] on ventilator support,” leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria said while expressing grief on Meena’s death. Kataria said Meena always used to raise issues concerning the poor, especially those in the tribal areas.With Meena’s death, the number of MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly has dropped to 198 from 200 this year. Vallabhnagar constituency fell vacant earlier in January after the death of Congress MLA Gajendra Shaktawat. The seats falling vacant after the death of MLAs Kailash Trivedi and Kiran Maheshwari were filled in May after the April bypolls.Rajasthan recorded 8,398 Covid-19 positive cases and 146 deaths on Tuesday, taking the infection tally to 879,664 and the death toll to 7,080. Jaipur reported the highest number of 35 deaths, followed by 12 each in Jodhpur and Bikaner, according to an official report. Udaipur and Bikaner reported 11 deaths each.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has asked officials to strengthen Covid treatment facilities on a war footing including at the community and primary health centres (PHC) levels. The CM instructed officials to complete the work of setting up oxygen generation plants and infant intensive care units in the model CHC in a time-bound manner, according to a government release. State health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said there was a decrease in the number of active cases for the last few days and it had come down to around 1.59 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-mla-gotam-lal-meena-dies-due-to-covid19-101621412777319.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: Priority vaccination, frontline worker status sought for street vendors||Over 90% of street vendors in Bihar, especially in rural areas, are left out of the Covid vaccination drive since they lack the resources or training to register online for receiving the vaccine, says the Bihar chapter of National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI).An official of the association says a majority of these street vendors are neither technology savvy nor aware of the registration process and several others don’t have smartphones. Any person seeking to get vaccinated has to first register and get an appointment on the CoWIN web portal. The internet-enabled process has been held to be exclusionary for the disadvantaged social groups. Chhattisgarh high court recently asked the state governments to set up special help desks to ensure rural and poor people are able to register for Covid vaccine without internet, mobiles or computers.Bihar has around 2.5 lakh registered street vendors according to an estimate by the vendors’ association. Around 25,000 of these street vendors are located in Patna, of which 18,000 have been identified by the NASVI.“They have been the basic service providers... throughout the pandemic. But a majority of them have remained deprived of the vaccination facility,” Rakesh Tripathi, state coordinator of the NASVI, said.The state government was requested last week to declare street vendors as frontline workers during the Covid pandemic, enabling special arrangement for their vaccination. “We have been told that our request has been forwarded to the department concerned,” Sangita Singh, the NASVI president said.Dr Chandrashekhar, a senior physician said there was merit in the demand to vaccinate street vendors on priority. “During lockdown people are totally dependent upon them and are in regular touch with them. They should be vaccinated on priority basis to keep a vast population of the society free from the threats of infections,” he said.Tripathi said special camps could be planned to vaccinate street vendors in colonies and communities with the help of vending committees of the municipal corporation.Sanjeev Pandey, state coordinator of the National Urban Livelihood Mission, said there were 1.66 lakh identified street vendors with identity cards issued by NULM. “The NULM has hardly any say in this programme,”Pandey said and added, if any new guideline is issued in this connection, it will be followed.Recently the state government told Patna high court that it had been allocated over 10.45 lakh doses of Covid vaccine for the age group of 45 years and above and these vaccines will arrive in the state between May 21 and June 1.Maharashtra, Rajasthan,Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.70 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the Union health ministry had said a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-priority-vaccination-frontline-worker-status-sought-for-street-vendors-101621409597602.html
19-05-2021||Other||Rat nibbles newborn’s feet and toes; two terminated in MP||A rat allegedly nibbled at a 19-day-old premature baby’s feet and toes at a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore, prompting authorities to order a probe, suspend a nurse for negligence, and sack two sanitation workers.“A nurse...has been suspended for negligence of duty and two sanitation workers have been terminated for failing to maintain cleanliness at the hospital,” said the hospital’s superintendent, PS Thakur.Also Read | ‘Corona curfew’ extended in many districts across Madhya PradeshThe baby’s mother had gone to feed the new-born when she noticed the baby’s feet and toes were bleeding on Tuesday. “I informed the nursing staff. The nursing staff cleaned the toes and feet and put a bandage on them. A toe of the baby has completely eaten by rats,” said Kishan Dahima, the baby’s father.Thakur said the baby was being treated for the injuries and his condition is stable now. He added a three-member committee has been formed to probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rat-nibbles-newborn-s-feet-and-toes-two-terminated-in-mp-101621409177081.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court refuses to stay Covaxin clinical trial on children aged 2-18, issues notice to DCGI||The Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to grant an interim stay on the clinical trial of Covaxin in children in the age group of 2 to 18 years. The court, however, issued notices to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and others on a plea challenging the DCGI’s nod to Bharat Biotech for conducting clinical trials of Covaxin in children.The DCGI on May 13 gave permission for the vaccine, developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, to be used in Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials in people below the age of 18 -- the first such trials that will begin in India.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Sanjeev Kumar seeking direction to quash the order passed on May 13, giving permission to Bharat Biotech for conducting clinical trials in children aged 2-18. The ministry of women and child development has also been made a party to the proceedings.In his plea, the petitioner in person Kumar stated that the order for trial rests on the implication that children are signing up as ‘volunteers’, but the term itself means "a person who freely offers to do something", which children who cannot read or understand a contract are incapable of doing, thus prima facie unlawful, arbitrary and against the settled principles of law and natural justice."A person can offer to do anything only if he/she is capable of understanding the consequences of his/her act. In the present case, the subject matter of clinical trials being minors (even toddlers who - for the reason of their age only - are not capable of even speaking and understanding languages in a proper manner) cannot be supposed to volunteer for the aforesaid clinical testing," the petition states.The petitioner states that since the children who will be a part of the trial will be healthy their parents cannot give consent for the trials to be conducted since that would endanger the life of minors.The plea also drives a separation between parents consenting to life saving surgeries or other medical procedures on their children's behalf since that is in “purpose of saving the life” of minors.Kumar seeks invocation of Section 81 of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, for penalizing parents who volunteer their children in hopes of monetary compensation.The petitioner also sought directions to the respondents to produce details of all the 525 children who will be enrolled in the trial.The matter would be heard on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-refuses-to-stay-covaxin-clinical-trial-in-children-aged-2-18-issues-notice-to-dcgi-101621407581611.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar looks to turn migrants’ return into opportunity to complete PMAY homes||Bihar is looking to migrant workers’ return to the state amid the current wave of Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity to finish at least 40,000 Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Gramin (PMAY-G) homes allotted to the workforce in the last few years. “All the districts have a list of migrant workers who were allotted funds under PMAY(G) in the last few years. But these units have not been completed for various reasons including the long absence of the beneficiaries from the state,” said a senior RDD official engaged in implementation of the housing scheme. He said all deputy development commissioners (DDCs) in the state were instructed to get the work finished this time.PMAY-G is the rural development ministry’s flagship scheme, which helps homeless poor families and those living in kutcha houses with less than two rooms, to construct a pucca house in a minimum of 25 square metres area. For Maoist areas, the government’s assistance is ₹1.3 lakh per house while for non-Maoist areas, it is Rs. 1.2 lakh, which is paid in three instalments. In addition, ₹30,000 is paid to the beneficiaries to meet the cost of engaging workers for construction under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). PM Narendra Modi pointed out last September that PMAY homes were built more efficiently during the first wave of coronavirus with 18 lakh houses constructed across the country during the pandemic. He listed migrant workers’ return to their homes as a big factor behind construction finishing in 45-60 days, compared to the previous average of 125 days.Bihar’s principal secretary of the rural development department, Arvind Chaudhary said a large number of unfinished units, especially those sanctioned to migrant workers, were at least 50% complete. “These units could be finished in the coming months by migrant beneficiaries as they are now staying in the state,” he said. However, the lockdown in the state, following the resurgence of Covid cases since April, has slowed down the construction of the low cost units in rural areas, officials said. This has already impacted the target of completing over 6 lakh unfinished units under Mission Completion drive, launched in January this year. “Construction material and workers are not easily available due to the restrictions [during the current lockdown]. We had set a target of completing 6 lakh pending units by May or June. But that looks unachievable now and could be moved to the end of this year,” said a rural development department official. In Bihar, a total of 2.6m PMAY homes were sanctioned, of which, around 1m units were in different stages of completion. The Mission Completion drive targeted completion of 490,000 unfinished units in three months’ time, however, only 4.20 lakh units were completed by March 30, the official added. RDD principal secretary hopes the pace of work would gain momentum once the restrictions are eased up after Covid cases decline. “We are hopeful that by September we will complete all unfinished units. In the past few months, we have completed one lakh units/month on an average. We will accelerate it now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-looks-to-turn-migrants-return-into-opportunity-to-complete-pmay-homes-101621406596862.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Seven children orphaned due to Covid in Himachal: CM||Seven children have been orphaned due to the Covid-19 pandemic in Himachal Pradesh and the state government will take care of them, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has announced. Thakur said in Shimla on Tuesday that the state government will provide ₹2,500 every month as financial assistance for the maintenance of each such child living with extended families till the age of 18 years. Also read: Govt lays out procedure to rehabilitate children who lost parents to CovidAll seven children orphaned due to Covid-19 in the state are living with their extended families. He said the government had approached their guardians, but they refused to send the children to childcare institutions. “Directions have been issued to field officers to initiate action immediately for placing them under foster care and provide ₹2,500 monthly assistance to each,” Thakur said. Grant for kids to continue online education The chief minister said the government recently took steps for the care and protection of children amid the pandemic. Children enrolled in childcare institutions, who have been temporarily restored to their families due to the closure of schools amid the pandemic, will be provided ₹2,000 a month to enable them to continue their online education. At present, 598 children are being benefitted under this scheme. He said oximeters, thermometers and thermal scanners have been provided to all childcare institutions and employees working in these institutions have been declared frontline workers for vaccination. Under the Mother Teresa Asahay Maitri Sambal Yojana, an annual assistance of ₹6,000 a child is being provided to widows for the maintenance of two children up to the age of 18 years. Families whose annual income does not exceed ₹35,000 are covered under this scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-in-himachal-cm-101621404736855.html
19-05-2021||Other||Stigma a major hurdle to Covid-19 containment in rural Bihar||Rehana Khatoon, 60, a resident of Bhabhata village in Bihar’s West Champaran, developed a fever on May 6. She was given medicines after consulting a local doctor, but she collapsed and died as her oxygen levels plummeted drastically two days later. On the same day, Khatoon’s neighbour Rafique Ahmad, 70, died after complaining of breathlessness, fever and coughing. Radha Saha, 69, another resident of the village, died earlier on May 5 after showing similar symptoms.A medical team, which was rushed to the village, detected four Covid cases in Kahtoon’s family and one in Ahmad’s. Navin Prasad, the village head, said 12 people, including two children, have died after showing symptoms of Covid-19 over a fortnight and yet residents of Bhabhata remained averse to testing because of social stigma.“After the medical team detected eight people as Covid-19 positive... and [they] were home quarantined, villagers, even with the symptoms, have refused to undergo the medical investigation.” Another medical team that was sent to nearby Narkatiaganj also received a poor response. “Even the family members of some of those who have died got angry and refused to go for testing on one pretext or other. As a result, just 50 people could be tested during our two visits,” said Ravi Shankar Singh, a health official.Many residents of other neighbouring villages said they have had no access to vaccines and testing. “No camp has ever organised in our village to administer vaccines,” said Maqsood Alam, a resident.Ezaj Ahmad, another resident, said they do not know where to go for vaccination.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 hot spots on recovery road: DataBrij Ram, a resident of Harpur village, said he will not get vaccinated citing the “harms”. Many of Ram’s neighbours echoed his concerns about the vaccination.Sub-divisional magistrate Sahila Heer said there has been a poor response to testing in some pockets of Narkatiaganj subdivision, where these villages are located. “We have sent testing team twice to Manuwa Parsi [Panchayat]. But very few people turned up for Covid testing. ...we are administering [vaccines] nearly 100% as per the availability of the doses. But then, the villagers must come to vaccination centres for vaccination,” said Heer.West Champaran has so far reported 1,6711 Covid-19 cases so far. “We are compiling the records of the testing block-wise,” said Arun Kumar Sinha, another health department official. He added it will as such be difficult to say how many tests have been conducted in rural areas.District magistrate Kundan Kumar said they have adopted a two-pronged strategy including door-to-door surveys. “While doctors at control rooms are taking stock of patients over the phone, 1,428 teams visited 12,780 and 17,460 houses on May 16 and 17 to trace people with Covid-19 symptoms.” He added two mobile testing teams are also conducting testing in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stigma-a-major-hurdle-to-covid-19-containment-in-rural-bihar-101621399216443.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy day ahead for Delhi; heavy rains also likely today||The national Capital is likely to see a cloudy sky on Wednesday with the possibility of heavy rain, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be at 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 30°C. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 26.8°C, normal for the season’s average, and the maximum temperature was recorded 30.8°C, nine notches below the season’s average. Also Read |  ₹50,000 for Delhi families struck by Covid deaths: CM KejriwalMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved to satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 84. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Surface winds are south southwesterly and moderate. Thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely at isolated places with isolated dust peaks for shorter time period. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of moderate to satisfactory for next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-day-ahead-for-delhi-heavy-rains-also-likely-today-101621392796181.html
19-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, wife infected by Covid-19||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 77, and his wife Mira Bhattacharjee tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday evening. While Bhattacharjee was being treated for the infection at home, his wife was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata in the night since she had breathing problems, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) party members, who were monitoring the situation. Doctors wanted to shift the former chief minister to a hospital but since he insisted on staying at home, some necessary medical equipment was brought to his residence. Bhattacharjee, one of the senior leaders of the CPI (M), has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. CPI (M) members said the medical attendant, who used to look after the ailing former chief minister at the latter’s two-room government quarter in south Kolkata, also tested positive but his condition was not serious. In October last year, Bhattacharjee was admitted in the same private hospital for six days. He was admitted in critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen in blood and was put on ventilation. However, Bhattacharjee’s condition improved very fast, said doctors who attended on the veteran Marxist. A 13-member medical board was formed for his treatment. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-chief-minister-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-wife-infected-by-covid19-101621391836437.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||₹50,000 for Delhi families struck by Covid deaths: CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government will provide cash relief of ₹50,000 for the families of people who died of Covid-19 in the Capital, and free education and a monthly payment of ₹2,500 for children who lost their parents to the disease, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday, announcing a series of measures to help mitigate the economic toll of the pandemic.A monthly pension of ₹2,500 will also be paid to the families that lost their only earning members, the CM said, while also announcing that the poor, who do not have ration cards at present and need subsidised food grains, will be entitled to get them.“Common people have been facing a lot of difficulties because of the pandemic. Many of them have lost their loved ones. Several children have lost their parents. Several elderly people have lost their children on whom they were dependent. We cannot replace these lives or reduce their grief. We are only trying to help them, for which we have four announcements,” Kejriwal said at an online briefing.He added the relief measures await a formal Cabinet approval and can be notified for implementation only after that.“First, Delhi has a large number of people who are poor but still do not have ration cards. They too will be eligible for free ration being distributed by the Delhi government.”He said people won’t have to show income certificates to avail ration.“Second, families who lost relatives because of Covid-19 will get ₹50,000 ex gratia.“Third, families which have lost their breadwinners to Covid-19 will be entitled to an ex gratia pension of ₹2,500 per month over and above the ₹50,000 ex gratia.”Kejriwal said the money will be credited to the accounts of the spouses in cases where those who have died were married and that of parents of those who were unmarried.“Fourth announcement is for children who have been orphaned. It includes those who lost both parents to Covid-19 as well as children who lost their only surviving parent to Covid-19. Such children will be entitled to ex gratia assistance of ₹2,500 per month till the age of 25 and their education will be free – taken care of by the government.”Kejriwal said his ministers have been discussing the measures for the last few days and the finance management to enable these schemes.“People must be wondering where the money will come from. Six years ago, you voted for an honest government. With our anti-corruption model and efficient management of resources, we have saved money on many fronts. We have drawn a proper model considering all aspects where money can be saved. All our ministers have been working on it over the last few days,” he said.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) have taken note of social media posts with adoption requests for children who have lost their parents in the current surge. The DCPCR has launched a helpline and has begun compiling data on how many children may have been orphaned.The ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s rivals questioned the government’s initiative. “Last year, the Delhi government had announced ₹1 crore compensation for health workers and front line workers who died of Covid-19. An order was issued with regard to this. However, families of large number of health care workers, sanitation workers, security personnel and government officials are still to receive the compensation amount,” said Delhi Congress vice president Mudit Agarwal. “Before making such big announcements today, CM Arvind Kejriwal should have resolved the old issues. Now that he has announced compensation for all Covid-19 deaths, he must keep his promise and ensure that the compensations are cleared in priority,” he added.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “There is a big difference in making big announcements and ensuring that they are implemented. Mr Kejriwal does not have a good track record in this regard. He must ensure that the financial assistance reach families who lost their support system because of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rs-50-000-for-delhi-families-struck-by-covid-deaths-cm-kejriwal-101621391141953.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Court denies pre-arrest bail for on-the-run Olympics hero Sushil Kumar||A Delhi court on Tuesday dismissed a pre-arrest bail plea by wrestler and two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar in a case involving the murder of another wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium in the Capital, observing that he is prima facie the “main conspirator” and that the allegations against him are “serious in nature”.“The investigation is still going on and some of the accused persons have not been arrested so far. The NBW (non-bailable warrant) has already been issued against the accused,” additional sessions judge Jadgish Kumar said, while denying relief to Sushil Kumar.The Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award winner has been booked for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy in the murder of wrestler Sagar Rana, 23, a former national junior wrestling champion.The police claim that Rana and two of his friends -- Sonu, who only goes by his first name, and Amit Kumar -- were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers on the night of May 4. While Rana died the following day, his friends were injured. It is believed that Rana himself was abducted from his residence in Model Town and brought to the stadium. A clash between the two groups followed, and Rana was beaten up. There have been reports that suggest that Rana was targeted for bad-mouthing Kumar and that shots were fired during the clash.Kumar has been absconding since and the Delhi Police has announced a cash reward of R1 lakh for any information that leads to his arrest. It is believed he may have left Delhi for Haridwar and then Rishikesh.Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing the accused, told the court that Sonu, present during the brawl, is a history sheeter and is a member of a gang headed by Kala Jatheria.Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri is an alleged gangster from Haryana’s Sonepat. Jatheri had escaped from the custody of the Haryana Police in Faridabad after his seven accomplices waylaid the prison van in which Jatheri was being escorted from Faridabad court to Bhondsi jail on February 1 last year. “These people, who I am up against, are criminal-minded people and I will suffer at their hands,” Luthra told the court on behalf of Sushil Kumar. In his plea, Kumar claimed that the investigation against him is biased.Luthra also said Kumar has no connection with the alleged firing. The lawyer added that Kumar is willing to join the investigation.Additional public prosecutor Atul Srivastava, appearing for the police, said that there is electronic evidence showing Kumar assaulting the deceased with a stick.He also said that his passport has been taken away by the police with an apprehension that he may flee the country.Inspector Dinesh Kumar submitted that Sushil Kumar’s custodial interrogation is required to unearth the conspiracy.“He is the main accused in the whole incident who has played a key role in the commission of offence. Data retrieved by FSL (forensic science laboratory) experts confirms his active role in commission of crime,” the officer told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-for-on-the-run-olympics-hero-sushil-kumar-101621391257185.html
19-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting case: Bail stayed, 2 TMC ministers spend night in jail||West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee spent Tuesday night in Kolkata’s Presidency Correctional Home, while legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee were hospitalised as they complained of illness after the Calcutta high court stayed the bail of the four.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested the four under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 120b (criminal conspiracy) and the Prevention of Corruption Act in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation before a special court granted them bail. The case pertains to online news portal Narada News’s two-year-long sting operation. The videos of the operation were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections and purportedly showed TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.Mitra and Chatterjee were hospitalised around 4am on Tuesday. Chatterjee is diabetic, his friend Baisakhi Banerjee said. Mitra had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.“I am having breathing trouble. We are elected representatives. We are not thieves and dacoits. They [CBI] should not have treated us like this,” Mitra told reporters while being shifted to the hospital.A jail official said that Hakim and Mukherjee could also be sent for a check-up. Mukherjee accompanied Mitra and Chatterjee to the hospital but later returned to the jail. “I am not keeping well. I may have to go for a check-up on Tuesday,” Mukherjee told reporters at the hospital early on Tuesday.Hakim said as the chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, he was supervising the Covid-19 management. “They [CBI] did not allow me to save the people of Kolkata. I was in charge and looking after the management of vaccines, arranging ambulance, and disposing of the dead bodies in the city. I have full faith in the judiciary,” he told journalists before being taken into custody.A jail official said both Hakim and Mukherjee skipped dinner and took a stroll in the morning.The high court will hear their bail pleas on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-case-bail-stayed-2-tmc-ministers-spend-night-in-jail-101621386934775.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||‘In ivory towers’: Delhi HC slams Centre over Covid-19 vaccine shortage||The Delhi high court on Tuesday castigated the Centre over the shortage of vaccines, observing that some of the central government’s officers are living in “ivory towers” ignorant of ground realities at a time when Covid-19 “has not spared a single family”.The court was hearing a petition by Panacea Biotec, which sought directions to the Union government to release several crores of rupees owed to it out of an arbitration ruling. The company said the money is required in order for it to produce doses of the Sputnik V vaccine, for which it has a licence from the original developers.“Which bureaucrat is giving you instructions? Is he not alive to the situation? God bless this country. That is why we are facing this situation. In such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes,” the bench said, after the Centre’s representative opposed the company’s plea.“Does your officer not see so many deaths taking place in the country and we are short of vaccines? Your client is not alive to the situation….,” the judges said while reacting to the Union government’s opposition to the plea.The application by Panacea was filed seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to press the execution of the arbitral award passed in its favour and against the Centre.The Centre opposed the plea while contending that the manufacturing arrangement with the Russian Direct Investment Firm (RDIF) is for the global supply of Sputnik V.Criticising this stand, the bench said that Panacea Biotec’s alliance with RDIF to produce the Sputnik V vaccine should be seen as an opportunity to ensure its usage here.It said “no one is applying its mind” when there is an opportunity for the government to get millions of vaccines and it should use this as a window.“Otherwise, deaths will continue to happen. Every day you are castigated by each and every court and still you are not awake… You (government) are so short of vaccines and you are not taking it through. Maybe it is an opportunity for you. Don’t be so negative. It is like a raging fire and nobody is bothered. You people don’t understand the larger picture or what? The virus has not spared any single family. Your officers are living in ivory towers,” the bench added.Additional solicitor general Balbir Singh, representing the Centre, said certain “misleading statements” were made in the plea, and there was no urgency as the vaccines are to be sold outside India.However, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that no manufactured vaccines can be exported without the government’s consent.The court issued a notice to the Centre and asked it to examine the plea and file a reply within a week and listed it for hearing on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-ivory-towers-delhi-hc-slams-centre-over-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-101621385271699.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: Govt teams to help migrants who want to return home||The state government has formed multiple teams across Delhi’s 11 districts to identify migrant workers who want to return to their home towns or villages due to the ongoing lockdown in order to make necessary arrangements for their travel, a senior Delhi government official said.The move comes after the Supreme Court last week directed the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration and meals to labourers in the National Capital Region (NCR), as well as to ensure they have transportation if they wish to return home. The Delhi government has, to this effect, now directed districts to compile lists of workers who wish to go back home.“Each team comprises a revenue official, labour inspector and a police official. We have formed three to four teams in each district. The teams are visiting spots like construction sites to speak to migrant workers. We are asking people to register if they want to return home,” said a senior revenue department official aware of the matter .In south-west Delhi, officials are surveying all construction sites and clusters where a large population of migrant workers is present.With the lockdown in Delhi gradually being extended, this time till May 24, migrant workers said they fear that the curbs may continue for a while.“Some people we met at the construction site didn’t want to go immediately but they said they might leave if the curbs are extended for a longer period,” said an official.Apart from the survey, the teams are also telling migrant workers about hunger relief centres made in each district to provide food to people. In the east district, officials said none of the workers they have spoken to said they want to return.Officials managing the government’s helpline for migrant workers said majority of callers ask about financial assistance and renewal of their membership under construction workers board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-govt-teams-to-help-migrants-who-want-to-return-home-101621382107861.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: In isolation, coming together||Such honeyed voice. An assistant general manager in Bharat Electronics Limited, he sings exceptionally well. That’s the opinion within his friend circle, especially among his weekend groupies.This evening Tribhuwan Narayana Singh has already set up the stage within the isolation of his fourth floor home in a Ghaziabad apartment complex—complete with sound mixers, harmonium, earphones and mike.It’s Mr Singh’s hour for satsang, a weekly tradition he observes with his satsang comrades, in which they together sing devotional songs.“This has been my routine for 10 years,” he says. “Every Saturday evening I freshen up on returning from the office, and leave for the satsang”—which would be hosted in the house of one of the many members.Coronavirus disrupted the routine early last year. “Initially, during the lockdown, we were too involved with our new routines to pursue our sessions, but eventually we started again.” This time, it was online, and the session moved from Saturday to Sunday.Having recently celebrated his 50th birthday, Mr Singh lives with wife, a designer, and daughter, a grad student, who lets him use her study as his studio. As one of the group’s lead singers, Mr Singh offers bhajans devoted to Krishna, Shiv and Ganesh. A UP native, he recalls his childhood days of singing sacred chaupais (verses) of Ramcharitmanas in his village.Mr Singh’s conversational tone is tinged with a melodious rhythm, as he shows reluctance to open up and be in the spotlight. For all the group members are equally important, he notes. The purpose of satsang, he remarks, is for its attendees to attain—together—a higher state of consciousness through music and words of wisdom. Sadly, the pandemic forced this togetherness to splinter into a multitude of zoom screens. “When we chant shoulder-to-shoulder within the same space, the energy multiplies,” he concedes.Now the assistant general manager turns to his desktop. Some faces on the screen are familiar, a few aren’t—“Earlier we would be from nearby localities, but now people have joined from as far as Vizag, in south India.”Minutes later, Mr Singh is completely immersed in his rendition of an Amir Khusro poem. His expressions dissolve into the song’s spirit, as he and his audience of 35 satsangis draw closer while still staying isolated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-isolation-coming-together-101621381858581.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records its deadliest day as 231 succumb to virus||Punjab on Tuesday registered a record 231 deaths due to Covid, pushing the toll to 12,317, while 7,143 fresh cases took the tally to 5,11,652, according to a medical bulletin. While 34 deaths were reported from Bathinda, 21 from Ludhiana, 19 each from Muktsar and Patiala and 16 from Amritsar, among the fatalities witnessed in the past 24 hours. Ludhiana reported the maximum 991 cases, followed by 754 in Bathinda, 717 in Mohali and 663 in Jalandhar, among fresh cases. The state’s single-day recoveries, which were registered at 8,174, again surpassed the single-day infections of 7,143. The number of active cases also dropped from 73,616 on Monday to 72,277, revealed the bulletin. The state’s positivity rate stood at 11.51%, it said. With 8,174 recoveries, the number of those recovered reached 4,27,058, the bulletin stated. There are 422 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,213 other critical patients and 8,202 are on oxygen support, it said. A total of 83,37,236 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, Chandigarh registered 526 cases, taking the count to 56,513, according to a medical bulletin. Tuesday’s single-day cases were lower than 620 registered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-its-deadliest-day-as-231-succumb-to-virus-101621369096486.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt’s detractors refuse to fight down, Rawat steps in to limit damage||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh came under fresh fire from his detractors within the state cabinet and the party who questioned the tactics to allegedly “browbeat” them and met at a cabinet minister’s residence on Tuesday to discuss their future strategy. The fresh shots were fired by former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh amid a damage-control exercise by All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. The state in-charge, who spoke to cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Bajwa and Pargat among others on Monday evening and Tuesday, had asked them to hold their fire, according to sources. Bajwa, Randhawa, Pargat were among more than half-a-dozen party leaders who met at Channi’s official residence and then spoke out. The common theme of their attacks was the attempt to rake up a two-and-a-half-years-old harassment allegation by a woman IAS officer against Channi and the threat call by a political aide of the chief minister to Pargat. Both Channi and Pargat have been critical of the state government’s handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases. The former had also held a meeting of about a dozen SC and OBC MLAs on unfulfilled poll promises which did not go down well with the CM’s camp. ‘5 ministers, 7 MLAs met at Channi’s house’ Bajwa, a strident critic of Amarinder, said they would not let the vigilance or any other agency to threaten or browbeat the ministers, MLAs and other party leaders who are speaking up in the interest of the Congress. “A threat is a serious offence and the CM has not issued any clarification even after 24 hours and then the attempt to rake up an old issue against the minister. This is not done. No one is scared and these tactics will not succeed,” he said, putting the number of those present in the meeting at five ministers and seven MLAs without disclosing their names. He said the government was targeting its own party MLAs when it should have probed the scams that took place during the previous Badal government. Bajwa said Rawat told him that they (central leadership) were watching and would do something very soon. “The high command should send a representative and convene a meeting of 80 MLAs, 11 MPs and 37 candidates who didn’t make it to the state assembly. I have conveyed this to central leaders. We don’t want leadership change but a course correction before it is too late,” he said. Sidhu says threat shows insecurity Sidhu, who has been breathing fire against the CM ever since the state government suffered a legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case, said the threat to party colleagues exhibited fear and insecurity. “Ministers, MLAs and MPs raising people’s issues are strengthening the party, fulfilling their democratic duty and exercising their constitution right…but everyone who speaks the truth becomes your enemy. Thus, you threaten your party colleagues, exhibiting your fear and insecurity,” the former minister tweeted with a video clip of his friend Pargat’s press conference. Randhawa, Pargat slam women commission chief Both Randhawa and Pargat hit out at the Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati for her threat to stage a dharna and go to the Congress high command if the state government failed to submit a reply to a letter sent on the 2018 matter against Channi in which there was no complaint. “She holds a constitutional position and this is very unfortunate,” said Randhawa. Pargat, a former India hockey captain, also said that the commission chairperson should have known better and not acted in the manner she did. Channi had also planned a press conference on Tuesday but called it off after Rawat intervened. However, there was no official response from the chief minister or his advisers on the threat charge and the detractors’ continuous attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capts-detractors-refuse-to-fight-down-rawat-steps-in-to-limit-damage-101621368854729.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate 6% higher in urban areas, Punjab tells HC||The Punjab government on Tuesday told the high court that the case positivity rate in urban areas is 16% against 9.9% in rural areas in the month of May, so far. At present, there are 50,234 active cases in urban areas and 20,854 in rural areas, the government told the court. These submissions were made during resumed hearing of a plea in which court is monitoring Covid-19 management in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The government told court that 4.7 lakh samples were taken in urban areas and 3.2 lakh in rural areas out of which 75,308 people in urban area and 31,978 in rural areas tested positive. The court was further told that facilities to treat non-critical patients are being uniformly created in urban and rural areas and government has decided to add 2,000 more such beds.On vaccination, the court was told that it has placed an order of 30 lakh doses with Serum Institute of India out of which 4.29 lakh will be delivered by month-end. The state has also ordered 1.19 lakh Covaxin doses, same are also to be made available by month-end, the court was informed, adding that the vaccine wastage in state was 4.17%. ‘Mandatory jabs need deliberations’ Punjab has also told the court that there are provisions to make vaccination compulsory for government employees. “Any policy decision on whether mandatory vaccination is required need more deliberations at various levels to evolve a criteria of outlining the population upon whom it can be made mandatory,” the state told the court. Issue of faulty ventilators addressed: Centre to HC The Centre on Tuesday told the court that all help is being rendered to two states and Chandigarh in Covid-19 management. As many as 675 ventilators have been allotted to Punjab, 548 to Haryana and 65 to Chandigarh. “If a complaint regarding any fault in the ventilator is received, the same is immediately attended to. An effort is being made to ensure that most of them remain functional,” the court was told. The Centre had responded to allegations from Punjab that 90% of ventilators it got under PM Cares Fund were faulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-6-higher-in-urban-areas-punjab-tells-hc-101621368434821.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||BJP veteran Chaman Lal dies at 87||Known for championing the cause of Jammu region, a Messiah for the poor and downtrodden and a true philanthropist, veteran BJP leader Prof Chaman Lal Gupta passed away on Tuesday morning at his Gandhi Nagar residence here. He was 87. He is survived by two sons and a daughter Prof Gupta, an alumni of GGM Science College in Jammu and Allahabad University, had tested positive for Covid and was successfully treated at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality hospital. “He had tested positive on May 5 and returned from hospital on Sunday after successful treatment. His condition suddenly deteriorated in the wee hours of Tuesday,” said a family member of the leader. Prof Gupta was Union minister of state, ministry of civil aviation, between October 13, 1999 and September 1, 2001, MoS (independent charge), ministry of food processing industries (September 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002) and MoS for defence (July 1, 2002 to 2004). Born in Jammu on April 13, 1934, the BJP veteran was not in good health for the last couple of years as he was suffering from various ailments. The deceased leader had an illustrious political career spanning over five decades after he became a member of the J&K legislative assembly for the first time in 1972. He was again a member of J&K assembly between 2008 and 2014. He was elected to the 11th Lok Sabha from Udhampur constituency of Jammu in 1996 and re-elected to 12th and 13th Lok Sabha in 1998 and 1999. An author of three books in Hindi and a two-time J&K BJP president, he had completed his MSc from GGM Science College Jammu and Allahabad University. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter and posted his condolences. “Shri Chaman Lal Gupta Ji will be remembered for numerous community service efforts. He was a dedicated legislator and strengthened the BJP across Jammu and Kashmir. Pained by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of grief. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. BJP national chief JP Nadda wrote, “Shocked to hear about the demise of BJP leader and former Union Minister prof Chaman Lal Gupta Ji. He played an important role in strengthening the party in Jammu & Kashmir...”. Lieutenant Governor of J&K, Manoj Sinha, also paid rich tributes to Chaman Lal Gupta. “Deeply pained to hear about the passing away of former union minister, Prof Chaman Lal Gupta Ji... he will always be remembered for his immense contribution towards welfare of the people.,” the office of the Lt Governor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-veteran-chaman-lal-dies-at-87-101621368256156.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula doctor couple succumbs to Covid, daughter alleges medical negligence||For Kerrein Sharma (28), a lawyer, life turned upside down last week when her doctor parents succumbed to the coronavirus within a span of three days.Her father Dr Ajay Sharma, an anaesthetist, was deputed on Covid duty at the Ambala civil hospital in April and the entire family tested positive in May first week.The family lives in Panchkula’s Ramgarh area. Kerrein, the only child of her parents, struggled for nine days with her father admitted in Ambala, while her mother, Dr Indu Sharma, a surgeon, on ventilator support at government hospital, Sector 6, in Panchkula. “I was attending to my ailing mother whose oxygen level was dropping and she was coughing blood. On May 11, my father died of cardiac arrest after his sugar levels touched 700,” she said. The 28-year-old, who lit the funeral pyre of her father with the help of her friends in Ambala, hid the news of death from her mother whose condition was deteriorating in Panchkula.She said, “My mother died on May 15 morning. While completing the formalities I received a call from Hit Charitable Trust offering help in cremation and other rituals for free.”She alleged that her parents died due to medical negligence as they were not given timely treatment. “When I was with my father at the isolation ward, I had requested the doctors to attend to him but none paid heed to my request,” said Kerrein, who is in home isolation due to infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-doctor-couple-succumbs-to-covid-daughter-alleges-medical-negligence-101621368135972.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Killing of ASIs: ₹19 lakh reward announced for info on gangster Jaipal, 3 aides||Police have announced a cash reward of ₹19 lakh for providing information on gangster Jaipal Bhullar and three of his accomplices who allegedly killed two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district on May 15. The identity of the informer will be kept a secret, the police said.  ₹10 lakh was announced on Jaipal Bhullar, ₹5 lakh on Jaspreet Singh of Kharar and ₹2 lakh each was announced Balwinder Singh, alias Babbi of of Moga and Darshan Singh of of Ludhiana, an official said. Following a tip-off, the police conducted a search operation at Alamgir and surrounding villages in search of the accused. The cops have rounded up some people allegedly having links with the gangster.Ludhiana senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said raids are on to nab the accused. Jaipal along with his accomplices had allegedly gunned down ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh in the new grain market of Jagraon and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/killing-of-asis-rs-19-lakh-reward-announced-for-info-on-gangster-jaipal-3-aides-101621368134671.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||37-year-old resident doctor at GMC Patiala dies of Covid||Dr Rajan Singh, a 37-year-old senior resident at Government Medical College, Patiala, succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in the city on Tuesday. Dr Singh, who was from the department of surgery, was posted at isolation ward of GMC. He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the private hospital after contracting infection on April 30. He was from Banga of SBS Nagar district and is survived by his wife, a son and parents.In a letter to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, GMC’s resident doctors’ association asked the state government to bear ₹12 lakh expenses incurred on his treatment and provide immediate financial help to the family. Dr Nitin Chhabra, president of the association, said Dr Rajan contracted the deadly virus while serving patients selflessly. “Dr Rajan was the sole breadwinner of his family. It would be very difficult for family to bear cost of his treatment. We want the government to stand by the families of our colleagues who lost their lives,” Dr Chhabra said.Patiala MP Preneet Kaur condoled the death, saying as a senior resident he had been at the forefront of the battle against the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/37yearold-resident-doctor-at-gmc-patiala-dies-of-covid-101621368076027.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Banning Sikh children from wearing kirpan in Oz schools unfortunate: SGPC||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday said the decision of imposing ban on wearing ‘kirpan’ by Sikh children in public schools in Australia’s New South Wales state was unfortunate as it is against religious freedom. In a press statement, SGPC president Jagir Kaur said the ban will come into effect from Wednesday (May 19). “The ban was imposed following an incident at a Sydney school on May 6 when a 14-year-old Sikh student who was bullied injured another student with his kirpan. The government there should have taken proper advice from the representative bodies of the Sikh community before deciding to imposing ban. It is one of the five symbols of Sikhism,” she said. She said it is believed that the education minister had an online meeting with two members of the Sikh community when she informed them about the ban. However, no discussion was held with the Sikh community before the decision was taken, she added. “The decision has deeply hurt the sentiments of Sikhs at home and abroad and is being widely opposed. Kirpan is worn in schools all over the world without any incident and the Sikh community needs to be cautious while taking lessons from the latest school incident in New South Wales,” the gurdwara body chief added. “The SGPC urges the Indian government and the Indian ambassador to Australia to take up the matter with the Australian authorities and make efforts for revoking this decision. We will soon write to the governments of India and Australia in this regard,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/banning-sikh-children-from-wearing-kirpan-in-oz-schools-unfortunate-sgpc-101621368074838.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||71 die, 3,967 test positive for Covid in J&K||As many 71 people lost their lives to Covid-19 on Tuesday in Jammu and Kashmir taking May’s fatalities to 1,011 and overall death toll to 3,293.The UT also recorded 3,967 fresh infections in the past 24 hours, pushing the overall cases to 2, 51,919.Officials said with 666 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 522 in Jammu district, 454 in Budgam, 272 in Udhampur and 196 in Baramulla. The number of active cases has reached 50,925, officials said. Officials said nearly 3,823 patients have recovered, including 2,463 from Kashmir and 1,360 from Jammu. As many as 1,97,701 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 78.47% Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, meanwhile, said the rate of Covid cases has plunged by 10-12% during the past few days in Valley.He said that still there are chances that the mortality rate will remain the same or increase in the next few days. “The demand for oxygen beds has also eased out as more beds have been added at all dedicated hospitals,” he added. He said that Kashmir is in a comfortable position with five oxygen manufacturing plants while 20 more oxygen generation units have been installed at different hospitals in Kashmir.“The J & K government has placed an order of 1.2 crore vaccine doses. However, there can be difficulty as other states have also placed orders,” he said. “Despite that, vaccination of 45+ age group is going on in full swing and the rate in J&K is 61% against the 33% national rate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/71-die-3-967-test-positive-for-covid-in-jk-101621367955968.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Another deadliest day in Himachal claims 78 lives||Himachal Pradesh recorded another deadliest day on Tuesday as 78 patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection, taking the death count in the state to 2,447. This is highest number of fatalities after Sunday when 70 people lost their lives.Highest 23 deaths were reported in Hamirpur followed by 15 in Kangra and 10 in Solan. Mandi reported eight fatalities while seven people died in Sirmaur, three each in Kullu and Una, two in Chamba and one in Kinnaur.The case fatality ratio in the state is 1.46%.Meanwhile, state’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,66,678 with 2,892 more people detected positive. Of the new cases, 942 were reported in Kangra, 351 in Shimla, 314 in Mandi, 259 in Solan, 222 in Bilaspur, 174 in Una, 172 in Chamba, 143 in Sirmaur, 123 in Hamirpur, 106 in Kullu, 67 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul-Spiti.The active cases in the state have come down to 34,888 as recoveries climbed up to 1,29,315 after 4,559 people recuperated.The state has recorded more recoveries than the positive cases on third consecutive day. The recovery rate has once again touched 77%.Meanwhile, Kangra remains the worst hit district with 37,101 infections and is followed by Mandi with 22,627 cases and Shimla 21,211 cases.Solan has total 19,344 cases, Sirmaur 12,814, Hamirpur 11,724, Una 10,795, Bilaspur 10,420, Chamba 8,290 , Kullu 7,502, Kinnaur 2,443 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,407. 200-bed makeshift Covid health centre comes up at Mandi’s KhaliyarHimachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday inaugurated a makeshift dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) on Radha Soami Satsang Beas premises in Mandi’s Khaliyar.This hospital has 200 fully oxygenated beds, 20-bed critical patients ward, central oxygen supply with two 20x20 oxygen manifold. The centre also has separate washrooms, lounge for patients, fire safety arrangements and purified drinking water facility for patients. It has 16 CCTVs and power backup besides on-spot lab facility which would be manned by 140 health personnel.Thakur said this makeshift hospital would go a long way in providing better healthcare facilities to Covid-19 patients. He said that another pre-fabricated hospital with 100 beds was also coming up at Bhangrotu.The CM said to cope with the ever-increasing demand of beds for Covid patients, the state government has constructed pre-fabricated Covid hospitals at Shimla, Kangra and Nalagarh. He said that similar hospital was also coming up at Ner Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-deadliest-day-in-himachal-claims-78-lives-101621367895026.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||‘Those importing O2 devices can afford 12% IGST’: Centre tells Delhi HC||People who import oxygen concentrators for personal use or as gifts would be in a position to afford paying 12% Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST), the Union government told the Delhi high court on Tuesday, opposing a petition to make such imports duty free.The matter relates to a plea filed by an 85-year-old person with Covid-19, who opposed the 12% tax on an oxygen concentrator sent as a gift from his nephew in the US. The government defended its decision to retain the tax rate and said that “significant relief has already been provided” after duties on personal imports of oxygen concentrators was reduced from 77% to 12%.In an affidavit filed before a bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh, the Centre has said that the parity between commercial and personal imports would ensure that the personal import route remains legitimate.“…..with a 12% IGST rate on imports of concentrators, a parity at a lower GST rate has been attained between gift, personal imports and commercial imports of oxygen concentrators. This ensures that the common man buying it through a commercial route, from a trader, or a person who could personally import, either on paying from pocket or receiving as gift, all bear the same incidence of IGST at a lower rate of 12%.On Tuesday, after hearing lengthy arguments, the court reserved its judgment.The Centre contended that imposition of tax or deciding the tax rates does not come under judicial review. It has said that if the argument of the petitioner is accepted, then it will lead to absurd consequences and interpretations, wherein citizens will be seeking exemption from property tax, since housing is an essential facet Right of Life under Article 21.It also said that some may also seek exemption from taxes imposed on several food items since Right to Food has been held by the Supreme Court to be a part of Right of Life under Article 21.The Centre also told the court that the present petition is being considered with open mind and all the considered representations including request for exemption of GST on personal import of oxygen concentrator, shall be placed before the next meeting of the GST Council, for its recommendations, as it may deem appropriate, taking into account all relevant factors and the present situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/those-importing-o2-devices-can-afford-12-igst-centre-tells-delhi-hc-101621367145881.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||These six volunteers have cremated 1.5K Covid victims in Ludhiana till now||A team of six volunteers, working tirelessly in coordination with the district administration, has cremated over 1,590 Covid victims since the pandemic began last year.Mandeep Guddu, Gurpreet Singh, Charanjit Singh, Harvinder Singh Amrit, Shivam Kumar and advocate Gopal Singh were initially part of the traffic marshal project launched last year and later came together after seeing family members step away from performing the last rites of their loved ones.“We pray every day that the situation goes back to normal at the earliest and the grim scenario at the cremation grounds ends,” the team said, which has been working at the cremation grounds in Model Town Extension and the one situated near Arora Palace on Gill Road.As seen in a heart-rending video, which has gone viral on social media, the volunteers broke down seeing the large number of bodies being cremated. They say it has not been an easy task for them, but they continue to perform the service as it gives them inner peace. Leading the group, Mandeep Guddu said, “I decided to volunteer after a video went viral in April last year, in which the family members of a Shimlapuri-based woman, including her son, refused to cremate her body. It felt like humanity was dying, so I decided to step forward. Soon after, my friends and colleagues under the traffic marshal program joined hands. We also participated in the cremation of ACP Anil Kohli.”Worried about their families’ safetyThe volunteers said it was not easy to convince their families and take permission from the administration. They also had to ensure the safety of their families.“I had isolated myself for three days after cremating the first victim in April last year. Even now, we take a two-hour break before moving back to our houses. I own a restaurant in the Haibowal area and my business also got affected as customers started avoiding my eatery,” said Mandeep.Speaking of the grim situation, advocate Gopal Singh, who also got infected last year, said, “We cremated 19 bodies a day at the peak of the first wave last year. But, for the last few weeks, we have been regularly cremating over 20 bodies. Over 40 bodies were cremated at three cremation grounds - Model Town Extension, Barewal and one near Dana Mandi in a day recently.”While the municipal corporation had earlier announced that the volunteers will be employed on DC minimum wages rates, but nothing official has been done in this regard yet.Wearing PPE kits in searing heat a challengeThe volunteers stated that cremating the bodies was not an easy task while wearing PPE kits. Two of the volunteers - Harvinder Singh and Shivam Kumar, fainted last week at the Dana Mandi cremation ground due to excessive heat.With the rising number of deaths, their work sometimes continues from 8am to 11pm and many times, they work in shifts to alleviate pressure and to look after their businesses and families.Gopal said, “It is difficult to watch a large number of bodies being cremated at once and sometimes, the relatives do not even come forward to perform the last rites.”Mandeep said, “We try to involve one family member in the cremation process and make sure that they also wear a PPE kit. We generally try to convince residents to cremate their loved ones at the gas crematorium at Model Town Extension, as there is excessive heat in the open. But, often residents remain adamant on traditional cremations.”Humanity above everything elseShivam Kumar, 22, left his job at a pharmaceutical company in Dugri to join the team. Kumar said he was being paid ₹15,000 per month and his family also opposed his decision initially. But, he desperately wanted to join this voluntary service to serve humanity.Harvinder Singh Amrit, 21, lost his job at a garment store last year and said he was looking for employment, but will continue his service till the pandemic ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/these-six-volunteers-have-cremated-1-5k-covid-victims-in-ludhiana-till-now-101621367417093.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two highway robbers who targeted truck drivers arrested in Ludhiana||Police have arrested two highway robbers, who used to snatch money and mobile phones from truck drivers to meet their need of drugs.As many as five mobile phones, two stolen motorcycles, sharp-edged weapons and ₹2,500 in cash has been recovered from the possession of the accused, Randhir Singh, alias Dheera, 30, and Paras, both from Phillaur.“The duo was arrested during special checking on National Highway-44 on Monday night. They were coming from Phillaur on a two-wheeler and tried to escape after spotting a police check post, but were nabbed,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh.“During questioning, the accused revealed that they used to rob truck drivers on the highway to make easy money for drugs. After committing the crime, they would to flee to Phillaur. They had robbed two truck drivers on Sunday night as well,” the ACP added.Inspector Gopal Kishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station, said Randhir was a farmer, while Paras was a driver. “The former is facing trial in at least 13 cases of snatching and drug peddling, while Paras has three FIRs lodged against him,” he said.They have been booked under Sections 379-B (theft) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A local court on Tuesday sent the accused to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-highway-robbers-who-targeted-truck-drivers-arrested-in-ludhiana-101621367355917.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt announces ₹10-lakh grant for villages achieving 100% vaccination target||To incentivise villages to give up vaccine hesitancy, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a special development grant of ₹10 lakh to every village that achieves 100% vaccination target under the Punjab government’s “Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyan”. Appealing to sarpanches and panches across the state to lead their villages in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, Amarinder urged them to motivate the people to undergo testing even in case of mild symptoms, and to get themselves vaccinated. The chief minister was interacting virtually with village panchayats represented by more than 2,000 heads/members across over 4,000 live locations in rural areas of the state through LED screens. The CM informed them that the government had already sanctioned permission for sarpanches to utilise up to ₹5,000 per day from panchayat funds for emergency Covid treatment. Underlining the need to sensitise the rural population about the harmful effects of coronavirus and the importance of early detection and treatment to save precious lives, the CM said this could only be done through special awareness campaigns. Amarinder asked the panchayats to organise special medical camps and to rope in the services of ex-servicemen, who had fought several wars during their active service career and were now part of the state’s fight against the pandemic. He asked the sarpaches and panches to start “theekri pehra” in their villages to prevent infected persons from coming in and also distribute “Fateh Kits” to every person who tests positive, besides ensuring proper treatment in case oxygen saturation level goes below 94%. He also urged the people living in villages to immediately quarantine themselves in case of any symptoms, and get themselves tested to ensure early detection of the infection. Earlier, rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa requested the panchayat members to come forward to support the government’s endeavour to control the Covid situation. He also advised villagers not to rely on quacks but to consult the doctors in the government primary health centres. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the health department had already placed an order for 12 lakh kits for Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) to detect the corona cases at the initial stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-announces-rs-10-lakh-grant-for-villages-achieving-100-vaccination-target-101621367354698.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Booze party in Ludhiana jail: Six inmates caught on video identified||Officials at the Ludhiana Central Jail have identified all inmates caught enjoying booze and hookah in the jail barracks through a viral video. A report has been sent to the Ludhiana police to lodge an FIR against Manwinder Singh, alias Nikka Jattana, of Jattana village, who is facing trial in at least 16 cases; Abhishek Kumar, booked in a narcotics case; Parminder Singh, booked for murder and attempt to murder; Bharti Singh, who is facing trial in seven cases; Kewal Krishan, an accused in a drug case; and Maninder Singh, a convict in drug case.According to the jail officials, the identified accused, who had formed a gang inside the jail, had disposed of the mobile phones, liquor bottles and hookahs after their video went public.Additional director general of police (ADGP, Prison) PK Sinha said it was being investigated how the accused managed to get the banned articles inside the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/booze-party-in-ludhiana-jail-six-inmates-caught-on-video-identified-101621367295593.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana trader held for black marketing of oxygen cylinders denied bail||Shortage of oxygen has caused deaths of many patients, so selling oxygen cylinders at a higher rate is a serious offence, which does not deserve any leniency, a local court said on Tuesday, while dismissing the bail plea of a shopkeeper arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders. The defence counsel of the accused, Somnath of Purshotam Traders, Sudhar, had submitted in court that his client was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. The counsel stated that recovery was over and the applicant was no more required by the police for the purpose of investigation and nothing was recoverable from him.However, the court of Jagraon judicial magistrate Simarjit Singh denied the plea. The Sadar police had arrested Purshotam on May 4 for black marketing of oxygen cylinders and recovered 23 cylinders from his possession.He was arrested following a complaint by a relative of a Covid patient, who had contacted the accused for an oxygen cylinder and was supplied two small cylinders for an exorbitant price of ₹26,000.The accused is facing a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-trader-held-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-denied-bail-101621367175002.html
19-05-2021||Other||Petrol crosses the ₹99-mark in Mumbai||Petrol crossed the ₹99-mark for one litre in the city on Tuesday. With an increase of 26 paise from Sunday’s ₹98.88, petrol was available at ₹99.14 per litre in the city. Diesel price also hiked to ₹90.71 per litre after it went up by 31 paise from Sunday’s ₹90.40.On Monday, there was no increase in the prices of fuel in the city. Transporters have said that the government is taking no action to reduce the plight of citizens who are already suffering due to the pandemic.“The all-time-high diesel and petrol prices is creating a saga of callosity and insensitivity of the blind, deaf and dumb government towards the plight of transport traders and citizens even during the current times when the entire country in engulfed with the fallout of the pandemic and the government’s monumental failure to tame it. We fail to understand the logic behind it and why is the government insensitive to the miserable conditions of the people of the country and to our repeated pleas for relief,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Prices of fuel were stable from April 15 to May 3. On April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 for one litre while diesel was available for ₹87.81, as opposed to ₹96.98 and ₹87.96, respectively, on April 14.Fuel prices in the city have been increasing steadily since May 3, when one litre of petrol was available at ₹96.83, while diesel was priced at ₹87.81 per litre. Since then, the prices of petrol and diesel have seen an overall increase by ₹2.31and ₹2.90 per litre, respectively, till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-crosses-the-99-mark-in-mumbai-101621367115887.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Accused of letting off drug smugglers, axed Punjab Police inspector’s bail plea rejected||A Tarn Taran court has rejected an anticipatory bail plea of a dismissed Punjab Police inspector, accused of letting off two drug smugglers arrested with 1kg of heroin in March this year.Baljit Singh, who was posted in the Civil Lines area of Tarn Taran, had allegedly released Malkit Singh, alias Palta, and his brother-in-law Bau Singh after accepting ₹3.5 lakh as bribe on March 31. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Singh, who was posted at the Amritsar judicial complex, was arrested for aiding the inspector, while the other accused are still absconding.A case under the NDPS Act and Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Baljit, Davinder and the drug smugglers. The police had also nominated one Jasbir Singh at whose home the deal was struck. Baljit, who has gone into hiding since the registration of the case, had filed a pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC. The case was heard in the Tarn Taran special court on Monday. Through his counsel Kanwaljit Singh Bath, Baljit pleaded that he was falsely implicated in the case. Bath told the court that no departmental inquiry was conducted before registration of the case against the former inspector.Additional public prosecutor Charanjit Singh contended that Baljit and Davinder shared the bribe money. The seized heroin was also with Baljit, he added.Tarn Taran special court judge Kawaljit Singh observed that the custodial interrogation of the accused was mandatory to ensure fair investigationThe case was registered on ASI Jatinder Singh’s statement. In his complaint, Jatinder said he got a tip-off that Baljit and Davinder had released two smugglers after taking ₹3.5 lakh bribe. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale had marked a probe to a deputy superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accused-of-letting-off-drug-smugglers-axed-punjab-police-inspector-s-bail-plea-rejected-101621367114880.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana property grab case: SHO transferred to police lines for inaction||Inspector Goldy Virdi, SHO of the Basti Jodhewal police station, has been transferred to police lines for delay in action into the complaint by a victim of a property grab case.In the order, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has replaced Virdi with inspector Mohammad Jamil, who was earlier the SHO of the Tibba police station. Inspector Pramod Kumar, from police lines, will take over as the SHO of the Tibba station.On Monday, the victim, Satinderpal Singh, 34, along with his wife and two minor children, had reached the police commissioner’s office, where he threatened to immolate himself due to the alleged police inaction into his complaint.After Singh poured kerosene over himself, police swung into action and lodged an FIR under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc), 447 (criminal trespass) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, Pradeep Kumar, alias Kaka, and Vikram Sahota, alias Vicky. No arrest has been made yet.According to Singh, he had kept his rented spare parts shop in Kali Sadak area locked due to the lockdown imposed in Ludhiana. On March 29, he came to know that Kumar and Sahota had grabbed his shop and stolen articles worth ₹20 lakh after breaking open the locks. Singh complained to the police commissioner that when he approached the Basti Jodhewal police for relief, instead of taking action, the cops started pressuring him for settlement. When he refused, they hurled abuses at him and harassed him, forcing him to consider ending his life.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said they were looking into the role of other police personnel deputed at the Basti Jodhewal police station. “We are conducting raised to arrest the accused named by the complainant. Investigation is underway regarding the status of the shop in question,” said inspector Mohammad Jamil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-property-grab-case-sho-transferred-to-police-lines-for-inaction-101621367115330.html
19-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC likely to hear Stan Swamy’s bail plea today||In view of the frail health of Elgar Parishad accused Stan Swamy, his lawyers moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking an urgent hearing of the octogenarian’s bail application on medical grounds. HC has allowed the request and is likely to hear the application on Wednesday Meanwhile on Tuesday, the authorities at Taloja jail – where the 84-year-old is lodged – took the Jesuit priest to Sir JJ Hospital for treatment and also got him vaccinated for Covid-19. According to Swamy’s advocate Mihir Joshi, the inmates of Taloja jail have informed that there are 26 Covid-19 cases, and a co-accused, Hani Babu, who is lodged in the same jail hospital as the octogenarian, also tested positive for the virus.“Swamy has developed cough and fever over the last week and he suspects that he may also have contracted the virus. However, as the jail authorities have not tested him for Covid-19, we decided to move HC for an urgent hearing of his bail application on medical grounds. We moved the praecipe on Monday and hope that it will come up for hearing before the division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla on Wednesday,” said Joshi. Swamy, who has done substantial work in Jharkhand for the rights and upliftment of the tribal community there, was arrested last year on October 9, for his alleged involvement in the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence incident, which left one dead and several others injured.Swamy’s lawyers moved HC last month after his application for bail on substantive grounds was rejected by a special court last year. HC, while refusing the urgent hearing of the appeal against the special court’s decision, had granted liberty to the family of the Jesuit priest to move an application for bail on medical ground, after taking into considerations his age and frail health. Following reports of a large number of inmates and staff at Taloja jail testing positive for Covid-19 and the jail authorities refusing to test Swamy despite the fever, his relatives were prompted to seek the urgent hearing of the bail application. According to Joshi, the application seeks directions to jail authorities to test Swamy for Covid-19 and shift him to a hospital outside the jail as the one in the prison does not have sufficient and qualified medical staff. Taloja jail superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar, however, said that they have not received any complaint from Swamy over any health problem. “On Saturday, I had visited the high-security cell where he [Swamy] has been lodged. But he has not complained of anything. He is already on medical diet. Prison officials and doctor regularly go on rounds in the circles [barracks], and if any inmate has a health problem, they can communicate with officials and get medicines. Instead of informing friends and relatives outside about his health problems, he should inform us so that he can be provided with medical assistance is case he’s in need of it,” said Kurlekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-likely-to-hear-stan-swamy-s-bail-plea-today-101621366994104.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Robbers chop off man’s hand, decamp with tablet, ₹1,500 in Amritsar||Two bike-borne robbers chopped off a 35-year-old man’s hand and decamped with his bag containing a tablet and ₹1,500 at Naushehra Nangli village in Amritsar, police said on Tuesday.The incident took place on Monday afternoon when Akash Avenue area resident Plath Vishwas, who works with a private finance company, was returning after collecting the loan amount from the village. A video shot soon after the incident shows the victim sitting alongside a road with one of his hands lying on the ground.The victim was admitted to a private hospital, where his amputated hand was replanted, said Kambo station house officer Yadwinder Singh, adding that his condition is stable. Police said they were scanning CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the accused. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 379-B (theft by force), 341 (wrongful restrain) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the unidentified accused at the Kambo police station on Plath’s colleague Ankit Mittal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbers-chop-off-man-s-hand-decamp-with-tablet-rs-1-500-in-amritsar-101621366875875.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding truck mows down 60-year-old biker in Ludhiana||A speeding truck mowed down a 60-year-old motorcyclist on Southern Bypass near Dugri on Tuesday morning. Police said the victim, Mohan Singh, 60, was a tailor, who lived in Daba village.According to his brother Gurmeet Singh, Mohan had left the house around 8.30am for some work in Dugri. Later, he received a call about Mohan meeting with an accident. Onlookers rushed Mohan to a nearby hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries. “The truck driver, Chhota Singh, 45, of Rupnagar, tried to escape after the accident, but was nabbed by passers-by and handed over to the police. He has been booked under Sections 279 (reckless driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The truck has been impounded,” said inspector Surinder Chopra, SHO, Dugri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-truck-mows-down-60-year-old-biker-in-ludhiana-101621366874767.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Covid cases remain below 1,000 for third straight day, 21 dead||Covid-19 cases on Tuesday remained below the 1,000 mark for the third day in a row with 991 new infections. However, the deaths were still on the higher side with 21 people losing the battle to the contagion.Cases started receding on May 16 when 942 people had tested positive, the lowest since April 30’s 792 cases, followed by 851 infections on May 17. The deaths, too, saw a downturn, dropping below 20 on May 14 (19) for the first time since the 19 fatalities on May 8. But, have since May 16 remained above the 20 mark daily. At nine, it was only on April 25 last when the daily deaths were below 10. The youngest among those who died on Tuesday was a 31-year-old woman and the oldest, a 75-year-old resident of Basant Vihar. As many as seven of the deceased were in their 60s, six in their 50s, while four were aged above 70. Three people aged between 40 and 50 were also among those who died. With the fresh cases, Ludhiana’s cases and deaths since the beginning of the pandemic have climbed to 77,637 and 1,761, respectively, both highest in Punjab. However, at 7.53%, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – was below the state average of 11.5% on Tuesday.Yet, in the terms of active cases, Ludhiana is the worst affected in the state with 12,371 people still recuperating at hospitals or in home isolation. As many as 61 patients are on ventilator support.So far in May, the district has clocked 23,051 cases and 386 deaths, compared to 20,176 cases and 231 deaths through April when the second wave of the pandemic started sweeping the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-covid-cases-remain-below-1-000-for-third-straight-day-21-dead-101621366814700.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Patiala||Two Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed for mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, died at Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.However, doctors ruled out black fungus as the main cause behind the deaths. Dr RPS Sibia, Covid care in-charge, said the patients developed complications due to Covid and were on ventilator support.“Both were diagnosed with black fungus but it did not turn out to be reason behind their death,” Dr Sibia said.He said six Covid patients suspected to be infected with black fungus were admitted to the hospital on Monday.“Four of the patients tested positive for the fungus, of which two died, while two are undergoing treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-patiala-101621366635243.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe reports never blamed Badals for firing incidents: Majithia||Former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said that contrary to the Congress leaders’ claims, the reports by Justice Ranjit Singh Commission and the SIT led by Kunwar Vijay Pratap never blamed then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Singh Badal for the 2015 police firing incidents. Addressing the media at party headquarters in Chandigarh, Majithia said: “Both the reports didn’t indict the then CM and his deputy. The SIT relied on the commission’s recommendations, and the Haryana high court recently rejected the SIT report.” The Akali leader threw a challenge to his political opponents to submit an evidence in the HC or seek forgiveness. “Capt Amarinder Singh, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi, besides former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu owe an explanation to the people of Punjab as it is a sacrilege not to use the evidence in order to punish the guilty.” Attacking Sidhu, Majithia claimed that the Congress MLA was seen touching feet of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and comparing him to Guru Nanak in a video grab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-reports-never-blamed-badals-for-firing-incidents-majithia-101621366454727.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Threat to public safety: 4 Punjab-origin gangsters on Vancouver police list||Police in the Canadian city of Vancouver has identified six alleged gangsters, including four Indo-Canadians, as they are linked to violence and may pose a threat to public safety.The Vancouver Police Department or VPD said they may pose danger to the public simply because they may be targeted by rival gang members. It released a poster featuring them and also posted it on social media.The six are brothers 38-year-old Barinder, and Meninder Dhaliwal, 28, Harjit, 38, and Garinder Deo, 35, also brothers, Ekene Anigbo, 22, and Damion Ryan, 41. They are connected to gangs operating in the Metro Vancouver region like Hells Angels, Brothers Keepers, Kang and Red Scorpion.This announcement came a week after a 28-year-old linked to gang activity, Karman Grewal, was executed by suspected rivals outside the main terminal of the Vancouver International Airport or YVR on the afternoon of May 9.The Vancouver Sun reported that a third Dhaliwal brother Harb, was gunned down outside a restaurant in Vancouver on the evening of April 17. Similarly, it said another Deo brother, Sukh, was the victim of a targeted shooting in Toronto in 2016.“Gang violence continues to be a prominent public safety issue in Metro Vancouver. There have been numerous reckless, brazen acts of violence that threaten the safety of innocent bystanders,” VPD chief constable Adam Palmer said in a statement, which was accompanied with a poster featuring photographs of the dozen mentioned in it.The VPD pointed out there have been 20 gang-related homicides in Metro Vancouver this year alone and 20 attempted murders. “Police are expecting the violence to continue and escalate,” the statement noted.Indo-Canadians have been prominent in the gang landscape in the region for many years.“Our police intelligence leads us to believe that the individuals we have identified today may be targeted by rival gang members. My greatest concern right now, related to the ongoing gang violence, is that an innocent bystander will be hurt or killed during a shooting targeting a gangster,” Palmer said, as he cautioned Vancouver residents “to know the faces of these individuals and to keep their distance from them.”The department has also initiated a new taskforce to deal with the escalating gang violence. Called Taskforce Threshold, it was launched on May 12.The statement also said that VPD is “continuing to share intelligence with and collaborate with other police agencies in Metro Vancouver, including the RCMP and Combined Forces Special Enforcement Unit of British Columbia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/threat-to-public-safety-4-punjab-origin-gangsters-on-vancouver-police-list-101621366274776.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae damages Olive Ridley nests in Maharashtra, at least 2,000 eggs feared lost||The passage of Cyclone Tauktae along Maharashtra’s coast damaged a total of 29 Olive Ridley nests in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districtsLocals appointed by the state forest department operate hatcheries for sea turtle conservation in these districts. Experts fear that 2,000-3,000 Olive Ridley eggs, which were to hatch this month, may be lost owing to the damage. HT had reported, on May 9, that the number of Olive Ridley nests doubled this year in state. During nesting season (which runs from December to March), a total of 451 nesting sites were recorded, up from 288 during the same period last year. “Fortunately, most of the eggs have already hatched during April and May. Some nests which had not hatched, were significantly damaged on Monday due to the cyclone,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation.In Ratnagiri, these include nine nests on Kolthare beach, eight nests in Guhagar, two nests in Dabhol and one each on Karde, Velas, Anjarle and Gaohkhadi. The hatchery in Kolthare alone was incubating an estimated 861 eggs, while Guhagar had about 776 eggs. At Sindhudurg’s Vayangani and Shiroda beaches, four and two nests, respectively, were damaged.Though forest department officers had fenced the nests and covered them with tarpaulin, the sheer strength of tidal waves and torrential rains on Monday could not keep water out of the hatcheries. “The season for hatching is not over yet. We are going to continue to watch over the nests for another two weeks, but it is unlikely that the eggs will hatch. Existing literature shows that freshly laid eggs, and even eggs on the verge of hatching, suffer complete mortality when exposed to any flooding over a period of 24 to 48 hours,” said Karve. Mangrove Foundation on Tuesday morning also received an information about common dolphins, including one juvenile, being stranded at Murud-Janjira beach in Raigad district. Though officials did not reach the spot, local fishermen were instructed on how to release them back into the sea. “The dolphins were successfully released. There are no other reports of stranded cetaceans or other marine animals due to cyclone,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, Mangrove Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-damages-olive-ridley-nests-in-maharashtra-at-least-2-000-eggs-feared-lost-101621365134144.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||IITs help students with medical, financial aid during pandemic||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in several parts of the country, various Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are helping students financially to tide through medical emergencies.Many IITs have set up benevolent funds, raising funds from alumni networks, to help their students pay for hospitals, oxygen cylinders and ventilators. Last week, IIT Kanpur launched a donation drive ‘Covid-19 Relief Fund’ for the purpose.IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), is currently undertaking a student survey to identify those who are in financial emergencies or have lost earning members of families. Students are being primarily classified into three categories- those who have tested positive and are under economic distress, those who haven’t tested positive but are in financial distress, and those whose family members have tested positive and are in financial distress.“We will soon kick off a drive to raise funds from alumni to take care of such students. On a priority basis, students from these categories will be provided with help to pay for their fees and other charges,” said Tapanendu Kundu, professor and dean, student affairs, IIT-B. This is aside from the benevolent fund that takes care of students with their hostel and mess charges.Since the pandemic broke out last year, IIT Madras has formed a Covid Relief Fund to support students and faculty who are in distress due to the medical exigencies caused by the pandemic. “In the last financial year (FY’21), IIT Madras raised as much as Rs. 96 lakh to cater to the Covid relief requirements of students and employees of IIT Madras. There is also a clear proposal to upgrade the medical infrastructure within the campus to cater to any potential requirements that may arise as it re-opens the campus to receive students, as and when the lockdown conditions are lifted and the threat of the pandemic eases out,” said professor Mahesh Panchagnula, dean (alumni and corporate relations), IIT Madras.Besides this, IIT Madras launched campaigns to raise funds for procuring oxygen concentrators in the United States of America. The Institute exceeded its goal of raising $1 million in 48 hours.“The total funds raised is $1.25 million (as of 10th May 2021). The institute has also received close to ₹15 lakh from Indian alumni. In the first phase, the institute plans to donate oxygen concentrators to the government of Tamil Nadu. Its senior alumni who are IAS officers and working with the government are helping the institute to coordinate the whole gamut of activities. These oxygen concentrators will subsequently be deployed in government hospitals. The institute plans to extend support to other state governments in the subsequent phases as it continues to receive donations from alumni,” Panchagnula added.IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said the institute set up a benevolent fund last year. “We have spent over ₹30 lakhs from this fund to support everyone dependent on the institute since April last year. We need to do more,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-help-students-with-medical-financial-aid-during-pandemic-101621365074712.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Maha CM seeks financial aid from Centre||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray sought financial assistance from the Centre on Tuesday after cyclone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm that skirted the western coastline between May 16 and 17, left at least 18 people dead in Maharashtra, destroyed more than 9,000 hectares of farmland and caused damage to properties across several districts of the state. Thackeray spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah over the phone to apprise him of the storm which made landfall between Porbandar and Mahuva in Gujarat late Monday night. A state cabinet meeting will be held on Wednesday following which the government is expected to announce a relief package. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar held a review meeting as authorities of 10 districts, including coastal Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad assessed the losses on Tuesday, due to havoc caused by the cyclone that intensified into an extremely severe category early Monday morning. Of the 16 deaths, 14 were from seven coastal districts, while two were in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. 13.415 people from five coastal districts, Raigad (8,409), Ratnagiri (4,563), Sindhudurg (190), Palghar (200), Thane (530) were shifted to safer places. They have now started returning to their houses.“Apart from completing the spot assessment of the losses, the district administration should also ensure that the repair works of the houses and other structures be completed before the monsoon was set in. The relief should be extended to the people at the earliest. We are directing the district administration to give exemptions from the Covid-19 curbs to the shops and establishments that supply the material required for the repair and maintenance of the damaged structures,” he said. Wadettiwar said that a memorandum for the central relief will soon be sent to the Centre. The Indian Army also launched columns to assist civil administration in cyclone-hit areas, which included moving trees and debris from roads to enable toe movement of essential supplies and civil vehicles Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg districts were badly hit with at least 3,783 structures including houses, and government buildings reported as being partially or fully damaged, even as high-speed winds, which reached up to 185kmph gusting to 200kmph, damaged power infrastructure and plunged large tracts of these districts into darkness. An official release by the state said that the storm disrupted power supply to 4.64 million consumers in Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and other districts of Maharashtra. The electricity supply of 3.41 million consumers has been successfully restored, it stated. On Monday, a total of 5,500 electricity poles fell, transmission cables got snapped, and feeders tripped due to heavy rains coupled with high-speed winds. Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut earlier said 13,172 staffers are working tirelessly to restore the supply of the remaining consumers. Roughly 30% of the villages in Raigad and Ratnagiri and other affected districts were yet to have their power supply returned late Tuesday evening after damage to transformers, sub stations and electricity poles. Internet services were disrupted, and officials said that it was likely to take a few more days to restore connectivity. In all, 3,571 villages and 215,266 people were affected in seven coastal districts that were hit by the storm. At least 17,657 structures were partially or fully damaged and crop and horticulture on 8,830 hectares – including orchards growing Alphonso mangoes and Chickoo fruit -- was damaged, across these districts. Three fisherfolk in Sindhudurg died after their boats capsized in rough sea. Five persons were killed in Thane and Palghar districts in various incidents related to the cyclonic storm, including a 51-year-old auto-rickshaw driver who was killed after a tree fell on his vehicle on Monday, and a 40-year-old man who died after being crushed by cement blocks that fell from the roof of a house due to high winds. Raigad district bore the brunt of the storm for the second year in a row, as four persons died in separate incidents due to the storm. Last June, severe cyclonic storm Nisarga had caused widescale damage in this coastal district, as it made landfall between Diveagar and Shrivardhan, left at least six dead, 16 injured and nearly 13000 hectares of cropland damaged in northern parts of the state as well as its coastal districts. The four fatalities in Raigad district on Monday occurred in the incidents of falling of a tree and collapse of a wall in Uran and Roha. Altogether, 8,383 people from 2,299 families were shifted to safer places in Raigad district till Monday night. District Collector Nidhi Chaudhary has directed all tehsildars to assess the damage caused by the cyclone. At least 200 people from 57 families from Vasai taluka were evacuated to safety on Monday, the Palghar collector said. MSEDCL superintending engineer Kiran Nagavkar said nine of the total 38 sub-stations in the Palghar district were affected due to the cyclone. He said the work to restore power slowed down as transmission cables got snapped after trees fell on them due to high-speed winds. The state requested the Centre for assistance from its Cyclone Risk Mitigation Programme and to deploy a team to assess losses, at the earliest. Shah spoke to the Thackeray, as well as his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot to take stock of the situation in their states after the landfall of cyclone Tauktae, and extended support of the Union government in aiding and mitigating challenges, officials said. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-maha-cm-seeks-financial-aid-from-centre-101621365074107.html
19-05-2021||Other||‘Cyclone Tauktae damages 5,000ha farmland damaged in Raigad’||While the proceedings of damage estimation by Cyclone Tauktae is still under way, the preliminary assessment by the Raigad district administration has revealed a damage of 5,000 hectares of farmland.Alibag, Shrivardhan, Mhasla and Poladpur talukas have been hit hardest by the cyclone. Around 6,026 houses in the district have been partially damaged and 10 houses have been completely damaged. Four people were killed and seven others injured, and no one was reported missing. Besides, two cattle have died.Raigad Collector, Nidhi Choudhary, said, “No roads are closed at present as the administration took immediate action in clearing those where trees, branches, and poles fell during the cyclone. The damage estimates are preliminary and the final report will take a few more days. Approximately 5,000 hectares of agricultural land has been damaged in the district, mainly mango, coconut and paddy. However, unlike Cyclone Nisarga, the trees were not damaged this time, only the fruits were damaged.”MSEDCL’s 168 high tension poles, 426 low tension poles and 12 transformers were also damaged by the cyclone. Of the 1960 villages in the district, power was restored in 1,299 villages while restoration work was still under way in 661 villages, which have a combined population of around 1.6 lakh.Raigad has 99 Covid centres that were working with the help of generators. Electricity supply in 92 hospitals was restored. “Power in the remaining seven was also restored but got tripped again. They have a double generator back up and the restoration work is on,” Choudhary added.The fishing community, too, has borne the brunt of the cyclone. Around 125 fishing nets and 150 boats in the district have been partially damaged.Raigad Guardian Minister, Aditi Tatkare, visited Raigad on Tuesday to take stock of the damage. “The experience from last year’s Cyclone Nisarga helped the administration in preparing well this time. Comparatively, the damages are less this year,” Tatkare said. 153 trees fall in Navi Mumbai (SUBHEAD)Meanwhile, in Navi Mumbai, 153 trees fell in two days including 31 on Monday night. No one suffered injuries, adds Pranab Jyoti Bhuyan.“A shop in Ghansoli caught fire due to an electric short circuit, possibly triggered by the storm in the early hours of Tuesday. The officials from Koparkhairane fire station reached there on time and doused the fire. No casualties were reported,” said an official from Navi Mumbai’s disaster management cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-damages-5-000ha-farmland-damaged-in-raigad-101621365014662.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Alphonso farms in Konkan badly damaged by Cyclone Tauktae||With Konkan coast, home to the popular Alphonso mangoes, battered by Cyclone Tauktae, the mango plantation is badly damaged as gusty winds and heavy rain lashed the area.Already hit by a drop in production because of climatic conditions and slowed down market, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the mango growers in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad sustained huge losses after the cyclone.The tree plantation of areca nut, coconuts and even chikoo in parts of the coastal districts on hectares of land have also been destroyed, leading to losses to the farmers.“I have a list of many mango growers whose hundreds of trees have been uprooted and thousands of fruits ready to harvest or market, have been destroyed.”“They will be literally on the roads because of the loans they borrowed from the banks for cultivation. The losses to the mango growers from these districts are expected to be  ₹500 crore as per the rough estimate,” said Sanjay Yadavrao, Konkan Bhumi Pratisthan, the organisation engaged in the promotion of the tourism and business activities in Konkan.Yadavrao said that the mango production was about 25% of its annual average owing to changes in weather and unseasonal rains, besides the drop in demand and logistical constraints in the market amid the pandemic. “The economy of the coastal districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, Raigad is dependent on tourism, mango business and fishing with the annual collective turnover of ₹19,000 crore. The consecutive cyclones over the last three years have destroyed this economy completely.” “It’s time for the government to give a stimulus package to the people engaged in these sectors as they give it for sugar factories in Western Maharashtra,” he said.Umang Salvi, a mango grower who has orchards of more than 4,000 trees said he sustained the loss of around ₹15 lakh due to the cyclone. “At least 1,000 crates full of mangoes were ready to market, but the stock is damaged in the cyclone on Monday. Hundreds of trees have either been uprooted or damaged badly which would affect their production capacity for the next few years,” he said.Like mango growers, the fisherfolk in coastal areas along the 720-km shore of the state have sustained losses because of the damages to fishing nets, trawlers, boats and watched away fish. “Dozens of anchored boats have been damaged by collision during the cyclone in each of the koliwadas in these districts. This is the end of the season when tonnes of fish are kept for drying to market during monsoon. Tonnes of such stock has been washed away and we even would not be able to claim the losses for it as there is no proof left behind to the claims,” said Rajhans Tapke, general secretary of Koli Masangh.Tapke said that the state government gave them peanuts as compensation after Cyclone Nisarga last year||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/alphonso-farms-in-konkan-badly-damaged-by-cyclone-tauktae-101621365014073.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Ventilators in a’bad: Cong alleges scam; health ministry refutes claims||Citing the hospital’s report, the Maharashtra Congress alleged that ventilators supplied to the Aurangabad Government Medical College and Hospital were useless and of substandard quality. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant called it a scam, saying all efforts were being made to save the accused firm from Gujarat which supplied these ventilators. The Union health ministry has refuted the allegations, saying the ventilators were not funded under the PM Care Fund. The Aurangabad Government Medical College’s committee formed to investigate the matter gave the following observations. “100 ventilators had arrived in the hospital on April 12 this year. The engineers who had come on that day were able to install just one ventilator which again was found not suitable to be used for patients. After that they installed 25 ventilators on April 18 in the ICU. However, these were found to be faulty as the patients were not getting enough oxygen supply from them and hence were not of much help to the patients. After that the engineers came again on April 23 and tried to start two machines in the ICU but they too failed,” it stated. Sawant, quoting the report, said it was shameful that when the state is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, such incidents were taking place. “The company had no experience in making ventilators and still was given the contract just because of its links with the BJP,” said Sawant. He has demanded a joint audit by the central and state government and inquiry by the state government. He said that 58 machines have been opened and are lying idle while 37 were still to be opened. The Union Health Ministry’s statement on Friday said: “Ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC were supplied to Aurangabad Medical College. Jyoti CNC is one of the manufacturers of Make in India Ventilators. They have supplied ventilators centrally for Covid-19 management, as per the directions of Empowered Group-3. These ventilators were then made available to states as per their requests. This supplier is not funded under PM CARES fund.” Sawant called the whole statement misleading. “If the state did not pay, how come these ventilators came,” asked Sawant. The BJP has refuted the allegations saying it has become a fashion to blame the central government. “The Maharashtra government is unable to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and it has become a fashion to blame the central government for all its shortcomings. The central government is extending maximum help but the state is ungrateful,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ventilators-in-a-bad-cong-alleges-scam-health-ministry-refutes-claims-101621364954113.html
19-05-2021||Other||Thane crime branch seizes 12K gelatin sticks, 3,008 electronic detonators in Bhiwandi||In a major breakthrough, Thane crime branch’s unit-1 on Monday arrested a 53-year-old quarry contractor and seized 12,000 gelatin sticks and 3,008 electronic detonators from his office and storeroom at Bhiwandi. The accused, Gurunath Kashinath Mhatre, had stocked the explosive materials without permission from collector or local authorities. The police said Ananda Bhilare, a constable posted with unit 1, had received information about the explosives being stored at an office in Bhiwandi. Following this, senior inspector Krishna Kokani formed a team and raided Mhatre’s office Mittal Enterprise at Kharivali village. The team found gelatin sticks and detonators in huge quantities, worth ₹2.02 lakh. “We found the explosives at his office and adjoining store room. He didn’t have any permission to store it. We are further investigating further,” said Kokani.A case had been registered against Mhatre at Bhoiwada police station in Bhiwandi under section 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the Indian Penal Code and section 5 (punishment for making or possessing explosives under suspicious circumstances) of the Explosive Substance Act, 1908. “Mhatre has been remanded in police custody till May 22,” said deputy commissioner of police from Thane crime branch Laxmikant Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-crime-branch-seizes-12k-gelatin-sticks-3-008-electronic-detonators-in-bhiwandi-101621364835274.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court refuses bail to sr executive of firm floated by Nirav Modi||A special CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) court on Monday rejected the bail plea of a senior executive of Firestar International – a firm floated by fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi. The executive, Arjun Patil, had sought interim bail as he was infected with Covid-19. However, the court rejected his plea on the grounds that the state is taking “sincere efforts” to protect the health of the inmates.Patil was arrested in February 2018 by CBI for his alleged role in preparing applications for fraudulent letters of undertaking (LoUs) submitted to Punjab National Bank (PNB).Patil was shifted to GT Hospital on April 30 for treatment after he was found infected with the virus. His lawyer argued that following the illness, Patil has lost tremendous weight and is suffering from severe weakness, and hence, is unable to take care of himself.The lawyer further alleged that the chances of him recovering from the weakness are very low as the jail authorities are not taking proper treatment and care of the inmates and there is no proper hygiene in the jail.The plea was objected by CBI on the grounds that the recommendation/guidelines issued by the state’s high-power committee to release accused on interim bail are not applicable to Patil.The court, while rejecting the bail plea after considering arguments of both the sides, noted that the state is taking sincere efforts to protect the health of inmates. The court also noted that Patil is being treated at GT Hospital, which is a renowned hospital run by the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-refuses-bail-to-sr-executive-of-firm-floated-by-nirav-modi-101621364834730.html
19-05-2021||Other||FB user booked for downloading Salman Khan’s Radhe, selling its pirated version||Mumbai The cyber police station have registered a first information report (FIR) against a Facebook user for allegedly illegal downloading Salman Khan-starrer ‘Radhe — Your Most Wanted Bhai’ from Zee Entertainment Enterprises (ZEE) Limited’s app and then selling the pirated version of the film on WhatsApp for ₹50.The FIR was registered at the central region cyber police station, Worli, on Monday by Sucheta Burman, 50, ZEE’s chief legal consultant.Owing to the pandemic, the movie was released on ZEE’s OTT (over-the-top) platform and a few theatres which are permitted by the local authorities to remain open.ZEE bought the broadcast rights of the film on February 26 from production company Salman Khan Ventures Limited. To prevent the piracy of the film, the company signed an agreement with five anti-piracy agencies. It also secured the John Doe order – to take action against unidentified offender/s – from Madras high court on May 12 to prevent the violation of intellectual property rights of the movie by means of piracy.According to the police, the film was released in Dubai on May 12 and aired in India the next day on Zee5 app. On the evening of May 13, Aparna Desai, the marketing head of the Khan’s company, informed ZEE that the film is being illegally released on WhatsApp in five parts.ZEE contacted anti-piracy agency Alplex Software Pvt Ltd, which informed them that two mobile numbers are being used to send the pirated version of the movie on WhatsApp. The agency also sent a notice to WhatsApp requesting them to pull down the pirated videos of the film from the messaging platform, the FIR stated.Next day, the complainant company discovered that a Facebook user, Ashwani Raghav, has uploaded an advertisement with the film’s poster on his Facebook account. The advertisement stated that those interested can take the movie from him for ₹50 through WhatsApp, the police said.To verify this, an executive from ZEE’s distribution team contacted Raghav on the given number and expressed his desire to get the movie. Raghav asked him to transfer ₹50 on PayTM. After sending the money, the executive soon received the pirated version of the film in five parts from Raghav’s WhatsApp number, stated the FIR.ZEE then contacted a France-based forensic lab for help. The lab informed the company that the film was downloaded from Zee5 using a software. Following this, ZEE lodged the police complaint on Monday.“A case under the relevant sections of the Information Technology Act and Copyright Act has been registered against Raghav and the users of two mobile numbers. Details on suspects are being gathered,” said an officer from the central region cyber police station.ZEE in a statement stated, “People engaged in spreading the illegal version of the film are not just embracing piracy, but are also negatively impacting the growth of the industry and the livelihoods of the people working for it round the clock.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fb-user-booked-for-downloading-salman-khan-s-radhe-selling-its-pirated-version-101621364834071.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra receives 300,000 doses from Centre for its vaccination drive||Maharashtra on Tuesday received a stock of 300,000 doses from the Central government, allowing it to continue its vaccination drive for 45 years and above for a few more days. However, the drive will have to be limited, officials said. The state inoculated 104,313 beneficiaries on Tuesday, according to the Co-Win portal.For the past two days, the state was inoculating less than 100,000 beneficiaries, as the state had limited stock till Monday. On May 16 and 17, the state administered doses to 68,800 and 99,699 beneficiaries, respectively. It has already suspended the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group and diverted 310,000 doses of Covaxin for the second dose for those above 45 years of age last week. “We have received 200,000 doses of Covishield and 100,000 doses of Covaxin today,” confirmed Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate Of Health Services.On April 26, the state set a record of inoculating 534,228 beneficiaries in a day. On Monday, it became the first state to cover 20 million beneficiaries across the country. In all, the state has covered total 20,200,747 beneficiaries till Tuesday, according to the Co-Win portal.“Till Monday, we were left with only 380,000 doses (300,000 Covishield and 80,000 Covaxin) that were distributed across the state. Today, we have received another stock of 300,000 of doses but as we don’t know when the next stock is going to come, we will have to continue the drive in the restricted manner,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said it will provide 19.99 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin from May 16-31 to all the states and union territories for free. This includes 16.25 million doses of Covishield and 2.949 million doses of Covaxin, stated a release of ministry of health and family welfare issued on May 14. However, it did not mention a detailed bifurcation of allocation to the states. “The delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared in advance,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-receives-300-000-doses-from-centre-for-its-vaccination-drive-101621364774666.html
19-05-2021||Other||ED to record petitioner’s statement today in case against ex-Maharashtra min Anil Deshmukh||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned advocate Jaishri Patil on Wednesday to record her statement in connection with the money laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Patil is one of the petitioners who had approached the Bombay high court seeking a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) probe against Deshmukh after former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh alleged that the Nationalist Congress Party leader ran an ‘extortion racket’ in Mumbai.“As the case against Deshmukh is mainly based on my petition, ED has summoned me to record my statement, which would hold key importance in the case. I would be visiting ED’s office on Wednesday morning,” Patil said.ED on Tuesday also recorded statement of another petitioner in the case. ED may soon call Param Bir Singh to record his statement, ED sources indicated.The officials would also summon Deshmukh and his personal staff soon. On April 24, CBI officers had carried out raids at Deshmukh’s residences in Nagpur and Mumbai as well as at his personal assistant Sanjeev Palande’s premises and seized digital devices.The PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) case against Deshmukh is based on CBI’s first information report (FIR) registered against him last month. On April 21, CBI said it had found “prima facie evidence” against Deshmukh for allegedly misusing his position, and booked him for corruption and criminal conspiracy. Unlike CBI, the federal anti-money laundering agency, can record statements of any person in a case under PMLA’s Section 50 and it is admissible as evidence in court.NCP had previously dismissed ED’s case as politically motivated. The party claims that the case registered by ED or allegations levelled by Singh is an attempt to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government by using power. CBI’s case came a month after Singh accused Deshmukh of using the Mumbai Police for extortion from bars, hotels, and restaurants. CBI is probing Singh’s allegations as well as Deshmukh’s handing over of important cases to former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and influencing transfers and postings.In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from bars, restaurants, hotels and other establishments in Mumbai. The letter was written after Singh was transferred for allegedly mismanaging the Antilia case, in which an explosives-laden SUV was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Vaze in connection with the case as well as the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran – who was was linked to the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-to-record-petitioner-s-statement-today-in-case-against-ex-maharashtra-min-anil-deshmukh-101621364774062.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||PIL challenging cancellation of SSC exams, delays HSC decision||A recent public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the cancellation of Class 10 (SSC) board exams in the state has delayed the education department’s decision concerning Class 12 (HSC) exams that are scheduled at the end of this month.Officials at the state education department said that while it seems like the HSC exams cannot be conducted as per the earlier schedule due to rising Covid-19 cases and the resultant lockdown, a decision regarding this cannot be taken with the recent PIL. The major bone of contention is the fact that the rulebook of the Maharashtra State Board does not consist of a provision to cancel exams altogether under any circumstance. “Exam cancellation and alternate assessments are thus likely to be challenged even in future. This rule needs to be amended to ensure that there is an exception created for the current situation,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Dhananjay Kulkarni, a retired teacher from Pune had recently moved the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the cancellation of exams by various boards including SSC, CBSE and ICSE. The petitioner said that this could lead to problems in Class 11 admissions as different boards will declare results based on different formulae. Meanwhile, the Indiawide Parents Association filed an intervention application in the court stating that offline exams are risky for students.While the state education department had earlier announced that the exams for Class 12 will be held at the end of May, it has not declared the timetable even now, barely a few days to go for the month to end. This has led to a large number of parents and students anxious. “We understand that this is not an easy decision because there are legal and technical hurdles involved, but in the absence of a timely decision, students are just waiting endlessly. Their future is at stake and a decision should be made as early as possible,” said Siddharth Shah, a Kandivli based parent.Nearly 15 lakh students appear for the HSC exam every year while around 17 lakh students appear for SSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-challenging-cancellation-of-ssc-exams-delays-hsc-decision-101621364714846.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 961 fresh Covid cases||Reporting below 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day for the first time since March 2, Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 961 fresh infections and 44 deaths due to the virus, taking the tally to 690,023 and the toll to 14,316. The testing numbers, however, were low. On Monday, Mumbai conducted 17,920 Covid-19 tests, with a daily positivity rate of 5.3%. There are now 31,790 active cases in Mumbai. So far, Mumbai has conducted 5,934,165 tests, with an overall positivity rate of 11.8%. About 35% to 40% of the tests conducted per day are rapid antigen tests, which on an average have a lower positivity rate than RT-PCR tests. On March 2, Mumbai reported 849 new cases, following which, the figures of cases reported per day began to increase. According to experts and authorities, the second wave began around March 11. The highest number of cases reported in Mumbai so far was on April 4 (11,204 cases). However, in the past two weeks, the number of cases in the city has gone down steadily, and the positivity rate has also dropped to 6-8%, from the previous 18-20% reported in April and first week of May. Positivity rate is the percentage of tests that are positive.Mumbai’s recovery rate is now 93% and the overall growth rate is now 0.27%, and the doubling rate has now gone up to 255 days. So far in May, Mumbai has reported a total of 41,552 cases, as opposed to 164,713 infections reported in the same period in April. About 59% of the total active cases in the city at present are asymptomatic patients, 36% are symptomatic, and about 3% are critical cases.Out of the 31,306 beds in Mumbai, 17,745 are available. 384 ICU beds and 85 ventilator beds are vacant, according to information from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-961-fresh-covid-cases-101621364654706.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 28,438 new Covid cases||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 28,438 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 5,433,506. The daily positivity rate in the state is on a constant decline since May 8, showing the drop in viral activity. However, health experts said some districts still show high positivity rate, while some of the districts have shown a sharp decline. Mumbai reported under-1,000 cases after 77 days with 961 fresh cases on Tuesday. The city’s low numbers are due to a drop in testing on Monday, due to cyclone Tauktae that brushed past the city on Monday. The city’s death toll rose by 44, taking it to 14,316, while its active case load came down to 31,790. The state’s active caseload reduced to 419,727, while the death toll rose to 83,777 with 679 fatalities on Tuesday. With the data reconciliation, 612 deaths have been added to the cumulative death tally, the state health department said. A chunk of the fatalities reported on Tuesday came from Kolhapur which reported 130 deaths (115 in rural Kolhapur, 15 in Kolhapur city), in the past 24 hours. Vasai-Virar, on the outskirts of Mumbai, reported 58 deaths. Satara reported 34 deaths, while Beed saw 27 fatalities. Of the 679 deaths reported on Tuesday, 422 occurred in the past 48 hours and 257 in the past week. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 250,310 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.36%. Since May 8, the daily positivity rate in the state has seen a consistent drop from 22.56% to 11.35% on May 17. On Tuesday, the state saw a marginal increase. In the first week of May, the daily positivity rate swung between 22.97% (May 3) and 20.64% (May 5). The overall positivity rate in the state stood at 17.2%, which means for every 100 samples tested the state records 17 positive cases. The overall positivity rate in the state too has shown a decline since April when it was 27.5% on April 6. Health experts and state health department officials said the decline is a positive sign for the state, however, it will take three weeks more for some “normalcy” to return. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said that while the state’s positivity is reducing, some districts are still not. “Some districts like Mumbai, Thane and Pune are showing sharp decline in positivity rate, but there are many districts which are not showing a downward trend yet,” Salunkhe said. According to state health department officials, districts such as Satara, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Buldhana, Kolhapur, Beed and Ahmednagar still show viral activity. “These districts are recording higher cases and have high positivity rate. While the overall rate is witnessing a drop, it will take two-three weeks to regain normalcy. The viral activity will go on for that period, so we cannot let our guard down,” the officer said, who did not wish to be named. On Monday, Kolhapur district saw 1,501 fresh cases, while Ahmednagar saw 2,045 new cases. Beed saw 1,295 fresh Covid cases and Amravati district saw 1,041. Satara saw 1,270 new cases, while Sangli district saw 1905 new cases. Over 80% of the new cases from these districts are from the rural part of the districts, while the urban areas are not reporting as many cases, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-28-438-new-covid-cases-101621364654159.html
19-05-2021||Other||CG rescue all 137 from a stranded barge off Palghar||The Coast Guard (CG) on Tuesday rescued all 137 crew onboard GAL Constructor, a barge of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) which ran aground in Palghar, 48 nautical miles off Colaba, on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae. The rescue operation started on Tuesday morning and by evening the mission was accomplished, said a Coast Guard official. The barge was drifting towards the North after it lost power due to Cyclone Tauktae which created havoc since Monday.Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relation officer, Coast Guard, said three Chetak choppers from CG base at Daman swung into action and reached the spot, along with CG ship Samrat and a Naval chopper amid very rough and inclement weather conditions due to the cyclone. Some of the rescued crew were given medical treatment at an English medium school at Mahim (not Mumbai) for any sea-related ailments, said Dr Kalpana Mavchi, medical officer. The Palghar district collector Dr Manek Gursal also reached the spot to supervise the rescue mission.Chopper makes emergency landingAn Indian Navy chopper made an emergency landing at Pali village in Bhayander on Tuesday morning due to inclement weather with gusty winds and rains. Senior inspector Prashant Langi of Uttan Coastal police station said the chopper with two member crew took off from the Naval base in Colaba on Tuesday morning for surveillance, when near Uttan the chopper faced low visibility and the pilot landed the helicopter at Pali jetty in Uttan. There was also a huge crowd at the jetty to see the helicopter and we offered drinking water to the crew before it took flight said Langi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cg-rescue-all-137-from-a-stranded-barge-off-palghar-101621364475353.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||3 jumbo centres in Mumbai to be shut for 2 weeks||A day after a cyclone passed the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said three jumbo centres – Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar and Mulund – will remain shut for admission of Covid-19 patients for nearly two weeks, as the centres are being made monsoon-ready. Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner, held a meeting the heads of nine departments, including storm water drainage, solid waste management, mechanical and electrical department, fire department, etc. The three jumbo centres have over 3,000 Covid beds, including oxygen, ICU and ventilators.Jaiswal told HT, “In the past one year, we never got all three jumbo centres empty. But this time, due to the cyclone, we shifted the patients, which has given us a chance to undertake all preventive repair and maintenance works. There was no damage to the jumbo centres. We are now going to act on the recommendation of our consultant who had, before the cyclone, submitted a structural audit report. In this report, several recommendations were made, which will now be executed to make the three jumbo centres monsoon-ready.”According to BMC officials, the works include sanitation of the area, changing water pipelines at several spots, fixing leakages, storm water works, sewage related issues, flooring works and installing additional ropes to the hangars to ensure the makeshift hospital sustains longer.The BMC over Saturday night and Sunday shifted over 500 Covid patients to nearby hospitals namely SevenHills and NESCO jumbo centres, considering there was a threat of damage owing to the high wind speed.Meanwhile, although shut for patients, the BKC jumbo centre will remain operational for vaccination. “Vaccination at Mulund and Dahisar jumbo centres will remain shut for now. However, the BKC jumbo centre will continue with the vaccination drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-jumbo-centres-in-mumbai-to-be-shut-for-2-weeks-101621364474742.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||City may see drizzles, thundershowers: IMD||Light rain and isolated thundershowers are likely to be felt at isolated locations across the city till Wednesday night, as per the India Meteorological Department’s forecast for the day. Thane and Palghar districts are also likely to see light to moderate rain on Wednesday, while the southern leg of the Konkan coast will continue seeing light rain. Cyclone Tauktae, which passed Mumbai on Monday after rapidly intensifying into a Category 4 cyclonic storm, made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and its influence on city weather is likely to fizzle out by Thursday morning, when clear and sunny skies are expected to take over. Partly cloudy, overcast skies were reported across the city on Tuesday as well, for the third consecutive day. As per the IMD’s automatic weather station in Santacruz, the city had received about 230mm of rain until 8:30am on Tuesday, surpassing the previous 24-hour rainfall record (190mm in May 2000). The IMD’s AWS in Colaba, meanwhile, saw 207mm of rain in the 24-hour period up to 8:30am on Tuesday, breaking the May 2000 record of 190.8mm. Both observatories have recorded rain in the month of May only for the second time in a decade. The last was 3mm of rainfall in May 2017. Meanwhile, some parts of the city registered over 300mm of rainfall within 24 hours (as of 8:30am), including Borivli and Juhu, as reported by independent meteorologists. Other districts received more torrential rainfall, such as Ratnagiri, which got 364mm of rainfall within just 15 hours, between Sunday night and Monday morning. Palghar, lying north of Mumbai, recorded 298mm rain in 15 hours between Monday and Tuesday. The city woke up to a minimum temperature of 23.7°Celsius (four degrees below normal) following heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-may-see-drizzles-thundershowers-imd-101621364414035.html
19-05-2021||Other||Vaccination to resume after Telangana gets sufficient doses: Govt||Hyderabad The Telangana government announced on Tuesday that it would resume vaccination programme in the state only after acquiring sufficient stocks of vaccine from the producers as per the allocation made by the Centre. State director of medical and health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters that the vaccination programme had not been taking place for the last three days due to inadequate stock of Covaxin and non-receipt of fresh stocks from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. He, however, refused to divulge the quantity of vaccine available with the state and when the vaccination programme would be resumed. “We do not want to take up vaccination with the limited stocks and stop the programme abruptly due to lack of arrival of fresh stocks. This will lead to periodical interruptions in the vaccination programme and create confusion among the people due to uncertainty in the vaccine availability,” Rao said. He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had given clear instructions that vaccination programme could be stopped for a few days and resumed only after sufficient stocks were available. “We are also floating global tenders this evening to mobilise sufficient quantity of vaccine at the earliest,” the health director said. On Tuesday, Telangana reported 3,982 Covid-19 positive cases and 27 deaths. “The recovery rate in the state is 90.47 per cent, as against the national average of 85.6 per cent,” Rao said. Director of medical education Dr Ramesh Reddy said the state government had decided to step up the medical infrastructure in the state to face any pandemic in the coming years. “The chief minister has approved setting up of six new medical colleges in the state at Sangareddy, Jagtial, Kothagudem, Wanaparthy, Mancherial, and Mahabubabad, besides six nursing colleges, from the coming academic year,” he said. At a review meeting on Monday night, the chief minister also announced setting up of 12 regional sub-centres at Siddipet, Wanaparthy, Mahboobabad, Kothagudem, Nagarkurnool, Suryapet, Bhongir, Jagtial, Mancherial, Bhoopalpally, Vikarabad, and Gadwal, where additional facilities would be created for treating Covid-19 patients in the existing government hospitals in these areas. He said these centres would ensure supply of medicines, oxygen and other requirements to the government hospitals. He asked the medical and health department to set up 48 oxygen-generation plants in the government hospitals to produce 324 metric tonnes of oxygen required for the Covid-19 patients in the state and also to ensure that there would not be any shortage of oxygen in future. He also instructed the officials to set up an additional plant to produce 100 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen in Hyderabad. “In the coming days Telangana should not depend on other states for the supply of oxygen,” he said. The chief minister called upon the people not to rush to private hospitals for treatment and pay exorbitant fees, as there were sufficient number of beds available in the government hospitals. There are 6926 beds vacant in the government hospitals, which include 2253 oxygen beds, 533 ICU beds and 4,140 general beds. With regard to black fungus cases, the director of medical education said there was no need to get panicky as it was not contagious. “At present, there are around 50 cases in the government hospitals, besides another 30-40 in private hospitals. We have appointed a committee of experts to prepare standard treatment protocol,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-to-resume-after-telangana-gets-sufficient-doses-govt-101621364354696.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Rescued from barges P-305 and Gal constructor, survivor relive horror||“A 15-20 minute delay by the naval rescue team would have cost me my life,” said Satish Narwal, 32, one of the workers on-board P-305 – a barge carrying 273 workers on-board which got disconnected from an oil rig in Bombay High owing to the winds from cyclone Tauktae and sank about 35 nautical miles from Mumbai on Monday – who was found almost 18 hours after he jumped into the Arabian Sea. At the time of going to press, search for the remaining 93 workers was on. Narwal floated and drifted in the sea with life jacket as his only support, saying his body would have given up if the Navy team wouldn’t have reached in time. The 32-year-old, who worked as a gas cutter for seven months, didn’t expect to survive the rough sea, which is why he took care to put his Aadhaar card in his pocket before jumping into the sea. “I thought it would make it easier for the authorities to identify me, in case my body was found somewhere,” he said. On Sunday, after work, he went to his makeshift residential quarters on P-305, an accommodation barge. “We were aware of the warnings about the cyclonic storm that was likely to hit the west coast. We realised it was more windy than usual,” said Narwal, “After 10pm on Sunday, perhaps the time when the cyclone passed the city’s coast and moved towards Gujarat, the sea became very stormy. Soon, our barge got disconnected from the oil rig and started floating away. We were not worried initially, as the power supply was on and everything seemed normal. However, soon, the lights went off and water started gushing into the compartments on the barge, forcing the occupants to gather on the deck wearing life jackets in the dark.” Narwal and his co-workers waited for hours for external help. “As the water level inside the barge increased on Monday afternoon, some jumped into the rough sea, when the winds were blowing at a high speed,” said the father of two. “I could hold on till 3pm and finally jumped, with the hope that Navy or Coast Guard will come to our rescue by sunset.” Narwal stayed afloat the entire night, remembering his wife, 9-year-old son and 4-year-old daughter and every family member and friend. Soon, he felt drained, which made him disoriented. “The sunrise gave me some hope. Finally, I saw a helicopter hovering around me around 9am. I gathered all my strength and waved my right hand in air and succeeded in attracting attention of the naval rescue team,” he said. Khopoli resident Pramod Barai, 36, a senior engineer, who was on barge P-305, also had to spend hours in the sea before he was picked up by a Navy helicopter at 11.30am on Tuesday. He was so traumatised when he was brought by the naval rescue team at INS Shikra in Mumbai that he could barely speak. The nightmare ended early for Leenas Alphonse, 50, a native of Tamil Nadu, who worked on Mumbai High oil rigs as a crane operator and was on Gal constructor, another barge that was being tugged to the Mumbai harbour. On Saturday, they took their dinner early and started their journey towards Mumbai. The barge was being tied by a tugboat, to bring the 137 workers on-board to safety. On Sunday evening, rough weather disconnected the barge from the tugboat and Gal Constructor started drifting away. After floating for some distance, foreman Anand Menon put the four anchors to hold the barge in place, but the anchors broke due to high waves and gusty winds around 11pm on Sunday and the barge started drifting northward. It floated towards Satpati in Palghar district and went aground about 48 nautical miles away from Colaba. The workers on-board spent the night and day without power and food. They started worrying when water started to enter the engine room around 8pm on Monday. “I called my wife and spoke to my 23-year-old daughter on her phone. I narrated the entire sequence of events and instructed her to take care of herself and her mother, as I wasn’t expecting to survive the rough sea. Both of us cried, but my daughter promised me that she would not immediately tell her mother about the situation,” said Alphonse. The Coast Guard (CG) on Tuesday rescued all 137 crew on-board the barge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-rescued-from-barges-p-305-and-gal-constructor-survivor-relive-horror-101621364354105.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone mayhem in city: 2 killed, nine injured||Two persons died and nine were injured over a span of 24 hours as Cyclone Tauktae passed Mumbai, civic officials said on Tuesday. Two persons were reported missing and are suspected to have drowned in two separate boat accidents. Cyclone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) that passed Mumbai shortly after noon on Monday, was the worst cyclone to have skirted the city in at least four decades. Tautke, which began crossing Mumbai’s latitude at about 12.37pm on Monday at a distance of about 120-130km from the coast caused huge tidal waves in the Arabian Sea that threw up heaps of garbage near the iconic Gateway of India in Apollo Bunder, Colaba. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said they picked up four trucks of garbage from the premises of the monument in south Mumbai after the storm subsided. Sangeeta Kharat (45) succumbed to her injuries following a tree collapse. The resident of BDD chawl, Worli, was injured when a banyan tree collapsed on her following which she rushed to KEM hospital for treatment. Four people were injured in Suman Nagar, Chembur, after a wall of their house which was undergoing repairs, collapsed on Monday. Three of them -- Akshay Mali (21), Sudarshan Mali (23), and Aakash Mali (26) were discharged after treatment, while Sagar Hanuman (22) is being treated at Sion hospital and is said to be in a stable condition. In Kajupada, Borivali East, Kunda Sakpal (40), Sagar Sakpal (25) and Devayani Sakpal (whose age is not known), were injured after a crane from an adjoining construction site fell on their home. They were treated at Krushna hospital and discharged. In Andheri east, a portion of a ground and one storey building collapsed, and a woman was injured. She is being treated at a private hospital, and her condition is stable, the BMC’s disaster management department said. A boat anchored near Madh Jetty was set loose, trapping five people inside. While four were rescued, one is missing. In a similar incident at Mahim causeway, a boat carrying five people was carried into the sea due to gusts of wind. While two swam back to the shore and two were rescued, and one is missing. Search operations have been suspended, the civic body said in a release on Tuesday. The storm damaged a sea-facing safety wall and iron gates near the Gateway of India and some jetty stones in the vicinity also got dislodged due to its impact, civic officials said on Tuesday. However, the main structure of the historic monument did not suffer any damage. “A number basalt stones near the Gateway of India have got dislodged with the impact of the cyclone and a small portion of the footpath there caved-in,” the official said. The area has been barricaded and the stones collected for repairs, he said. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the monument on Tuesday and reviewed the damage caused in the premises and the cleanliness work undertaken there by the civic body. “Two large basalt rocks were broken away from the jetty and crushed in the sea. These are capable of accomodating ten people. So we can imagine the intensity of wind and waves. The main structure of Gateway of India has not been damaged,” she said. A senior civic official of the heritage department said, “The parapet on the sea side has been damaged severely, and the iron railing that encloses the entrance on the sea side has also broken. No damage was done to the monument. Repair work has already started.” The rough sea also dumped tonnes of garbage near the iconic Marine Drive in south Mumbai, the mayor said. Residents across Mumbai complained of power outages, interrupted internet services, and disruptions in mobile phone networks even on Tuesday. The BMC’s disaster management department’s helpline number 1916 received 9,817 calls from citizens, reporting tree collapses, water logging, diverted traffic, asking for updates, and other incidents. Sion Koliwada, Matunga, Mahim, and Dharavi experienced power outages for several hours on Monday and Tuesday. “Many areas in Dharavi did not have power intermittently on Monday and Tuesday. Civic authorities carried out repair work on damaged meter boxes as trees or branches fell on them,” Tilak Singh, a resident of Dharavi said. “Our local internet was cut off on Tuesday, due severe water logging, and tree collapses on Monday,” Nikhil Desai, a resident of Matunga said. The BMC recorded water logging at 56 places as well as 43 incidents of house collapse, wall collapse or partial house collapse. The civic body also received 39 reports of short circuit, and 2,364 reports of tree collapse or branch collapse due to winds. Out of the 2,364 incidents of tree or branch collapse, 666 were reported in the island city, 595 in the eastern suburbs, and 1103 in the western suburbs. Maximum wind speed was recorded at Colaba pumping station – 114 km/hr -- followed by Britannia pumping station (107 km/hr) and Malvani (101.4 km/hr) between 8am on Monday and 8am on Tuesday. Several areas in Mumbai reported over 200mm rainfall during this same time, according to data from BMC. The mayor who visited the jumbo vaccination centre at BKC on Tuesday refuted reports of damage to the facility. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-mayhem-in-city-2-killed-nine-injured-101621364294585.html
19-05-2021||Other||TDP to boycott budget session to protest ‘misdeeds’ of Jagan govt||Hyderabad The Telugu Desam Party, the only opposition party in the Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly, on Tuesday announced that it would boycott the one-day budget session of the House on May 20 in protest against what it called the “unilateral, undemocratic and illogical” decisions of the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government. The decision was taken at the Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP) meeting held under the leadership of party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu through a video conference. Speaking to reporters at the party office in Guntur later, TDP state unit president and MLA K Atchannaidu said the party had decided to boycott the budget session in protest against the “misrule” of the Jagan government. “We are not boycotting the assembly, but the chief minister’s highhanded behaviour,” he said. The TDP leader pointed out that the budget session of Parliament and that of several state assemblies were held in March, when the Covid-19 pandemic was not so severe. “We asked the chief minister to hold the budget session, but he did not do it. Now, the second wave is very severe, but the government wants to hold it only because of constitutional obligation,” he said. The TDLP decided to hold a parallel mock assembly simultaneously with the state assembly session to expose what it called the failures and misdeeds of the Jagan rule. Former finance minister and MLC Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the government had no intention of holding a meaningful discussion in the assembly on public issues like Covid-19. “Even if the TDP attends the session, the chief minister and his ministers would not give any chance for them to speak in the House. As usual, the YSRC would bulldoze and suppress the voice of the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdp-to-boycott-budget-session-to-protest-misdeeds-of-jagan-govt-101621364294034.html
19-05-2021||Lucknow||FIR against 12 for killing dolphin in UP’s Sitapur; one arrested||An FIR has been lodged against 12 people in Hargaon area of Sitapur on Monday for catching and killing a rare fresh water dolphin from Sharda auxiliary canal on Sunday, police said.Fresh water dolphins are categorised as endangered species in the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) red book.The FIR was lodged after a video of the incident started doing the rounds on social media, said superintendent of police of Sitapur Rakesh Prakash Singh adding that one Prithivi Sahu has been arrested and two teams have been formed to arrest the other accused.He said a group of villagers in Hargaon area caught the dolphin from the auxiliary canal, which passes through the district and is used for fishing by the locals, in the fishing net and killed it.“The villagers apparently divided the meat among themselves. However, one of the locals recorded the act which was later circulated widely on social media platforms and caught the attention of forest officials,” said the SP.Based on the video evidence, local forest officials lodged the FIR at Hargaon Police station against 12 people who were booked under Wild life Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fir-against-12-for-killing-dolphin-in-up-s-sitapur-one-arrested-101621364234615.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy rescues 180 from barge, search on for remaining 93||In a massive air and sea mission, the Indian Navy rescued 180 of the 273 crew members from sunken barge P305, which de-anchored from an oil rig in Bombay High into the Arabian Sea, hours before the “extremely severe” cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast late on Monday. According to officials, search operations are going on for the remaining 93 workers of the accommodation barge that sank about 35 nautical miles off Mumbai. Tauktae, the most powerful storm to hit the region in more than two decades, packed sustained winds of up to 210km per hour when it came ashore in Gujarat. The barge was deployed at the Heera platform, the largest of the ONGC rigs in Bombay High, the largest oil and gas assets of the national energy major. Deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar said the barge sank at 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea. The subsequent search and rescue was one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades, he said.Indian Naval Ships (INS) Beas, Betwa and Teg have joined INS Kochi and INS Kolkata in the search and rescue (SAR) operations for the barge. The SAR had also been augmented with P-8I and naval helicopters, which held an aerial search and since the commencement of the SAR from May 17, 180 have been rescued so far, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer, Western Naval Command. Karnik, however, clarified that helicopters cannot be used for aerial search at night and the search will continue by naval ships after ascertaining the distance and direction the survivors could have drifted into the sea. P305, according to some rescued workers, got disconnected from the rig around 10.15pm on Sunday and went adrift as Tauktae struck the Konkan coast. Survivors said water started entering the accommodation barge from Monday morning and they were forced to get out of their compartments and move to the deck of the barge.From Monday afternoon, survivors started jumping from the barge, as it started sinking and since then they were waiting for the Navy to rescue them. A naval officer said that the extremely bad weather due to Tauktae had considerably delayed the SAR.After getting an alert from the barge, Indian Navy sailed warships along with other assets for the ongoing SAR. A Seaking helicopter was sent in Tuesday morning from INS Shikra, Mumbai, to support rescue efforts. The SAR operation is also being carried out by warships INS Kochi and INS Kolkata with the help of other offshore support vessels (OSV) like Greatship Ahilya and Ocean Energy in extreme weather conditions and very rough seas. The SAR operation continued throughout Monday night and 111 people were rescued by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata, and 17 and 18 people were rescued respectively by Greatship Ahilya and by Ocean Energy till 6am on Tuesday, said Karnik. Thereafter, 34 more people from the barge were rescued and brought to INS Shikra in Mumbai by Tuesday evening, taking the total of rescued persons to 180. “Four of our Indian Naval Ships are on site and for last more than 20 hours, the naval staff have been battling to search and rescue as many people as they can through the dark night and in challenging weather conditions,” said Pawar. Meanwhile, in another operation, an Indian Navy Seaking helicopter was launched to rescue crew members of GAL Constructor, another barge which ran aground north of Mumbai, near Satpati in Palghar district. The barge, with 137 persons on-board, was being brought to Mumbai, when it got off from the tug boat that was toeing it to Mumbai harbour on Sunday evening. The crew members tried to hold the barge in place by putting all its four anchors, but the cyclonic storm cut off the anchor, setting it adrift. All the 137 people on board the cargo barge GAL Constructor have been rescued. Search and rescue was also in progress off the coast of Gujarat for three vessels, namely Support Station 3, Great Ship Aditi and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were 15-20 nautical miles south-east off Pipapav on Gujarat coast. INS Talwar has arrived in the area and taken over the duties of “on-scene co-ordinator” for coordination of search and rescue efforts. The Western Naval Command said, it has in coordination with ONGC and director, general shipping, diverted five tugs to render assistance in the rescue operation. Great Ship Aditi and Support Station 3 have been able to drop anchor. Meanwhile, OSV’s Samudra Sevak and SV Cheel are connected to manoeuvre Sagar Bhushan, and the situation at present appears to be stable, said a naval officer. He added that even after passing of Tauktae, the sea continues to be extremely rough, posing a challenge to the ships and aircraft involved in the search and rescue operations. The main operation pertained to search and rescue of the people from P305, said Pawar. As regards the operation along Gujarat coast, he said the main assistance required was to prevent the three vessels of southern coast of Saurashtra, off Pipvava, from running aground. He added that all the three vessels were safe presently and INS Talwar was on the site and four Tugs were also mobilised by ONGC and shipping corporation of India to insure that these ships don’t run aground. He said the main challenge of course was weather itself and it was very severe cyclonic storm with the winds gusting to 80 to 90 nautical miles and wave heights of around 6 to 7m, incessant rain, zero visibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-rescues-180-from-barge-search-on-for-remaining-93-101621364175088.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt floats global tenders for 50 million vaccine doses||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Maharashtra government, too, has floated a global tender for procuring 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. In its expression of interest (EoI), which was issued on Monday, the state government has put the onus of getting Central approvals on bidders. Though the state has floated the global tenders, there is no clarity on many aspects, including legal indemnity, whether to procure from the source country, the transportation of the stock, duties on them, among others. The state government is aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadilla, among others. “The biggest hurdle would be the storage and transportation of the vaccines, which need to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius. None of our cities have such infrastructure to maintain the shots at that temperature. Since it has now become the sellers’ market with huge demand from across the globe, the manufacturers have been asking us to procure from manufacturing facilities. It will need robust logistical means to procure the shots that need to be kept at minus 70 degree celsius,” said an official. requesting anonymity as he was not authorised to speak to the media.The official said that though the centre has allowed the state to import the vaccines even before they are given clinical approvals, there is no clarity on other issues. He said that the issues like legal indemnity, import related nods and duty/taxes on import of such stocks are still grey areas.Another official from the health department said that price we are expected to pay per dose for these imported vaccine would be huge and may throw the government budget for a toss. “Most of these vaccines are expected to cost us more than ₹2,000 a dose against our local level procurement of ₹300 and ₹400 a dose. There would be limitations on import of vaccines due to this aspect too. Since the Centre has allowed private sector hospitals and corporate houses to directly procure the vaccines from two domestic players, we cannot even divert the imported stock to the private sector too,” he added. The officer also expressed apprehension over the response to the bids amid all these factors related to the import. Meanwhile, the Centre has not responded to state government’s request for permission to develop its own app for vaccination. Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had sought permission since there have been lots of complaints about the Cowin portal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-floats-global-tenders-for-50-million-vaccine-doses-101621364054081.html
19-05-2021||Lucknow||NHRC seeks report in Chitrakoot jail shootout case||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday asked Uttar Pradesh authorities to submit an action taken report within 10 weeks on complaints regarding the May 14 shootout in Chitrakoot jail in which three inmates were killed.The commission has issued notice to the UP DGP, DM and SP (Chitrakoot) and Chitrakoot Jail Superintendent through DIG, Prison, Prayagraj in this connection. The notice was issued in connection with the shootout inside the Chitrakoot jail in which an under-trial inmate Anshu Dixit shot dead two gangsters Mukeem alias Kala and Meraj Ahmad after getting a pistol inside the jail premises. Dixit was later gunned down in police firing.The commission stated in its notice that on May 14, 2021, a prisoner had allegedly snatched a pistol from prison personnel and killed two other prisoners and subsequently was killed in firing by the jail staff.The commission has asked the authorities to include all documents related to a detailed report (covering all the aspect leading to the death of the prisoners/encounter), copies of all relevant general diary entries or extract including departure and arrival of police before and after the encounter, copy of memo having details of seizure done after the incident, reports of the injured police personnel, if any, and details of criminal history of the deceased persons, if any (including the present status of case(s) registered against the deceased).The commission has also asked the site plan of scene of occurrence giving all the details (including positioning of forces/police and deceased during the encounter), inquest report, post mortem examination report of each of the deceased (typed copy of PMR especially injury along with diagram of entry-exit/ wound must be provided). It mentioned that the report should clearly mention whether blackening/charring/tattooing was present or not on the bodies of the deceased.It stated that the report should also include the videocassette or CD of post mortem examination of each of the deceased, result of the forensic examination of “hand wash” of the deceased to ascertain the presence of residue of gun powder, report of ballistic expert on examination of the arms and ammunition alleged to have been used by Anshu Dixit. Besides, the report of fingerprints expert, clearly mentioning whether the chance prints found on seized weapon matches with the fingerprints of the victim alleged to have fired the weapon recovered or otherwise, details of the investigation agency and case status and magisterial enquiry report (along with copies of the statement of family members of the deceased and other independent witnesses) was sought.The NHRC has also asked the State Human Rights Commission, Uttar Pradesh, through its secretary to inform the date of cognizance, if any, taken by them in the matter.Rohit K Singh9918171777||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nhrc-seeks-report-in-chitrakoot-jail-shootout-case-101621363994089.html
19-05-2021||Other||SOS calls reduce as B’luru sees dip in Covid cases, say helplines, volunteer groups||Bengaluru: With the city witnessing a decline in Covid cases over the last week, employees of Covid helplines and volunteer groups say that the number of emergency calls has also reduced since a few days. The number of new cases in the city started dropping from May 10 after weeks of witnessing a surge. According to experts, the marginal drop in daily new cases was mainly due to a decrease in the number of tests the state has been conducting in the past few weeks. In the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on April 27 imposed a lockdown, which will continue till May 24. On May 1, the state had reported 44,438 new Covid-19 cases, which increased to 50,112 on May 5. The state logged 41,664 new infections on May 15, according to the health department. Karnataka has seen a drop in the number of tests being conducted every day from 177,982 on May 1 to 118,345 by May 15, as per data. On the ground, however, relief workers say there is considerable change in the situation during the past three days. HS Gopal, who is in charge of the 1912 helpline, which has been catering to the bed requirements in the city, said that there has been a considerable reduction in the number of calls. “On Sunday and Monday, we got 3,587 and 2,500 calls respectively, which is at least 1,000 calls less than what we used to get during the peak. There is a definite reduction in the number of calls. Still, there is a demand for ICU beds, but the calls for other beds and oxygen beds have come down,” he said. 1912 number was originally the helpline for Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited or BESCOM. Once the cases in the city started to rise, the employees of the BESCOM call centre were deputed to Covid-19 helpline duties. “We had around 60 personnel working for the Covid-19 helpline and 30 working for BESCOM helpline, with the reduction in calls we might move some employees back to BESCOM since there are multiple power fluctuations due to rains,” Gopal added. Tauseef Ahmed, a volunteer with Mercy Mission, a group of volunteers who were helping with the relief activities especially providing beds, medicines and oxygen, said even they are seeing a reduction in the number of SOS calls. “We don’t keep a track of the number of calls we get in a day. So, I can give you my example, I used to take around 25-30 emergency calls every day. Now it has come down to 8-10,” said Ahmed. He added that they still get calls for the ICU beds, however, calls for oxygen and Remdesivir have dropped drastically. “We are getting a lot of calls for Amphotericin, which is needed for treating black fungus, Tocilizumab injection and ICU beds. For others, demand has come down,” he said. Samyukta Hornad, an actor, who has been helping patients with oxygen supply and hospital bed information too said that the number of calls per day has reduced. “Especially when it comes to oxygen what we hear is that that BBMP is able to provide adequate oxygen, which wasn’t the case earlier, and volunteers are helping hospitals with oxygen,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sos-calls-reduce-as-b-luru-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-say-helplines-volunteer-groups-101621363814042.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||PM praises Chandigarh admn for setting up three oxygen plants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appreciated the Chandigarh administration for timely commissioning three oxygen generation plants at government hospitals in the city. The PM was interacting through video conference with field officials from states and districts regarding their experience in handling the Covid-19 pandemic.The PM gave the instance of Chandigarh rapidly installing oxygen plants in time for its adequate supply. “Work is being done rapidly to install oxygen plants in hospitals in every district of the country, like in Chandigarh, through PM Cares Fund and these plants have already started functioning in many hospitals,” said ModiThe plants have been set up at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; and Dedicated Covid Hospital, Sector 48.On behalf of the UT, deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar made a presentation on the administration’s experience in Covid management.Brar mentioned about the steps being taken, including setting up of oxygen plants on priority, formation of the tricity coordination committee, involvement of all doctors in decision making, increase in testing and contact tracing and use of Covid Care Centres. He also highlighted the role played by Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College besides non-government organisations, resident welfare associations, religious bodies and other members of civil society in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-praises-chandigarh-admn-for-setting-up-three-oxygen-plants-101621363694585.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Cases down in Chandigarh, Panchkula, but Mohali bucks the trend||The number of Covid-19 cases and positivity rate dropped in the second week of lockdown in Chandigarh and Panchkula, but went up in Mohali district.The Punjab and Haryana governments had imposed statewide curbs from May 3 while Chandigarh followed suit a day later. The lockdown has been further extended for a week in Chandigarh and Panchkula while it will remain in force till the month end in Mohali.While extending the curbs on Monday, the Chandigarh administration had reasoned that it does not want to undo the “gains of the lockdown”, ie, the plateauing of cases.In Chandigarh, the number of cases had gone up by 3.3% in the first week of the lockdown (May 4-10) as compared to the week prior (April 27-May 3), but saw a significant drop of 16% in the second week (May 11-17).Even the weekly positivity rate saw a marginal drop during this period, but still remains above 20%. It means that of every five persons being sampled, at least one is testing positive for the virus.Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. On the other hand, the absolute number of positive cases is influenced by the number of tests conducted, and fails to give the true picture.For example, the drop in the number of positive cases in the second week of the lockdown is accompanied by a drop in testing numbers too.In week prior to the lockdown (April 27-May 3), 26,581 tests were conducted and 5,683 people tested positive, leading to a positivity rate of 21.4%. In the first week of lockdown, tests went down to 25,217 and case load went up to 5,874, with which positivity rate also saw an uptick to 23.3%. In the second week, tests further fell to 23,556, but even cases came down to 4,917, leading to a drop in positivity rate to 20.9%.In Panchkula, too, the trend has been similar to that in Chandigarh, with cases going down by 24% in the second week and positivity rate dropping to 15%, lowest across the tricity.However, Mohali, which has been the worst hit by the pandemic’s second wave in the tricity, has bucked the trend. The cases, in fact, surged by 26% in the second week and positivity rate, too, shot up from 22% to 27%.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the second wave was expected to peak during this period, and the lockdown has helped the administration in breaking the chain of infection. “We are hopeful that in the coming days, both the number of cases and deaths will come down,” he said.‘Takes at least 10 days to start seeing impact’ Meanwhile, the case fatality rate, ie, the proportion of people succumbing to the virus among all those tested positive for it, marginally declined from 1.07% (April 27-May 3) to 0.97% in the first week of the lockdown (May 4-10) in Chandigarh, before going up to 1.13% in the second week (May 11-17).In Panchkula, too, it declined from 1.31% (April 26-May 2) to 0.9% (May 3-9) before surging to 1.41% (May 10-16). In Mohali, the trend was once again the opposite, as the case fatality rate went up from 1% to 1.3%, before dropping to 1.07% during the same period as in Panchkula.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER, said: “The impact of a lockdown takes at least 10 days to be felt. There is a lag of a week before the infection manifests itself. So, a person infected today will test positive in about a week. In case of deaths, the lag is of around two weeks.”The central government has recently advised states and UTs with over 10% positivity rate to continue with “stringent containments” even if they are witnessing a decline or plateau in order to sustain the trend.Meanwhile, UT adviser Manoj Parida said the lockdown may not be the solution, but gives a breather for the health infrastructure to be built up.“It helps in breaking the chain, and has started to show results. However, the long-term solution is for people to strictly follow Covid protocol and get vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-cases-down-in-chandigarh-panchkula-but-mohali-bucks-the-trend-101621363575148.html
19-05-2021||Other||Covid recoveries exceed daily cases in Karnataka||Bengaluru The number of persons recovering from Covid-19 has exceeded new infections in Karnataka, indicating signs of the pandemic shrinking in the southern state.According to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Tuesday, Karnataka recorded 58,395 recoveries in the last 24 hours on Tuesday as against 30,309 new infections on Tuesday.“Karnataka reported the highest ever single day recovery with 58,395 recoveries on Tuesday. 30,309 cases were reported in the state today & recoveries have outnumbered the new cases. 8,676 new cases were reported in Bengaluru today while 31,795 people recovered,” K Sudhakar, minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter.The higher number of recoveries also brought down the total active caseload to below 600,000 and it stood at 575,028.However, the state continues to report a high number of fatalities as 525 more succumbed to second Covid wave. Bengaluru accounted for at least 298 fatalities, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru recorded a decline in active cases, registering below the five-figure mark at 8,676 that brings down its active caseload to 340,965.Experts, however, have indicated that the decline in cases is also due to lower testing.Any direct quote from Experts??The number of tests saw a drastic decline from a total of 1,77,982 (RT-PCR and RAT)on May 1 to 93,247 across the state on Tuesday, according to the daily health bulletin.Senior health department officials, however, have stated that they are doing “targeted testing” in the state which has led to the decline in total numbers.The positivity rate in the state remains at a high of 32.50%.Bengaluru accounted for almost 60% of the daily caseload in Karnataka and lower number of infections can give the state government some room to finally focus on the other 29 districts of Karnataka which are witnessing a surge in cases.The BS Yediyurappa-led state government has imposed a lockdown in Karnataka and are deliberating if the same should be extended beyond May 24, when it is scheduled to end, based on the new infection rate in the state.The mineral-rich district of Ballari recorded 28 fatalities and registered1,799 new infections, taking its active caseload to above 20,290.Similarly, the coastal district of Uttara Kannada recorded 22 fatalities and 803 new infections. Coastal Karnataka and districts that come under the Malnad region have been fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and the onslaught caused by Cyclone Tauktae, which has so far claimed eight lives in the state.The border district of Bidar recorded four fatalities and its total number of infections have come down to 113. The district, which featured among the top contributors until a few weeks ago, has the lowest single-day count among all 30 districts of the state, data shows.2118 new infections was recorded in Belagavi, 1339 in Bengaluru Rural, 969 in Dharwada, 777 in Dakshina Kannada, 834 in Hassan, 1021 in Kolar, 1916 in Mysuru, 1168 in Shivamogga and 1562 in Tumakuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-recoveries-exceed-daily-cases-in-karnataka-101621363514118.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur hospital owner booked for fleecing Covid victim’s kin||A day after a three-member committee found a Zirakpur hospital guilty of overcharging and medical negligence, a case has been registered against its owner. The district administration has also constituted a medical board to determine the extent of medical negligence.The owner of New Lifeline Hospital, Dr Manish Goyal, has been booked under Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (b), 58 of the Disaster Management Act, and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.An inquiry was marked against the private hospital after a deceased patient’s family alleged overcharging and denial to hand over the body without clearance of bills. The patient, Paramjit Singh, was suffering from severe pneumonia due to Covid-19 when he was admitted to the hospital on April 26; he died on May 14. In its report, the committee had stated that there were incidences of overcharging and grave lapses in the medical record management by the hospital authorities.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that directions had been given to all private hospitals to prominently display the Covid-19 treatment charges as capped by the Punjab government.The hospitals have also been advised to exhibit the name of the nodal officer for grievance redressal by patients’ family/attendant, the DC added.Dayalan informed that very stringent action under the Epidemic Diseases Act would be taken against erring hospitals, and that the government was empowered to shut down the facility or take control over it, if need be.The nodal officers for grievance redressal in the district are the sub-divisional magistrates of the respective sub-divisions: Himanshu Jain (9533502245) for Kharar, Kuldeep Bawa (9815711006) for Dera Bassi and Jagdeep Sehgal (8727856083) for Mohali.The treatment charges for tertiary care (L3) in private medical colleges and hospitals without a ventilator and with a ventilator (invasive/non-invasive) for moderate to very sick patients range from ₹10,000 to ₹18,000. For details, the copy of the orders issued by Punjab government can be found at http://sasnagr.nic.in/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-hospital-owner-booked-for-fleecing-covid-victim-s-kin-101621363274771.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moderate to heavy rain, squall likely in Chandigarh||The circulations arising from Cyclone Tauktae will reach the city by Wednesday and moderate to heavy rain up to 70mm is likely in the city as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Speaking about this, IMD officials said, “The rain is likely to be accompanied with gusty winds up to 50km/h and thunder and lightning. There are chances of squall also on Wednesday. Rain will continue on Thursday as well, but will reduce in intensity. The system is likely to stop from Friday onwards, with chances of light rain up to 20mm on that day.”The temperature is likely to take a plunge also with the maximum temperature likely to fall down to 26°C on Wednesday. Mercury will, however, start to rise again from Friday.Instructions issued by IMDFor thunderstorms and gusty winds, IMD has asked people to avoid taking shelter under trees and to avoid electric poles and wires. For the rain, the IMD has asked people to avoid going into waterlogged areas and clean their drainages. IMD has also asked farmers to avoid application of fertilisers and insecticides in their crops.The maximum temperature in the city went down from 40.7°C on Monday to 32.2°C on Tuesday. The minimum temperature went up from 22.6°C on Monday to 27°C on Tuesday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will stay between 26°C and 31°C while the minimum temperature will stay between 21°C and 23°C..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moderate-to-heavy-rain-squall-likely-in-chandigarh-on-may-19-101621363214630.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Dates for Delhi mayoral polls extended again, to be held on June 8||New Delhi: With the Capital in lockdown till May 24, elections for the posts of mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairperson in the three city’s three municipal corporations were extended on Tuesday, and will now be held on June 8, and candidates can file nominations till May 31.This is the third time the polls have been rescheduled due to the ongoing lockdown.“Since the lockdown has been extended to May 24, we have decided to hold elections … on June 8. These elections will be held at the headquarters of the North and South Delhi Municipal Corporations in Civic Centre and at the East Delhi Municipal Corporation headquarters in Patparganj on the due date,” North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said.The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act provides for election of mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairperson from among councillors of the civic bodies in the first meeting of the House every year. Mayors and deputy mayors get a year-long term in Union Territory cities.“Nominations can be filed in the office of the municipal secretary on any working day between 11am and 5pm,” a senior north corporation official said.Civic authorities said elections for the aforementioned posts were initially due to be held between April 27 and 29, but were postponed to May 18 after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal imposed the curbs on April 19. The polls were again postponed to May 25, while the last date of nominations was to be May 18.Besides this, a member of the North corporation will also be elected to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) advisory council on June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dates-for-delhi-mayoral-polls-extended-again-to-be-held-on-june-8-101621358115564.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Three held for beating Kenyan man to death in dispute over taxi fare||A taxi driver and two of his friends on Monday beat to death a 50-year-old Kenyan man after a tiff over the travel fare, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday after arresting the suspects.The suspects dumped the body of the victim, Jama Said Farah, near a hotel close to the Delhi Airport and took away his luggage to ensure be couldn’t be identified. However, the victim’s cellphone helped the police crack the case, said Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (IGI Airport).Farah arrived in India two weeks ago to get a heart condition treated at a facility in the Capital, the police said. However, the treatment was cancelled due to the pandemic, Ranjan said.He said the police received a call on Monday reporting an unidentified man’s body lying near a hotel close to the airport. The police found a cellphone next to the body and checked the last dialled number, which belonged to a travel agent.“The travel agent confirmed the victim’s identity and said he was to fly back to Kenya via Somalia on Monday. The agent booked tickets for him,” said Ranjan.The police soon received a call from Farah’s daughter who revealed that the victim was off-loaded from a flight since he was going to Kenya via Somalia, but did not have a Somalia visa.“So, the man decided to stay at a hotel in Mahipalpur. He hired a cab from Terminal 3. Before departing, he sent the taxi’s registration number to his daughter,” the DCP said.The cab, driven by one Virender Singh, was also occupied by two of his friends — Gopal Singh and Dilbagh, who goes by a single name.The cab was hired for ₹500, but there was a dispute over the fare along the way. “During the quarrel, the three of them thrashed Farah and left his body near a hotel. They took his luggage away so that he couldn’t be identified,” said the DCP.But since the victim’s daughter was able to provide the cab number, the police went on to nab the three suspects from south Delhi’s Rangpuri area, where the three lived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-beating-kenyan-man-to-death-in-dispute-over-taxi-fare-101621358113814.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Heavy rain likely in Delhi-NCR as a weakened Tauktae closes in||Parts of north India, including Delhi and NCR, saw overcast skies and light rain on Tuesday under the impact of cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and after weakening considerably, is currently moving inwards towards Delhi.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said Delhi is also likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. An advisory issued by the IMD said Tauktae and its remnants would interact with a western disturbance trough, creating an interaction zone. This weather phenomenon is likely to form above Delhi and adjoining areas, resulting in heavy rainfall in the region.“In addition, high moisture feeding from the Arabian Sea is also likely over north-west India, which would result in heavy to very heavy rainfall over Delhi, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, west and east Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and north Rajasthan on Wednesday,” the advisory read.A senior IMD scientist said rainfall activity is likely to begin in parts of Delhi from Tuesday night. The IMD has issued an orange alert over Delhi and NCR for Wednesday. An orange warning means authorities are to ”be prepared” for heavy to very heavy rainfall.Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced Tau’Te) had intensified into an ”extremely severe cyclonic storm” and made landfall on Gujarat coast late Monday with wind speeds between 150kmph and 160kmph. A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds and heavy rainfall. Tropical cyclones always have an eye, a central region of clear skies and warm temperatures.IMD forecast said while the rainfall activity in and around the national capital on Wednesday is likely to be intense, on Thursday, there is only a possibility of drizzle in some parts.Met officials said residents should brace for the possibility of heavy traffic, water logging and flooding, and minor damages to road and vulnerable structures, as a result of the heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-delhi-ncr-as-a-weakened-tauktae-closes-in-101621358055307.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||After assurances of supply, Delhi adds 153 jab centres for 45+ age group||The Delhi government has increased the number of vaccination centres for those aged 45 and above after receiving new supply assurances, but the administration may need to soon halt the drive for younger adults since no new stocks are expected for the 18-44 age group, Aam Aadmi Party legislator Atishi said.Delhi on Monday added 153 vaccination centres for the category that includes health care workers, frontline workers, and those aged above 44, taking the number of centres to 623. Around 100 of these are in state-run schools and allow walk-in jabs.In a briefing on the vaccination drive on Tuesday, Atishi said the state government received 60,240 doses of Covaxin from its manufacturer Bharat Biotech for the 45+ age group, which should last two days. The state also has four days of Covishield stocks for the bracket.A set of documents confirming the delivery schedule, seen by HT, show that the Capital is scheduled to receive another 98,890 doses of Covaxin and 283,970 doses of Covishield for the this age group between May 21 and 29.Also Read| Covid-19: Uncertainty over banks, infra in Delhi after plasma therapy droppedThese assurances of supply, senior officials said, have allowed the Delhi government to widen its drive to vaccinate the older adults and increase the number of centres. “We plan to further increase centres in the coming days if we receive more estimates on supplies,” said Atishi.Doses for the 45-and-above category are offered for free by the Union government, while those for the 18-44 age group are purchased directly by the state governments. Due to limited supply and concerns over equitable access among states, the Union government has fixed a ratio in which stocks will be delivered under both categories.Delhi government officials said they have not received any commitments for vaccines for the 18-44 beneficiary group despite several state government centres running out of Covaxin, and with just three days of Covishield stocks remaining, the government’s health bulletin said.The numbers in the state government’s vaccination bulletin relate to concerns in just the state’s stocks. Central government-run centres vaccinate only the 45-and-above group, while private hospitals have their own stock.Also Read| Delhi govt starts vaccinating Tihar inmates in 18-44 age group“We hope that the central government makes vaccines available for the 18-44 beneficiary group the way it did for the 45-plus beneficiary group. Otherwise, we will be forced to close more centres,” said Atishi.Government records showed that the number of city government-run centres for the 18-44 population has dropped from 368 to 250 over the past week.“To stop the pandemic, it is essential to vaccinate the younger population. Only around 700,000 people of this age group in Delhi have so far received the first dose of the vaccine,” Atishi said.Overall, around 4.7 million doses of vaccines have been administered in Delhi – of which 1.7 million are second doses – since the inoculation drive was started. Electoral roll data shows that Delhi will need 30 million doses to vaccinate its 15 million-strong adult population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-assurances-of-supply-delhi-adds-153-jab-centres-for-45-age-group-101621357934414.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Police take Navneet Kalra to his restaurants, office to look for evidence||A team of the Delhi Police’s crime branch on Tuesday took businessman Navneet Kalra to his three restaurants — Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju — his opticals shop, Dayal Opticals, and an office in Okhla for “further recoveries” after previous seizures of oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment, investigators said.Kalra was arrested on Sunday evening for allegedly hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices.A laptop and some “crucial documents” related to the sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators were recovered from Kalra’s Okhla office and other business establishments, an officer said on condition of anonymity.Kalra was arrested from his in-laws’ farmhouse in Gurugram on Sunday. On Monday, the Saket district court sent him to three days of custodial interrogation after the crime branch said his custody was required to unearth the whole nexus, the conspiracy behind the black marketing of devices and to track the money trail. The police said he was on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants, and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7.On Tuesday, Kalra was also interrogated by the investigating team to ascertain his role in the case, the police officer said.The officer said Kalra told the interrogators that he learnt of the raids on his restaurants from television news channels. Kalra told the police that since the channels identified him as the “mastermind” behind the hoarding racket, he left for the farmhouse in Gurugram with his family, fearing torture by the police, the officer said, sharing details from Kalra’s questioning.The police have alleged that for each concentrator, Kalra and his partners made a profit of at least ₹55,000. The concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 each and sold at ₹70,000-75,000. The police said that since October last year, Kalra and his associates bought nearly 7,500 concentrators and more than 2,000 concentrators were sold in Delhi.Five people -- the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, and the chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular -- were arrested since the recovery of the concentrators. All five were later released on bail. While granting bail to the accused on May 13, the court said: “No prima facie case under Section 420 IPC is made out against the accused, at least from the contents of the FIR”, adding it was unable to understand the offence they had committed as the government did not regulate the prices of the devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-take-khan-chacha-owner-to-his-restaurants-office-to-look-for-evidence-101621357873848.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Stop Singapore flights, Kejriwal urges Centre amid concerns over new strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to suspend flights to and from Singapore with immediate effect in the wake of an alleged new strain detected in that country, which is suspected to affect more children. Hours later, Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri replied to Kejriwal saying no flight, except a few under the Centre’s Vande Bharat mission (to bring back Indians), is operating between India and Singapore.Kejriwal hinted that the alleged new strain could mark the advent of the third wave of Covid-19 in the country and urged the Centre to give priority to identifying vaccines for children to fight the virus.The chief minister’s comments came in the wake of a new strain of Covid-19 detected in Singapore, forcing it to shut schools from Wednesday as it is suspected to affect more children, like the Indian strain of the virus.However, a section of foreign media stated that the strain, which the Singapore government said was affecting more children, is actually B.1.617 and that there is no new “Singapore strain”. Hindustan Times could not independently verify this.“The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too,” the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi.Union minister Puri replied to Kejriwal saying international flights are shut since March, 2020. “Kejriwal ji, international flights are shut since March 2020. We do not even have an air bubble with Singapore. We are only bringing back Indians who are stranded there through some Vande Bharat flights. They are our own people only. Still, we are closely monitoring the situation. All precautions are being taken,” he tweeted in Hindi.Also Read| No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters KejriwalWhen asked about this alleged new variant during the Union health ministry’s press briefing, Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said the Central government is examining the matter. “We are examining the report you’re referring to about the particular variant,” he said.Singapore warned on Sunday that the new coronavirus variants, such as the one first detected in India, were affecting more children, as the city-state prepared to shut most schools from Wednesday and drew up plans to vaccinate youngsters. All primary, secondary and junior colleges will shift to full home-based learning from Wednesday until the end of the school term on May 28.“Some of these (virus) mutations are much more virulent, and they seem to attack the younger children,” said Singapore education minister Chan Chun Sing.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Kejriwal stated wrong facts in his tweets and criticised his “callousness” as a chief minister.“It seems Arvind Kejriwal doesn’t check facts before speaking or he intentionally speaks to create a controversy. While demanding a ban on flights between India and Singapore, the CM ignored the fact that all normal flight operations between the two countries stand suspended since April 24, 2020. Not only that, Kejriwal also ignored the fact that the Covid strain B.1.617, which has now been found in Singapore, has been active in India since March 2021, especially in Maharashtra. One fails to understand why Kejriwal is now trying to create panic for this strain of Covid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stop-singapore-flights-kejriwal-urges-centre-amid-concerns-over-new-covid-strain-101621357822817.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Positivity drops below 7%, 265 new deaths||Delhi reported 4,482 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, almost the same as the day before, but from a higher number of tests, which that the test positivity rate clocked in at lower than 7% for the first time since April 7.Experts said the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive – dropping to 6.89% underlines the trend of the outbreak slowing down in the national capital, which has been in a near-complete lockdown since April 19 after a fourth wave of cases took hold.A day after the lockdown was imposed, the Capital reported a peak of over 28,000 cases in a day and the positivity rate at one point crossed 36%, meaning one in three people tested for the infection had it.Delhi reported over 20,000 cases each day for sixteen consecutive days between April 17 and May 2, after which the cases began receding gradually.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged people to keep up their guard against the disease.“The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway,” he said on Saturday.The deaths are yet to taper off. Although lower than the peak of 448 deaths reported on May 3, the city has been reporting about 300 deaths on average daily for the last seven days. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 265 deaths due to the viral infection, taking the city’s total Covid-19 toll to 22,111 so far since the first death was reported on March 13 last year.“No one can say when or if the next surge will happen. What we have seen so far is that the there is a gap of five to six months between the two waves. This can be utilised to put things in order and prepare. Strong genomic sequencing data along with the epidemiological picture will also help in predicting (the pattern),” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.The seven-day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – stood at 3.67% on Tuesday. The cumulative CFR, calculated on the basis of total cases and deaths reported so far, stands at 1.58% in Delhi.Experts said the numbers could stay low for some time, with a large chunk of the population having been exposed to the infection.“Those who have had the infection will be protected from a second infection for some time,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.To be sure, confirmed cumulative positive cases in the Capital are at a little over 1.4 million, which is approximately 7.5% of the population -- which potentially leaves a large swathe of the population still vulnerable to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/positivity-rate-drops-below-7-in-delhi-101621357695225.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt starts vaccinating Tihar inmates in 18-44 age group||The west Delhi district on Tuesday started vaccinating Tihar jail inmates in the 18-44 age group and, according to district officials, around 100 inmates were vaccinated on Day One of the drive. The officials said there are around 11,000-12,000 in this age group at Tihar currently.The west Delhi district has set up an outreach site in Tihar jail for the vaccination drive. The move comes after director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel wrote to the state government, requesting it to start vaccinating inmates in the age group of 18-44 years.Ishaan Sharma, officer on special duty (vaccination), west Delhi district, said, “As a special case, we have started vaccinating inmates in the 18-44 age group in Tihar. We have deputed a team for this purpose. There are around 11,000-12,000 inmates who are in this category. The district administration decided to vaccinate them on priority as they could become a super-spreader group, given the close proximity in which live inside the prison.”According to west Delhi district officials, inmates are allowed to register on the spot at the vaccination site. Sharma said, “As a special case, we have taken permission from the state government for on-site registration for inmates. These people don’t have access to the CoWin portal. So, they can just walk in and get registered for a shot. We have set a daily vaccination target of 200 at this site.”West Delhi is the first revenue district to have set up an outreach vaccination site for the 18-44 age group, the vaccination for which category started on May 1.The government has recently started vaccinating all inmates who are aged 45 and above at the three jails of Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini. Until Tuesday, 1, 472 inmates in three jail complexes –1,089 (including 49 who received second shot of the vaccine) in Tihar, 112 in Rohini and 271 in Mandoli—have been vaccinated.An official from Shahdara district, under which comes the Mandoli prison, said on condition of anonymity, “We are currently vaccinating people in the 45+ category. So far, no decision has been taken on vaccinating inmates in the 18-44 age group.”In the past one week, at least 1,700 inmates from the three prisons, both convicts and under trials, have been released on interim bail or emergency parole for 90 days in an effort to decongest prisons. They will have to surrender after 90 days in case their parole or interim bail is not extended.Until last month, the three prisons collectively had 20,500 prisoners, while the sanctioned capacity is only 10,026.The three jail complexes, which currently house around 18,000 prisoners, have reported six deaths due to Covid-19 in the past two months. Last year, two prisoners had died of Covid-19. The jail authorities said the jail hospital at each complex is being used as a vaccination site.The spread of the Covid infection inside Tihar has been more severe during the second wave of the pandemic, as compared to the first one. In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. But in the past one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners, said jail officials.“The cases are under control now. We have around 79 positive cases among inmates. Last month, when Delhi was reporting a positivity rate of over 30℅, we have around 290 positive cases. Now with a few prisoners released, and more waiting to be released, the situation is much better,” said a prison officer, who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-vaccinating-tihar-inmates-in-18-44-age-group-101621357693941.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Covid: BSES electrifies temporary ICU centres with 1,000 beds in a fortnight||With nearly seven kilometres of underground cables, eight distribution transformers and 280 workers, power distribution company BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) has completely electrified two temporary intensive care unit (ICU) facilities set up to treat Covid-19 patients. The centres, one at the Ramlila ground near Lok Nayak Hospital and the other at another plot near GTB hospital — which have a total of 1,000 beds — were powered in a total of 14 days. The two facilities have a total power consumption allocation of 10MW, said officials.“BYPL had been tasked with readying the power infrastructure on a war-footing. We did this in a record time of seven days in each of the two sites. Between the two sites, the discom has laid nearly seven kilometres of underground cables using trenchless technology. The anticipated power demand at each of the facilities can go up to 5MW . Accordingly, at each of the two sites, four distribution transformers, each with an installed capacity of 1.6 MVA,” a BSES spokesperson said.To cater to this large load requirement, around 280 officials worked around-the-clock under the direct supervision of the company’s senior leadership team and in close coordination with the state government and other departments, the spokesperson said. To ensure uninterrupted power-supply, back up-provisions have also been made at both the centres.“Additionally, quick response teams (QRT), with senior engineers, have been stationed in the vicinity of the two facilities, to take care of any contingency. Moreover, the underground cables will be monitored extensively to ensure they are not inadvertently cut by any civic agency while undertaking any excavation work,” the discom said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bses-electrifies-temporary-icu-centres-with-1-000-beds-in-a-fortnight-101621357574376.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune city receives 7,500 doses of Covishield; vax drive to resume on Wed||PUNE On Tuesday, Pune city received 7,500 doses of Covishield, which will allow the vaccination drive that was halted for two days, to resume. The PMC commissioner, Vikram Kumar, issued a fresh set of orders, whereby, on Wednesday, the city will have vaccinations at 73 centres, and all the doses will be of Covishield. Pune mayor Murldihar Mohol said, “A total of 73 centres will be available tomorrow for citizens aged 45 years and aboe, senior citizens, healthcare and frontline workers. All centres will be of Covishield. Beneficiaries who took the first dose 84 days ago, will be eligible for the second dose. This new stock will be available only for a second dose. Ten per cent of the stock would be reserved for those who have an online appointment, while the rest will be reserved for walk-ins. There will be no vaccination for those aged between 18-44 years on Wednesday.”In view of political party workers hijacking vaccination centres and giving out tokens, the commissioner stated that all vaccinations have to be registered on the CoWin portal, and that no vaccination would be given without registration. “There should be separate lines for those registered online and for those who want on-the-spot registration. For those who want to be registered on the spot, only pmc employees would be allowed to register the person,” Kumar said.His order also states that the order of priority will be as follows;: those with disabilities, those who want a second dose, senior citizens, those registered online for the first dose and then, those who want on-the-spot registration for the first dose. The order also states that a vaccination centre can approach a local police station for protection and for crowd management. Also, the ward’s assistant commissioner concerned or health officer must provide a police constable for crowd management at the vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-receives-7-500-doses-of-covishield-vax-drive-to-resume-on-wed-101621350733558.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pleasant summer season will have no direct impact on monsoon: IMD||Since the temperature in Pune, and Maharashtra have not seen a major rise this season, the feel of a ‘hot’ summer has been missing. On some days, the maximum day temperature touched the 40 degrees Celsius mark in Pune city, however, did not stay at that point for long. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) claim that a pleasant summer may not have have a direct impact on the onset of monsoon.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), the reasons for not increasing the maximum temperature are the continuous weather systems that have been active over the state. The Southwest monsoon is likely to advance into south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21, according to IMD. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that the day temperature in Pune city during the summer season has touched 40 degrees Celsius only on a few occasions. “When the mercury touched 40 degrees Celsius, we experienced local instability in the weather. This has caused light rainfall with cloudy weather towards the evening. There were also thunderstorms and lightning accompanied with the rainfall but due to this, the following days become cooler. Thus, the warming effect has been cooled off,” said Kashyapi. Until May 24, the IMD has forecasted cloudy skies and pleasant days for Pune city. “After May 24, the temperature is not likely to rise in Pune. However, for Maharashtra, a marginal rise in day temperature may be seen in Vidarbha and Marathwada in the next few days until May 27,” said Kashyapi. As per the seasonal outlook for April to June issued by the IMD, it has clearly been stated that subdivision in the state will experience normal day temperature. Along with this, March as well as April this year reported very fewer incidents of heat waves. As per a recent report by IMD, in Maharashtra and rest of Central India, no frequent heat wave conditions were observed. Also, the maximum temperature over Maharashtra and Central India was below normal by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius. OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and forecast, IMD Pune said that the cause of isolated heat waves events in Central India which includes Maharashtra is that La Nina conditions are active this year. “We have observed the presence of lower-level wind convergence on many days in April this year. This resulted in rainfall and thunderstorms activities over most subdivisions in Maharashtra during the summer season. This eventually restricted the heating intensity to a few days and resulted in a comparatively pleasant summer,” said Sreejith. In May, Extremely Severe Cyclone (ESC) Tauktae brought rainfall and thunderstorms with gusty winds to many parts of the state. In Pune as well, more than 3 mm rainfall was reported in the last two days. Since 2009, Pune has reported a maximum day temperature in the month of May at 41.9 degrees Celsius in May 2010. However, this month in May, the day temperature did not even touch 40 degrees Celsius. Effect on Monsoon OP Sreejith, Scientist from IMD also added that there is no direct correlation between the intensity of heat in summer season and the monsoon. “The monsoon depends on various factors. IMD has issued the first long range forecast in April. We will be issuing another by the end of this month,” said Sreejith. In its first long range forecast for Monsoon 2021, IMD has forecasted that Southwest monsoon seasonal that is from, June to September, rainfall over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal that is 96 to 104 per cent of Long Period Average (LPA). “Quantitatively, between the month of June to September rainfall is likely to be 98 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) with a model error of ± 5%,” stated IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pleasant-summer-season-will-have-no-direct-impact-on-monsoon-imd-101621349773532.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Active Covid cases drop in Pune by almost 50% in 12 days||There has been a steady decline in the number of active Covid-19 cases in areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). On May 5, there were 39,732 active cases in PMC. On May 17, that number had dropped to 18,440. The number of patients on oxygen support also reduced from 6,634 on May 5 to 5,286 on May 17.As a result, the availability of oxygenated beds in the city has eased. “The demand for beds with oxygen has reduced. This can be attributed to the decline in active cases,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer, PMC. Though the demand for oxygen beds has reduced, according to officials, the requirement for beds with ventilator support is still strong. “The demand for ventilator beds is still there. Patients from rural parts of Pune have contacted me. Though the number of patients has reduced we have started planning and preparing for the third wave. A special ward for paediatric Covid patients will be created at the COEP Jumbo hospital, in anticipation of the third wave,” said Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner, PMC. Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital, said that the number of patients from outside Pune getting admitted to the hospital has increased. “There is still high demand for ventilator ICU beds. Mostly, these admissions are of patients from rural Pune, or out of Pune district, like Satara, Karad, Sangli, Daund, amnd Saswad. The oxygen burden has reduced,” said Dr HK Sale. As per data available on the Pune Division’s Covid dashboard for bed availability, on Tuesday afternoon, 2,662 oxygen beds of the 7,680 allocated Oxygen beds were vacant. Also, 106 ICU beds without ventilators were vacant, whereas only nine ventilator beds were vacant in the Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/active-cases-drop-by-almost-50-in-12-days-101621347793422.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune becomes ‘Covid conscious’, a touch too late||I walk for an hour every day. The cops don’t stop me. The cops do not stop anyone out cycling or walking or running, as long as the mask is on and there are no groups. I walk from my home in Salisbury Park, up past the Central Defence Accounts office, take a right at the main road and then head to five road stretches which are de rigueur for exercisers, from either Salisbury Park, Pul gate, or from the Army area that surrounds it. Hutchings School, the road parallel to it, Middle Road, Napier road and the road that runs past the AFMC nurses quarters. All microcosms of a time when all of Pune was like these roads – bungalows with verdant foliage lining broad streets that for the most part, see little or no traffic. Not anymore. The lockdown effect (avoid the cops), or may be just a general overspill of Pune’s urban growth, now sees these laid-back, fully residential areas bustling with twice the amount of traffic as five years ago; certainly the case with Napier road. I walked the route in lockdown 1, and am walking it in the current lockdown. I walked the same route before the lockdowns and in between. Microcosmically, walking the same stretch for over a year allows you to take in the finer details of the roads. The houses, the dogs and Punekars, in general. Here is the shortlist of stuff I’ve noticed. What the spit is wrong with you? The average Punekar spits in public without a second thought to public cleanliness or a general rule of health. On the route I walk, I endeavour to go one day where I see no one spit. For over a year, it has not been possible. Someone will spit in public – man, woman and child. My mind travels back 20 years ago, when as a budding reporter, I covered an event in Sadashiv peth, attended by the likes of the late Dr Banoo Coyajee and Dr Rajiv Sarangpani, where the raison d’être of the meeting was public cleanliness and what ordinary citizens did, at the time, to ensure their public habits did not put public health at risk. Much like an AA meeting, one man stood up, said his name and then said, “I have not spit in public or on the road for the last seven years”. The tone and tenor of the sharing suggested spitting as an addiction for him, which he had conquered. Spitting, by and large, is a subconscious reality for the average Punekar. And it is sickening. Strays and pets pooping I tread carefully now. My family has a pet dog, a stray, picked off the street as a pup, now commands love and care that on most days, even I am jealous of. Must pets be allowed to poop on the street? Must pet owners who walk their dogs on the street carry the poop back with them? Are the animal saviours that scour Salisbury Park and Napier road ensuring that strays are fed, responsible for animal waste dotting the landscape? There is no easy answer, I get that. But, a smart city must evolve to tackle such community issues. A penchant for throwing out food The streets I walk, especially Hutchings school and Middle road, provide ideal getaways for autorickshaw drivers seeking to escape the afternoon heat (yes, I walk in the afternoon-early evening), and for all sorts of Punekars – youth looking for a perfect selfie in the middle of the road; young couples out for some quality time together and drug addicts and afternoon tipplers. I have encountered all on the route in some shape or form. The one common thread that binds all these different groups of people is their ability to throw food on the road. The drinkers will liberally leave their chaknya behind on the road; the couples, whatever snack they were nibbling on; and even the stop-for-lunch crowd… food is on the road. A true waste. Covid 19: Pune now gets it… a touch too late In lockdown one, Pune was under the impression that Covid-19 was “out there”, not so much able to infect you and me. Much like the helmet rule is for everyone else, and certainly not for me in “my area”, the mask rule was not strictly followed. Most people exercising on my route did not bother with the mask. Now, Pune gets it. Covid-19 is here. Everyone wears a mask. No one complains and the general lockdown is adhered to. Running, cycling, walking, all with masks on. The “what if” scenario beckons… but, “better late than never” is perhaps on point. The author is News Editor, HT Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-becomes-covid-conscious-a-touch-too-late-101621347673500.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hospitals run out of Covid beds in Himachal||With the Covid-19 case count climbing in Himachal Pradesh, hospitals in major districts of the hill state are running out of oxygen-supported and ICU beds. The two major hospitals in Shimla, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, are packed to capacity and denying admission to Covid patients. One such patient, Sain Ram Dhiman, 65, tested positive on May 7 and was in home isolation at Kumarsain but when his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to the government hospital at Khaneri in Rampur only to be referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. Three days ago, his condition deteriorated and he was referred him to IGMC for further treatment since he required a ventilator. DDU has ventilators but they are not operational since the hospital has only one anaesthetist. IGMC denied him admission. “For three days, I’ve been requesting the IGMC authorities to admit my father in-law but in vain. His condition deteriorated after his oxygen saturation fell to 52. I made several calls and even sought help from the chief minister’s helpline but to no avail. We are at God’s mercy,” said Rajinder Kaul. Patients in need of critical care are being referred to IGMC from Solan, Bilaspur and Sirmaur districts. According to data on the Covid capacity portal, the state has a total capacity of 3,473 beds in its dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs), dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) and dedicated Covid care centres (DCCCs). On May 17, a total of 2,399 beds were occupied and only 1,074 available across the state. There are 2,409 oxygen beds of which 1,928 are occupied and 481 vacant. The number of ICU beds is 278 of which 241 occupied and only 37 are vacant. Can’t stretch more: Hospital authorities “We have 332 beds at IGMC and all of them are occupied. All 32 ventilators are being used,” said IGMC senior medical superintendent Janakraj Pakhretia. “Enhancing bed capacity will not solve the purpose. People have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital is a 90-bed facility, but the capacity was augmented to cater to 137 patients. Today, all beds are occupied. “Our hospital is full to capacity, we can’t stretch anymore,” says DDU Hospital medical superintendent Ravinder Mokta. Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra has suggested taking over the sanatorium that has 40 beds. The government has also taken over the regional Ayurveda hospital in Shimla that is packed to capacity now. The state government has announced that if required it will create more space for patients at the parking space in Tutti Kandi. Facility at Walker Hospital ready The Indian Army on Tuesday handed over 60-bed facility at its Walker Hospital in Sanjauli. Kangra district has 723 beds of which 614 occupied and 109 are available. All 70 ICU beds in the district are occupied. There are 557 beds with oxygen support of which only 47 are available. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the authorities are managing in the current capacity as new patients are being admitted against the vacancy occurring on a daily basis after recovered patients are discharged. He said a 500-bed facility is coming up at Paraur near Palampur that will help ease the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hospitals-run-out-of-covid-beds-in-himachal-101621339813726.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Black marketing of Covid drugs: Here’s what 9 politicians told the Delhi Police||Nine politicians questioned by the Delhi Police for allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders and medicines maintained they just helped connect people to chemists and others who could make them available for Covid-19 patients, according to the status report of the case.The police on Monday submitted the report with the statements of the politicians and told the Delhi high court that prima facie there was no evidence against the nine including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Gautam Gambhir, Indian Youth Congress president (IYC) BV Srinivas, and Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).The court refused to accept the report and pulled up the police for the “vague and whitewashed inquiry.” The police are now back to probing the case. A crucial part of the probe will be how a doctor managed to get over 2,000 strips of antiviral Fabiflu tablets for Gambhir. The court noted that “medicines were hoarded by a certain doctor” and asked all political parties to submit whatever stock they had of medicines to the Directorate of Health Services.Also Read | Delhi’s Covid tally dips further with 4,482 cases; positivity rate down to 6.89%According to the status report, Gambhir told police the doctor volunteered to organise a free medical camp for his foundation between April 22 and May 7 for Covid-19 patients. “... 2,628 strips of Fabiflu were purchased from authorised vendors against the prescription of Dr... while payments were made by Gautam Gambhir Foundation, however, the aforesaid medicine was delivered by respective vendors directly to Dr….Throughout the period the said medicine remained under the control of Dr…” Gambir told the police. He said the medicines were distributed free of cost. Gambir added the remaining 285 strips of the medicines were still with the doctor, who has been requested to distribute them for free.HT is withholding the doctor’s name as he has not been questioned or named in the complaint.Gambhir was unavailable for comments despite repeated calls and text messages.Srinivas, in his statement, called the inquiry against him and other IYC members harassment as they have been at the forefront of providing relief and that their party was opposed to the Centre’s handling of the crisis. He maintained they connected people in need and added they “received oxygen equipment as donations and provided it free of cost to the people.” He said no money was charged for their services.Srinivas told HT the case is sub-judice. “I have already told the police how we did not buy or hoard a single strip of medicine.”Pandey told police he helped cricketer Unmukt Chand get Remdesivir for his mother by connecting him with a medical store. He maintained he never bought or possessed any Covid medicines.Pandey was unavailable for any comments. Earlier, he said that the timing of the police’s investigation looked suspicious, and it was wrong to question people for helping each other during the pandemic.Congress leader Chaudhary Anil Kumar, in his statement, linked a column he wrote about allegations of black marketing of Covid-19 medicines to his questioning.Kumar told HT: “When everyone is helping each other, instead of encouraging and supporting people who are helping, they are directing the entire state machinery against us.”Delhi BJP leader Harish Khurana told police he circulated the messages of people, who had approached him for help on social media for arranging medicines, oxygen, hospital beds. He maintained he did not buy or hoard any medicine or medical equipment.Also Read | Stop Singapore flights, Kejriwal tells Centre amid concerns of new Covid strainKhurana told HT he has full faith in the judiciary. “We have nothing to hide and are ready to cooperate in the investigation. If helping someone is a crime, then we are ready to commit that crime every day.”Ali Mehdi of the Delhi Congress told the police he sought his party colleague Ashok Bagel’s help for a woman who approached him for help in getting an oxygen cylinder.Mehdi was unavailable for his response when HT tried to contact him.Bagel told police he arranged the cylinder from a family in his neighbourhood that no longer needed it as a person on its support had died of the Covid-19 complications. He told HT they have not hoarded any medicine. “We have nothing to fear. We have helped people find medical resources when they did not get help from anywhere. The allegations are wrong.”Former Congress lawmaker Mukesh Sharma told police he only guided people to the closest chemist shops. “I helped people get admission in hospitals. I did not buy medicines or distribute [them]… I only give information about medical shops.”Also Watch | Hunt for Sushil Kumar: From an Olympic champion to a wanted criminalSharma told HT he has faith in the judiciary and will cooperate with the police. “...I only guided people to go to certain medical stores. I also told them to get receipts for all medicines that they buy. I will continue to help people. Today also [Monday], I helped some people who were asking for help. I strongly believe people should not hoard medicines at a time such as this.”Former Rajya Sabha member Shahid Siddiqui was questioned over his tweet in which he thanked Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Sharma for arranging Remdesivir. He told police he along with his wife and daughter were severely ill and sent an SOS on social media for the medicine. Siddiqui said Priyanka Gandhi provided two doses of the medicine, which were originally procured for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi but were not used.Siddiqui told HT the Delhi Police were probing the case because of political reasons. “If police really want to investigate, I will give them numbers of people who were sending me messages offering to sell Remdesivir for over ₹20,000. The priority of the police was clear when they choose to probe people receiving or offering help during this pandemic. In my statement, I have clearly mentioned how someone helped me with the medicines. I have nothing to fear.”The Delhi Police said they are probing the case on the directions of the court and will submit a fresh report next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-connected-people-politicians-accused-of-hoarding-tell-delhi-police-101621333633471.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||No response yet, BMC likely to extend deadline for global vaccine bid||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday extended the deadline for participation in the tender floated for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine from the international market. As BMC failed to get any bids from vaccine manufacturers yet by the last date – May 18 (Monday) – the civic body revised the deadline by a week to May 25. BMC did receive three proposals for licences of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine but they were not formal bids, said civic officials. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “We have extended the bid date by one week. We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but are incomplete in paper work. So we have given the extension.”On Monday, Velrasu had said, “We have not got any response yet, and we are likely to extend the last date for bidding by one more week. A final decision will be taken on Tuesday evening.”Also Read | Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal succumbs to Covid-19The BMC has planned to procure 10 million vaccine doses from the international market in order to speed up the drive in city. For this, it floated a global expression of interest on May 12. According to officials, any interested supplier can bid for the tender. China has been restricted from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Centre’s approval will have to get the same on their own, according to BMC’s tender document.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP (Member of Parliament) Rahul Shewale has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding that a uniform set of guidelines for global tenders of vaccine procurement be formed. “Through a state-wise global tender, the states are only pitting against each other. This is creating unhealthy competition between states and the only entity that is most likely to benefit from this is vaccine manufacturers, “Shewale stated in his letter.  He added, “I suggest that the Central government step in and frame guidelines for procuring these vaccines that would suffice the needs of the country. The government should create a single-window clearance to fast track the system for vaccine-related approvals.”Shewale also highlighted that due to shortage of vaccines, immunisation for the 18-44 year age group has been suspended.” On Tuesday, 16,754 citizens were vaccinated in the city of which 4,274 were in the age group of 18 to 44 years of age, 2,514 in the age group of 45 to 59 years of age group and 9,474 were above the age of 60 years. This followed by 98 beneficiaries being health care workers and 394 being front line workers. Overall, in the city 2,858,103 citizens were vaccinated.“According to our estimates, around 300,000 senior citizens are yet to take their first dose of vaccine. Based on the response this week, we will decide whether to continue vaccination for senior citizens on a walk-in basis or not. On Tuesday, the response was probably low due to rainfall but we expect the response to get better from Wednesday,” said Suresh Kakani, additional BMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-response-yet-bmc-likely-to-extend-deadline-for-global-vaccine-bid-101621313772732.html
