20-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal CID summons BJP Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh in economic offence case||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal police on Thursday night served summon notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh in connection with an economic offence that was allegedly committed when he was a Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator, HT has learnt.“It is evident during the investigation that you have sufficient knowledge in this case,” said the notice, a copy of which was seen by HT.“They (state police) will file all sorts of cases against me. This is not surprising. The government is after me,” Singh told HT.Asked whether he would visit the CID office in person, Singh said, “I have five days to think about it.”The first information report (FIR) was lodged on July 28, 2020, more than a year after Singh wrested the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat from the TMC’s then incumbent MP Dinesh Trivedi who has also joined the saffron camp.The development came three days after urban development minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati legislator Madan Mitra and former TMC leader Sovan Chatterjee were arrested from their homes on Monday morning by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case in which they are accused to taking bribe. All four are in judicial custody.CID officials visited Singh’s residence at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas district on Thursday night and put up the notice on the entrance to the house. He has been asked to appear for questioning at the CID headquarters in Kolkata’s Alipore area at 11 am on May 25.The case was registered at Bhatpara police station under sections 403,409,420, 486, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The state police had earlier raided the residences of Singh and some of his relatives.In August last year, police raided Singh’s home in connection with the case which allegedly involves financial irregularities to the tune of ₹11 crore at Bhatpara municipality and a local cooperative bank.Singh was chairman of the Bhatpara municipality from 2010 to 2019. He left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and joined the BJP in March 2019. He also headed the bank’s board.Recognised as a heavyweight leader, Singh was a four-time legislator of the TMC from Bhatpara before he joined the BJP and defeated Trivedi in 2019. The election was marked by violence which continues intermittently in the region. Singh’s son and brother-in-law are also sitting legislators of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cid-summons-bjp-lok-sabha-mp-arjun-singh-in-economic-offence-case-101621535001495.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Posing as decoy, Ghaziabad officials get two ambulance operators arrested for overcharging||Ghaziabad: Following complaints, Ghaziabad officials posed as decoy customers and conducted an investigation on two ambulance operators, who were arrested for allegedly charging exorbitant fares for transferring a patient from Ghaziabad to Bareilly, which is about 250km from the city. The rates for the ambulance had been fixed by the district magistrate according to an order issued on May 9. – ₹1500 for an oxygen ambulance for the first 10km, and ₹60 for per kilometre thereafter), non-oxygen ( ₹1000 for first 10km and ₹50 per km thereafter), ventilator supported ( ₹2000 for first 10kms and ₹7 per km thereafter), advanced life-support with doctor ( ₹4000 for first 10km and ₹75 per km thereafter) and even AC and non-AC vehicles for shifting bodies to the cremation ground. “The officials were asked to conduct checks after we received complaints of overcharging by ambulance operators. The two persons were arrested, and their vehicles were seized. The transport department officials are also checking if other ambulances of these operators violated any registration norms,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, DM. According to the team of officials which posed as a decoy, they contacted two ambulance operators at Lohiya Nagar over the phone. “We asked them for an ambulance to shift a patient to Bareilly. They told us the fare as ₹50,000 instead of the capped rate which is about ₹16,000 for an oxygen ambulance. Thereafter we said that we require a normal ambulance and they quoted ₹22000 to ₹24000 for the trip. We called them to an area near Sihani-Gate police station and got them arrested and their ambulances were also seized,” said one of the officers who led the team, requesting anonymity.“The owners of the ambulances are operating 11 such ambulances and we have asked the transport department to check their registrations and other compliances. If they are found erring, further action will be initiated,” the officer added. The police identified the two suspects as Hariom Yadav and Sarvesh Kumar. “Both were booked under section 151 of the CrPC and they both will be produced before the court of sub-divisional magistrate. The two ambulances involved were also seized,” said Krishna Gopal Sharma, SHO of Sihani-Gate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/posing-as-decoy-ghaziabad-officials-get-two-ambulance-operators-arrested-for-overcharging-101621534304656.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Private institutions in Noida, Ghaziabad to help students who lost parents to Covid||Noida: Amid the prevailing Covid-19 crisis, some private schools and universities in Noida and Ghaziabad are extending a helping hand to those students who have lost one or both of their parents to the infection.While schools and universities are providing fee concession and counselling sessions to such students, some corporate firms are also providing financial and medical assistance to their employees in need.At Amity University in Noida Sector 127, the management has decided to sponsor the academic fees of a student who has lost one or both of their parents, till they complete their current degree at the institution.“Sadly, there are over 250 students, that we are aware of, from the university who have lost both their parents to Covid. There may be more. We feel it is our noble duty to stand by them during such a crisis. In any case, we give over ₹50 crore of scholarship to students and this initiative will be in addition to that,” said Dr Atul Chauhan, chancellor, Amity University.He added that the university also has a 24-hour counselling helpline which is available for all students and staff members.Some students of Shiv Nadar University in Greater Noida have also lost their parents to coronavirus this year. As per officials at the university, the management is providing the student financial assistance so they can continue their education.“Each student’s case is being reviewed by an internal committee based on individual circumstances, and the support may include but is not limited to waiver of tuition fees. Additionally, students are provided counselling support and access to on-campus clinical psychologists for mental well-being,” said a spokesperson at Shiv Nadar University. The university has over 2,500 students.At DPS Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, there are three students who have lost both their parents. A staff member of the school has also passed away due to Covid. “This year the pandemic took a turn for the worst and we have been standing by all our students and staff members to help them in any way required. As a policy, if we lose a staff member to Covid, their family is being provided with ₹5 lakh, and if a staff member lose their spouse to Covid, they are provided with ₹2 lakh,” said Girish Sachdeva, member of Managing Committee, DPS Indirapuram, Ghaziabad.He added that there are many students at the school who have lost their fathers who were sole earning members of their family. “We are waiving off the fee of such students for a year who are unable to pay,” he said. The school has 6,500 students.Meanwhile, Tech Mahindra, located in SEZ, Noida, has started the initiative of supporting the minor children of their employees who succumbed to coronavirus. The support will be given to children till they turn 18 years of age.“We have collaborated with Fortis Healthcare to organize vaccination drive for associates and their families and are also reimbursing vaccination cost for associates and third-party employees. Additionally, we have also converted our NSEZ campus into a 40-bed COVID care facility to provide care and medical help to associates, their families and the society at large,” said Harshvendra Soin, Global Chief People Officer & Head – Marketing, Tech Mahindra. The company is also investing in upskilling one member of the family of a deceased employee to make them employable and support their livelihood.Another firm in Greater Noida, CNH Industrial India, is providing financial assistance of ₹50,000 to all its employees who test positive or are home quarantined.“We have also forged a tie-up with Apollo Hospitals which has set up a dedicated 24x7 medical consultation helpline number for employees. A dedicated task force has been put in place to track all infected employees and arrange all the required assistance from coordinating with the hospital to arranging for beds, and procuring medicines, oxygen, etc.,” said Raunak Varma, country manager, CNH Industrial India.The second wave of coronavirus disease has badly affected many families in the two districts. While the death toll of Noida and Ghaziabad on April 1 was at 91 and 102, it has now reached 406 and 402 on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-institutions-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-extend-helping-hand-to-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101621534244643.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Dadri: Missing man found dead in fields, probe underway||Greater Noida: The body of a 32-year-old man, who had been missing since May 18, was found in fields owned by his family on Thursday morning in Greater Noida’s Dadri area.The victim was identified as Pawan, a farmer from Roopwas village. According to the police, the man had been missing for the past two days.“However, the family had not informed the authorities about this. He had gone out for errands and when he did not return, they started looking for him. On Thursday around 8am, a local saw his motorcycle near the family’s fields and informed them. They found his body after which a call was made to the police helpline,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.Police said the autopsy report came late Thursday evening and it confirmed death by strangulation.“A case of murder (Indian Penal Code Section 302) has been registered station against unidentified person(s). We will take appropriate legal action,” said Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station.Police said all angles are being explored. The family has not shared any suspicions with the police. They have also denied any monetary disputes or personal enmity with anyone, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dadri-missing-man-found-dead-in-fields-probe-underway-101621534124602.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Demand for medical oxygen drops in Gautam Budh Nagar||Noida: Demand for medical oxygen in Gautam Budh Nagar district has been on the decline and more Covid beds are now vacant as more and more patients have started recovering from the infection, officials said.While 125 Metric Tonnes (MT) of oxygen is required for all Covid beds with oxygen support in the district across its 27 Covid-dedicated hospitals, currently only 80 to 85 MT is being used as of now. A week earlier, the medical oxygen being used through liquid medical oxygen (LMO) plants or cylinders was 98.87 MT in the district.“Currently, the per day consumption of oxygen in between 80 to 85 MT across all 27 private and government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, which is being fulfilled without issues, as the consumption has dropped due to slight drop in the number of fresh cases and increasing recovery rate. However, if we have to supply oxygen to all the available oxygen beds, we would require at least 125 MT of oxygen. For now, the situation is under control,” said Dr Sweta Khurana, nodal officer for oxygen supply, Gautam Budh Nagar. She added that while oxygen cylinders are available as well for patients, focus needs to be more on the stored LMO though plants.Officials also pointed out that now that oxygen supply is under control, more focus is required to ensure “a regulated supply of oxygen” and storage of LMO. “The situation began to improve from May 12, when oxygen started to be vacated in light of increasing recoveries. Focus is now towards ensuring a regulated supply of the oxygen which means a confirmed and guaranteed supply daily. For now the oxygen is being arranged by the district administration through different channels. However apart from Inox in Greater Noida, oxygen from other suppliers is not consistent and the quantity may vary from day to day. Also, we are focusing more on the storage of LMO,” said Khurana. On Thursday, there were 239 new cases in the district, while 436 were discharged over the past 24 hours. The total number of people discharged in the district so far stood at 55,520, as per the state bulletin. On May 12, the district had recorded 992 new cases, and 1228 recoveries. Back then, the tally for recoveries was 6,818 less, at 48,702.District divisional forest officer PK Srivastava, who had been looking after refilling of cylinders from Ghaziabad, concurred that the demand has dropped in the district. “By last week, we had to get approximately 1,200 D-type cylinders refilled from agencies in Ghaziabad, which has now come down to approximately 1,000 per day,” said Srivastava. The city at its peak last week refilled 1,890 D-type cylinders each 0.01 MT, and 200 B-type Cylinders each of 0.0021 MT.According to official records as of Thursday, of the total 2,458 functional oxygen beds in the district, 1,373 were vacant, while 219 ICU/Ventilator beds were vacant; as many as 917 out of 1,056 general beds in hospitals were vacant.Meanwhile, a 100-bed hospital with oxygen concentrators was started at Jewar. “This community health centre was shut for the past 11 years, so we repaired it using ₹50 lakh from my MLA funds. Help came from the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority as well, which helped us with infrastructure. An ambulance was given by the district administration, a generator was provided by the district police department. Even villagers came forward to help and it’s a fully functional facility with four doctors. We also received over 50 high quality oxygen concentrators and are working to make the facility better for rural areas,” said Dhirendra Singh, MLA, Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/demand-for-medical-oxygen-drops-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101621533825412.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Noida authority provides 1,500 oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Thursday said that it has provided over 1,500 oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients in need from its various centres in the city in the past 17 initial days of the service.The authority started supplying oxygen cylinders on May 3 from its two counters set up at community centres in sectors 93B and 135, amid the shortage of oxygen in the city.The authority provides the D-type oxygen cylinders of two different capacities -- 40-litre and 5-litre -- for ₹500 and ₹200, respectively. On May 11, the authority decentralized the process of distribution and started refilling empty cylinders at 10 more locations in the city, said officials. On May 16, it also started home delivery of oxygen cylinders to home-isolated patients who are either living alone or whose relatives cannot reach refilling stations.“Now, the pressure on the authority to provide oxygen cylinders has eased out, though we are supplying cylinders to the needy continuously since we started. We are now not receiving many calls,” said Santosh Upadhyay, officer on special duty, Noida authority.According to the officials, the authority has delivered 1,334 cylinders from its two counters in community centres, while it supplied 179 cylinders and 30 oxygen concentrators since May 11, when 10 more centres were set up. More than 10 cylinders and 16 oxygen concentrators were delivered at home since May 16, they said. “We accept empty cylinders and deliver the same within 48 hours after re-filling. Now, the demand is falling rapidly,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-provides-1-500-oxygen-cylinders-to-covid-19-patients-101621533824593.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Second Covid-19 wave takes 311 lives in just 46 days in Noida||NOIDA: Since April 4 this year to May 19 or 46 days, as many as 311Covid-related deaths have taken place in Gautam Budh Nagar district. While April saw 121 Covid-19 deaths, the number of deaths due to the viral infection from May 1 to 19 was 190. Last year, the number of deaths in the district due to Covid was 91.GB Nagar chief medical officer,Dr Deepak Ohri said that since the past few days, the number of deaths recorded daily has come down, which is directly proportional to the number of cases. “We hope that the number of daily deaths will further go down by the end of this month, as the number of daily new cases is already on a downward trend,” he said.He, however, said that the case fatality rate (CFR) has been much higher in the second wave with respect to the first wave. “Even doctors are foxed with the number of deaths. The new variant of the virus is like a silent killer, which took the lives of patients within a matter of hours in some cases. The CFR of the district, which was nearly 0.35% during the first wave (91 deaths out of 26,100 cases), has mounted to 0.90% with 311 deaths out of 34,547 cases,” he said. Echoing similar views, a doctor of the district health department said that the second wave has affected age groups differently. “As per the internal data of the district, there has been a huge increase in the infection rate among young people, from 31% in the first wave to 39% in the second wave. In the first wave, the majority of infected patients were the elderly with multiple comorbidities. But, in the second wave, the trend has completely shifted, where the younger generation was more infected,” the doctor said, requesting to not be identified. Dr Akash Raj, the medical director of Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), better known as Child PGI, said that the virus seems to have acquired a greater transferability. “The entire spectrum of age groups – from the paediatric to the geriatric population – everyone is getting affected now. Predominantly, it is because the virus has changed its form and it is far more infectious. Every other person now has Covid-19, which was not the case last year,” he said.Dr Saurav Srivastava, the head of medicine and the in-charge of the L-3 Covid-19 facility at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), also said that any concrete reason behind younger people being infected can only be ascertained through in-depth studies and analysis. “However, all we can say is that ever since social restrictions were eased, it is the younger generation which has stepped out to go to work and indulged in social gatherings, and consequently flouted precautionary measures. We all have to continue to practice Covid-19 precautions, like social distancing, masking and hand-washing. We also suggest our patients to stay in touch with local doctors, who can provide information if Covid-19 cases begin to increase in their localities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-covid-19-wave-takes-311-lives-in-just-46-days-in-noida-101621533584583.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19 deaths reach 400 in Ghaziabad, 125 patients still on ventilator support||Ghaziabad: Amid a steady decline in Covid-19 cases, the number of deaths due to the infection reached 400 on Wednesday in the district. According to the state health bulletin, about 73% of the fatalities, or 294, took place between April 1 and May 19.Officials of the district health department said that more deaths may occur in coming days as about 125 patients are still on ventilator support in different health-care facilities. The district had recorded 102 deaths till December last year. The major spike in fatalities took place from mid of April and extended to the month of May, the data showed. The previous highest in terms of fatalities were 50 in June last year. According to records of the district health department, the district’s mortality rate was about 0.76% on May 19. According to the data last compiled by the health department of the peak period from April 1 to May 13, 80 fatalities of total 252 took place in age group over 60 years, while 58 deaths took place in age group 41-50 and another 50 in age group 51-60 years. On a positive note, the cases are showing a declining trend in Ghaziabad. According to the health bulletin, the district recorded 2,507 positive cases from May 14-20 against 4,174 cases in the previous week (May 7-13). On Thursday, the district reported 364 new cases, taking the tally of active cases to 2,760.The health officials said that the 125 patients on ventilator support are from Ghaziabad as well as from other districts. “Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients who are on ventilator support is low. So, we are concerned about such 125 patients. Besides, many patients are also in ICU and on oxygen support. There are about 815 ICU beds with an occupancy of about 90%. At present, the fresh cases have reduced, but fatalities are still coming in,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “During the second wave, it is seen that patients in ICU generally recover within a week or so. If they take longer, the chances of recovery get reduced. Such conditions are seen in patients having co-morbidity,” Gupta said. Experts are of opinion that fatalities will ensue as patients are still under treatment in ICUs and on ventilator support. “Normally, in non-Covid cases about 60-70% patients on ventilator recover. However, this rate has declined to about 10-20% in case of Covid patients. So, utmost care is to be taken of such patients,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Agarwal further warned that post-Covid cases need to be monitored till patients recover fully. “As a result of the infection, patients develop a lot of complications to lungs and also become fragile. So, it is expected that health authorities will have to devote another six months for post-Covid care,” he added. The district administration earlier this week issued directions that the Covid ward in hospitals will be monitored through the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre (ICCC) and it will also take health status of the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-deaths-reach-400-in-ghaziabad-125-patients-still-on-ventilator-support-101621533524611.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Challenge remains, PM tells officials as district magistrates of GB Nagar, Ghaziabad attend online address||Ghaziabad: Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with district magistrates of several worst-hit states, including DMs of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. During the online interaction, the PM lauded the work of the district officials in fight against the pandemic, but he warned that the “challenge remains” as long as the infection is present in the country. The two districts in Uttar Pradesh are among the high caseload districts where total cases since March last year have crossed the 50,000-mark each. According to the state health bulletin, GB Nagar has 4,964 and Ghaziabad has 2,760 active cases as on May 20. “The Prime Minister stressed on the need to use local experiences and the need to work together as a country. He urged to spread messages on keeping villages Corona-free and following Covid-appropriate behaviour, even when cases are declining. He asked the officials to devise their strategy in a rural and urban specific way and ensure that the rural India is Covid-free,” said a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. “He emphasized that the methods and strategies in dealing with the pandemic should be dynamic as the virus is expert in mutation and changing the format. He said virus mutation is concerning the youth and children. He stressed the need to boost vaccination drive,” the statement further added. According to PTI, the PM had video conference with DMs of 60 districts in the country. The two districts of GB Nagar and Ghaziabad were among the selected ones from UP. Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar, said that during a presentation given by the Union health secretary, there was mention of Noida with regard to the work done for isolation centres and day-to-day supply of oxygen. “In mid-April when cases started to surge, there was high demand for oxygen and our authorities started supplies to patients in home isolation. We also set up isolation facilities at our community health centres, besides the work done in this regard by RWAs and apartment owners’ associations. So, this way we promoted public-private partnership and the district’s name was mentioned by the Centre’s health officials during the presentation,” Suhas said. He said that the PM asked the officials to keep the morale high and stressed on the need to boost and share best practices devised during the pandemic. “The PM also stressed on the need for future preparedness to deal with any possible third wave. In this connection, we already have 100 paediatric ICU beds at our Child PGI and we have preparedness to come up with 125 of more such beds within two days whenever need arises,” Suhas added. During his recent visits to both the districts, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also directed officials to come up with PICU beds in medical colleges and district hospitals in order to tackle any possible third wave which may also affect children and teenagers. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the community health centres (CHCs) in the district have 30 beds each while the primary health centres (PHCs) have five beds each to treat Covid patients. “Keeping in mind any likelihood of a third wave, we have directed that 50 beds each should be roped in at the CHCs and provision of beds at each PHC should be increased to 15. This is done to provide immediate treatment to patients and if need be, they will thereafter be referred to any other health-care facility. Our focus is now on rural areas,” Pandey said. “We have also directed that 10 PICU beds should be created at Sanjay Nagar hospital and 12 others should come up at the district women hospital for children up to age of 12 years,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/challenge-remains-pm-tells-officials-as-district-magistrates-of-gb-nagar-ghaziabad-attend-online-address-101621533464559.html
20-05-2021||Other||Deaths of poll duty staff: None of Prayagraj’s 74 applicants eligible for compensation||Going by the current rules, not a single government employee, who was deployed on duty in the recently concluded panchayat polls in the district and lost his or her life because of corona, has been found eligible for compensation from the state government, said district panchayat raj officer on Thursday.In such a situation, unless there is an exemption or change in norms by the government, there are chances that none of the 74 applicants from the district will get any compensation.The panchayat elections were held last month during the pandemic. Later, the district administration had called for claims from family members of the employees, who had performed poll duty and died because of corona. The administration received 74 claims and the same were scrutinised by a committee set up by the district administration. The committee was headed by chief development officer Shipu Giri. “We scrutinised all the claims but found there was none which fits the present criteria of getting compensation. Only the person, who has left his home for poll duty and had died before reaching back to his or her home after performing the duty, would be considered for the compensation,” said Renu Srivastava, district panchayat raj officer (DPRO). She further said the report has been sent to the government on Tuesday and if it decides to relax the norms or take any further decision, the same would be followed at the district level.Meanwhile, the teacher’s association has lambasted the decision of the state government and the set norms. The association had claimed that 1,621 teachers, educators and other departmental personnel who were on poll duty in the state had died due to coronavirus. They have demanded a compensation of ₹1 crore each to the families of the deceased and government jobs for the dependents.“The fact that the state government has found just three cases of teachers suitable for compensation in the state as per the laid norms shows the insensitivity of the government. First, the government and the State Election Commission committed a crime of deploying teachers and employees of different government departments and other organisations like many centrally-funded academic institutions for poll duty during the peak of second wave of corona in the state and secondly, during the election training, voting and counting, they completely failed to follow the corona prevention guidelines and take precautionary measures,” said state general secretary of UP Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh (Thakurai faction), Lal Mani Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deaths-of-poll-duty-staff-none-of-prayagraj-s-74-applicants-eligible-for-compensation-101621533344577.html
20-05-2021||Other||UP BJP ‘chariots’ to create awareness among labourers||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh (UP) Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Swatantra Dev and Sunil Bharala, chairman of state labour welfare council, flagged off the Corona Shramik Jan Jagran Raths (motorised chariots) to create awareness among the poor about following Covid appropriate behaviour. Face covers, sanitisers and Covid medicines would also be distributed through these chariots which were being managed by Sanjay Rai, the convener of the unorganised labourers’ association, the BJP leaders said. The UP BJP chief said in the first phase, these chariots would be taken to districts where there were many Covid-affected labourers from the unorganised sector. “The opposition parties must understand that this is not the time to do politics. Rather, it is the time to engage in welfare of the people. There will be many occasions to engage in politics,” he said. “Under PM Narendra Modi’s stewardship, the country is fast moving on the path to defeat Covid. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath is also working tirelessly for the people, without caring about his health,” he said. Bharala said he hoped the chariots would visit places like Kanpur, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Agra and Moradabad as many labourers were working in industries in these districts. He also thanked chief minister Yogi Adityanath for announcing financial relief for people like porters, rickshaw pullers, cobblers and barbers who had been affected due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev has praised the centre’s decision to increase subsidy on DAP fertiliser. “Now instead of ₹500 per sack of fertiliser, the farmers would get a subsidy of ₹1200 per DAP fertiliser sack,” he said, adding this was the biggest subsidy increase ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-bjp-chariots-to-create-awareness-among-labourers-101621533044531.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Terror case: Tainted J&K DSP Davinder Singh dismissed from service||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh, who was arrested and subsequently chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a terror case, was on Thursday dismissed from service, an official order said.Singh was caught with two militants on January 10 on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway in south Kashmir. He is in jail at present. The order of dismissal of Singh was given by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha.“The lieutenant governor is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case that the activities of Davinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (under suspension), are such that warrant his dismissal from service,” reads the order issued by commissioner secretary, general administration department on behalf of Sinha.Davinder Singh was intercepted when he was travelling on the national highway to Jammu along with two Hizbul Mujahideen commanders Naveed Babu, Rafi Ahmed Rather, according to the security establishment. A third man arrested with them Irfan Shafi Mir was a lawyer. Singh, suspected of going rogue, was arrested under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, or UAPA, the anti-terror law.Earlier, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had stripped him of the Sher-e-Kashmir Police Medal for Gallantry. Meanwhile two more government teachers have terminated under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India by the lieutenant governor . Earlier, an assistant professor, naib tehsildar (revenue officer) and two teachers were suspended on similar grounds for anti-national activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/terror-case-tainted-j-k-dsp-davinder-singh-dismissed-from-service-101621532807530.html
20-05-2021||Other||‘Virtually’ back to class: Schools, colleges resume online teaching||Lucknow: All major higher educational institutions in the state, including the Lucknow University and affiliated colleges, resumed online classes from Thursday. To note, all educational activities in the institutions were suspended since May 1, as per the government’s order. Vice chancellor of Lucknow University, Alok Kumar Rai said, “ Online classes of all departments began from today following state government’s orders. All students and almost all teaching staff joined the online classes from their homes. “ Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University, AKTU and all attached colleges of LU also began online classes. In most institutes, only principal, head of department and deans came to the college. Besides teaching staff, only half of the other staff of the university and colleges came to the campus as per directions of the state government. The staff has been asked to come on a rotational basis. The other half has been told to complete the work from home. CMS, La Martiniere Boys’ College and other schools also resumed online classes. “Online classes are a great boon in these tough times .Today, I felt a great sense of belonging and after logging into my class. We had a lot of interaction and discussion and my students enjoyed it with very enthusiastic responses,” said Vaibhav Srivastava, Class XII teacher, CMS Kanpur Road Campus. Anupama Sondhi of CMS GN Extension, ICSE Section said, “I welcome the decision of the government to allow online classes from today. The students were very happy and joined in big numbers .Online classes literally take education to the homes of the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/virtually-back-to-class-schools-colleges-resume-online-teaching-101621532805618.html
20-05-2021||Other||Covid deaths remain cause of concern in Agra||Agra Even as the number of new Covid positive cases shows a downward trend, the surge in fatalities continues to be a cause of concern. In all, 19 deaths have taken place in Agra district within 48 hours, 9 on Wednesday and 10 on Thursday. May began with a record 11 Covid deaths within 24 hours but then the number fell gradually. However, nine deaths on Wednesday and 10 on Thursday caused alarm bells to ring once more. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey admitted that rise in the number of deaths was an issue to focus on. According to him, those succumbing to Covid-19 were mostly on ventilator support and in bad health condition. With these recent deaths, the toll of fatalities in Agra district has risen to 335. Out of these, 76 people died in May. The death toll has eclipsed other positive developments, such as Agra recording only 65 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours. “In all, 7030 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and only 65 tested positive for Covid-19. Beside this, 193 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours,” said district magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh. “In all, 25182 have tested positive in Agra and 23678 have been cured, enhancing the recovery rate to 94.03 % in Agra district,” he said. “As many as 842606 samples have been tested and sample positivity rate has gone below to 2.99 percent while fatality rate has risen to 1.37 % in Agra district,” he said. “Now 1159 active cases remain in Agra and they are under treatment in hospitals or in home isolation,” the DM said. There has been steady fall in the number of active cases in Agra. The number of active cases was 1939 on May 10 and it has now come down to 1159, as per sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-deaths-remain-cause-of-concern-in-agra-101621532685873.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees 3% rise in recovery rate in 10 days||Sixty-seven people lost their lives to the novel coronavirus on Thursday, taking the Union territory’s death toll to 3,422 , of which 1,140 people have lost their lives this month .The region also recorded 4,169 fresh infections, pushing J&K’s case count to 2,60,057. As many as 4,042 people recuperated — 2,509 from Kashmir and 1,533 from Jammu — taking the total recoveries to 2,06,081. The recovery rate has improved from 76% on May 9 to 79.2%. Of the 67 deaths in the UT, 41 were reported in Jammu division and 26 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,651 are from Kashmir, 1,518 are from Jammu, and 30 are travellers. Dr Ishrat Hussain Dar, professor of medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said the second coronavirus wave is highly infectious.“It is mostly targeting the younger people and leaving trail of deaths. People should protect themselves and their families by wearing triple surgical or cotton masks and avoid filter masks,” he said. The month of May has clocked the highest monthly infections and fatalities at 83,974 and 1,140, respectively, while 60,640 people recovered from the virus.Officials said with 674 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 499 in Jammu district, 393 in Budgam, 333 in Baramulla, 255 in Anantnag and 215 in Bandipora. The number of active cases has reached 50,554, officials said. Asking people to get vaccinated, Dr Kailash Singh, assistant professor of surgery, Government Medical College, Jammu, said, “Studies have shown that 93% of the Covid fatalities were seen among people who were not vaccinated while the remaining had only received a single shot,” he said. Srinagar and Jammu have together contributed around 1.06 lakh cases and 1,619 deaths. With 904 fatalities, Jammu has taken over Srinagar, which has logged 715 deaths.GMC Kathua self-sufficient in O2 needs 
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclone Tauktae: Kangra diver onboard tugboat still missing||A diver from Dharamshala has been missing at sea since May 15 after the tugboat he was deployed on capsized after Cyclone Tauktae hit the west coast of the country. The 37-year-old sea diver, Pawan Chand Katoch of Gharoh village, which is 6km from Dharamshala, went missing off the Manglore port in Udupi district, Karnataka. He had been employed with Under Water Services Limited (UWSL) since 2009 and was deployed on the tugboat, Alliance, when the deadly cyclone ploughed through the costal state. “We contacted UWSL’s senior diving manager Paramjeet Singh Jassal and vice-president Ravi Sexena but did not get a satisfactory response regarding the wellbeing of my son. We do not know whether they are putting any efforts to search for the missing men or not,” said his father, Jagroop Chand Katoch. Congress general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania met Pawan’s family at Gharoh and assured them that all possible help will be provided. He also wrote a letter to the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur seeking his intervention in the matter.“I urge you to take up the matter with the concerned state and the company to get information about Pawan Chand Katoch,” he wrote. It is learnt that the tugboat was contracted by Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) for its single-point mooring facility.The boat with nine crew members aboard left the Manglore port on May 14 to carry out maintenance work at the facility, 17km from the port. While returning to the shore on May 15, the boat was caught in the rough sea and capsized.The damaged tugboat later washed ashore at Padubidri. Of eight workers, three survived, one died and the remaining, including Pawan, are missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cyclone-tauktae-kangra-diver-onboard-tugboat-still-missing-101621532085475.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||65 succumb to Covid in Himachal||Dharamshala/ Shimla: Himachal Pradesh’s coronavirus case tally rose to 1,72,722 as 2,648 more people tested positive on Thursday, while the death toll mounted to 2,581 after 65 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 836 were reported in Kangra, 314 in Mandi, 257 in Solan, 226 in Hamirpur, 200 in Shimla, 191 each in Sirmaur and Una, 180 in Chamba, 175 in Bilaspur, 65 in Kullu, 14 in Lahaul-Spiti and seven in Kinnaur. With 19 deaths, Kangra reported the highest fatalities, followed by 13 in Shimla, seven in Mandi, five each in Sirmaur and Hamirpur, four each in Solan and Chamba, three each in Bilaspur and Una and two in Kullu. Recoveries climbed up to 1,36,663 after 4,257 people recuperated while there are 33,448 active cases. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 38,816 infections and is followed by Mandi with 23,330 cases and Shimla with 21,853 cases. Solan has 19,955 cases, Sirmaur 13,258, Hamirpur 12,248, Una 11,173, Bilaspur 10,824, Chamba 8,646 , Kullu 7,676, Kinnaur 2,498 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,445. CM seeks self-help groups’ assistance Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday said self-help groups (SHGs) can help during the pandemic by helping virus-hit families by taking care of their livestock and farms and aiding unemployed migrant labourers. He was virtually interacting with representatives of groups across the state. Appreciating initiatives taken by SHGs to supplement their income, the CM said the state will provide all possible help to promote the products prepared by SHGs. He said the ‘Mukhyamantri Ek Bigha Yojana’ had proved to be a boon for rural women. Under the scheme any woman in a SHG can avail benefits up to ₹1 lakh if she is a MGNREGA job card holder. Since the inception of the scheme, Thakur said, 10,364 works had been sanctioned in favour of women and ₹ 13.9 crore had been spent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/65-succumb-in-himachal-101621531846261.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Court refuses to extend police remand of 'Khan Chacha' owner Navneet Kalra, sends him to judicial custody||The Saket Court of Delhi on Thursday refused to extend Police remand of businessman Navneet Kalra, accused in a case relating to the alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators in South Delhi. The Court sent him to Judicial Custody.Metropolitan Magistrate Akasnsha Garg decided not to send Kalra to further Police remand and directed to send him to Judicial CustodyEarlier today, the Delhi Police had sought a five-day remand of Navneet Kalra to confront him with the transactions done through mobile phones, in which 23 banks are involved.These things have to be confronted with the accused, police counsel had argued.Additional Public Prosecutor representing Delhi Police submitted that the investigating agency should be given enough time to complete the investigation. The Delhi Police on Thursday virtually produced Kalra after the end of 3-day custody.Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa appearing for accused Kalra strongly opposed the remand application and submitted that Kalra is fully cooperating in the investigation and was no longer required for police custody.Earlier, the Court had remanded businessman Navneet Kalra to three days police custody and said custodial interrogation of the accused is required for recovery of electronic devices used for the purpose of the commission of alleged offenses, to recover the remaining oxygen concentrators, to identify the other victims exploited by him.The court had also observed that Kalra's custodial interrogation is required for a detailed investigation regarding his involvement, financial transactions, co-accused associates involved in the present case, connections with Matrix and Classic Metals as well as the manner of procurement of oxygen concentrators.On May 7, the Delhi Police had busted an oxygen concentrators black-marketing racket during a raid and recovered 105 such concentrators from two upscale restaurants in the city's Khan Market area. The two restaurants namely Khan Chacha and Town Hall are owned by Navneet Kalra.The Delhi Police has registered a case under various offenses dealing with cheating, disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant, criminal conspiracy, and violating provisions of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 following the seizure of oxygen concentrators from restaurants in South Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-refuses-to-extend-police-remand-of-khan-chacha-owner-navneet-kalra-sends-him-to-judicial-custody-101621529646236.html
20-05-2021||Other||Haryana records 268 cases of black fungus||Haryana has recorded 268 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus, among Covid and post-Covid patients till May 20, said state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary.Of total 268 cases reported in Haryana till May 20, Gurugram had 109 cases, Faridabad 40, Sirsa 24, Hisar 23, Rohtak 20, Karnal 11, Bhiwani 10, Panipat eight, Ambala seven, Fatehabad five, Panchkula four, Rewari three, Jind two, and Palwal and Sonepat one each.Also, there are eight deaths in state including four in Sirsa, three in Gurugram and one in Sonepat.Total 48 new cases were reported in state on Thursday. These include 21 cases in Sirsa, eight in Hisar, five each in Gurugram and Karnal, two each in Rewari, Bhiwani and Faridabad, and one each in Ambala, Fatehabad and Panipat.These cases are not just from Haryana but from neighbouring states as well, whose patients are undergoing treatment in state,” Dr Chaudhary said.Dr Chaudhary said these cases are being seen in Covid patients who were given steroids to treat symptoms, and mainly those suffering from diabetes, hypertension and cancer.DRUG CRUNCH IN HARYANAHaryana hospitals are facing a shortage of Amphotericin B, an antifungal drug used in treatment of the rare but sometimes fatal disease. The Centre had allocated 100 vials of Amphotericin B to Haryana from May 10 to 31.Dr Chaudhary said smaller hospitals and pharmacies were earlier facing trouble in procuring Amphotericin B and now, the government is facing problem to get the drug.“Haryana got just 100 vials and PGIMS had ordered over 550 vials, of which 200 are received. There is shortage of the drug and the government is making efforts to float tender for more vials. We have to prevent indiscriminate use of the injection and establish a transparent system of distribution of this drug,” he added.A civil surgeon, requesting anonymity, said they have informed the state government about unavailability of the drug.“A committee will be formed to provide the drug to the needy and the state panel will approve requirement of the drug after closely analysing each case,” he added.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said black fungus patients can be treated by surgically removing all dead and infected tissues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-records-268-cases-of-black-fungus-101621529745061.html
20-05-2021||Other||First black fungus case detected in Himachal||A woman, who was undergoing treatment for the novel coronavirus disease at Indira Gandhi Medical College, has become the first person in Himachal Pradesh to contract mucormycosis or black fungus — an aggressive and possibly fatal fungal infection, which has been declared as an epidemic in most states. The fungal infection has been found to affect recovering Covid patients, especially those on steroid therapy or with a sugar imbalance. Dr Janak Raj, senior medical superintendent of IGMC, Shimla, the state’s premier healthcare institution, on Thursday said that the patient, a woman, hails from Hamirpur. She is diabetic and also suffers from hypertension.Raj said, “The patient tested positive for the coronavirus disease on May 4. She was first admitted to Lal Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, on May 8 after she complained of difficulty in breathing. She was later referred to IGMC. The fungal infection is under her nose. She is undergoing treatment for the same and her condition is stable.” Health authorities on the alert Meanwhile, a top health official, who did not wish to be named, said the government was on the alert and was ready to tackle mucormycosis. State National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said it had been observed that mucormycosis is on the rise among post-Covid patients in the country. “Uncontrolled diabetes, immunosuppression by steroids, prolonged intensive care unit stay, comorbidities, transplant and malignancy are predisposing factors for this disease. The state has already issued an advisory regarding the prevention and management of black fungus disease in the hospitals.”The district health society and directorate of medical education have been asked to take stock of adequate antifungal drugs such as amphotericin B in their respective institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-black-fungus-case-detected-in-himachal-101621529687974.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||More than 13,000 oxygen beds available in Haryana||The Haryana government has made a provision of 13,949 oxygen beds besides 5,350 ventilators or intensive care beds.An official spokesperson said that for treatment of Covid-19 patients in rural areas, five to 20 D-type oxygen gas cylinders are being arranged at each community health centre.“In each district, a location for filling of oxygen cylinders has been fixed. The deputy commissioners, with the help of the nodal officer, are looking after the arrangements at cylinders refilling sites. The facility of oxygen mobile bank has also been started in Karnal,’’ the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said that 9,896 oxygen cylinders have so far been delivered against requisition of 15,396. The spokesperson said 5,473 requests for oxygen cylinders are not in order.A state-level control room has been in operation in Chandigarh round-the-clock to keep a watch on supplies and requirements of oxygen coming from the districts while chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the officials to make sure that oxygen is available at the doorstep of every needy person.At present, around 240 MT oxygen is coming in daily from seven different locations in country. Nodal officers have been appointed to ensure that the tankers are evacuated timely and oxygen supply reaches the decided destination.The state was initially granted a quota of 156 MT oxygen which at the intervention of the CM, was raised to 282 MT.Six pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology-based plants in Faridabad, Sonepat, Karnal, Ambala, Panchkula and Hisar are continuously producing oxygen in the capacity of 200 litre per minute.The Centre has also approved 43 more PSA technology-based plants of which two plants will be set up in medical colleges and the other 41 in different districts. These plants will start production by June. Each plant will produce 500 to 1,000 litre oxygen per minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-than-13-000-oxygen-beds-available-in-haryana-101621529684974.html
20-05-2021||Other||Delhi woman recovers from Covid after 35 days on ventilator support||‘Dilli wali Meenu’ - became a common name in the Covid ward of a Kurukshetra private hospital as every doctor and staff in the ward got familiar with her after she spent 35 days on ventilator support, fighting Covid-19.Meenu Chauhan, 40, of Kurukshetra who is married in Delhi, had tested positive for Covid on April 3. During her fight with the virus, her oxygen level had once dropped to 70. Meenu is principal of a private school in Delhi.Her husband Rohit Chauhan, on April 1, she had come to Kurukshetra to take her daughter back from her parents’ home. She developed Covid symptoms and was then tested positive.She was taken to a private hospital in Kurukshetra but her condition started to deteriorate and she was put on oxygen support. Few days later, she could not recover and the infection spread to both her lungs.When she was unable to breath normally, doctors shifted her to the intensive care unit and put her on ventilator on April 8.“It was a critical time. I was tense when doctors shifted me to the ICU. I felt like I may not recover or get to see my family again,” says Meenu, recalling her long battle with Covid in the ICU.“But the doctors and staff gave me the strength to fight the virus and I started recovering,” she added.Dr Anurag Kaushal, who treated her, said “Luck is playing a crucial role behind recovery of many patients who survived despite being in critical condition.”He said Meenu is inspiring other patients to fight Covid.She has now been discharged from the hospital but will still stay in Kurukshetra for some time as she is still too weak to travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-woman-recovers-from-covid-after-35-days-on-ventilator-support-101621529564940.html
20-05-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath holds out compensation hope for kin of UP teachers who died on 'panchayat polls duty'||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday told government officials to work with the state election commission (SEC) to change the guidelines so that government staffers who died of Covid-19 after working for the recently-concluded Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls can get compensation.“The UP chief secretary and the additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) should coordinate with the commission and request it to amend the guidelines by including death due to Covid infection in a certain time period from the date of election duty. The first meeting should be held today itself,” Yogi Adityanath said at a Covid-19 review meeting on Thursday.Yogi Adityanath’s directive is a response to demands from teachers’ associations who have claimed that 1,621 government school staffers died due to Covid-19 between the first week of April and May 16 (two weeks after the counting of votes).The state government’s basic education department appeared to have rejected this demand on Tuesday when it insisted that according to official records, only three government teachers succumbed to Covid-19 when they could be treated on election duty under the existing rules.On Wednesday, the department announced that the government would give ₹30 lakh each to the next of kin of the three schoolteachers and a government job to an eligible candidate in each family. The four-phase panchayat elections were held on April 15, 19, 26 and 29. The counting of votes was taken up on May 2.The decision was sharply criticised by teachers and opposition parties who sought a liberal interpretation of the rules since there was a gap between the time when a person contracted the infection, fell ill and died. Studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days.At Thursday’s review meeting, Yogi Adityanath said the state government had been acting as per the SEC guidelines so far for compensating any staff who dies on election duty, be it teachers, shiksha mitras, anudeshaks, rozgar sewaks, police personnel, or any government employee on election duty.“But because the guidelines are old — when Covid did not exist — so there is a need to have a relook with sympathy,” he said.A senior state government official said that any policy change would be with retrospective effect, factoring in the panchayat polls held in April.Hindustan Times has been reporting extensively on the issue, including the need to relook and change the guidelines. In the HT reports, several experts, including former chief election commissioner of India SY Quraishi, said the state government and the state election commission (SEC) should go for a “liberal interpretation” in case of casualty of government staff deployed on election duty, especially when the country is facing the pandemic.Dinesh Chandra Sharma, president of the Pradeshiya Prathamik Shikshak Sangh (a teachers’ association), welcomed Yogi Adityanath’s decision. “The step by the chief minister is worth welcoming and we stress that the compensation should be ₹1 crore and any policy change must be with retrospective effect,” he said. He added that the Allahabad high court had made an observation for the government to consider giving compensation of ₹1 crore.Giving a break-up of the association’s claim on the number of deaths, Sharma said: “Out of 1,621 government school staff, 1332 were teachers, 209 shiksha mitras (para teachers), 25 anudeshaks (instructors), five block education officers, 15 clerks and 35 other employees.”A former official with the state election commission, who asked not to be named, said, “One should consider the death of government staff on a case-by-case basis and there cannot be a generalised rule that can be applied to all cases.”Yogi Adityanath told the Covid review meeting that the state government is committed to providing all necessary benefits, especially, in times of election duties or any other such duties. So, get into a dialogue with the SEC and make necessary recommendations.”For his part, Sharma said: “The government should also talk to us for suggestions before formulating new guidelines. We suggest that the criteria should include getting Covid infection within 10-12 days of the duty, death within at least a month of infection. It should also include post-Covid death by factors such as ‘black fungus’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-reaches-out-to-up-teachers-seeks-change-in-compensation-rule-101621529504887.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s recovery rate improves to 90.38%||Haryana recorded 6,457 coronavirus cases and 129 deaths on Thursday. With 14,734 patients recovering from the virus, the number of active cases has come down to 62,352.A medical bulletin said that the positivity rate on Thursday came down to 10.84% and the cumulative positivity rate was 8.52%.The state’s recovery rate improved to 90.38%. There were 1,331 critically ill patients including 318 on ventilator support.Gurugram still has the highest number of 13,623 active cases in state, followed by Hisar (5,999), Faridabad (4,159), Sirsa (3,761) and Karnal (3,540), as per the bulletin.Among the fatalities, 12 persons were from Jind, 11 each from Karnal and Hisar, eight each from Gurugram and Faridabad, seven each from Ambala, Panchkula and Sirsa, six each from Bhiwani, Rohtak and Panipat, five each from Sonepat, Rewari, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri, four from Kurukshetra, three each from Kaithal and Fatehabad, two each from Mahendergarh and Palwal, and one from Nuh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-recovery-rate-improves-to-9038-101621529447530.html
20-05-2021||Other||Delhi woman beats Covid-19 after being on ventilator for 35 days||‘Dilli wali Meenu’ became a common name in the Covid ward of a private hospital in Kurukshetra as she was the only patient in the hospital who was on a ventilator for 35 days and beat the deadly virus, HT has learnt. Meenu Chauhan, 40, was fighting the coronavirus disease after she tested positive on April 3. During this span, she faced very tough times. Even her oxygen level once dropped to 70 and the infection spread to her lungs.Chauhan originally belongs to Kurukshetra and got married in Delhi. She is the principal of a private school in Delhi.Chauhan visited Kurukshetra on April 1 to take her daughter from her parents’ home but she suddenly developed Covid-19 symptoms and tested positive for the virus on April 3.She was taken to the private hospital in Kurukshetra but later her condition started deteriorating and she was put on oxygen support. A few days later she could not recover and the infection spread to her lungs.When she was unable to breathe normally, the doctors moved her to the intensive care unit (ICU) and put her on a ventilator on April 8.“It was a very critical time that I had faced during this period. I was very tensed when the doctors shifted me to the ICU. Once I realized that I will not recover and will not see my family again,” she said while recalling her long battle with Covid-19 in the ICU.“But the doctors and staff members gave me the strength to fight against this invisible enemy and I started recovering after almost a month,” she said.Dr Anurag Kaushal, who treated her, said that she is a very strong woman and every staff member of the hospital praises her. “Several patients are recovering but I think luck is also playing a crucial role behind the recovery of many critically ill patients,” Dr Kaushal said.He said that Meenu’s story has inspired many people fighting Covid-19. According to her husband, she has been discharged from the hospital but will continue to stay in Kurukshetra till the time she regains her strength||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-woman-beats-covid-19-after-being-on-ventilator-for-35-days-101621529384900.html
20-05-2021||Other||Ventilators received from foreign countries lying unused at Bhiwani hospital||As many as 15 ventilators that Bhiwani’s Chaudhary Bansilal Government Hospital received from foreign countries through donation in the last three weeks are not functioning, said health officials.Dr Ved Pal, head of anesthesia at the hospital, said these ventilators are non-functional due to technical snag.“We had shifted some patients on these ventilators but they could not get proper oxygen support. We appraised the higher authorities about the same and a biomedical engineer is checking the technical snags in these ventilators,” he added.An administrative official, pleading anonymity, said these ventilators are manufactured by a Chinese company and were sent to Bansilal hospital three weeks ago.Flagging the issue, senior Congress leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said the demand of ventilator beds have increased a lot in the second wave and ventilators sent to the hospital are lying vacant.“The hospital lacks trained staff to operate these ventilators. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had promised the district residents of providing more ventilators and he provided them but they have developed a snag,” she added.“This is the only government hospital in Bhiwani which has proper ventilator facilities and only eight ventilators are functioning,” she added.A government doctor posted at the hospital said doctors of Dadri civil hospital are also referring patients requiring ventilator support to their hospital.“We have appraised the administration and senior health officials about shortage of ventilators and trained staff but to no avail,” the doctor added.Bhiwani civil surgeon Dr Sapna Gehlot said the hospital has 24 ventilators of which eight are functioning.“We had received 15 ventilators from the Gurugram warehouse, which were sent by foreign countries through donation and these are lying unused because we don’t have an application for installation. Once we get all parts of the ventilators, we will install them,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ventilators-received-from-foreign-countries-lying-unused-at-bhiwani-hospital-101621529325000.html
20-05-2021||Other||Active cases in UP down by over 62% since Apr 30||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh reported 6,725 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 16,51,530 while 238 more fatalities due to the virus pushed the death toll to 18,588 on Thursday. “The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has come down by over 62% since its peak on April 30. The recovery rate of the state is improving. It is now 91.8%. The 24-hour case positivity rate is 2.4%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. “At present, there are 1,16,434 active cases in UP, of which 83,801 are in home isolation. A total of 2.91 lakh Covid tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. So far, over 4.58 crore tests have been conducted in the state,” said Prasad. During the day, Lucknow logged 353 fresh Covid cases, Ghaziabad 364, Varanasi 351, Gautam Buddh Nagar 239, Moradabad 218 and Prayagraj 89. Lucknow saw the maximum deaths – 21, Varanasi 16, Agra 12, Meerut and Kanpur 11 each, according to the state health department data. Lucknow has till now reported 2,35,579 Covid cases, of which 2,25,879 have recovered. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 95.88%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Till now, Lucknow has reported 2,337 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-cases-in-up-down-by-over-62-since-apr-30-101621528424312.html
20-05-2021||Ranchi||26 J’khand migrants stuck in Nepal develop Covid-like symptoms, seek help||As many as 26 migrant labourers from Jharkhand’s Dumka district, currently stuck in the Sindhupalchowk district of Nepal, have sought help from the Jharkhand government for their immediate rescue, as all of them are suffering from Covid-like symptoms and facing a shortage of food due to lockdown there. In a video message, the workers said that they are stranded in Nepal due to lockdown and most of them have fallen sick but getting no medical attention there. They have requested the Jharkhand government to “save their lives.”Migrant worker Narayan Das, a native of Ramgarh block of Dumka district and currently residing in Nepal, said that all 26 labourers from Dumra district are stuck at Gauri Gaon village in Sindhupalchowk district of Nepal. “We had come here for construction work in a hydro-power plant about two-and-a-half months back. A contractor from Himachal Pradesh brought us here. In past one week, we all fell sick one by one. We have symptoms like fever and cough. Some of us were given saline, but we are not getting proper medical care here,” Das said.He said, “Because of soaring cases of Covid-19, the lockdown has been imposed here. So, we are also struggling to arrange for food. We don’t have money to buy food and treatment or return home.”“We request the Jharkhand government to please help and rescue us from here. Otherwise, we might die without proper treatment,” Das said.The state migrant control room (SMCR) officials said they were in touch with the labourers. “We have communicated the Dumka administration to provide them immediate help,” said Shikha Lakra, SMCR team lead.Deputy development commissioner (DDC), Dumka, Sanjay Singh said, “We have been informed that around 35 labourers are stuck in Nepal. However, we are not focusing on numbers, as we have to bring all those stranded there.”“Since they are stuck in a foreign land, we have to follow certain protocols. The deputy commissioner is writing a letter to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu seeking guidance on how to rescue them. We will begin the rescue operation once permission is granted,” Singh said.He said buses would be sent according to the number of labourers stranded there. “A team of paramedics equipped with Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits would also go to ascertain the health condition of the labourers. If anyone is found infected with Coronavirus, we will ensure a separate arrangement to bring him. In case anyone found to be seriously ill, we will ensure to get a better medical facility in Nepal,” he said.Not only in Nepal, thousands of labourers, who are stranded in different states of the country, have also sought Jharkhand’s governments help for their rescue. According to the data provided by the state control room, as many as 6044 migrant workers are stuck in different states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, and they want to return.Lakhs of migrant labourers working in different parts of the country have already returned home after cases started rising in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/26-j-khand-migrants-stuck-in-nepal-develop-covid-like-symptoms-seek-help-101621527044325.html
20-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid vaccination/ 18-44 age group J’khand moves SC seeking exemption from registration on CoWin app||Jharkhand government has moved the Supreme Court seeking direction to the Centre to disband the mandatory registration on CoWIN app under the “Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination” for the 18-44 age group and allow the state government to use its user-friendly portal for easier registration.In an intervention petition, the state government has cited the demographic profile of the state. With a huge tribal population inhabiting the 13 scheduled districts, low digital literacy and lack of proper internet connectivity are hampering the registration process through apps, the petition said.The state government has also mentioned that the vaccination process could be expedited in the state if it is allowed to use the portal developed by the state government, as it could work both online and offline, and provide the option of walk-in registration to the beneficiaries.“…direct the Government of India to disband the mandatory registration on CoWIN App under the “Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination” in so far as it concerns the Applicant, State of Jharkhand and consequently, direct the Government of India to allow/ permit the Applicant State to use its own robust, pragmatic and user-friendly mechanism devised for registration for Covid-19 vaccination process,” the petition filed by the state said.The petition said that walk-in registration was available for vaccination of the 45+ age group, but is not an option for those aged between 18-45 years (approximately 1.4 crore people) in the state.“Post the commencement of Phase –III, the state is facing major difficulty in registering the potential beneficiaries as there are issues of digital literacy and digital exclusion apart from glitches in the portal, especially in rural areas. The registration process in CoWIN is very cumbersome and complicated with the involvement of OTPs and captcha. Since the server is flooded with requests, it has become very slow to operate. Sometimes OTPs are not received and the dropdown menu does not function in the app,” it added.The petition, which the state government officials said is likely to be taken up in the coming days, said that the state government is ready with a robust portal of its own that will provide hassle-free service for vaccine registration.“Jharkhand, being a state with heavy forest cover and tough terrain, has many villages that come under network shadow area. Unlike CoWIN, Jharkhand State Portal (http://amritvahini.in) will run in the remotest of the areas irrespective of network connectivity so that the rural and tribal population of the state can easily reach out for vaccination,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid-vaccination-18-44-age-group-j-khand-moves-sc-seeking-exemption-from-registration-on-cowin-app-101621526984246.html
20-05-2021||Other||Double mutant Covid variant found in Dhanbad patients||After Ranchi, Palamu and Hazaribagh, the dangerous double mutant variant of SARS–CoV2 has now entered Dhanbad, a state health department official said on Thursday.Bhubaneswar Regional Jinam Siwuesing Laboratories on Wednesday sent a lab report to the microbiology department of Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College Hospital (SNMMCH) in Dhanbad and informed about the finding of B.1.617 variant of SARS-CoV2 in some samples of positive patients sent by the institution.A senior official of the state health department said that RT-PCR test reports of samples of different districts were sent to Bhubaneswar Regional Jinam Siwuesing Laboratories, in which the B.1.617 variant of SARS-CoV2 was earlier found in samples of Ranchi, Palamu, Hazaribagh and other districts of the state. Now Dhanbad has also joined them.SNMMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar admitted to having received the report of Bhubaneswar Regional Jinam Siwuesing laboratories about the variant of Coronavirus in samples of patients. “We would discuss how to combat the situation soon,” said principal Dr Kumar.SNMMCH microbiology head of the department Dr Sujit Kumar Tiwari said that RT-PCR test reports are being sent to the lab for identifying what type of strain is being detected in positive patients. Migrants from Maharashtra and other parts of the country are also under treatment at SNMMCH and their RT-PCR samples test reports are also being sent to the Bhubaneswar Lab. “So we can’t claim that the new variant is found in Dhanbad patients. It might have entered the district through migrant patients,” he said.Dr Sujit Kumar Tiwari said that among different strains, the B.1.617 variant is the most dangerous.As per the Bhubaneswar lab report, a total of 50 samples were sent from SNMMCH. Of them, B.1.617 SARS-CoV2 variant was found in 30 samples, followed by B.1.617-1 in nine and B.1.222 in six..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/double-mutant-covid-variant-found-in-dhanbad-patients-101621526924930.html
20-05-2021||Other||Purnia village tense after man killed, houses torched||PURNIATension gripped Majhuwa village under Baisi police station of Purnia district where a former village chowkidar was allegedly beaten to death and about a dozen houses belonging to Mahadalit community were set ablaze on Wednesday night, reportedly over a land dispute.Though the victims have not filed an FIR so far, reportedly out of fear, the local police, which visited the village, have detained two persons, identified as Mohammad Sakir and Mohammad Ibrahim The deceased has been identified as Mewa Lal Roy, who was in his 70s. His sons Sukhdev and Fakira said, “Hundreds of people from three to four nearby villages attacked us at around 11 am on Wednesday when we were sleeping. Later, they set our houses on fire.”About a dozen villagers, including women and children, sustained injuries. “The injured were later rushed to Baisi primary health centre (PHC),” the police said. Two fire engines later reached the spot and doused the fire, by when much damage had been done.“We can’t take any action against them as they are very powerful and have threatened us of dire consequences if we register any complaint with police,” one of the victims said.Station house officer of Baisi police station, Amit Kumar, said, “We have detained Md Sakir and Md Ibrahim for murder, although no one has lodged an FIR so far.” Subdivisional officer Amreandra Kumar Pankaj said the incident was a fallout of land dispute. Meanwhile, a police contingent has been deployed in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purnia-village-tense-after-man-killed-houses-torched-101621526924232.html
20-05-2021||Other||State plans 9 new prisons to reduce overcrowding||PATNATo relieve the pressure on Bihar’s overcrowded jails, the state home department is planning to set up nine new prisons in eight districts, including one in Nalanda.According to a notification issued by the home department, the government has decided to build new nine prisons at subdivisional level at Rajgir (Nalanda), Rajauli (Nawada), Marhaura (Saran), Maharajganj (Siwan), Hathua (Gopalganj), Mahnar (Vaishali), Simri Bakhtiyarpur (Saharsa), Chakia and Pakdidayal (East Champaran).Each of them will have a capacity of housing 1,000 inmates.The Patna high court had earlier directed the state government to set up an experts’ committee to conduct a “scientific study on setting up model prisons with necessary infrastructure and take steps to reduce overcrowding in jails”.As on April 30, 2021, the 58 jails in Bihar, including eight central prisons, 32 district and 17 subdivisional prisons, had 55,000 inmates as against the capacity of 39, 542. The overcrowded prisons In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic is a serious concerns for the state government. A senior official of the state home department said that a proposal to construct multiple new jails with modern amenities was under consideration of the state government. He said multi-storey prisons would also be considered at some of these places. The official overcrowding was a bigger challenge, especially in high-security central prisons housing criminals from organised gangs and those jailed for serious and heinous crimes. Inmates have to be segregated and kept physically apart from each other, especially those from rival gangs or with possible hostility, they added.Officials said some of the inmates, who have violent history or those involved in cases of terrorism and Maoism, have to be housed separately, and that additional jails will also help prison administration better segregate the existing population from security point of view.Sources said the new jails will be designed by Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D).Around 10 acres of land will be needed for a subdivisional jail. Around 20 acres of land is needed for district jail while 30 acres for a central jail.IG (Prisons) Mithilesh Mishra said, “Construction of the new prisons is at the planning stage. We are in talks with the government for land sanction and other formalities. Once land is sanctioned, we will plan the infrastructure.”Headline: Behind bars in BiharIntro: The Patna High Court has earlier directed the state government to move towards model jails Number of jails in Bihar: 58 Central jails: 8District jails: 32 Subdivisional jails: 17 Open jail: 1Total number of inmates: 55,000 Current capacity: 39, 542 New jails will come up at:Rajgir (Nalanda)Rajauli (Nawada)Marhaura (Saran)Maharajganj (Siwan)Hathua (Gopalganj)Mahnar (Vaishali)Simri Bakhtiyarpur (Saharsa)Chakia (East Champaran)Pakdidayal (East Champaran)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-plans-9-new-prisons-to-reduce-overcrowding-101621526864826.html
20-05-2021||Other||PMC faces HC’s ire over biowaste disposal in Patna||PATNAThe Patna High Court, which has been hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, on Thursday took up the matter of bio-waste disposal in Patna town and said it was an issue not confined to private and government hospitals only, but also labs and homes, where people were living in isolation. Not satisfied with the affidavit of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), the court observed it “seemed to conceal more than it revealed” and wanted specific answers to its queries. “The affidavit says nothing. Do we shut our eyes on the realities? Is it the fact in Patna?” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar observed, seeking clarity on bio-waste disposal. “How many people are isolated at home and who is picking up garbages from those houses? How many tests are being conducted in Patna? How many tonnes of waste is being generated and collected? Which is the agency dealing with it and where is the waste being taken to? How many people are involved with that? How many PPE kits are being given in the city and to whom? These are issues for consideration,” the bench said. The bench had directed the PMC to file a detailed affidavit regarding bio-waste collection/disposal and steps taken for sensitization of the people after the PMC’s counsel said that the IGIMS was entrusted with the responsibility of bio-waste disposal, which had outsourced the work to some private agency. The government had earlier said in an affidavit that there were four common biomedical waste treatment facilities in the state to cover 38 districts. All waste generated from testing, treatment, diagnosis, quarantine centres and vaccination centres are collected from all health care facilities by vehicles provided by the plants and taken to treatment facilities. Testing done in fields and waste collected are also routed to treatment plans through PHCs. PMCH course correction Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) will fortnightly apprise the Patna HC of the outcome of the corrective steps taken to improve its functioning in the light of the court order following the reports of the three-member experts’ committee and amicus curiae Mrigank Mauli. Appearing for the PMCH, senior counsel PK Shahi said the hospital had set up three separate committees. While the first committee is to monitor oxygen supply, the second one would oversee the arrangements in the wards and the third would be for grievance redressal. “All care and caution is being taken with regard to oxygen. Today, more than 50% beds in the wards are not occupied,” he said. Earlier, the three-member committee constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the facilities available at the hospitals in Patna and the status of oxygen supply, had visited the PMCH and pointed to deficiencies there and made some adverse remarks in its report on the status of oxygen supply. The committee was headed by Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani of AIIMS, Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-faces-hc-s-ire-over-biowaste-disposal-in-patna-101621526864194.html
20-05-2021||Other||16 new cases of black fungus, 4 of white fungus found in Patna||PATNASixteen new cases of black fungus were reported in Bihar on Thursday while four cases of white fungus, associated with coronavirus, were detected at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in the last as many months, the last having been found four days back, said doctors. The total cases of mucormycosis in the state had now gone up to 103, said Dr Anjani Kumar, additional director, health services, Bihar. Twenty-eight patients were admitted at the AIIMS-Patna, 41 at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), one at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital and 33 at different private facilities in Patna, including one in Nalanda, said Dr Kumar. Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh, professor and head of department of microbiology at the PMCH, who found the four cases of white fungus, cautioned doctors against excessive use of steroids on Covid-19 patients. Referring to the black and white fungus as opportunistic fungi, present both in the air and the soil, Dr Singh said they affect people with low immunity level, especially the old, suffering from uncontrolled diabetes, cancer and kidney patients or those who have undergone organ transplants like kidney and liver, and were on immunosuppressant drugs. Dr Kranti Bhawna, additional professor and head of ENT department at AIIMS-Patna, too cautioned against overdose of steroids for cure of Covid-19 patients. She said prolonged steroid therapy compromised immunity of patients and made them vulnerable to fungi attack. “Good glycemic (sugar) control is the key. While treating Covid-19 patients on steroids, doctors should be careful to keep their sugar level under control. Secondly, overuse of steroids is not good, as it decreases the immunity,” said Dr Bhawna, adding that fatality in mucormycosis is 30%-80%. Dr Bhawna has been operating upon at least two cases of mucormycosis at AIIMS everyday. “We have around 45 patients with mucormycosis at our institute of which at least five are serious and in ICU. If doctors at PMCH, Nalanda Medical College Hospital and the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital begin to operate black fungus cases, it will help reduce our load,” she said. Two deaths have so far been attributed to black fungus in Patna. Among the deceased was a local doctor, who died at the Ruban Memorial Hospital, a private facility in Patna, on May 17. Earlier on May 12, a 58-year-old male from Kaimur died at Patna’s AIIMS, a day after he was admitted there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16-new-cases-of-black-fungus-4-of-white-fungus-found-in-patna-101621526806123.html
20-05-2021||Other||9 months on, 26 ventilators sent to DMCH set to go live||DARBHANGAStung by reports that 26 ventilators supplied under PM Cares Fund were still lying unused for the last nine months, officials of the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), the largest government hospital in north Bihar, were not being used in the absence of any “plan or guidelines.”The state had got 207 ventilators in March 2020 for its different health facilities. On May 2 this year, as per health department sources, permission was granted for installation of some of the ventilators at private hospitals and two dozens were installed thereafter. A health department official said that state requires at least 144 anaesthetists to run these ventilators but Bihar has only 77. State health minister Mangal Pandey, while talking to some media persons earlier, had admitted to the shortage of expert hands to run the ventilators. AT the DMCH, on April 26, technical experts from Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL) handed over 24-bed ICU facility equipped with ventilators to the DMCH administration. “The installation work had to be accomplished by BMSICL. We are trying our best to utilise the equipment with full support from district administration,” said an insider of DMCH, preferring anonymity.A successful dry run of newly installed ventilators was completed in the first week of May. However, there were some technical glitches, which caused delay in the installation of equipment. DMCH principal Dr K N Mishra said they were working towards it amid the second wave of pandemic. “We have to start Covid Care Hospital in Nursing College and Hostel. The newly installed ICU facility has been set up in a building which was originally constructed for teaching purposes. For the installation of ventilators, entire electrical wiring and oxygen supply system was needed to be modified.”DMCH superintendent Dr Mani Bhushan Sharma said in all likelihood, the new ICU facility equipped with new ventilators would become functional in a day or two.The ICU in-charge, Dr Hari Damodar Singh, said the newly built ICU could not be utilised properly soon after installation due to huge quantity of oxygen required in running the machines. In order to keep all the ventilators in running condition, the ICU requires a steady oxygen supply of 250 cylinders. Hence, the DMCH administration decided to manage all patients judiciously.“As of now, the oxygen supply chain has improved drastically. We hope to start them within a day or two,” he said. In the meantime, eight-bed ICU facility equipped with ventilators at Trauma Centre is available for patients, the ICU in-charge said, adding that one of the bed was lying vacant on Thursday.An official, requesting anonymity, also alleged that Centrally supplied ventilators had shown poor performance. A DMCH doctor said the new 25-bed ICU set up at ground floor failed to sustain the sensitive functioning of ventilators initially due to the lack of commensurate pressure of oxygen, which has been rectified now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-months-on-26-ventilators-sent-to-dmch-set-to-go-live-101621526804207.html
20-05-2021||Other||Lockdown takes its toll on May tax collection||PATNAThe lockdown in Bihar, which came into force on May 5 this year and was further extended till May 25, has taken its toll on the state’s tax collections, which have started plummeting.The total revenue for May is expected to be around ₹500 crore as against ₹2,700 crore last month, prompting the finance department to go for higher borrowings within specified limit from next month onwards to meet various expenditures. Sources said tax collections for May till Thursday was over ₹400 crore and expected to reach the ₹500 crore by the end of month. “There is a huge shortfall in tax collections from internal sources this month as against last month’s figures. This is owing to lockdown and restrictions in commercial activity,” said a finance department official, seeking anonymity. The sharp decline is a major cause of worry for finance officials, who say the state, having already battled contraction in economy last fiscal, would not have enough funds for development works and committed expenditure if Covid restrictions continue over the next few months. “We have to increase our borrowings from next month. We are only hoping central devolutions are higher this fiscal or else the fiscal position will be tight and adversely affect implementation of schemes,” said another official. The state government has a borrowing limit of ₹36,000 crore for the current fiscal (2021-22). Sources said the government will be borrowing ₹2,000 crore next week in the first tranche and then ₹4,000 crore from next month onwards from the market to ensure funds for various expenditures and shortfall in revenue collections. The borrowings would be assessed once the tax collections start improving, officials said. The state’s public debt for the fiscal 2020-21 stands at ₹1.77 lakh crore. The state government total budget outlay is ₹2.18 lakh crore for 2021-22, with a target of ₹40,000 crore as revenue from state’s own internal sources like transport, commercial taxes, registration and mining. Last fiscal, Bihar managed to get ₹60,000 crore as central devolutions by way of its share in central taxes, belying apprehensions that the devolutions would be much less due to the economic contraction on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. In 2019-20, the state had received ₹63,000 crore as central devolutions from share of taxes. Sources said the government’s tax collections from own sources in the last fiscal was close to ₹35,000 crore, a shortfall of 10 -12% against the target of ₹39,900 crore. “Our tax collections were good despite lockdown and restrictions for several months last year. The higher central devolutions than expectedsaved the day for us in terms of keeping our fiscal position good so far,” said a finance official. He said the picture of fund availability from central sources would be clearer for the current fiscal when the 43rd GST council meeting, to be chaired by union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, takes place on May 28.Sources the state government has kept a budgetary provision of ₹3,500 crore as compensation cess for the current fiscal. Principal secretary (finance) S Siddharth refused to comment on low tax collections owing to the lockdown in May or the government’s plans to start borrowing from next month.Headline: Tax May-hemIntro: Lockdown in Bihar came into force on May 5 this year and was further extended till May 25Total revenue April: ₹2,700 crore May: ₹500 crore (expected)BorrowingLimit for current fiscal: ₹36,000 crore Planned next week: ₹2,000 crore Next month onwards: ₹4,000 crore State’s internal sources of taxTransport, commercial taxes, registration, mining||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-takes-its-toll-on-may-tax-collection-101621526744273.html
20-05-2021||Jaipur||‘Free treatment for black fungus across all districts’: Rajasthan CM||After notifying Mucormycosis (black fungus) as an epidemic, the Rajasthan government on Thursday announced free treatment for the disease in the state. “The state along with creating awareness among masses related to its symptoms and precautions has also made arrangements of its free treatment across all districts of the state,” the chief minister said. Gehlot tweeted that the state government should have complete details of patients of black fungus. In view of this, it has been notified as an epidemic under Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020.The government is also making arrangements for the diseases to be treated at the private hospitals empanelled under the Mukhyamantri Chiranjeevi Yojna, said Gehlot. The CM said cases of black fungus are constantly increasing due to Covid-19. It is coming as a side effect of Covid-19. In such a situation, it is necessary to ensure integrated treatment of black fungus and Covid-19. “The mortality rate due to black fungus is higher and therefore its timely treatment at the initial stage is necessary,” he said.The state health department has also issued its medical protocol as recommended by the Mucormycosis board comprising experts from 11 departments. The protocol will focus on prevention, symptoms, treatment and investigation of the black fungus. The state is facing a shortage of drug liposomal amphotericin B used for the treatment of black fungus. The Gehlot government has ordered the serum company to purchase 2500 vials of liposomal amphotericin B. The government is contacting the eight big pharma companies of the country and a global tender is also being made for the purchase of the drug.The state has received only 700 vials from the Government of India and the state has requested at least 50,000. “The GoI has also allotted 1600 injections of liposomal amphotericin B, which are expected to arrive today,” said a senior official. In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the health department had started a separate OPD and ward at the SMS hospital from Sunday. Currently, 56 patients are admitted and 14 beds are vacant at the health facility. Around 10-12 cases of black fungus are being reported to the OPD daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/free-treatment-for-back-fungus-across-all-districts-rajasthan-cm-101621526324864.html
20-05-2021||Pune||35 lawyers of Pune Bar Association die of Covid in three months||Pune: The Pune Bar Association said that 35 lawyers were victims of the deadly Covid-19 contagion during the past three months. The association claimed that the victims were practising lawyers in different courts across the city and demanded that the legal fraternity be vaccinated on top priority as they are frontline workers providing service to citizens during the pandemic. Advocate Satish Mulik, president, Pune Bar Association said that the demise of 45 lawyers is a huge loss to the family, judiciary and the fraternity. According to the guidelines issued by the Bombay High Court, courts in the state are working in one shift from April 19 onwards, only for urgent matters. The guidelines were issued against the backdrop of the exponential surge of Covid-19 cases in the state. The guidelines regarding the functioning are applicable for all the subordinate courts in the states of Maharashtra and Goa, including the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. The guidelines state that all courts shall continue to function in one shift and take up remand, bail and urgent criminal and civil matters w,e,f. April 19 with judicial working hours of 2 ½ hours. The Principal District and Sessions Judges and Heads of the Establishment may take the decision to entrust the aforesaid work to requisite strength of judicial officers with 50% strength of staff, by rotation. The Principal District and Sessions Judges and Heads of the Establishment may adjust the working hours of shift having regard to the local situation/condition and all the judicial officers shall remain stationed at their respective places of posting and shall not leave headquarter/station without permission of the Principal District and Sessions Judge and Head of the Establishment. The judicial officers may pronounce judgment/s or pass orders in the matters, wherein the arguments of both the parties are concluded, the directive added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/35-lawyers-of-pune-bar-association-die-of-covid-in-three-months-101621525724163.html
20-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 3,735 fresh Covid cases, 91 deaths||Pune: As per state health authorities, Pune district reported 3,735 fresh Covid positive cases and 91 Covid deaths in the past 24 hours.. Out of 91 deaths reported on Thursday, 66 were in Pune rural, 21 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and four in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 477,129 Covid cases and 6,200 deaths till Thursday, PCMC 238,298 cases so far and total 1,554 deaths. Pune rural has reported 273,184 total cases so far and 2,974 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 0.988,611 million Covid cases. Of this, 0.913,741 million patients have recovered. There have been a total of 10,786 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 64,084 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 47,371 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 5,026,308 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 91.43%. Across Maharashtra, 29,911 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 730 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.55%. The state health department stated of 32,154,275 laboratory samples, 5,497,448 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 17.09% patients till Thursday. Currently, 2,935,409 people are in home quarantine and 21,648 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-3-735-fresh-covid-cases-91-deaths-101621525184161.html
20-05-2021||Pune||19 flying squads to monitor supply of Mucormycosis medicine in Pune||Pune: Looking at the surge in mucormycosis cases in Covid patients and rise in demand of medicine, the district administration along with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has decided to form 19 flying squads which will keep a tap on the demand and supply of medicine.The squad will include officers and employees of the Food and Drug administration (FDA), revenue department and police force.“There will be 19 squads, which are allocated parts of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural Pune. These are the same squads which were keeping a tap on black- marketing of the Remdesivir injection,” said Shyam Pratapwar, assistant commissioner, FDA.A control room has been set up by the district administration at the collectorate to monitor supply of Amphotericirin B injection and prevent black-marketing and storage of the medicine.The district administration has also instructed private distributors and suppliers to inform about the availability of medicines and daily demands.The city has reported 168 mucormycosis patients so far, while Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 64 cases till now.“The squadd have been told to keep daily updates, so we can prevent situations like shortage of Remdesivir injections,” said Pratapwar.Pune Municipal Corporation has also increased its health insurance cover for the urban poor from ₹one lakh to three lakh due to post effect of Covid.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has also started helpline numbers and online consultation for patients who have recovered from Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/16-flying-squads-to-monitor-supply-of-mucormycosis-medicine-in-pune-101621524644147.html
20-05-2021||Other||PM praises Ahmednagar’s handling of Covid crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Thursday, appreciated the efforts taken by the authorities in the Ahmednagar district to tackle the Covid pandemic and prevent fatalities, officials said. The prime minister had video conference with collectors of 60 districts in the country, including 17 in Maharashtra, along with chief ministers of 11 states. During the virtual meeting, Ahmednagar collector Rajendra Bhosale apprised him of the initiatives being implemented in the district, said a statement from the state information department. Modi expressed satisfaction at the steps being taken by the district authorities, it added. As of Wednesday, Ahmednagar has reported 2,42,317 Covid cases with 2,575 fatalities. In the first wave, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the district was 1.5 per cent which fell to 0.9 per cent in the ongoing second wave, Bhosale said. All the households in the district were surveyed and patients who had co-morbidities were given timely treatment, which brought down the CFR, he told the PM. During the first wave 0.4 million lakh tests had been conducted, while in the second wave 0.5 million samples have been tested so far, the collector said. The “Hivre Bazaar” pattern promoted by Popatrao Pawar, a village Sarpanch from the district who is a Padmashree recipient, ensured that his village became coronavirus-free. This was then implemented in the district. Under Pawar’s guidance, 1,316 gram panchayats implemented the pattern under which four teams of health officials and NGOs were formed to survey each household. In other initiatives, a nodal officer was appointed to oversee the refund of excess fees charged by private hospitals, the collector said. He himself toured every taluka in the district at least twice a month and spoke to village officials to boost their morale. Special efforts were taken to set up oxygen production plants in the district and a deputy collector-level officer was put in charge of each plant, he told the prime minister. Nodal officers were appointed for hospitals to ensure smooth oxygen supply, Bhosale said. New arrivals in villages were sent to isolation rooms. During the second wave even home isolation was stopped and all coronavirus positive persons were admitted to Covid care centres, the collector said. Those violating curfew orders and loitering in public were subjected to rapid antigen tests, he said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also praised the district administration’s efforts, the statement added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-praises-ahmednagar-s-handling-of-covid-crisis-101621522783916.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 29,911 new Covid-19 cases and 738 deaths, 1,433 fresh infections in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Thursday reported a further dip in the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as 29,911 registered as infected with the virus in the last 24 hours. The state reported 738 mortalities, pushing the death toll to 85,355, according to the state health bulletin. On Wednesday, Maharashtra saw a rise of 34,031 new cases in the tally.Thursday's additional cases took the coronavirus tally of the state to 54,97,448. Presently, 3,83,253 infections are active across the state, according to the bulletin.Also read: Shortage of black fungus drug Amphotericin B to be resolved soon, says CentreMaharashtra reported the highest recoveries in the country on Thursday, as 47,371 patients recovered from the disease. The number of fresh discharged decreased in a day, as on Wednesday 51,457 patients recovered.Testing for coronavirus plunged in the last 24 hours by over 5,000. On Thursday 2,79,911 samples were tested for the virus in contrast to 285,647 samples on Wednesday. The total number of tests done so far in the state amounts to 3,21,54275, the bulletin showed.Mumbai found 1,433 people infected with the deadly virus in the last 24 hours, as compared to 1,329 on Wednesday. The state capital saw a rise of 104 cases.The casualties from the virus in Mumbai amounted to 59 on Thursday, an incline of two from the previous day when 57 died from the illness, according to the data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The total caseload of Mumbai currently stands at 6,92,785, with the new deaths taking the toll to 14,410, the data showed.The Union health ministry recognized Maharashtra as one of the states showing a declining trend in the number of Covid-19 cases and positivity rate in the last three weeks. The state reported the highest decline in active caseload in the last 24 hours, as it reduced by over 18, 000, according to the ministry's data. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday also commended the efforts undertaken by the authorities in the Ahmednagar district of the state to control the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-29-911-new-covid-19-cases-738-deaths-101621519505395.html
20-05-2021||Other||In Sukma, Maoists call for ‘bandh’; villagers protest with dead bodies||Amid the Maoists’ call for ‘bandh’ in two districts on Friday against Monday’s killings in Sukma district near Silger camp, the villagers on Thursday again protested near the camp along with the three dead bodies, HT has learnt. Three people were killed in the incident which took place on Monday afternoon when a group of villagers were protesting against the camp, which opened on May 12 near Silger village - a Maoist stronghold along the border of Sukma-Bijapur districts. The villagers have been demanding the removal of Silger camp and justice for the three tribals who died in Monday’s firing. They are also planning to start a protest again from Friday in which the residents of about 12 villagers will take part, a local said. The villagers had claimed that security forces opened fire unilaterally on protestors and those killed were tribals while police said Maoists were part of the crowd that was protesting against the camp and that the ultras started the gunbattle. Inspector-General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said, the preliminary investigation revealed that the three deceased were allegedly linked with frontal organizations of banned CPI (Maoist) but police are trying to ascertain this input. Prima facie, the deceased have been identified as Uska Pandu, a Bhumkal commander from Timmapur village (Sukma); Kowasi Waga, DAKMS (Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan) member from Chhutwahi; and Kursam bhima, militia member from Gundem village (Bijapur), the IGP said. The villagers claimed that those killed were farmers and on Thursday they put the bodies of the deceased at the protest site and demanded justice. Meanwhile, on Wednesday evening, human rights activist Bela Bhatia, along with activist Jean Dreze, tried to reach the protest site but was stopped by the security forces. “Held up outside Chiramangi CRPF camp. I was on my way to Silger but have been stopped. They have been told that I should not be allowed to proceed without the SP’s permission. In the morning, I had gone to the district hospital at Bijapur to meet the injured but was not allowed to talk to them. We (Jean Dreze and I) were told to undergo two covid tests at the hospital which we did even after being vaccinated. Even after six hours of wait, I was still not allowed to speak with the injured. Out of the five injured, I saw three had bullet injuries. Also, throughout my time in the hospital, a policewoman was following me wherever I went. I cannot help but feel that I have been deliberately kept from visiting Silger. I see this as an obstruction in my duty as a lawyer,” a statement issued by Bhatia on social media stated. On Thursday, Bhatia claimed that the permission is still in process and meeting with officials is going on. On the other hand, Maoists called for ‘bandh’ in Bijapur and Sukma districts on Friday in a written statement and stated that the villagers were protesting peacefully but senior police officers ordered firing upon unarmed tribals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-sukma-maoists-call-for-bandh-villagers-protest-with-dead-bodies-101621522247000.html
20-05-2021||Other||Politicos not in favour of new SOPs governing vaccination drive||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for the vaccination drive has come in for criticism from political parties.PMC commissioner Vikarm Kumar issued the guidelines for the vaccination drive on Tuesday, due to much interference from political parties. The decision was taken after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city president Prasant Jagatap, Shiv Sena party leader Sanjay More, and Congress leader Ramesh Bagwe met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar about the issue.The SOPs include not allowing members of political parties or any person to enter the vaccination centre. Staffers at the centre can now seek police protection to handle the situation and file a case against any intruder.The commissioner’s order also prohibits posters or hoardings around vaccination centres.Mulrlidhar Mohol, mayor, said, “Prohibition of local corporators is not good. Corporators are servants of the public. To help the public is the duty of the corporation. PMC should not put blame on political parties for the misuse of power by some corporators. If we are not present at the centre, people will ask us questions.”“It is absolutely wrong to give orders to file a police complaint against a corporator. The decision has been taken under political pressure,” he added.Aba Bagul, Congress leader in the corporation said, “It is not acceptable to file a police complaint against corporators. The corporation doesn’t have enough manpower or machinery to successfully complete the vaccination drive. The commissioner should not hold all corporators responsible for any wrongdoing.” Prithviraj Sutar, Shiv Sena Party leader in PMC said, “Due to too much political interference, the PMC commissioner took the decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/politicos-not-in-favour-of-new-sops-governing-vaccination-drive-101621521763874.html
20-05-2021||Other||State forms committee to study water distribution from dams in Bhima basin||PUNE The state government water resource department has decided to form a committee to address the issue of access to water from four dams - Khadakwasla, Warasgaon, Panshet and Ujjani – all in the Bhima basin.On Thursday, the government issued the order to form a four-member committee under the chairmanship of retired secretary of the water resource department. The committee will include chief engineer of the Jal Vidnyan Prakalp (Nashik), chief engineer of the water resource division, Pune, and superintendent engineer of the Pune Irrigation division. The government has as asked for a report in three months.Avinash Surve, chairman of the committee, said, “The irrigation department does water management on the basis of availability of water, crop patterns, purposes of water (drinking, industry, agriculture). After some time, the situation changes and we have to make changes. Climate change will affect rainfall and will directly impact the availability of water.”There are 25 dams in the Bhima basin, spread across three sub-basins – the Bhima sub-basin, the Neera sun-basin and the Mula-Mutha sub-basi - with 17 reservoirs. The need for the panel comes against the background of Pune city increasing its demand for water from the dams, to serve an expanding population.Given Pune city’s increasing water usage, the rural areas of Pune district are complaining of a water shortage.A decision on increasing the water quota for Pune city is pending.Pune’s annual water usage has increased from 11.50 thousand million litres per cubic feet (TMC) to 18.50 thousand million TMC, annually. As per statistics released by the water resource department, the population in the rural areas of Pune district is forecast to reach 4.520 million; and the urban population, 9.265 million, by 2030. Meanwhile, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is accessing the Bhama-Askhed dam for water, which is 45km away from the city. Twenty-three villages have also been cleared to merge with the PMC limits.The committee will start a pilot project in the Bhima sub-basin to study and review water distribution.The committee will give recommendations based on the pattern of water usage, irrigation capacity, proportion of sludge, and increasing capacity of projects.“Due to rapid urbanisation and industrialisation, the basic planning of water distribution has changed. Water usages vary. We will study supplying more water to cities and the increasing pressure on the agriculture sector to find a solution. We will have to increase the capacity of Pune city’s water usage, as well as the agriculture water usage,” Surve said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-forms-committee-to-study-water-distribution-from-dams-in-bhima-basin-101621521103795.html
20-05-2021||Pune||Pvt hospitals in Pune likely to start vax drive for 18-44 age group from today||Pune: The private hospitals in the city are likely to start administering vaccine doses to 18-44 age group beneficiaries from Friday as the stock purchased directly from manufacturing companies has started arriving, various hospitals HT spoke to said. The doses, once arrived, will be used for 18-44 age group, who are awaiting the vaccination after the state government suspended the drive in view of shortage of vaccines last week. It will be after three weeks that private hospitals in the city resume vaccination as the state government had refused to allot them doses from May 1. Among those who received the stock till Thursday evening were Noble hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic. Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble Hospital, said, “Our hospital has received 1,000 doses of Covishield vaccine of the first order of 6,000 doses. Now that we have received the supply, vaccination process will start from Friday at our hospital centre.” Noble hospital has priced each dose at ₹900 and has asked intended beneficiaries to come for vaccination only after registering names through CoWIN portal. As the central government allowed private players to buy the vaccine doses, prominent hospitals from Pune have already placed their orders to vaccine manufacturers. Ruby Hall Clinic also received an undisclosed number of doses of Covishield with authorities planning to begin vaccination within two days. “We had given the order of vaccine doses order to Serum Institute of India for Covishield vaccine, and we have received some doses today. We will be among the first private hospitals from the city to start the drive from vaccine purchased directly from manufacturers. Initially, we have given an order of around 10,000 doses, but as per the availability, it will be supplied to us,” said Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall Clinic. Another private facility hoping to start vaccination drive within two days is Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “We have given order of 36,000 vaccine doses to Serum and it is expected to get the stock within a day or two. The government has given its standard price of purchase of ₹630 and we will be giving it at ₹900 per dose. Those above age of 45 will be allowed walk-in vaccination and for above 18 people they should register on CoWIN and take appointment. Also, we have started special funds for vaccination in our hospital through which the poor will be given free vaccine doses.” Similarly, Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital has also given the vaccine order. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth medical college, hospital and research centre said, “We were already in contact with Serum Institute to get the vaccines for our hospitals and now we have given the first order of 20,000 doses of Covishield. We hope to get the maximum number of doses though it depends on the availability and supply from the company. From next week onwards we will resume our vaccination process at our hospital.” Bharati Vidyapeeth was among the city-based hospitals which conducted human trials for Serum manufactured Covishield. India is currently administering Bharat Biotech made Covaxin too besides Covishield. “Along with Serum, we are in talks with other vaccine manufacturers too, Bharat Biotech for Covaxin and also trying to get the Sputnik vaccine. Once we get all the three vaccine doses, the speed of vaccination will be increased,” Oswal said. In Pune, currently only public hospitals are administering doses to those above 45 years of age. However, the government has prioritised those lined up for second dose. Many private firms and industries based in Pune have also inquired and asked hospitals for arranging mass vaccination of their employees, said doctors. Sale from Noble hospital said once there is ample availability of doses, they will start vaccination to corporates at their campuses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pvt-hospitals-in-pune-likely-to-start-vax-drive-for-18-44-age-group-from-today-101621519963772.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||150 new ventilator beds from PM-Cares fund added to ITBP Covid care centre||The Covid care centre run by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in south Delhi's Chhatarpur on Thursday added a special ward with 150 ventilator beds meant for patients requiring critical care, officials said. These ventilators have been provided by the Prime Minister's Office from the PM-CARES fund early this month."150 GPS-based ventilator beds have been made functional. This will be in addition to the 500 oxygen beds which are already functional at the centre," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey told news agency PTI."The ventilators are being used to provide critical care to the patients infected with the coronavirus. About 10 patients have been admitted today," he said.ITBP inspector general Anand Swaroop, who is in charge of the Sardar Patel Covid care centre visited the ventilator ward on Thursday and reviewed the arrangements after the new ward was added.The Centre began its operations on April 26 and till Wednesday, a total of 1,223 patients have been admitted at the SPCCC out of which 935 have been discharged. At present, 200 beds are occupied at the centre."There are instances when many patients, whose oxygen levels were as low as even 60, were provided the much needed medical care and many of them have improved to the level of 80-90 oxygen saturation and they were finally discharged from the centre," Pandey said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/150-new-ventilator-beds-from-pm-cares-fund-added-to-itbp-covid-care-centre-101621518322294.html
20-05-2021||Other||Hit’n’run in Chakan, leaves on dead, 2 injured||PUNE: One man was killed, and two others injured in a hit-and-run by a container truck in Chakan, on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Sunil Chandrakant Shirke (28), a resident of Lonavla, while the injured men are Milind More (30) and Yusuf Sayyed (35), according to police.The incident happened at 3am when the three were travelling in a grey car towards Chakan. The vehicle was registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The container truck with an RTO passing number from Thane was coming from the opposite direction and made a turn without indicating so, and rammed into the car, according to police.A driver left the truck at the accident spot and fled, according to police.A case under Sections 279, 337, 338, and 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with Sections 184, 134(a)(b) of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Chakan police station. Police sub inspector S Chitampalli is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hitnrun-in-chakan-leaves-on-dead-2-injured-101621519723863.html
20-05-2021||Other||Pune resident duped of ₹1.3 lakh by caller claiming to be represent pvt bank||PUNE: A 45-year-old man from Pune has been duped of ₹1.3 lakh by a caller who claimed to be from the credit card department of a private bank.The complainant, a resident of Dhayari, received a call on January 26, around 4:30pm, from the accused caller.The caller did not share details, but made the complainant reveal multiple information points about his existing credit card.The caller promised the complainant a better credit card with the same credit limit and to carry over the points earned from his existing credit card.Under the guise of activation of the new card, the caller took details from the complainant and spent ₹1,37,238 on the existing card, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act has been registered at Sinhagad road police station. Police inspector (crime) Pramod Waghmare of the Sinhagad road police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-resident-duped-of-1-3-lakh-by-caller-claiming-to-be-represent-pvt-bank-101621519604764.html
20-05-2021||Other||DySPfrom Jalna in ACB net for accepting ₹2 lakh bribe||PUNE A deputy superintendent (DySP) of police from Jalna, on Thursday, has been booked by the Pune unit of the anti- corruption bureau (ACB ) for accepting a bribe of ₹2 lakh from a 55-year-old man who was booked under the Prevention of Atrocity against SC/ST Act.Identified as Sudhir Khiradkar (45), the DySP is the sub divisional police officer of the Jalna division of Jalna district police. The trap was set by a team led by deputy superintendent of the Pune unit, Varsharani Patil. Khiradkar was booked with two other people identified as police naik Santosh Niranjan Ambhore (45), of Kadim police station, and havaldar Vitthal Punjaram Kharde of the Jalna office, according to a statement issued by ACB Pune.The DySP had initially demanded ₹5 lakh in exchange of settling the case, but settled for ₹3 lakh after negotiation, according to the complaint. Ambhore was caught accepting ₹2 lakh in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dyspfrom-jalna-in-acb-net-for-accepting-2-lakh-bribe-101621519484774.html
20-05-2021||Other||Over two dozen Jharkhand migrants stuck in Nepal suffer from Covid-like symptoms||At least 26 migrant labourers from Jharkhand’s Dumka district are stuck in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal. They have sought the Jharkhand government’s help through a video message for their immediate rescue as all of them are suffering from Covid-19 like symptoms and facing a shortage of food due to lockdown, HT has learnt. In the video message, the workers said they are stranded in Nepal due to the lockdown and most of them have fallen sick but are getting no medical attention. They have requested the Jharkhand government to rescue them and save their lives.Speaking from Nepal, a migrant worker Narayan Das, a resident of Ramgarh block of Dumka district, told HT over the phone that they were stuck at Gauri Gaon village under Bagmati circle in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal. Das said all 26 workers are residents of Dumka district.“We had come here for construction work in a hydro-power plant about two and half months back. A contractor from Himachal Pradesh took us here. However, we all started falling sick one by one for the past week. We have symptoms like fever and cough. Some of them were given saline but we are not getting proper medical care here,” Das said.He said, “In view of soaring cases of Covid-19, a lockdown has been imposed here. So, we are also struggling to get food. We don’t have money to buy food, get treatment or return home.”“We request the Jharkhand government to please help and rescue us from here, otherwise, we may die without proper treatment,” Das said.State migrant control room (SMCR) officials said they were in touch with the labourers. “We have communicated the Dumka administration to provide them immediate help,” said Shikha Lakra, SMCR team lead.Deputy development commissioner (DDC), Dumka, Sanjay Singh said, “We have been informed that around 35 labourers are stuck in Nepal. However, we are not focusing on numbers as we have to bring them all, whosoever is stranded there.”“Since they are stuck in a foreign land, we have to follow certain protocols. The deputy commissioner is writing a letter to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu seeking guidance on how to rescue them. We will begin the rescue operation once permission is granted,” Singh said.He said buses would be sent according to the number of labourers stranded there. “A team of paramedics equipped with Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits would also go to ascertain the health condition of the labourers. If anyone is found infected with coronavirus disease, we will ensure a separate arrangement to bring him. In case anyone found serious, we will ensure to get a better medical facility in Nepal,” he said.Not only in Nepal, thousands of labourers who are stranded in different states of the country, have also sought the Jharkhand government’s help in their rescue. According to the data provided by the state control room, as many as 6044 migrant workers are stuck in different states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, and want to return.Lakhs of migrant labourers working in different parts of the country have already returned home after soaring cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-two-dozen-jharkhand-migrants-stuck-in-nepal-suffer-from-covid-like-symptoms-101621518884214.html
20-05-2021||Other||PMC’s road digging leaves residents of peth areas with no place to walk, drive||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun various works in the city, all aimed at finishing the lot before the monsoons begin.As a result roads have been dug up across the city, much to chagrin of residents, especially in the old Pune peth areas.The lockdown restrictions have only added to the stress factor for residents who complain of not being able to access their housing society gates or move their vehicles, because of the dug-up roads.“In the front of our building, the entire road has been dug up. There is no space left to walk and vehicles cannot come out from our parking. I work at a private hospital and need to go to work everyday. For the last two days, I cannot take my vehicle and have had to hire an autorickshaw,” said Dhanesh Kamble, a resident of Shaniwar Peth.“PMC workers should have done the work in phases, keeping some road open for local residents to move,” Kamble added.The road starting from the New English School, Ramanbaug chowk till Omkareshwar Mandir chowk has been dug up in Shaniwar peth. Roads in Sadashiv peth, Navi peth and Shukrwar peth have all been dug up.“We understand that government wants to complete the work before the rainy season and take advantage of the current lockdown as there is less traffic. At the same time, there should be a time limit. You cannot just dig up a road and keep it as is, for 10 to 15 days. There are medical emergencies due to Covid and people have to rush to hospitals, so a pathway for vehicular movement should have been kept,” said Santosh Sethi, a resident of Shukrwar peth.PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Some important works related to underground water pipelines are going on, but it should be done with minimum trouble to local residents. I will look into the matter and instruct our officials accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-road-digging-leaves-residents-of-peth-areas-with-no-place-to-walk-drive-101621518583708.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks Centre for affidavit on Amphotericin-B, an anti-black fungus drug||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Union government to file an affidavit before it within three days, on the steps taken to ramp up the production of Amphotericin-B, an antifungal drug used to treat Mucormycosis, or black fungus, a life-threatening disease which is affecting patients who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Mucormycosis: HC quizzes Delhi govt, Centre on medicine stock“We are afraid that mere doubling of production may not suffice. It is not clear as to when the augmentation of production could be done in actual production. The Centre should immediately look into this aspect. A status report should be filed detailing the present production, the producers, their capacity, their enhanced capacity and by when can the enhanced capacity be put in use,” a high court bench, comprising Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh notified, resuming its hearing on the matter from Wednesday.The bench further asked the Centre to place on record the steps taken by it to import the medicine from abroad, to be used in the country. “It appears that the domestic production of the medicine is far less for the requirement on all India basis,” it observed.Also Read | SOS calls for black fungus drug as cases rise in DelhiResponding to this, Kirtiman Singh, the Centre’s standing counsel, said, “There are five companies which are currently producing Amphotericin-B and the shortage is because the demand has increased due to the increase in demand. Also, the drug is only used in warmer countries and that too for mosquito bites.” Singh further said that the Centre would request for the drug from the countries which are producing it and also list steps to increase its production.Also Read | Make Mucormycosis a notifiable disease under epidemic act, urges CentreOn this, the two-judge bench clarified that it was not questioning the allocation by the Centre. “The only thing is that the bridge between demand and supply must be bridged or else we will lose more precious lives. Float a global tender and ask internationally,” the bench directed the central government.The court also noted that Delhi was facing a shortage of the drug, with the supply being just two-thirds of the quantity required by the national capital. This was over information provided by the Centre that the Capital got just over 3,000 vials of the drug as against the requirement of 8,400 vials per week.The bench was further informed by the Centre that Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had written to them seeking 1 lakh vials for the city. However, it said that such a demand would amount to “hoarding” of the essential drug. On this, Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said, “The current requirement is about 15,000-18,000 vials per week and the government is seeking more as it wants to create a buffer since cases of black fungus might increase in the coming days.”At a time when daily Covid-19 cases have seen a relative decline in Delhi, cases of black fungus have been on the rise. There are at least 185 patients who have contracted the disease, according to hospitals. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that he has directed three government hospitals in the city to set up dedicated centres for black fungus cases.Also Read | 'Have to stop cases’: Kejriwal orders centres for black fungus in 3 hospitalsThe issue of shortage of Amphotericin-B was first raised in the high court on Wednesday during a hearing on a clutch of petitions on Covid-19 management in the city. The court had directed both the governments -- central and Delhi -- to respond to reports of the shortage of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-centre-for-affidavit-on-amphotericin-b-an-anti-black-fungus-drug-101621513699830.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh loses theatre artiste Gurcharan Channi to Covid-19||Chandigarh woke up on Thursday to the sad news of theatre and film artiste Gurcharan Singh Channi losing a long battle with Covid-19 at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. Channi, 69, is survived by wife Harleen Kohli and children Gyan Dev and Sukhmani. A recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and a Fulbright scholar, Channi was among the pioneers who enriched the arts. He belonged to Patiala and came to Chandigarh to study theatre in the first year of the Department of Indian Theatre founded by veteran Punjabi playwright Balwant Gargi in 1972. Recalling those days, his classmate Rani Balbir says, “He was a natural actor who could innovate at the spur of the moment. He loved to clown and charm and was the dearest classmate and close friend for a lifetime.” Also read: Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned by CovidStreet theatre times It was here that he found a mentor and friend in Gargi, who could see the spark in this handsome youngster, and encouraged him to join the National School of Drama (NSD) in Delhi in its splendid days with Abraham Alkazi as director. Passing out of the NSD, Channi chose the city of Chandigarh as his playground for street theatre, taking students from the city’s College of Arts and staging amazing productions such as Daffa 144 and Disturbed Area among others. He groomed the students in theatre and many of them went on to become established names in different fields. Photographer Diwan Manna says, “We came from villages, worked with Channi and learned much from him. We owe what we are to him for he had imbibed well the skills he learned from Gargi and Alkazi.” Others who were part of the street theatre team included celebrated dancer Navtej Johar and artistes such as late Naresh Pandit and Viney Vadhera. “His foresight and contacts were great, and we performed at the Gateway of India in Mumbai with writer Khwaja Ahmad Abbas and director Imtiaz Khan in the audience. He also invited the famous Badal Sarkar from Kolkata to do a workshop with us in Chandigarh,” says Manna. Dynamic artiste Channi believed in going miles before he rested and worked as a television producer with Jalandhar Doordarshan, making innovative programmes and tele-films based on Punjabi literature. He went on to become a professor at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune. Chandigarh, however, remained his favourite and he set up the NGO Centre for Education and Voluntary Action (CEVA) doing community theatre and making commissioned films. Many remember him still as the face of protest at Jallianwala Bagh in Richard Attenborough’s famous 1982 film, Gandhi. He was given this role by casting director Dolly Thakore, another theatre veteran. Thakore recalled with love; “He bought his first fridge with the ₹4000 that we paid him and named it Dolly. This was an endearing story he loved to relate.” With tributes flooding social media, his actor-director friend Kamal Tewari said: “May all have the strength and courage to bear the loss of this dynamic artiste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-loses-theatre-artiste-gurcharan-channi-to-covid19-101621513904053.html
20-05-2021||Pune||India’s first ‘at home’ antigen test kit developed by Pune firm to be available from next week||Pune: After the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday approved India’s first home-based rapid antigen testing (RAT) kit for Covid, Pune-based molecular diagnostics company Mylab Discovery Solutions said it will be made available within a week. The kit, advised by ICMR and to be used only on symptomatic individuals and on immediate contacts of laboratory confirmed positive cases, will be priced at ₹250. The company said it has current production capacity of one million per day with plans to augment it up to 1.5 million within two weeks. The kit, named as CoviSelfTM, for self-use test can be used by symptomatic individuals and immediate contacts of confirmed cases as per ICMR guidelines. Users of this test will not need sample collection by a healthcare professional. This will ease pressure on already overburdened testing labs and reduce delays in testing, which is more than 72 hours in some parts of the country. The country’s apex health research body stated, “all individuals who test positive using CoviSelf may be considered as true positives and no repeat testing is required”. It also said “all RAT negative symptomatic individuals may be treated as suspect Covid-19 cases and are advised to follow the ICMR/MoH&FW home isolation protocol while awaiting the RT-PCR test result”. ICMR has advised the kit users to download a mobile app which is available for both Android and iOS operating systems, and use the same device where the app is installed to take a picture of the strip in the kit after the testing process is completed. Each kit will have all testing materials, instructions for use (IFU) leaflet and a biohazard bag to safely dispose after testing. “The test is designed to be done using nasal swab (not the deep nasopharyngeal swab) to reduce the discomfort,” said Dr Gautam Wankhede, director - medical affairs, Mylab Discovery Solutions. According to Wankhede, the kit will provide results within 15 minutes while users who test positive are advised to immediately isolate so that they do not infect others and quickly contact a healthcare provider. “Most western countries have allowed self-test for their citizens and consider it as a powerful tool to break the chain. This easy-to-use test combines with Myab’s AI-powered mobile app so that a user can know his/her positive status, submit the result to ICMR directly for traceability, and know what to do next in either case of result. We are sure this small step will be a big leap in mitigating the second and subsequent waves,” said Sujit Jain, director, Mylab Discovery Solutions. Speaking about the accuracy of the kit results, Wankhede said, the firm has made every possible step to ensure the outcome is accurate. “With ICMR also accepting it, we can say its accuracy is as much as the kit being used professionally by labs outside,” he said. The firm, which was working on the kit since last seven months, had submitted the proposal to ICMR around six weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indias-first-at-home-antigen-test-kit-developed-by-pune-firm-to-be-available-from-next-week-101621513843265.html
20-05-2021||Other||Grief overload for families losing multiple members to Covid-19||With Covid-19 coming back with a vengeance in the second wave, Ludhiana has remained the worst hit in the state with over 23,000 cases and 380 deaths in May alone. Several families have lost multiple members, leaving them with a grief that they may not be able to recover from any time soon. Hindustan Times reaches out to three such families in the district. Elderly couple died one day apart For Arun Chopra, 35, who lost both his parents in a span of two days, life will never be the same again. His father, Surinder Chopra, 67, an arhtiya, was the first to contract the virus following which his mother Kiran Lata, 60, also got infected. Subsequently, Arun, his wife and two sons also tested positive. While Arun, his wife and kids recovered, his elderly parents weren’t so lucky. Both his parents were initially admitted to a private hospital but after 10 days, their condition started deteriorating, forcing him to rush them to government facilities. His mother was taken to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where she breathed her last on May 11. Before he could share the devastating news with his family, his father too passed away at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on May 12. Arun said he spent nearly ₹6 lakh on his parents’ treatment. 3 members of a family wiped out in a week Another family in BRS Nagar G-Block witnessed three deaths in a span of a week. First, a 47-year-old man died, then his 75-year-old father succumbed and finally, his younger brother’s wife also lost her life to the virus. The younger brother, who was recently discharged after recovery, is devastated. “I lost three family members when I was myself under treatment. My children have lost their mother, grandfather, and uncle. We have recovered from the disease but will never recover from this tragedy,” he said, wishing to remain anonymous. 24-yr-old died just a day after he tested +ve Sarabjit Singh, a health department employee, lost his 24-year-old son just three months after the latter’s wedding. “We were still in celebration mode when my son tested positive on April 30. We first took him to a public health centre in Payal but as his condition continued to deteriorate, we rushed him to the civil hospital, where he succumbed the next day,” said Sarabjit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/grief-overload-for-families-losing-multiple-members-to-covid19-101621511083399.html
20-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata writes to PM Modi for Covid-19 vaccines for state, central govt employees||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday in a letter urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange Covid-19 vaccines for state and central government employees. In the letter, she requested the Prime Minister for 20 lakh vaccine doses to cover the vaccination process of all employees engaged in the priority sectors without further delay."I request you to kindly arrange vaccines for these priority sector Central government employees working all over the country along with state Government employees without any further delay," Banerjee said in the letter, adding that the inoculation for frontline workers involving extensive interface with the public is of paramount importance.Also read: Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned by CovidBanerjee further said that the state government has taken several steps to complete the vaccination process of employees in frontline positions and electorally engaged employees across several sectors but minimally 20 lakh vaccine doses are still required to cover vaccination of all employees."The railway employees, the employees working in the airports and the ports etc. are working to keep essential activities uninterrupted. Similar is the position of employees of Banks, Insurance, Post & Telegraphs, Defence, Coal, etc. They have been forced to face people, to mingle with the public for discharge of their duties. In the process, they are running the risk of being affected by Covid 19. It is important that they are vaccinated without delay and irrespective of age groups," Banerjee's letter to boost the vaccination supply to the Prime Minister read.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Earlier, the West Bengal chief minister had alleged that the CMs meeting with the Prime Minister was 'super flop' and that she and her counterparts from other states were not allowed to speak, which was like insulting. She also said that the central government does not have 'proper plans' to handle the Covid situation of the country.India so far has administered more than 18.70 crore vaccine doses, according to the health ministry data. West Bengal has given more than 1.27 crore vaccine doses to date, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-for-covid-19-vaccines-for-state-central-govt-employees-101621506937718.html
20-05-2021||Other||Taste of life: Before Alphonso was king, Pune’s local mango varieties ruled taste-buds||The year was 1911 and the month January. Sir George Sydenham Clarke, Governor of Bombay, decided to send exquisite and expensive gifts to some of his friends and compatriots in India and abroad. The first consignment, he decided, was to be mangoes, grown around Bombay and Poona.Things did not proceed his way. On February 2, 1911, a frost occurred in Poona with disastrous effects on the mango flowers, all of which were blackened and killed.There was no harvest of the fruit in Poona that year and the Governor was disheartened. He might have communicated his disappointment to his friends in Egypt, because the same year, British officials in Egypt placed an order for mango plants from Poona.In 1912, a consignment of grafted mango plants was sent from the Ganeshkhind Botanical Gardens in Poona, to the Director-General of Agriculture, Giro, Egypt. Later, in April 1916, a consignment was sent from Poona to Jamesabad in Sind and arrived in good condition; and another to Gorakhpur in the United Provinces, equally successfully.Bajirao Peshwa II had planted large numbers of mango trees in the neighbourhood of Poona. It is said that he had long caravans employed to bring seeds from Goa, and when the British took over the city, many of the plantations remained, to show the poor quality of the average mango fruit raised from seed.The British noted that in the Bombay Presidency, although mango trees were seen in every village, yet there were undoubtedly certain classes of soils that influenced the yield and excellence of the fruit. G Marshall Woodrow, noted horticulturist, stated that fruit of the highest quality might be produced on a loamy soil three feet in depth containing five—ten per cent of lime and enough peroxide of iron to give the soil a reddish tinge. He mentioned that an excellent mango type was found on the banks of the Mula river near Ganeshkhind in alluvial loamy soil to a depth of five feet. There was another plantation of 5,000 trees near Khed Shivapur, a few miles south of Poona, situated on soil of five feet of dark brown loam, nine feet of marl, two feet of gravel, and three feet of very porous murum (a disintegrated form of trap rock).So the British decided to survey the region and encourage the harvest of the already existing local varieties rather than those brought to Poona from Goa and Ratnagiri. The result of this endeavour was the cultivation of several varieties which the British thought were superior to the famous Alphonso.There were large plantations of the Alphonso variety in Kirkee (Khadki). Then there was Badshah, grown near Dhankawadi, which had agreeable flavour but was woolly. Mrs Petit’s garden in Wanowrie had the Batasi variety, the saplings of which had been imported from an orchard in Parel. The Bhopaly and Motiya varieties grew near Hirabaug, the trees of which were shoulder high. Wadgaon had orchards of two varieties – Dalbed and Deorukhya. The former was considered superior to the Alphonso variety by many British officers. Bhamburda (Shivajinagar) had the Gadgya variety. It had a piquant flavour and the trees were dwarf. Alandi had orchards of the Jhiprya variety. The pulp of this fruit was white and it was considered a good to use in cakes and jams.Sardar Balwantrao Natu planted the Khoont variety in his garden in Kadus. It was a very fine fruit with an un-attractive colour. Then there were Moraya, Kubdya and Kalia near Sinhagad (Donaje). The pulps of these fruits were deep yellow with very few fibres. Pandhrya too grew in the same area, the pulp of which was sweet and greenish yellow. Vishnu Sadashiv’s garden hosted the Mahaluga variety. The pulp was woolly and flavour slightly mild. This fruit was not much liked by the natives, but was a darling of some Europeans. The undisputed king of the local varieties was the Pia-posha from Bhamburda, the skin of which was rich cream coloured, suffused with crimson on the exposed side. The pulp was pale yellow, very sweet. The fruits were large and the fragrance delightful. The valuable colouring matter, Indian Yellow, was obtained from the urine of cattle fed on the Pia-posha mango leaves.A close second were the Rajia and Ryotya, fruits of which were very sweet and colour so exquisite that European housewives bought the fruits to decorate their dining tables.In Bombay and in the neighbourhood of Ratnagiri, the mango harvest was nearly over by the end of May, except for a few late varieties; whereas in Poona and the neighbouring districts, it began from the middle of May and continued till the end of June. Because the mangoes were sold late, especially after the rains had set in, the demand for them was very low, and as a consequence, they had to be sold very cheap.After the First World War ended, Alphonso became the favourite of the rich. These fruits were brought to Pune from Ratnagiri and were considered a status symbol. The fine local varieties were unfortunately overshadowed and later almost erased from the public memory by the Alphonso. Pia-posha mango chutney recipe The Pia-posha mango could now only be found in vintage recipes, like the one for mango chutney published in the Bulletin of the Botanical Department, Jamaica, in 1905 : Three pounds Pia-posha mangoes (turned, but not ripe, 3 pounds tamarinds, 2 pounds raisins (weighed after stoning), 8 pounds brown sugar, 1 pound chilies, 1\2 pound garlic, 2 pounds green ginger, 1\4 ounce mace, 1 ounce mustard seed, 1\4 ounce cloves, 1\4 ounce pimento, 1\2 pound table salt. Soak tamarinds in 2 quarts of the best vinegar, stir them about with a wooden spoon to get the pulp off, and take out the seeds and the leathery part in which they are enclosed. Cut the raisins small. Peel the ginger and grate it. Pound the chilies, garlic, and mustard seed in a mortar, using a little of the vinegar to moisten. Mix all together thoroughly; it is then ready for use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-before-alphonso-was-king-pune-s-local-mango-varieties-ruled-tastebuds-101621507784465.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Country battles Covid-19, and celebrations pave way for charity||Hardships often bring out the best in people. And this has been clearly visible in the last few weeks as the second wave of Covid-19 hit, prompting many Delhiites to try and help those in need. Be it verifying leads for oxygen beds, medicines and oxygen concentrators, or cooking food and delivering it to the needy in the neighbourhood – several citizens have gone out of their way. And while last year’s lockdown saw people celebrating their special occasions such as birthdays or anniversaries in a low-key fashion, this year most have marked the date by doing something for the Covid-affected.Rashmi Aggarwal, 19, had earlier decided to throw a huge party this year for her birthday in April – given she couldn’t do much for her 18th birthday in 2020 – but the grief all around prompted her to instead donate her savings to a nearby gurdwara’s oxygen langar. “It’s heart wrenching to see the grim situation in the country. My uncle’s entire family is battling Covid in Bengaluru, whereas some of my friends here in Noida have parents or siblings fighting the virus. Knowing what they are going through, I couldn’t even cut a cake for my birthday. I combined the funds meant for my birthday party with money my parents and grandparents gave me for the occasion and donated all of it to the gurudwara,” says the Noida resident, who donated ₹15,000 for the cause.Fans of South Korean band EXO raised ₹1 lakh through an online fundraiser, to mark the birthday of band member, singer-songwriter Byun Baekhyun on May 6, and donated it to Mission Oxygen. Anu Konsam, Manipur EXO-L representative, which organised the fundraiser, says, “During these hard times we decided to do what we could for Baekhyun’s birthday. We got to know about Mission Oxygen and came together to collectively raise funds for it,” adding, “Raising ₹1 lakh in three days from a fandom mostly comprising students, it’s quite overwhelming. Covid-19 has hit us hard but let’s go through this together. Together we ‘can-dy’ overcome!” she adds, making a reference to Baekhyun’s solo song, Candy.Another EXO fan, Gurugram resident, Shriya Banerjee, says, “Giving for a cause on member’s birthdays or group debut/ fandom anniversary is our way of saying ‘thank you’. Different fanbases keep doing fundraisers, be it in form of collecting cash or selling fan made merchandise, profits from which are donated for a cause. This is not only from a sense of community or belonging but is also because the idols themselves believe in giving. K-pop stars such as Suho supports ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) while Sehun volunteers to help less privileged children, thus encouraging the fans too, to keep giving back to society.”While some celebs, like actor Viraf Patell, opted for a court marriage with fiancé Saloni Khanna, and devoted the budget earmarked for a grand wedding to Covid relief, ordinary citizens too have set aside wedding or anniversary plans to contribute to the cause in their own way. Delhi’s Akshat Gaur, an architect who runs his own start-up, had his anniversary in the first week of May. But instead of giving a treat to friends and family, he decided to keep the party going even longer by serving food to Covid patients in his neighbourhood. “I wanted to do something, but couldn’t zero in on something. One evening I spotted my neighbour, who was against eating outside food, collecting a meal left by a food delivery agent. Asked, he revealed both he and his wife were down with Covid and couldn’t make food. At that very moment my wife and I decided to provide meals to such needy individuals,” he says.And they devised an innovative mechanism for it. “My wife and I aren’t good cooks, so we called our cook, who we’d initially sent on leave due to the pandemic. We told her that we wanted to provide for the Covid-affected and needed her help. She readily agreed and even brought another lady to help her. I brought the dry rations and with the help of a delivery service, sent food to far off places. Within my locality, I myself go and give out meals,” shares Gaur.Exemplifying love and compassion is another young couple, who got married in April and dedicated their leave to help people on social media get verified leads. “We got married in April and were to go to the Maldives for our honeymoon, but soon after travel was restricted so we dropped the plan. Seeing that social media was flooded with pleas for oxygen beds, ventilators, etc, we decided to dedicate four hours in the morning daily to verifying leads for oxygen beds and plasma donors in Delhi-NCR,” says Sudha Krishnan, who has since joined back at work but still tries to help people. She adds, “My husband and I divided our work, he would track requests and I’d make calls and verify leads. It felt quite fulfilling to know we could actually meet some people’s requirements. I’m glad we put our leave to good use.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/country-battles-covid-19-and-celebrations-pave-way-for-charity-101621506163977.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat heads warned of action if they make payments violating rules||Authorities in Bihar have warned panchayat heads of penal action if they continue making payments through cheques and drafts in violations of the rules that make it mandatory for them to use the Public Financial Management System (PFMS). The system tracks funds and ensures real-time reporting of expenditure at all levels.Additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena on Tuesday wrote letters to district Panchayati raj officers and asked them to ensure total compliance with the rules and lodge cases against those failing to comply.Also Read | Ignorance, poor infrastructure makes rural Bihar more vulnerable to Covid-19Panchayati raj minister Samrat Chaudhary said they were compelled to issue the warning as panchayat representatives in eight to 10 districts were found issuing drafts and cheques to buy masks, soaps, etc, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “They had been asked earlier to use... PFMS for accountability and transparency in transactions. However, some were not following the PFMS,” said Chaudhary.Officials said they have sought to enforce the norms particularly after ₹741 crore were allocated to about 8,000 panchayats in the state. “...in the pandemic situation, panchayat representatives often ignore norms to make purchases,” said an officialHe added authorities were looking into payments made through cheques and drafts after April 1 and appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-heads-warned-of-action-if-they-make-payments-violating-rules-101621504963491.html
20-05-2021||Dehradun||3 dead, 2 missing in Uttarakhand cloudburst, heavy rains following IMD warning||At least three people died and two went missing in separate incidents of cloudburst and heavy rains amid a red alert by the meteorological department for eight out of Uttarakhand’s 13 districts on Thursday. Dehradun centre of IMD issued the alert for heavy and very heavy rains.A 32-year-old man died while two 13-year-old girls went missing after a cloudburst in Kwansi village of Chakrata block, 90 kms from Dehradun on Thursday morning. Following the incident, the state disaster response force (SDRF) initiated search and rescue work with the help of villagers."The cloudburst happened on Thursday morning at around 9 am in which a 32-year-old man identified as Muna died after being swept away by heavy water flow, while two girls identified as Kajal and Sakshi went missing," said Praveen Alok, media in-charge SDRF.He added that a search and rescue operation was going on with the help of villagers. "The body of the man has been recovered while the two girls are yet to be found,” he said.In another incident in Bazpur of US Nagar district, two men aged 28 and 40 died after the wall of their mud house collapsed due to heavy rains in the early hours on Thursday.The deceased, identified as Shankar and Mukesh, were asleep when the wall collapsed, crushing them to death.Landslides and debris brought down by heavy rainwater had blocked many highways and roads.The Badrinath highway in Chamoli district was blocked after water from a local rivulet flooded the road. The driver and the helper of a truck trapped in the water escaped after abandoning the truck on the road.Similarly, Gangotri highway in Uttarkashi district was also blocked due to landslides at various locations.The Dehradun centre of IMD earlier issued a red alert for heavy to very heavy rains in eight districts of Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Bageshwar, Almora, Nainital, Champawat, US Nagar and Pithoragarh. It also advised settlements near rivers and rivulets to remain cautious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/3-dead-2-missing-in-uttarakhand-cloudburst-heavy-rains-following-imd-warning-101621504182604.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Video of patient pushed to Bihar hospital on cart goes viral, patient vanishes||A video footage of a patient being brought to a government hospital on a pushcart-- which is generally employed to carry garbage-- in Bihar's West Champaran district has gone viral on social media on Thursday.In the video, about half a dozen people are seen pushing the cart, with the patient inside, before shifting her to a stretcher after reaching the sub divisional hospital in Bagaha, 70 kms north of Bettiah.Family of the patient, identified as Kamali Devi, said they were forced to bring her to the hospital, about 7kms from their house at Malkauli near Bagaha 2, on a garbage pushcart after a rapid deterioration in her health on Wednesday evening. "She is running high fever and has developed breathlessness," said Nathuni Bin, Kamali's husband."What else can be done when the vehicles are not plying," he asked, avoiding a direct answer to a query if he tried for the ambulance or not.The woman's husband was referring to absence of public transport during the ongoing lockdown in Bihar, clamped to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the disease in the state.Recently two incidents of bodies of Covid-19 patients being carried on carts owned by the civic administration in Nalanda district went viral on social media, raising questions on availability of ambulances in the state. A probe was ordered in the first of the two cases reported from Biharsharif town earlier this week.In the present case, Bagaha’s sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Shekhar Anand said there was no need to bring the patient on a handcart. "In the course of our investigation, we came to know that the patient was not denied the ambulance. We have a good number of ambulances for service, and we want people to make use of our ambulance services for ferrying the patients," the SDM said.In another twist to the saga, the 45-year-old patient was found to have left the Bagaha sub division hospital without notifying the authorities, who have now declared her LAMA (left against medical advice). "She was under our treatment as she was suffering from breathlessness. But, in the morning, she was nowhere to be found in the hospital and hence she has been declared a LAMA," said Dr. AK Tiwari, the medical officer of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/video-of-patient-pushed-to-bihar-hospital-on-cart-goes-viral-patient-vanishes-101621502536285.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 3,231 new Covid-19 cases and 233 deaths, positivity rate falls to 5.50%||Delhi continued to witness a dip in its daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the Capital recorded 3,231 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, taking its infection tally to 1,409,950, a health department bulletin showed on Thursday. The number of related deaths in the same period was 233, taking the death toll to 22,579, the bulletin showed further.According to the previous health department bulletin, on Wednesday, Delhi recorded 3,846 new Covid-19 cases and 235 related fatalities from the preceding 24-hour period.Thursday’s bulletin also showed that 7,831 more patients were discharged after recovering from the viral disease, taking the total number of recoveries thus far to 1,347,157, while active cases are at 40,214, down from 45,047 as per Wednesday’s bulletin, or a fall of 4,833 cases. Recoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 95.54%, 2.85% and 1.60% of Delhi’s infection tally respectively.The positivity rate, or the number of samples returning a positive result out of every 100 samples tested for Covid-19, also dipped further, and was recorded at exactly 5.50%, down from 5.78% in the previous bulletin. In the last 24 hours, Thursday’s data showed, 58744 samples were put to test, down from 66,573 in the 24-hour period before that. Of the 58,744 samples tested, RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests were conducted on 43,914 while 14,830 underwent rapid antigen testing. Total samples tested in the Capital thus far stand at 18,532,803 while tests conducted per million are at 975,410.In terms of vaccination, the latest bulletin showed that 68,703 and 61,576 beneficiaries were vaccinated with their first and second dose respectively, taking their respective cumulative numbers to 3,787,895 and 1,102,133 while 4,890,028 beneficiaries have been vaccinated thus far.In recent days, Delhi has reported less than 10,000 Covid-19 cases per day. The city-state is currently under a lockdown, which, unless extended for a fifth time, will end in the early morning hours of May 24. The lockdown began on the night of April 19 after being announced earlier in the day by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and was originally scheduled to end on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-3-231-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-falls-to-550-101621502233492.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||'Have to stop cases’: Kejriwal orders centres for black fungus in 3 hospitals||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that he has directed three government hospitals in the city - Lok Nayak, GTB and Rajeev Gandhi hospitals - to set up dedicated centres for black fungus cases. Kejriwal also promised the government will ensure supply of medicines needed to treat the disease and invest on public awareness drives."Chaired an important review meeting with experts in the light of increasing black fungus cases. We have to stop black fungus cases and ensure that those infected by it get treatment. We have taken some important decisions to contain spread and treatment of black fungus," the chief minister tweeted after the review meeting on Thursday.The meeting comes against the backdrop of a sharp increase in cases of mucormycosis, or black fungus. So far, more than 185 cases have been recorded in the Capital.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab during their treatment for the coronavirus disease.According to doctors, if left untreated, black fungus can kill up to 80% of those infected.If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.The surge in cases of the life-threatening disease that affects some recovered Covid-19 patients has led to shortage of the antifungal medicines used to treat the infection.On Wednesday, the Delhi high court asked the Delhi and central governments to report on the steps taken to resolve the shortage of Amphotericin B, an antifungal drug used to treat the infection||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/have-to-stop-cases-kejriwal-orders-centres-for-black-fungus-in-3-hospitals-101621500653817.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Black fungus: Delhi govt to set up dedicated treatment centres in 3 hospitals||Delhi Government on Thursday said dedicated treatment centres for black fungus will be set up in three hospitals in the national capital."Dedicated treatment centres for black fungus will be set up in Delhi's Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTB) and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital," informed Delhi Chief Minister's Officer.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held an important meeting with officials and experts on the growing cases of black fungus disease in the national capital."Held an important meeting with officials and experts on the growing cases of black fungus disease. We also have to stop this disease from growing and those who are getting this disease have to be given better treatment as soon as possible," he said in a tweet.Kejriwal further said some important decisions were taken in the meeting for the prevention and treatment of this disease."Some important decisions were taken in the meeting for the prevention and treatment of this disease- 1- Centers for treatment of black fungus in LNJP, GTB and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital 2- Adequate management of medicines used in its treatment 3. To spread awareness among people about disease prevention measures," he added.Earlier, the Delhi government has set up a four-member technical expert committee (TEC) to prevent the indiscriminate use of Amphotericin-B injection and to establish a transparent and efficient system of distribution of this drug to the needy and hospitalised Covid-19 patients.The rare fungal infection called 'mucormycosis' or 'black fungus' is on the rise in several parts of the country, including Delhi.As per the Union Health Ministry, mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection.People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/black-fungus-delhi-govt-to-set-up-dedicated-treatment-centres-in-3-hospitals-101621499938724.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Ignorance, poor infrastructure makes rural Bihar more vulnerable to Covid-19||Babban Singh (62) is confined in a room at his home for the last 20 days after testing positive for Covid-19. Singh, a farmer under Hardiya panchayat of Bihar’s Samastipur district, travelled 50kms from his Singhia block residence to a Darbhanga private lab for the Covid test. He did it on the advice of his son, who lives in Mumbai.“I had a fever for 6-7 days, but for the last 7-8 days there is no fever, though there is a lot of weakness. I also got in touch with a doctor in Patna and took the prescribed medicines, including injections. I also got my wife tested, but fortunately, she was negative. Now I will again go to Darbhanga, 50 kms from Hardiya, for tests,” he said.But there are not many like Babban Singh in rural Bihar. Most ignore apparent Covid symptoms and act foolishly brave, still not ready to accept the fatal consequences of Covid infection. “People cough and sneeze, but they carry on, treating it as seasonal flu... A couple of weeks ago, some officials came for testing after some villagers fell ill and detected positive cases in Bangrahtta, Hardiya, Sumaha and adjoining places. The infection seems to be spreading, but we don’t know to what extent,” said Singh.Similar reports from other districts too, suggest the rural population is mostly either ignorant or complacent apart from nurturing a false sense of immunity.Dr Vikas R Keshri, currently a senior research fellow at the George Institute for Global Health in New Delhi, says the challenge posed by the pandemic is much bigger for rural areas in states like Bihar due to a number of factors, viz. high population density, limited healthcare, false sense of immunity, ignorant beliefs such as Covid-19 being a high society and urban phenomenon, apart from exposure to migrant natives arriving from the urban hotspots of the disease.“After the first wave, people got complacent and so did the authorities. When the second wave struck, all were caught off-guard. I fear that the government’s continued claims of a drop in the test positivity rate may prove counterproductive by instilling a sense of complacency while the real magnitude of the infection is still not known and will be difficult to even assess due to harsh ground realities. Rural societies are very close knit and even in pandemic times, they continue to perform social customs, attend social functions and puja etc.,” he said.Reports from rural areas point to large gatherings for marriages, thread ceremonies, last rites and other social occasions being held, despite the restrictions imposed. Masadha village in Bhojpur has seen a number of deaths in the last one month. “So far, only four deaths have been confirmed due to Covid-19, but the actual number may be much higher,” said former deputy mukhiya Satyendra Singh.Another report from Ghoswar village in Vaishali district said villagers were concerned following 17 deaths in 25 days and several others suffering from unknown ailments.Rural lifestyle is not to be blamed alone for the situation; the creaking healthcare infrastructure too has a big role to play in precipitating the crisis, say health experts.Dr Anil Kumar, an assistant professor with the department of history in Delhi university’s Rajdhani College, recently drew the attention of Madhubani district magistrate towards the lack of basic health facilities at Kanhauli (Khajauli)-- his native village. “There is just one health centre for more than 8,000 people but it is not functioning even in the midst of pandemic. Villagers are suffering and dying in the absence of health facilities. One doctor on alternate days or at least on a weekly basis will immensely help,” he wrote to the DM after one person died with Covid symptoms but without a test report to confirm. The DM has assured him to look into the request.In absence of formal healthcare set up, people are forced to rely on ‘jhola chap’ doctors or quacks due to their accessibility and affordability.Under the National Health Mission (NHM), Primary Health Centre (PHC) is established to cover a population of 30,000 in rural areas and 20,000 in hilly, tribal and desert areas. Then there are other smaller health centres, but how many of them are actually able to meet the challenge is a big question. The Patna high court has also sought details of the situation in the rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ignorance-poor-infrastructure-makes-rural-bihar-more-vulnerable-to-covid19-101621496762481.html
20-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugrammers pedal to serve denizens, make essentials available at doorstep||Fighting the second wave of coronavirus, many are finding it difficult to get access to medicines and some essentials of day to day use. This has inspired a group of cyclists in the Millennium City, to come to the rescue of denizens, including the senior citizens. Referred to as the Relief Riders, these cyclists are overcoming the Covid scare to run errands for those in need, even in the hot weather; and in return are receiving good wishes and gratitude! “I used to bicycle regularly with my cycling group RockRiders in Gurugram. But during the lockdown, I realised how senior citizens were most vulnerable at this time, and needed help to get access to a lot things... Going on our rides was a pleasure, but being useful to those with need has been immensely satisfying,” says Vineet Chopra, who is leading the Gurugram Relief Riders initiative. The group is operational from 8am to 8pm seven days a week, and prioritises requests from senior citizens and Covid positive individuals, who are unable to step out in their neighbourhoods to procure medicines and food. “We are helping deliver medicines and other essentials at their doorstep. All they need to do is call up the helpline numbers and reach out to us,” adds Chopra. They have riders from different localities, who ride within their areas to ensure that they are able to work timely and stay safe. Payall Gupta, a Gurugrammer who manages the group’s helpline, informs that they get around 40 to 50 delivery requests, daily. “We do five to six deliveries in a day, but have to filter out calls that don’t fall within our purview such as those that require oxygen, beds and concentrators. When someone calls, the task gets shared on our common group, and the rider connects directly with the caller to coordinate the deliveries. Callers have to pay only the price of the goods that are purchased on their behalf,” she explains. The initiative started this month, and since it received participation from the cycling community group, PedalYatri, its number of volunteers rose to more than two dozen. An e-bike service provider has also offered their bikes for free, for this group to be able to undertake longer delivery rides. This has enabled a number of residents in the city, reeling under the effect of the pandemic, avail the crucial voluntary services amid the ongoing lockdown. When Ramona Keelor, a resident of Gurugram’s sector 22, was down with Covid, these angels on bikes brought a great source of comfort for her. She recalls, “I contacted them, and after that all my problems were solved! Vineet put me in touch with Isha in the group, and she picked up 10 tender coconuts for me the first day, and every day after that. If I got stuck and needed anything, say medicines or just a friendly voice, they were there to help with just about everything! I’m extremely grateful to these riders, for their assistance in my time of need!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrammers-pedal-to-serve-denizens-make-essentials-available-at-doorstep-101621496743095.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives highest rainfall since 1951 in the month of May: IMD||Delhi received the highest-ever rainfall of 119.3 mm in May for the first time since 1951, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The perpetual rainfall was due to the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance ending 8.30am on Thursday. This was double the previous record rainfall received by Delhi on May 24, 1976, which was 60 mm, according to news agency ANI."A record 119.3 mm rain fell in Delhi between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday, which is a new record for May," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD's regional forecasting Centre, said.Delhi has received highest ever Rainfall of 119.3 mm since 1951 for the month of May pic.twitter.com/NnUkMfIJMjRainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, while that recorded between 15 mm and 64.5 mm is moderate. If recorded between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm, it is heavy and between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm is considered very heavy. Rainfall above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall.The city's maximum temperature also fell 16 degrees below normal, to 23.8 degrees Celsius, after a day-long spell of rainfall on Wednesday. This was the lowest maximum temperature in May for at least 70 years. Delhi's minimum temperature was 21.4 degrees Celsius, five degrees below the season’s normal.According to Srivastava, Cylcone Tauktae is not likely to have any impact on Delhi's weather for the next couple of days. “The maximum temperature will rise by three or four degrees on Thursday, and will continue to rise over the next four days. The cyclone is not forecast to have any impact on or around Delhi at least in the coming four to five days,” he said.On Wednesday, meanwhile, Delhi's maximum temperature was less than that of Srinagar (25.8 degrees Celsius) and Dharamshala (27.2 degrees Celsius), IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-highest-rainfall-since-1951-in-the-month-of-may-imd-101621490919052.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Most Covid vaccination sites in Patna to stay closed on Thursday||Only 11 out of 56 vaccination sites in Patna will be operational on Thursday to serve the 18-44 years age group as the state is low on Covid vaccines. As a result, many vaccination sites have been shut down in remote areas of other districts. The extent of the vaccination squeeze is evident as the state managed to vaccinate only 25, 037 people on Wednesday against its daily target of 2.50 lakh people.Officers associated with the vaccination programme said the state capital has received 14,000 doses of vaccine to be used over the next two days. Ever since the state began vaccinating the 18-44 years age group from May 9, Patna received two tranches of 38,000 and 25,000 doses. The quantity received on Wednesday, with the instruction to use it over the next two days, was the lowest so far.This is well below the number Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit suggested will be made available by the Centre. On Tuesday, he said 200,000 doses of Covishield vaccine were expected on May 20 and 23 and another batch of 289,250 doses was expected on May 24.He, however, parried away a question on current vaccine availability in the state and on the closure of many vaccination sites.Manoj Kumar, executive director, state health society, Bihar, too did not respond to phone calls or text messages on availability of vaccines and curtailment of vaccination sites.Among the bigger centres, which would operate on Thursday, are the Patna Women’s College, the three Kendriya Vidyalayas at Danapur, Sheikhpura and Kankarbagh, the ITI at Digha, Aryabhatta Knowledge University and the Sri Krishna Memorial Hall.Most states are going through the problem of vaccine shortage as the Central government promises to make 2.16 billion vaccine doses available in the country in five months. This will include 750 million doses of Covishield and 550 million doses of Covaxin between August to December. India has stopped the exports of Covid-19 vaccines--blamed for the shortage in the country during the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/most-covid-vaccination-sites-in-patna-to-stay-closed-on-thursday-101621488763136.html
20-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh MSMEs finding it difficult to operate amid Corona curfew||A body representing Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) says restrictions on transport and shortage of manpower has made continuation of operations difficult during the Covid-19 lockdown in Uttar Pradesh. They said they may be forced to consider shutting down shops till the situation normalises.Indian Industries Association (IIA) has pointed out that though the state government has exempted industrial activity from the ongoing corona curfew, production and maintenance work has been affected in almost all units“As transport services are off the roads, industries are finding it difficult to procure raw material and send finished products to stockists,” says Manmohan Agarwal, senior vice president, IIA.Agarwal adds that the state has not accepted some of their demands making resolution of the problem difficult.“We have requested the state government to exempt transport companies from the purview of corona curfew. Unless offices of transport companies are allowed to open, there will be no movement of trucks on roads. In such a scenario, industries cannot be run,” Agarwal said.He adds that if the situation continues like this, MSMES will have to shut down for the time being.Another association member pointed out that MSME units in Noida and Meerut were working at minimum capacity due the disrupted supply chain and low work force.“...Workers have left for their homes, fearing the pandemic,” said Rajiv Bansal, national secretary, IIA.According to the association, Uttar Pradesh has around 30 lakh MSMEs comprising 90% micro units and 8% small units. The body says that while 180 out of the 240 units at Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) are currently operational, the manpower has shrunk significantly due migrants returning to their hometowns.Bansal says only around 5,000 workers are currently available in Noida against 50,000 capacity and since all shops are closed except for those related with essential items, it is also hard to get maintenance work done at industrial units.“We have also requested the government to allow all essential shops related with industries to open at least for two days in a week so that maintenance work may be carried out, if required,” said Bansal.Uttar Pradesh government has imposed curfew like restrictions till 7 am on May 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-msmes-finding-it-difficult-to-operate-amid-corona-curfew-101621488427664.html
20-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow to use machines to clean sewer hotspots to protect staff amid Covid-19||The Lucknow municipal corporation (LMC) and the Jal Sansthan will use jetting machines to clean at least 50 sewer overflow hotspots in the city identified through geographic information system (GIS) mapping as it moves from manual scavenging to mechanical cleaning to protect sanitation workers from health hazards amid Covid-19 pandemic, said officials.Areas near Civil Hospital in Hazratganj, Lalkuan, road near Raj Bhawan, Hewett road, Chitta Khera, Billauchpura, Alambagh bus station, Chander Nagar, Balaganj and Thakurganj, are among areas identified for cleaning through machines. Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said Sewage India has been entrusted with the work.“Lucknow is also moving from non-mechanical systems to more mechanical and automated systems. The latest equipment has been introduced for cleaning of drains and sewage to save sanitation workers from health hazards. During the pandemic, it is the duty of the civic body to take care of its workforce. Currently, over 525 workers are into cleaning of sewers. They will be trained to operate advanced cleaning machines,” Bhatia said.She added this use of machines has become important due to the need to complete a high volume of work in a short period. “More than 800 nullahs and 1,500 small drains have to be cleaned before May 31. Similarly, all the sewer lines have to be cleaned before this date.”Amit Kumar, additional municipal commissioner said the use of machines will likely cut down the risks associated with manual scavenging.Lucknow recorded 493 fresh Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths on Wednesday, even as the state-wide Covid tally rose by 7,336 fresh cases to reach 1,644,851.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-to-use-machines-to-clean-sewer-hotspots-to-protect-staff-amid-covid19-101621487861936.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||World’s highest motorable village Komic achieves 100% Covid vaccination||The world’s highest motorable village of Komic in the remote Spiti valley of Himachal’s tribal Lahaul and Spiti district has achieved 100% vaccination against Covid-19 for residents above the age of 44 years. Situated at 15,500 feet, the villagers rarely leave their houses and adhere strictly to the guidelines by the state government to protect themselves against Covid-19. “If we walk out of our houses, it’s only for farming. The older generation stays home with the children,” says local resident Palzor, 37. Villagers have been keen to get vaccinated and a majority took their doses ahead of the second lethal wave. “We are happy that the villagers have taken their second dose, too,” says Kaza block medical officer Tenzin Norbu. Also read: India logs 276,110 Covid-19 cases in a single-day; fatalities below 4,000A health department team, comprising vaccinator Prem Singh, verifier Kulwant Singh and ASHA worker Padma, have been visiting the high-altitude villages in Langza panchayat to vaccinate the residents. Besides Langza, the panchayat comprises Komic, which has the highest motorable road, and Hikkim at 14,400 ft with the highest post office in the world. In the 60-plus age group, 101 people have been vaccinated,while 150 villagers have got both doses in the 44-60 age group. Langza panchayat has a total population of 330. Climbing over connectivity challenges “After seniors, now youngsters are enthusiastic about getting vaccinated. The challenge in this area is limited internet connectivity so it becomes difficult for them to log on to the Co-Win portal to get registered,” says Padma, the accredited social health activist (ASHA). Kaza additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi says the state government was requested to allow offline registration for vaccination. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has now allowed it due to lack of internet facility. “Now 80% of the registration for vaccination is being done offline. Booking is done by calling up the health department and the slot is allotted based on lottery. 20% of the registration are still being done online but everyone has to first register for vaccination,” Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai says. Tough terrain, climate no deterrent Despite its tough terrain and the valley receiving heavy snowfall at regular intervals, the Kaza block, comprising 13 panchayats, has taken the lead on vaccination. “People have no hesitancy in getting inoculated as they know that the health infrastructure in the region is limited. Everyone here wants to be protected from the virus,” says Padma. The health authorities at Kaza have been able to vaccinate 89% of the healthcare workers. Of the total 174 healthcare workers, 154 have got both doses. As many as 743 of the 914 people aged above 60 years have got the first dose of the vaccine, which is 82% of the total number, while 722 (79%) have been given the second dose as well. In the 45-59 age group, the Kaza health block has achieved 95% of the target by administering the first dose to 1,490 of the 1,578 residents. Ninety-six frontline workers have been given the first dose and 105 the second dose in Kaza. Among the vaccinated, 16 people had comorbidities. Till date, a total of 2,499 people have been administered the first dose and 997 the second dose in the valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worlds-highest-village-komic-in-hp-achieves-100-covid-vaccination-101621487263505.html
20-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: Bench to not assemble today, ministers may spend another night in jail||Four heavyweight leaders, including two cabinet ministers, who were arrested by the CBI in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case on Monday, may have to spend another night in jail custody, as the first division bench of the Calcutta high court was unable to assembly on Thursday to hear their bail plea. “Due to unavoidable circumstances the first division bench didn’t assembly today. The case could not be heard by the bench,” said an advocate who is also a TMC leader. The division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee was supposed to hear the case today. The bench heard the bail pleas of the arrested leaders on Wednesday for around two hours. The hearing, however, didn’t end and the court decided to hear it again on Thursday.Cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra, and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who were arrested by the CBI on Monday, have spent three nights in judicial custody after the high court stayed the interim bail granted to them by a special CBI court. The CBI had opposed the bail of the leaders on the ground that they can influence the witnesses and investigation, and has also sought transfer of the trial of the case. Wednesday saw a pitched courtroom battle with senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Siddharth Luthra and Kalyan Banerjee, who also happens to be a TMC MP, pleading for the arrested leaders. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, opposed the bail. Also Read | CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIREven though the leaders were sent to judicial custody, they all had to be admitted in hospitals after their complaint of illness on Tuesday. While Hakim is admitted in the hospital of Presidency Correctional Home, the rest were admitted to the state-run SSKM hospital. “They (four leaders) are not in jail. They are in hospital. They should be in jail. That is my case,” Mehta told the court The SSKM hospital authorities have set up a medical board for their treatment. Hakim, who was suffering from fever, tested negative for Covid-19. Singhvi, however, argued that the CBI was trying to keep the leaders in jail for a few more days “by hook or crook, more by hook than crook”. “All the accused are in hospital. Where can they run away?” Singhvi asked, while seeking bail. The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting operation, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company. On Monday, soon after the arrests, chief minister Mamata Banerjee staged a dharna at the CBI’s office in Kolkata, while state law minister had led nearly 3,000 TMC workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside the CBI’s office in south Kolkata, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest hurling bricks, bottles and shoes at the central forces. “I don’t think anywhere else in the country such shocking incidents have happened where a premier investigating agency, which has been entrusted with the investigation by this court, is stopped from doing its job,” Mehta told the court. In response, Singhvi described the chief minister’s dharna at the agency’s office for six hours as a ”Gandhian way of protest” without any exhortation of violence. Meanwhile, the CBI on Wednesday named Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak and senior lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the case out of the state, claiming violent protests orchestrated by Trinamool Congress hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-to-take-up-bail-pleas-of-4-arrested-politicians-today-101621486181537.html
20-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination camp opens in Lucknow’s Eidgah from Thursday||A Covid-19 vaccination centre will be operational at Lucknow’s Eidgah from Thursday, with the capacity to inoculate at least 400 beneficiaries in 18 years plus and 45 years plus age categories. Health department officials said this would be the second biggest vaccination centre in terms of space in the city, the biggest being at the civil hospital.“The dry run carried out on Wednesday was successful. The centre would be operational from Thursday noon,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imam Eidgah, who had approached the health department with the offer to use the vacant space on the premises of Eidgah as the vaccination centre.“The health department had set up the vaccination centre at the LDA Colony in Aishbagh. The space there was less and so we offered our premises, and it was selected,” said the cleric.Initially, two vaccination booths will be made operational. One will cater to 18 to 44 years age group and other to 45 years and above. “The centre has enough capacity to vaccinate over 400 people in a day,” the cleric claimed.However, walk-in vaccination will not be available here. “Only those who have booked a slot on the CoWin app will get their dose,” said Mahali.On Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary of the health department Amit Mohan Prasad claimed that over 15.4 million vaccine doses have been administered in the state, including the first dose to more than 12.1 million and second dose to over 3.2 million beneficiaries.Lucknow recorded 493 fresh Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths on Wednesday, even as the state-wide Covid tally rose by 7,336 fresh cases to reach 1,644,851.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccination-camp-opens-in-lucknow-s-eidgah-from-thursday-101621480840936.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives highest rainfall to ever be recorded in May: IMD||The consistent rainfall in Delhi all through Wednesday, continuing through the intervening night ensured the city had its highest rainfall to ever be recorded in the month of May, India Meteorological Department said. The rains also led to a dip in the maximum temperature, making it the lowest maximum temperature since 1951.IMD recordings showed that till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory had recorded 60mm rainfall. IMD officials said that till now, the all-time record of rainfall for May for Safdarjung is 60.0 mm, recorded on May 24, 1976, and since the rain continued through the night in most parts of the city, this record has been broken. Palam observatory recorded 36.8mm rain and the Najafgarh station recorded 57mm rainfall.Recordings for overall rainfall between Wednesday and early Thursday will be released by IMD by afternoon.Delhi and NCR received moderate rainfall throughout Wednesday, which resulted in a drop of 16 degrees Celsius (°C), IMD said. The drop in temperature resulted in the lowest maximum temperature recorded in the month of May in at least 70 years.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Some parts of Delhi might receive light rain till Thursday afternoon as well,” Srivastava said.Srivastava said that Wednesday’s rain and the resultant drop in temperature was similar to what the city usually experiences during peak monsoon season, in August.Also Read | Covid-19 cases down, Delhi begins 3rd wave prepWednesday’s rain led to a drastic drop in the temperatures, with the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory falling to 23.8°C, 16°C below the normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 21.4°C, five notches below the season’s normal. The Palam observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 25.7°C, 15°C. The minimum temperature here was 20.2°C.“We need to understand that this weather was induced by a rare phenomenon, the cyclonic storms. But it is true that even during peak monsoons, Delhi seldom experiences consistent rains,” a senior IMD official said.According to IMD, Wednesday’s temperatures were the lowest since 1951, the oldest recorded temperature available. Before this, the lowest maximum temperature was 24.8°C, recorded on May 13, 1982.“The maximum temperature will rise by 3-4°C degrees on Thursday and then will continue to rise in the coming four days. There is no impact of the cyclone seen in and around Delhi at least in the coming four to five days,” Srivastava said.IMD officials explained that rainfall activity began in parts of Delhi starting Tuesday night under the residual impact of cyclone Tauktae. The IMD issued an orange alert over Delhi and NCR on Tuesday, to alert authorities to be prepared for the possibility of heavy rain and gusty winds.Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced as Tau’Te) that intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm made a landfall on Gujarat coast late on Monday evening with wind speed between 150kmph and 160kmph. A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds followed by heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-experiences-wettest-coolest-day-of-may-101621479760734.html
20-05-2021||Kolkata||CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIR||HT Correspondentletters@hindustantimes.comKolkata The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday named Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak and senior lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the Narada corruption case out of the state, claiming violent protests orchestrated by the Trinamool Congress have hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.The four senior Bengal leaders arrested on corruption charges spent their third night in judicial custody after the Calcutta high court decided to continue hearing their bail plea on Thursday. In Kolkata, minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya filed an FIR against CBI over the arrest of senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, and legislator Madan Mitra, alleging they were held illegally.The three leaders, along with former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee, were arrested on Monday morning in connection with the 2014 sting operation (details of which went public in 2016), setting off fierce protests by the TMC and a six-hour long agitation at CBI office by Banerjee.In its transfer petition, the agency claimed the protests and stone-pelting mob prevented CBI officers from physically producing the accused in the court. “The CBI court passed the order granting bail to the four under the cloud of mobocracy, pressure, threat and violence and is a nullity in the eyes of law,” the federal agency said, marking the first time in recent history that a sitting chief minister was named in a case transfer petition. The bail granted by the special CBI court on Monday evening was stayed by the high court hours later.TMC rejected the charge and blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“I am not going into the merits of the case it is sub judice. But the timing of the arrest and the manner in which the case is being dealt clearly shows BJP is behaving in a vindictive manner. It is not being able to digest the humiliating defeat and accept the people’s mandate. We have full faith on the judiciary,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokespersonWednesday saw a pitched courtroom battle before the division bench of acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee. All four leaders are in hospital currently. Hakim is admitted in the hospital of Presidency Correctional Home, the other three are at state-run SSKM hospital.“They (four leaders) are not in jail. They are in hospital. They should be in jail. That is my case,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing CBI, told the court, adding that all the four accused were highly influential and can influence the witnesses and investigation.But Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the four leaders, argued CBI was trying to keep the leaders in jail for one more day or two more days, “by hook or crook, more by hook than crook”.“All the accused are in hospital. Where can they run away?” Singhvi questioned while seeking bail, adding that no court can stay interim bail without giving notice to the accused.The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.TMC alleged the arrests were political vendetta by BJP,which lost the recent assembly polls, and questioned why CBI hasn’t arrested Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting but have since switched from the TMC to the BJP.On Monday, soon after the four were arrested, Banerjee staged a dharna at the CBI’s office in Kolkata, while state law minister Moloy Ghatak led nearly 3,000 workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside CBI’s office in south Kolkata, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest hurling bricks, bottles and shoes at central forces.CBI said it was an orchestrated attempt to frustrate the course of justice and that there was “unprecedented hooliganism”.“I don’t think anywhere else in the country such shocking incidents have happened where a premier investigating agency, which has been entrusted with the investigation by this court, is stopped from doing its job,” Mehta told the court.In response, Singhvi described the chief minister’s dharna as a “Gandhian way of protest” without any exhortation of violence.“Merely because a matter has gone to court, it will not stop democratic dissent. It would be negation of democracy to say that just because the matter is before court you cannot peacefully protest outside,” Singhvi told the court.BJP dismissed TMC’s allegations.“We don’t want to comment on what the CBI is doing or on the court proceedings. Law will take its own course and BJP is no way associated with this. But we have seen that if the CBI goes slow in a case the Left and the Congress allege that there is a secret pact between the TMC and BJP. If there is any activity, the TMC cries political vendetta. Not only is the BJP tired of listening to such allegations, even the people of Bengal are tired,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-makes-mamata-party-to-narada-plea-tmc-files-fir-101621476316897.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: At least 26 dead on Arabian Sea barge amid rescue ops||The Indian Navy and Coast Guard’s ships and aircraft trawled the waters off Mumbai’s coast on Wednesday after Cyclone Tauktae sank a barge and battered at least three other vessels and facilities in the Arabian Sea, with 26 confirmed dead and 49 still missing more than 48 hours into a challenging rescue operation.The “extremely severe” cyclone, the most powerful one to barrel through the region in over two decades, caused gusts of wind up to 210kmph and nine-metre waves as it raced past Mumbai and made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night. It led to the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people in coastal states, with at least five dozen others losing their lives in storm-related incidents.“Indian Navy’s Search and Rescue (SAR) operations off Mumbai and Gujarat entered their third day today (Wednesday). Indian Naval ships and aircraft are presently undertaking SAR of the missing crew members of Accommodation Barge P305, which sank on May 17, 35 miles off Mumbai… As of now, 186 crew members of Accommodation barge P305, and two from Tug Varaprada have been rescued by Indian Navy ships and aircraft,” the Indian Navy said.Also Read| PM Modi reviews Tauktae damage in GujaratThe barge named P305 (Papaa 305), with living quarters for 261 people working offshore, sank after the storm battered the Bombay High oilfield on Monday near Mumbai, where some of the country’s biggest offshore oil rigs are located. The facility and two other barges that were hit by the cyclone were deployed by Afcons for a contract from state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC).All 137 people on board barge Gal Constructor, which ran aground about 90km north of Mumbai’s Colaba Point, were rescued on Tuesday by the navy and the Indian Coast Guard, a person involved in the operation said. The 196 people on barge SS-3 and 101 personnel on board oil rig Sagar Bhushan were also brought to safety, he added. The three barges and the oil rig housed 695 people in total.In a challenging air and sea mission, rescuers secured 180 of the 261 crew members from P305 by Tuesday evening, about 20 hours after they were forced to jump into the extremely rough sea after the barge sank.Six more people were picked up by the rescuers on Wednesday, the navy said. An officer said search and rescue operations were on for the remaining 49 crew members of the accommodation barge.“Search and rescue operations are still on. However, the chances of finding more survivors are getting bleaker by the hour,” the official said, asking not to be named.The oil ministry on Wednesday constituted a high-level committee to investigate the sequence of events leading to the stranding of three vessels of the contractor of ONGC.“The stranding, drifting and subsequent events have led to loss of several lives,” a ministry statement said without giving details.The Mumbai Police will conduct a probe as to why P305 stayed in the area despite warnings about Cyclone Tauktae, an official said on condition of anonymity.Also Read| Firm that ran cyclone-hit barges says people on board had life jackets, raftsIn a statement, Afcons said: “P305 had a full complement of safety equipment including life jackets and life rafts for all persons on board.” ONGC said it was extending help to the navy and coast guard in the rescue effort.Hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated on Monday, with electricity supply and transport services badly hit on land as the most powerful Arabian Sea cyclone in over two decades moved up the country’s western coast, making landfall in Gujarat after leaving a trail of destruction in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra, and killing dozens of people.According to deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar, the barge sank at 7pm on Monday in choppy waters and rough weather.The navy received SOS calls from P305 on Monday morning. Warships INS Kochi, INS Kolkata, INS Beas, INS Betwa, INS Teg, P8I maritime surveillance aircraft, Chetak, ALH & Sea King helicopters are involved in the operation.“INS Kochi which entered Mumbai harbour on Wednesday to disembark 125 survivors and mortal remains of four crew members, was immediately sailed out in the evening again to continue the search effort,” the navy said.On completion of its operations off the Gujarat coast, INS Talwar has also been diverted to join other three naval ships searching for the missing crew of barge P305 off Mumbai. INS Talwar assisted in securing SS-3 and Sagar Bhushan, which were now being safely towed back to Mumbai by ONGC support vessels, the navy said.The navy also rescued two crew members of a tugboat, Varprada. They were picked up by INS Kolkata on Monday while it was on its way to join rescue efforts at P305. The two people informed naval officers that they were part of the crew of a tugboat that went missing along with 11 other crew members. It wasn’t immediately clear if this was the same tugboat that was being used to secure the barge named Gal Constructor.“No one would have had survived if not for the help that came... We are thankful they saved our lives,” a survivor told news agency ANIAnother survivor said he jumped into the sea with his life jacket and was later picked up by the navy. “We saw our ship sink and several people on the deck were falling into the sea. [We] spent more than 10 hours in stormy water when the Navy rescued 12 people out of our group of 14 on Tuesday morning. Two are still missing,” said 22-year-old Sunil Kumar Madhesia, who worked as a helper on the barge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-at-least-26-dead-on-arabian-sea-barge-amid-rescue-ops-101621476292908.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Got proposals from 3 firms for import of Sputnik V, says BMC||Mumbai’s civic body, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has received proposals from three companies for supplying Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines, its commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said in an interview with a news channel on Wednesday.Chahal’s comment comes a day after the civic body extended the deadline for a global tender for the supply of 10 million Covid vaccine doses to the city. The last date for submission was May 18, but after failing to receive any bids, BMC extended the deadline to May 25.Mumbai has 11 million people over the age of 18 years, the current eligible group for vaccines.In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Chahal said BMC estimates that it will spend about ₹700 crore to buy the shots. “Once we get 15 million vaccine shots, I plan to vaccinate the entire city in the next 60 days and by doing so, I am very sure we will be able to stop the third wave from coming.”Meanwhile, the three proposals for Sputnik V vaccines have come from a United Kingdom-based firm and two companies from India. According to BMC officials, their paperwork was incomplete so the companies have been asked to send revised proposals as formal bids. The identity of the companies was not revealed by BMC; nor was it immediately clear.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasuadded: “We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but have come with incomplete paperwork. So we have given the extension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/got-proposals-from-3-firms-for-import-of-sputnik-v-says-bmc-101621474110215.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||SOS calls for black fungus drug as cases rise in Delhi||With cases of mucormycosis on the rise, families of patients are struggling to procure Amphotericin B — an anti-fungal drug prescribed for the treatment of the disease, with pharmacies in Delhi citing unavailability due to increase in demand.Mucormycosis, or black fungus, is a life-threatening disease that is affecting recovered Covid-19 patients. It is more common among those who have high blood sugar levels, are immuno-compromised or have been administered too many steroids during the treatment of Covid-19, say doctors.The government is regulating the supply of the drug to prevent its indiscriminate use and black marketing. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said: “The treatment of the infection can be done only in hospitals, so the drug is directly being given to hospitals.”Also Read| Delhi reports 185 cases of black fungus, in possible fallout of Covid-19 surgeTwo days ago, Payal, a Pune-resident, lost her uncle who was getting treated for black fungus in Delhi. The family was unable to procure the drug after trying for days. "We made more than 100 calls for two straight days but couldn't get hold of the drug. The hospital had shared a prescription with us. We went from pillar to post to no avail. Before we could procure the medicine, my uncle died following a heart attack," said Payal. The family reached out to pharmacies in Pune and Delhi but most didn't have a stock. Multiple pharmacies in the city said that Liposomal Amphotericin B is not available in the market and there is no clarity on when the supply will regularise.Sandeep Nangia, organising secretary of the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), said Amphotericin B was not available in the market and clarity on its supply was awaited. “Amphotericin B is not available right now. We will have to wait for the supply chain to be regularised. Due to a sudden spike in demand, we have run out of stock. Once the stock is replenished, we can expect an improvement in the situation,” said Nangia.Ashok Malik, proprietor of Malik International Pharmaceutical, said the demand for the drug has increased substantially in the past week. “Amphotericin B is not available with us. We are getting at least 500 calls daily but can’t do anything if there is no supply. As per a government directive, manufacturers will send the stock straight to hospitals,” he said.Sai Distributors said the drug is not available for the past two weeks.“We have four callers all of them have been receiving at least 500 calls each, seeking amphotericin B,” said Gaurav, an associate at Sai Distributors.Volunteer networks said on Wednesday they have been receiving SOS calls for the drug. Dr Suvrankar Datta, a junior resident at AIIMS, who is a member of a network of doctors helping patients with resources, said the distribution of the anti-fungal drug was not equitable. “Many hospitals have an adequate stock, which is likely to last for months whereas other hospitals don’t have any stock. We are continuously getting SOS calls,” said Datta.Bhavreen Kandhari, an activist, who has been involved in verifying leads and sharing credible information pertaining to bed availability, oxygen, and plasma, said while the government has put out a new notification, hospitals are asking patients to procure the drug from outside. “While the government has said that hospitals will arrange the medicine for the patients, we don’t see it happening since family members of patients are reaching out to us with requests,” said Kandhari.Yogita Bhayana, another activist, who has been dealing with Covid-related SOS calls, said sourcing medicines for mucormycosis was proving to be a new challenge. Stating that she has been receiving many calls seeking help in arranging Amphotericin B, Bhavana said, “I made many calls but it’s difficult to find Liposomal Amphotericin B. Pharmacies are telling us that the drug is not available in the market for the past 15 days. In such a situation, we are unable to help people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sos-calls-for-black-fungus-drug-as-cases-rise-in-delhi-101621468372473.html
20-05-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: 2 dead of black fungus in Gurugram, say hospitals||Gurugram reported a total of 91 cases of mucormycosis, more commonly called “black fungus”, till Wednesday among Covid-19 patients who were either infected with or had recovered from the virus. Two such patients also died, but senior health department officials said they could only attribute it to mucormycosis after an audit.According to the hospitals that treated them, the patients suffered a cardiac arrest.“The deaths are suspected to be due to mucormycosis. A 12-member state-level committee has been constituted to audit both cases and give their final report,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer.The first death was reported from Max Super Specialty Hospital on May 16, and the second death happened a day later at Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI).The patient at Max Hospital, a 29-year-old, arrived at the emergency unit in a critical condition on May 15 morning. “He was bleeding from the nose, complained of nausea (and) headache. He was disoriented and had a severely damaged right eye with loss of vision. He had been ill with Covid-19 since April 23 and was undergoing treatment from outside (not from the hospital).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-2-dead-of-black-fungus-in-gurugram-say-hospitals-101621468414461.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Singapore calls in Indian envoy, objects to Delhi CM’s comments on Covid strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s remarks about a new coronavirus strain being detected in Singapore led to the South-east Asian country on Wednesday calling in the Indian envoy to lodge an objection, and to a political war of words between the Centre and the Delhi government.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said the chief minister “does not speak for India”, and external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet that the Indian high commissioner P Kumaran clarified the matter with his Singapore counterparts. It is rare for the external affairs ministry to acknowledge that an Indian envoy has been called in by a foreign government to lodge a protest, and to publicly criticise an elected Indian representative.In response to the foreign ministry’s comments, Delhi’s deputy CM Manish Sisodia hit out at India’s handling of the situation, and contended that Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were only concerned about their image globally, and not about the well-being of the country’s children.“[Kejriwal] said that the danger of Covid-19 infecting more children is increasing. That is what it looks like going by the strain there [Singapore]... which is why it is necessary that we also remain alert... Singapore’s education minister had also given a statement that the risk of children getting infected is increasing. But today the BJP has started dirty politics on the issue,” Sisodia said.“Had the foreign ministry been as quick to get vaccines from other countries as it was in reacting to Kejriwal’s statement, the children of India would have got vaccines,” he said.Meanwhile, Singapore’s high commissioner Simon Wong told a virtual news conference his country was satisfied with the Indian government’s clarification, but reserved the right to invoke a domestic fake news law to prevent the spreading of misinformation.Jaishankar tweeted that Singapore and India are solid partners in the fight against Covid-19, and appreciated Singapore’s role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. “However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships,” he added.Earlier on Wednesday, Singapore foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan quoted the CM’s original tweet and said: “There is no ‘Singapore variant’.”On Tuesday, Kejriwal said in his tweet in Hindi: “The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too.”Hours after his tweet, Singapore’s health ministry dismissed his assertions, and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.Some experts have said India’s third Covid wave could affect children, but there is no scientific evidence to suggest that the virus specifically targets younger people. Children, however, are the only demographic group to be completely unprotected because vaccines are currently only given to those over 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/singapore-calls-in-indian-envoy-objects-to-delhi-cm-s-comments-on-covid-strain-101621468459039.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||SDMC seeks Delhi L-G’s help for funds||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has approached L-G Anil Baijal requesting him to pass necessary directions to the Delhi government to release ₹549.62 crore to the civic agency that was ostensibly recovered by the government on account of retrospective implementation of the 5th Delhi Finance Commission in the fiscals 2019-20 and 2020-21. In a letter to the L-G on Tuesday, mayor Anamika Mithilesh said, “We are working with less resources and still managing to operate vaccination centres and Covid care facilities. Deduction in our due share by the Delhi government is painful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmcseeks-delhi-l-g-s-help-for-funds-101621468535714.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Covid care he deserved, and got||His quarantine lasted 14 days.“It was like chaudah saal ka vanvaas,” says Shailesh Singh, comparing his ordeal to Lord Ram’s 14 years of exile.Except that his banishment from the familiar world wasn’t in a forest, but in an apartment complex, in Gurugram’s Sector 31—the address where he has been serving as a much-cherished security officer for a decade. Mr Singh’s brush with the coronavirus pandemic gave him a terrifying glimpse of life’s frailty, but also showed him the generosity of his immediate world, especially of the people among whom he works.This afternoon, the fresh Covid veteran is chatting from his home in Sainikhera village, a 10-minute bike ride to work, surrounded by wife, Shobha Devi, and sons, Aman and Aryan.He was on duty when tested positive early this month. On notifying the apartment complex residents, reassuring words flowed in instantly. “Brigadier Anand Mohan (resident welfare association’s president) called me on phone saying—‘Shailesh, don’t go home, we are giving you a place to quarantine. We are with you’.”Mr Singh was put up in a one-room flat for the next two weeks. It had a bed, AC, fridge, and a kitchenette. “Everyone [in the complex] looked after me as if I were a family member... Brigadier Sahab would send home-made meals, so would Karunesh Bhalla-ji (RWA secretary) and many others... somebody would send fruits, somebody would send nariyal paani (coconut water), somebody would send breakfast…”He also got medical care. “Doctor Anurag Singh, who lives in the same complex, would monitor my symptoms and send me medicines.”Such care helped Mr Singh cope with the infection, but he was still alone in the flat. “I was going mad thinking of my wife and sons, of what would become of them if something awful were to happen to me.” His anxieties amplified on hearing the deaths of relatives to Covid in home town, Gaya. The most consoling part of the day would be the phone chat with wife. In fact, Shobha Devi made him fish curry to mark his return home two days ago.The security officer feels that his recovery, where so many others succumbed to the deadly virus, is a matter of chance. “From now on I will help people as generously as I can,” he says in a voice emotional with a naked earnestness. He plans to get back to “duty” in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-covid-care-he-deserved-and-got-101621468151077.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 cases down, Delhi begins preparations for third wave||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the Delhi government has set in motion a plan to prepare for the next wave of Covid-19 infections in the Capital, which could require nearly 40,000 oxygen beds and 10,000 ICU beds, and potentially hit younger people, particularly children, harder.The move comes at a time when experts have warned that a new wave of infections cannot be ruled out, especially due to the threat of more transmissible Sars-Cov-2 variants, low vaccination coverage, and the lifting of the lockdown that was put in place in an effort to flatten the pandemic’s curve.“If the third wave of the coronavirus emerges, we have to be prepared in advance to fight it. Took some important decisions today at a meeting with officials: 1. We will have a special task force to protect children from the third wave; 2 There will be better arrangements than before for adequate number of beds, oxygen, and essential medicines,” Kejriwal said in a tweet after the meeting.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targets“In the meeting (on Wednesday), the need for advance preparations for the third wave of Covid-19 were discussed. The third wave may require Delhi to be prepared with 40,000 oxygen beds, and the Delhi government is making preparations to install 10,000 ICU beds. Along with beds and oxygen management, management of medicine was also discussed. A committee comprising officials will be formed to overlook the availability of medicines, oxygen, and beds,” the chief minister’s office later said in a statement.Over the last four weeks, the Capital was battered by a devastating wave of infections – the fourth wave for city and the second nationwide since the pandemic began – with health care capacities inundated and critical medical supplies such as oxygen running out.With the test positivity rate clocking in at under 6% on Wednesday, the city appears to have all but crossed this wave of infections, which began in the first week of April and has claimed over 11,000 lives – as many as the previous three waves put together. The city had 11,133 deaths till April 7 and between April 8, when the positivity crept back up above 5% on average, and May 19, it added 11,213 more fatalities.Kejriwal said he has asked officials to stay alert of any possible outbreak among children and directed for a special task force to monitor the pattern of infection among the young and make the necessary interventions.He also asked for another committee to be set up to oversee availability of medical oxygen, medicines and beds.While Covid-19 typically manifests more mildly in children compared to adults, some experts have in recent days flagged the growing risks to children in the future, who are yet to be made eligible for vaccine doses since these are yet to be fully tested among them. This is now the second academic year in which children have had to stay at home and learn remotely, which not many have been able to access.Also Read| Delhi reports 185 cases of black fungus, in possible fallout of Covid-19 surge“If the third wave does happen, it will affect the children because others would have either had the infection or received a vaccine. So far, there are no vaccines for children in India. This is the reason we need to start preparing for management of Covid-19 in children,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.“The physiology of children is different, so the case management is also different. We would need fresh treatment protocols and SOPs. We will need to arrange for appropriate medicines and equipment,” he added.A senior government official said the special task force will have paediatricians, experts, and senior IAS officers as members. The chief minister has also asked health officials to closely monitor developments regarding Covid-19 vaccination, especially for children, and to stay in constant touch with the central government to place orders as soon as doses are made available for them.Even as the number of new cases reduces – they have fallen by 71% in the last two weeks alone -- departments and district administrations have been asked not to dismantle any Covid care centre (CCC) built over the past month, according to a second official, who asked not to be named. Delhi went into a lockdown on April 17; the government has extended this till May 24, and it is likely to see at least one more extension.The chief minister’s office said that while addressing officials in the meeting, Kejriwal said: “Increased numbers of Covid beds also require increased amount of oxygen allocation to hospitals. We need to keep enough oxygen tankers at hand so that we do not fall short of supply. We also need to ensure optimum oxygen storage and proper functioning of oxygen plants.”Also Read| On Kejriwal's comment, Singapore says reserve right to invoke fake news lawIn a separate meeting, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal held a review on the Covid-19 situation and directed officials to take “immediate steps” to ensure availability of drugs related to black fungus and the newly launched 2-DG for people in genuine and medically prescribed need.The L-G also asked officials to ensure that distributors and retailers of drugs and equipment related to Covid are made to mandatorily display their stocks and prices to the customers.“The L-G also instructed that achievable and compressed timelines for setting up of oxygen plants in hospitals and other related infrastructure be put in place immediately. He stressed that testing, especially RT-PCR should not go down, since owing to the lockdown, rapid antigen tests (RAT) have naturally gone down. With regards to the hospital infrastructure to deal with future eventualities, LG instructed that preparedness thereof should take into account the worst case, best case and the likely scenarios in consultation with experts,” an official in the L-G office said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-down-delhi-begins-3rd-wave-prep-101621463841607.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen concentrator hoarding: ED registers money-laundering case against Kalra||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a money laundering case against businessman and restauranteur Navneet Kalra, who was arrested by Delhi Police on Sunday evening for allegedly hoarding oxygen concentrators at three of his restaurants and selling them at inflated prices, ED officials said on Wednesday.The money laundering probe will lead to the agency looking at any suspicious financial transactions made by Kalra in the past, ED officers said.Kalra was arrested from a farmhouse in Gurugram on Sunday even as lawyers were trying to obtain anticipatory bail for him from the Delhi high court through the week.Police were on the lookout for him since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular on May 7.Kalra is alleged to have purchased the concentrators from Matrix Cellular which had imported them.As part of its probe under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), ED will look into the money trail of the sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators, whether they were being given to Covid-19 patients and caregivers at exorbitant prices, and to ascertain if others were involved, said an ED officer who asked not to be named.A second ED officer said they have already taken all case documents from the police and a probe has begun after registering an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) – equivalent to an FIR – a few days ago.Delhi Police claims that it has evidence to prove concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of Rs75,000.Demand for oxygen concentrators swelled during the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the Capital with many hospitals running out of medical oxygen as the number of critically ill patients rose. The devices, which can derive 80-90% pure oxygen from ambient air, were also a crucial part of supplies and aid provided by many foreign countries to India.Four employees of Matrix Cellular Company, including its CEO and vice-president, were also arrested in this case by the police. They were, however, granted bail by the court.The high court while granting bail to the four said it was unable to understand the offence they had committed, since the terms that they were charged under weren’t defined by the Acts being considered by the court.A lawyer, who represented Kalra in the HC, refused to comment saying they have not been told by the ED about the probe.Meanwhile, police on Wednesday said Kalra was “evasive” and “non-cooperative” with the probe team during three days of custodial interrogation. On Wednesday, the team took Kalra to his in-laws’ farmhouse in Gurugram for a search to recover “more evidence”.However, no fresh evidence related to the case was seized from the farmhouse unlike Tuesday, when similar searches at his restaurants, his optical shop-- Dayal Opticals, and an office in Okhla led to the recovery of a laptop and “crucial documents”, investigators said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-concentrator-hoarding-ed-registers-money-laundering-case-against-kalra-101621459570103.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Police arrest man who first befriended, then extorted girls on social media||A 21-year-old man projected himself as a businessman on social media, befriended young girls, persuaded them to send their private images, and then blackmailed them into paying money, Delhi Police said after arresting him on Wednesday.“The suspect, Mohammad Aamir, landed in the police net after a 13-year-old girl told her father about him. The man turned to the police for help,” said Rajiv Ranjan, DCP (outer-north).Police said Aamir was a serial offender, who confessed to targeting several other young girls and women. It is learnt that he deleted all the chats with his victims, including the one with the 13-year-old girl, from his mobile phone. Police have sent his phone for forensic examination to retrieve the lost chats.Aamir belongs to Bijnaur in Uttar Pradesh and is a barber by profession. He operated an Instagram account in which he posed as a young rich man. “He would befriend girls on social media, fake a relationship with them, and then trick them into sending him their images,” said the DCP.As soon as he received these private images, Aamir would allegedly threaten to circulate them on social media. “He gave his victims an option of arranging extortion money for him if they did not want their images to go viral on social media,” said the officer.While his victims usually did not report the matter to the police or their parents, a 13-year-old girl living in outer Delhi’s Alipur could neither take the blackmailing any more nor arrange the money. She finally decided to confide in her father, said police.Her father approached the police earlier this month, following which a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered at Alipur police station. “We sought technical help to identify the suspect and nabbed him. We have seized the phone which he was using for the crime,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-arrest-man-who-first-befriended-then-extorted-girls-on-social-media-101621459176154.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||‘Can judicial officers be treated as frontline staff?’: HC asks Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to consider whether judicial officers can also be considered frontline workers, remarking that three judicial officers have already succumbed to Covid-19.The court said the exposure of the district judiciary is greater than others due to the nature of their profession, and added that authorities should take steps to declare them frontline workers.“It is necessary. Many of them are getting exposed to the virus because of the nature of their work. It is also important for their mental peace,” the bench said, while hearing a plea by the Delhi Judicial Officers Association represented by senior advocate Dayan Krishnan.The plea sought that the judicial officers (judges of the lower court) be declared as frontline workers. Krishnan said that the district nodal officers’ facility is not working in case of emergencies and there is a need for a centralised nodal officer of Delhi government.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court every possible step would be taken, and the association can send a representation to the government. He said the state government will convene a virtual meeting with the members of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-judicial-officers-be-treated-as-frontline-staff-hc-asks-delhi-govt-101621453348411.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure five-bed Covid care centre in every panchayat: L-G Manoj Sinha||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday directed all 20 deputy commissioners and health departments to ensure five-bed Covid care centre in every panchayat. In a series of tweets, he relayed the information. “Directed DCs & Health Department to ensure 5-bed Covid Care Centre in every Panchayat of J&K as many households may not have the option for isolation of Covid positive patients in their own residence. Each Centre to have One Oxygen-Supported Bed for immediate patient care (sic),” he wrote on his Twitter handle. “ ₹1 Lakh approved from District Capex Budget for creation of facilities in School, Community hall or Panchayat ghar in consultation with nearest Health Centre and Panchayat representatives. These Centres shall be equipped with necessary medical kit and linked to nearest health centres. This will strengthen health infrastructure in Rural Areas (sic),” he added. “The persons needing isolation shall be identified by the Panchayats/ concerned Medical Staff / ASHA Workers. Mobile testing vans to be utilized to cover villages for testing with the help of PRIs and volunteers. Medical officers to establish referral linkage with dedicated Covid Health Centres and dedicated Covid Hospitals. Ambulance services in rural areas to have oxygen support for safely transporting the patients to Covid dedicated Hospitals,” read another post of the LG. Meanwhile, amid surge in Covid cases in rural areas of Jammu and Kashmir, the president of All Jammu Kashmir Panchayat Conference, Anil Sharma, sought 100% testing and vaccination of the rural populace, which, he said, “was staring right into the eyes of death in view of lethargic approach of the authorities”.There are total 4,129 panchayats in all 20 districts of J&K. “There has been no vaccination at all for the past one month, that too, at a time when second wave is peaking. Zero work is being done to contain the virus in rural areas,” he claimed. “There is no vaccination among the 18- 45 age group in rural areas and 20% population above the 45 years of age is still to be vaccinated. The virus is travelling fast to rural areas and the villagers face a grave risk to their lives,” he added. Sharma said he had been receiving at least 100 calls daily from sarpanches and panches, informing about villagers testing positive in their areas. “We also volunteer to open all our panchayat ghars to convert them into Covid care centres for the patients, but the government should show some urgency,” he added. “People in villages, being robust, tend to overlook mild symptoms and in turn they are multiplying the virus. It is high time the government undertakes 100% testing and vaccination in right earnest,” he added. It may be stated here that vaccination drive for 18+ category in Jammu and Kashmir has been moving at a snail’s pace . “I, along with my wife, went to get the first jab, but we were told that there are no doses available for us,” said Hira Lal of Chachwal village in Samba district. Hari Singh, another villager of the same area, said that the health authorities themselves were not aware of how and when they would be getting supplies. Annual report on good governance releasedMeanwhile, L-G Sinha Wednesday released “Annual Report- Promoting Good Governance” compiled by the finance department showcasing major initiatives undertaken by it during 2020-21 to bring transparency and accountability in the execution of the public works. Arun Kumar Mehta, financial commissioner, finance department, and Nitishwar Kumar, principal secretary to the L-G, were present on the occasion. The report in the form of e-book provides insight into reforms, steps taken by the department to institutionalise prudence in financial management in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-five-bed-covid-care-centre-in-every-panchayat-l-g-manoj-sinha-101621455458231.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus cases up but Punjab yet to declare it as notified disease||The cases of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, are on the rise among Covid patients in Punjab, with nine such infections reported in Amritsar district on Wednesday. The state authorities, however, don’t have a data on the exact number of black fungus cases as it has yet to declare it as a notified disease. In Haryana¸ mucormycosis is already a notified disease, making it imperative that government authorities be informed about each case. This allows tracking and management of any outbreak. The pandemic has catalysed the spread of mucormycosis, a rare but serious fungal infection, which can disfigure people even when it is not fatal. The disease is caused by a group of molds called ‘mucormycetes’. The infection can badly affect the nose, sinus, eyes, lungs and sometimes brain of the patient. Health experts believe that Covid patients/survivors, who are not following the post- recovery instructions of the doctor, especially pertaining to blood sugar levels and intake of medicines, are more prone to the fungal infection. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said of the nine patients, three have already lost their vision. No casualty has been reported so far in the district due to this fungal infection, he said. In some cases, doctors have to remove the eye to stop the infection from spreading to the central nervous system, the civil surgeon added. “All nine patients --- five women and three men --- are suffering from diabetes mellitus. They have infection in their ‘orbit’ bone, which is located in the middle part of the eye and nose. They all are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in Amritsar”, said Dr Charanjit. On Tuesday, two Covid positive patients, who also tested positive for black fungus, died at Patiala’s Rajindra hospital. However, doctors have ruled out black fungus as the main cause behind their deaths. Ludhiana is also witnessing a spike in such infections. “Till now, 22 Covid patients have been diagnosed with black fungus in the district. No casualty has been reported so far,” said civil surgeon Dr Kiran. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said: “The exact number of black fungus cases in Punjab will be ascertained only when the government will declare the disease as notified.” “Health department is talking to the government and the decision will be approved soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-cases-up-but-punjab-yet-to-declare-it-as-notified-disease-101621455457159.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees highest single-day recovery as 4,338 patients recuperate||As many as 62 people lost their lives to Covid on Wednesday in Jammu and Kashmir, taking May’s fatalities to 1,073 and overall death toll to 3,355.The region also recorded 3,969 fresh infections in the past 24 hours taking the overall caseload to 2,55,888. The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Wednesday was this month’s highest at 4,338, including 2,953 from Kashmir and 1,385 from Jammu.The number of people who recovered crossed 2-lakh mark to reach 2,02,039, improving the recovery rate to 78.95% against around 98% in the first fortnight of February. The officials said that 48,565 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours taking overall tests to 8.04 million.Dr Hardeep Singh, professor of medicine, Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, said that the second wave of Covid is highly contagious and the virus transmits from infected person to others at a faster pace.“Earlier, during the first wave, it was observed that the affected person could infect only a few persons around him, but now the same person infects almost all around him which is cause of great concern,” he said.Of the 62 deaths in the UT, 39 were reported in Jammu division and 23 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,594 are from Kashmir while 1,375 are from Jammu, besides 24 travellers.The people of UT have witnessed the worst effects of the pandemic in May since the outbreak as the monthly infections have reached 79,805 and fatalities to 1,073 on Wednesday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 56,598.Officials said with 675 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 493 in Jammu district, 411 in Budgam, 371 in Baramulla, 190 in Kupwara and 171 in Pulwama. The number of active cases has reached 50,494, officials said. Regarding the third wave, Dr Singh said if we do not adhere to SOPs, undergo vaccination and achieve herd immunity through vaccination, the virus may come again in a different form.“It can have more dangerous consequences,” he said.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.05 lakh cases and 1,593 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has taken over as the one with the highest number of 884 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 709 deaths.Adviser to L-G, Baseer Ahmad Khan said that there is no shortage of oxygen, vaccines, drugs or other medical infrastructure. “The huge consignment of vaccines has already arrived and the vaccination drive as per the micro-plans, already prepared, shall go unabated,” he said. The J&K government has formed a committee, mostly comprising health experts, to formulate an action plan to tackle a possible third wave of Covid pandemic in the UT.The general administration department on Tuesday gave sanction for the constitution of a 10-member committee to be chaired by Dr MS Khuroo, senior doctor and former director of Kashmir’s premier tertiary care hospital, Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura. The co-chairman of the committee is Dr Shakti Gupta, executive director and CEO at AIIMS, Jammu.The committee will specially focus on preparedness in terms of creation of health infrastructure, enhancement in testing capacities, arrangement of essential drugs/logistics, treatment protocols, arrangement of machinery and equipment, oxygen supply and manpower.“The committee will look into issues like ramping up Covid hospital beds and critical care units, especially for paediatrics/neo-natal age group, which is likely to be affected more,” said the order by Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, commissioner secretary to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-highest-single-day-recovery-as-4-338-patients-recuperate-101621454976879.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Labour shortage looms over paddy transplantation this year again||Farmers in Punjab are staring at a severe shortage of labour for transplantation of paddy amid the Covid-19 lockdown that has forced thousands of migrant workers to return to their native states, particularly Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The same trend was witnessed last year when restrictions were imposed for the first time in the wake of the pandemic.Since the majority of paddy growers opt for transplantation of paddy, the conventional and labour-intensive method of sowing of the crop in Punjab, they need lots of manpower besides water for irrigation. Though local workers are roped in for the task, they alone are not enough to fulfill the required need. Paddy transplantation is expected to begin in the first week of June.Tajinderpal Singh, a farmer from Rasoolpur village of Tarn Taran district, said, “the cost of labour will go high this time again due to shortage. Last year, many farmers opted for the direct seeding of rice (DSR), a less labour-intensive method, but experience of many was not good. Therefore, such farmers are in a dilemma over other methods of sowing.” “The situation will be clear once paddy transplantation starts. But there is a strong apprehension among farmers that they will have to face the same situation and bear losses,” said Sandeep Singh Randhawa, a progressive farmer from Talwandi Lal Singh village of Gurdaspur district.Randhawa, who is also director of Punjab State Co-operative Supply and Marketing Federation (Markfed), added, “The farmers have a reason to worry about. First, the railways has increased train fares. Now, travelling from UP and Bihar to Punjab will be costlier for migrant labourers. If they hire buses, they will have to pay extra in the pandemic situation. Second, they will have to complete Covid-related formalities. So, they are least likely to come to Punjab for paddy transplantation.”“Because of labour shortage, the state government is giving power supply to farmers from May 25 for the DSR technique of sowing which has started in our area,” said Gurbinder Singh Bajwa, another farmer from Gurdaspur district.Kuljit Singh Saini, chief agriculture officer of Amritsar and Tarn Taran, said the situation is not so grim for paddy growers. “Machines have already reduced dependence on the labour for sowing paddy”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labour-shortage-looms-over-paddy-transplantation-this-year-again-101621454920071.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid positivity rate hits 5-week low||Punjab is showing signs of recovery from Covid-19 as its positivity rate on Wednesday reached the lowest in the past five weeks at 8.71%, with experts suggesting that the state may well be past its pandemic peak. The state’s overall positivity rate, the ratio of infected people against the total tests done in a day, had seen a sharp spike since April 13 from 8.4% to 14.2%, the highest so far, on May 12. The daily addition of cases in the state also came down to 6,407 after the highest single-day addition of 9,100 cases on May 14. With the number of recovered patients remaining higher than the fresh cases for the fifth consecutive day, the state’ active caseload also registered a fall of 12% in the past one week. The state’s highest tally of fresh cases was 79,963 on May 12, against 70,499 on Wednesday (May 19). Fall in the number of patients on O2 support An analysis of the state government’s media bulletin reveals that the number of patients on oxygen support in Punjab has decreased. A fall of 2000 patients in the patients on oxygen support has been witnessed in past one week. Head of expert group of Covid-19 management in Punjab and former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar said, “The trend in the past week reflects that the state may have passed its peak. But we should not lower our guard as the virus takes longer time to settle down. The nature of this virus is such that any prediction can go wrong. We should continue with stricter curbs and implementation of Covid protocol in the days to come,” he said.Deaths remain on higher side However, the high number of deaths of Covid-19 patients remains a cause of concern. After registering highest ever fatalities (231) on Tuesday, the death toll in the state was 208 on Wednesday. In the past one week, state has recorded 1,414 deaths due to Covid-19. A senior health department official said most of the deaths were reported in rural areas. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said Mohali, Bathinda, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Mansa districts continue to report high number of deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-covid-positivity-rate-hits-5-week-low-101621454918904.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Villages in Punjab’s Majha belt devoid of basic Covid care||Even as the Punjab government is making claims of focusing on controlling the coronavirus surge in rural areas, most of the villages in the state’s Majha region comprising Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran districts lack basic Covid care facilities such as testing and vaccination. Due to inadequate testing, surveillance and treatment facilities, the villages in the region are turning into hotspots of infection with high positivity and fatality rates. Also, people are still reluctant to come forward for testing while they are also not checking movement of outsiders in their villages.Satnam Singh, a resident of Rajian village in Amritsar district’s Ajnala sub-division said, “Our village does not have any Covid care centre. If any person develops virus symptoms, they have to travel to Rokhey village to get them tested for the disease. Even the health centre at Rokhey lacks basic facilities like medicines and medical staff. People have no other option but to go to private hospitals that charge hefty money.”“Doctors held a vaccination camp in our village but not many showed up. People in rural areas are still hesitant to disclose their symptoms to the health department staff, fearing the authorities will admit them to hospital where they will succumb to the virus. We urge the government to open testing facilities in every village of the state,” he added.Amritsar is reporting hundreds of fresh infection daily but the district health department has collected only 2.76 lakh samples from the district’s rural areas in nearly 14 months of the pandemic. Angrej Singh, a resident of Dall village in Tarn Taran district’s Bhikhiwind sub-division said, “Our village has the population of 7,000 but the local sub-health centre does not have Covid-19 testing facility. People have to travel 15-20 kilometres to get tested for the virus. Also, people are not cooperating with the health staff as they are not keeping tabs on movement of outsiders in the village.”“Despite the virus surge, a group of farmers is set to leave for Delhi on May 27 to protest against the central government’s three farm laws. In these challenging times, villagers are focusing less on the pandemic,” Angrej Singh added. The situation at Gurdaspur district’s Jhawar village is no different as there is no testing facility even as vaccination camps were held there. Tarsem Lal, a local resident, said, “Our village has a government dispensary but it lacks Covid testing facilities and medicines. Some accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) come to the dispensary but people are reluctant to share their health status with them. Besides, residents are not following Covid-19 protocol while authorities are not keeping tabs on the violators. The government should increase surveillance in rural areas.” Villagers in Amritsar, Tarn Taran start thikri pehra As many as 661 villages in Amritsar and 122 in Tarn Taran district have started ‘thikri pehra’ (community policing) to curb the movement of people in and out of villages —except emergency and essential services. Station house officers (SHO) and deputy superintendent of police (DSPs) concerned have also been asked to regularly check and ensure the thikri pehras.Satnam Singh, sarpanch of Chahowali village in Amritsar’s Majitha block, said, “With the help of the police, we started the practice for a few days. A team of police regularly checks our thikri pehra. Our village with a population of 2,500 has no positive case so far. But we still have designated our village government school as an isolation centre.”A doctor in Tarn Taran said, “Many people are still not willing to get tested for Covid-19. They still prefer quacks instead of approaching hospitals. The police should also issue instructions against all those quacks working in the villages to help in containing the virus.”(With inputs by Anil Sharma)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/villages-in-punjab-s-majha-belt-devoid-of-basic-covid-care-101621454737076.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC allows Hany Babu to be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital for treating eye infection||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state prison authorities to shift Elgar Parishad accused Hany Babu who is lodged in Taloja jail since his arrest on July 28, 2020, to a private hospital of his choice, provided his family is willing to foot the bill for treating an opthalmology problem due to an infection. While Babu was taken to Sir JJ Hospital to examine his eyes, he tested positive for Covid-19, and was hence shifted to GT Hospital.However, after GT Hospital said that they were not equipped to treat Babu’s opthalmology problem, he was to be shifted back to Sir JJ Hospital for further treatment. Babu’s family sought permission from the court to transfer him to Breach Candy Hospital on the assurance that they would foot the bill for treating his eye problem, which the court allowed. Babu will be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital on Thursday. A division bench of justice SJ Kathwalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the urgent bail application of Babu on medical grounds, was informed by advocates Yug Choudhary and Payoshi Roy that the Delhi University associate professor had developed a swelling in his left eye on May 3, was having double vision and was in pain. After repeated requests by Babu’s family, the prison authorities took him to Sir JJ Hospital for examining his eye on May 12 where he tested positive for Covid-19.Choudhary submitted that as Babu was to be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital for treating the eye problem the family wanted him to be moved to a private hospital and hence sought bail for him.However, the application was opposed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NIA submitted that Sir JJ Hospital, KEM and Nair hospital were well equipped to treat the eye problem, hence the application should not be allowed. He further submitted that allowing Babu to be shifted to a private hospital would set a wrong precedent and other prisoners would also seek such facilities.After hearing the submissions and speaking to Babu over video conferencing wherein he said he was satisfied with the treatment at GT Hospital, the court directed that he be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital. In response to NIA’s objection, the court said, “Let the family get the psychological satisfaction at least that he is treated in a hospital of their choice. There is nothing wrong if this becomes a precedent, more so in these times.”The court further stated that as Babu’s family had assured of footing the bill at Breach Candy hospital he should be shifted there on Thursday and also allowed Babu to communicate with his family and lawyers and posted a hearing of his application on June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-allows-hany-babu-to-be-shifted-to-breach-candy-hospital-for-treating-eye-infection-101621454436952.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC directs Stan Swamy to be checked at JJ Hospital on May 20||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Taloja jail superintendent to take Elgar Parishad accused Fr Stan Swamy, 84, to Sir JJ Hospital for his medical check-up on May 20 at noon. The HC has also directed the dean of Sir JJ Hospital to constitute an expert committee which includes a neuro physician, orthopaedic surgeon, ENT specialist and any other doctor to examine Swamy and submit its report by May 21. The court also directed the state prison authorities to bring Swamy before the court through a video conference on May 21. The vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade was hearing the bail application on the medical ground which was filed in the HC by Swamy’s relatives after the special court rejected his application for substantive bail in March 2021. On May 4, while hearing the appeal by Swamy against the special court order the court had directed the relatives to file a separate application for interim bail on the medical ground which was heard on Wednesday. Swamy was arrested in October 2020 and has been kept at Taloja jail since then. Senior advocate Mihir Desai informed the bench that on Monday a note seeking urgent hearing of Swamy’s medical bail application was moved as his condition had deteriorated over the past week and he had developed cough and fever and he was not even tested for Covid though 26 jail inmates and staff had tested positive. The note also claimed that the jail hospital did not have proper medical facilities to treat and monitor the octogenarian who had underlying conditions. Desai further submitted that as Swamy was in an advanced stage of Parkinson’s disease and could not hear or stand on his own and hence in light of the spread of Covid-19 in prisons he should be released on temporary bail or shifted to a private hospital.The note also claimed that as per statistics posted on the Maharashtra State prison website on April 13, Taloja prison had 3,251 inmates while its capacity was of 2124 inmates only. The note further stated that while the jail required to have 2/3rd of its capacity to maintain physical distancing norms it was not complying with the decongestion norms laid down by the Supreme Court (SC). The note also stated that Swamy was taking allopathic medicines along with the antibiotics prescribed by Ayurveda doctors in Taloja Jail hospital. The lawyer further submitted that given his ill health and severe comorbidities, Swamy is at risk of getting infected by Covid-19.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), a probing agency opposed the plea and submitted that Swamy was being provided proper medical treatment and his health was being regularly monitored. Singh’s submissions were corroborated by the prison report which stated that the general condition of Swamy was stable and that he was provided with a high protein diet, hot water for bathing and provided two attendants- the prisoners at their willingness. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for the state referred to the report and stated that Swamy had been provided with a mattress, bed sheet, pillow, sipper, walker and walking sticks, commode, was being examined by psychiatrists at regular intervals and had a stable pumping heart and good blood circulation. However, Desai disputed the accuracy of the report and said that there was no mention of Swamy’s complaint of abdomen pain and pain due to lumbar spondylitis, in the report. After hearing the submissions, the bench ordered Swamy’s health checkup and sought a report to be submitted by 11 am on Friday. “In the event of Taloja prison having video conference facility, it shall produce appellant Swamy before the court on May 21,” said HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-directs-stan-swamy-to-be-checked-at-jj-hospital-on-may-20-101621454436267.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chintpurni temple helps fight Covid, seeks donation of medical equipment||Extending a helping hand to the Himachal Pradesh government that is struggling to control the Covid-19 surge, the Chintpurni temple trust has launched an online service accepting the donation of medical equipment for coronavirus patients. The temple, also known as Chinmastika Dham, has provided a link on its website for devotees who wish to donate towards the cause. Devotees can donate 13 types of medical equipment through the link. These include pulse oximeters, oxygen concentrators, PPE kits, masks, oxygen cylinders and medicines. The devotees can also courier the donated goods to the temple officer, Mata Chintpurni Tehsil, Una district. “Devotees keen on making the donation in person can visit Chintpurni House or register themselves on the link after which a trust official will contact them. People should donate in kind (medical material) instead of cash,” temple officer Abhishek Bhaskar said. Amb sub divisional magistrate Manesh Kumar has urged people to come forward and help fight the war against coronavirus. “Medical equipment is the need of the hour, so if someone wants to donate it to the temple trust, they can send the goods through courier or get registered on the temple trust website,” he said. Richest temple in Himachal Last year, the Chintpurni temple trust made a donation of ₹5 crore towards the Covid relief fund. The temple, also known as the Tirupati of Himachal, is the richest in the state with a cash deposit of more than ₹1.5 crore, fixed deposits of ₹102 crore, around quintals of gold and 71 quintals of silver. Mata Chintpurni Devi is one of the many manifestations of Goddess Durga. In this form, she is also called Maa Chinnamasta or Maa Chinnamastika, the one with a detached head. Meanwhile, the state branch of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas has offered its satsang bhawan to create a Covid facility at Paravur in Kangra. The 700-bed makeshift hospital will be operational next week. It has also offered space to set up a hospital at Talyar in Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chintpurni-temple-helps-fight-covid-seeks-donation-of-medical-equipment-101621454376920.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 3,396 infections, 69 deaths||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 case tally rose to 1,70,074 as 3,396 more people tested positive on Wednesday while the death toll mounted to 2,516 after 69 patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 897 were reported in Kangra, 442 in Shimla, 389 in Mandi, 354 in Solan, 298 in Hamirpur, 253 in Sirmaur, 229 in Bilaspur, 187 in Una, 176 in Chamba, 109 in Kullu, 48 in Kinnaur and 24 in Lahaul-Spiti.Highest 17 fatalities were reported in Kangra, 11 in Shimla, seven each in Hamirpur, Sirmaur and Solan, six each in Mandi and Una, three each in Bilaspur and Kullu and one in Lahaul-Spiti.Recoveries climbed up to 1,32,406 after 3,090 people recuperated while there are 35,124 active cases.Kangra remains the worst hit district with 37,988 infections and is followed by Mandi with 23,016 cases and Shimla 21,653 cases.Solan has logged total 19,698 cases, Sirmaur 13,067, Hamirpur 12,022, Una 10,982, Bilaspur 10,649, Chamba 8,466 , Kullu 7,611, Kinnaur 2,491 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,431.3,000 health employees outsourced by HP govtHimachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed concern over the high number of Covid deaths in the district and stressed on immediate shifting of home-isolated serious patients to health institutions for proper treatment.He was reviewing the situation prevailing due to Covid in Kangra. The chief minister said that the state government had increased the bed capacity from 1,500 to about 5,000 to cater to the rising number of Covid patients.He said the central government has increased the Himachal’s oxygen quota from 15 MT to 30 MT and the state government has also urged to further enhance the oxygen quota by 10 MT.Thakur said that keeping in view the gravity of the situation, the state government was also increasing ICU beds in the health institutions.He said that 20 additional ventilators have been provided at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Tanda and 25 at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla. He said that arrangements have been made to ensure adequate supply of oxygen at the Nurpur civil hospital.The chief minister ordered to deploy adequate staff in the health institutions and for the purpose, the state government has recruited about 3,000 employees on outsource basis.Efforts are being made to make fresh appointments in health institutions to further strengthen the staff,” he said.The chief minister said that HP government has also issued SOPs for the management of Covid victims’ bodies and provide financial assistance to next of kin of the deceased to carry the body to their native places if they wish to.Thakur said that efforts must be made to strengthen the home isolation mechanism as more than 90% of the Covid patients were at home.He said that elected representatives such as MLAs, pradhans, BDC members, zila parishad members and ward members must actively participate in strengthening the home isolation mechanism by keeping in touch with the family members of the corona patients.He said that usually, the delay in shifting the patients from home isolation to hospitals results in their worsening health and eventual death.He said that paramedical staff must also regularly monitor the health parameters of the home-isolated patients.Thakur also launched a home isolation kit, Sanjeevni, for Covid patients.He said that the kit would be provided to every patient in home isolation. He also interacted with Covid patients admitted to the zonal hospital in Dharamsala and RPGMC, Tanda through videoconferencing.Besides enquiring about their health, he also asked about the treatment and quality of service being provided to them in the hospital.Thakur also took stock of the progress of makeshift Covid hospital coming up at Paraur and directed the executing agency to complete the facility at the earliest. He was apprised that this hospital would be completed within two to three days.He said a severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) ward had been made functional at ayurvedic hospital in Dehra. He said that a similar ward was also opened at Palampur a few days ago. Secretary, health, Amitabh Awasthi, also joined the event virtually from Shimla.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati made a detailed presentation on Covid situation in Kangra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-3-396-infections-69-deaths-101621454316690.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||INS Kochi baack with 125 survivors of P305||Two days after conducting search and rescue operation (SAR), the Indian Naval Ship (INS) Kochi returned to Tiger Gate in Mumbai harbour on Wednesday morning carrying 125 survivors of Barge P305, one of the three barges that was carried adrift after Cyclone Tautkae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm, passed over the Arabian Sea between May 16 and 17. The barge, anchored near a rig in Heera Oil Fields, roughly 40 nautical miles (72 km) west of Mumbai in Arabian Sea, began to drift around 10.15pm on Sunday after all of its 12 anchors broke off. As the cyclone began to cross Mumbai latitude at 12.37 pm, 120-130 km off the coast of the city, water began to enter the barge, forcing all of its 261 occupants to move to the deck. Around 2 pm, the barge began to tilt and go underwater. Within five hours, it sank completely. Some, like Indrajeet Sharma, 33, started jumping into the water before the barge finally went underwater at 7pm. “I had no other option except jumping into the sea to save my life on Monday. I jumped around 6pm, an hour before the barge sank,” Sharma, a senior engineer who had been working on the barge since last May, said. “After spending 8 hours in the water, I was rescued by INS Kochi at 2am on Tuesday. I could not open my eyes for almost 24 hours as I spent several hours in the salty water,” he said. The barge, owned and operated by Durmast Enterprises Limited, had been chartered by a consortium led by Afcons Infrastructure Limited for an Oil and Natural Gas (ONGC) project in the Western Offshore fields in the Arabian Sea. The people on board comprised marine crew, labourers on contract, and employee of Afcons. On Monday morning, the Indian Navy received a distress call from P305 and immediately dispatched three ships -- INS Kochi, Talwar and Kolkata -- to rescue the people, even as inclement weather made the search and rescue operations difficult. INS Kochi, which left Mumbai harbour around 10am on Monday, was the first to reach the site at 4pm. INS Kolkata reached around midnight. The Navy also deployed helicopters and aircraft to conduct aerial surveys. Other ships, including offshore support vessels, multipurpose support vessels and Coast Guard vessels got involved in the SAR operations the following day. “Our employer thought that nothing would happen in the cyclone due to which we faced the most terrifying day of our lives,” said Faraz Nadkar, 22, an architect who joined the barge a few months ago. “We waited till the last moment when the ship was just about to sink. We (five to six people) jumped in wearing life jackets. We held each other’s hands for courage. We decided that if we would die, we’d die together. We spent around 12 hours in the water and for most of the time we spoke of our families,” Nadkar said. “The Indian Naval Ship reached in the evening and rescued us at 6am on Tuesday,” said Nadkar. “I lost everything including my passport and prayed to God all night that I would live to see my parents again,” said Sunil Kumar Madhesia (22), who hails from Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh. “We saw our ship sink and several people on the deck were falling into the sea. [We] spent more than 10 hours in stormy water when the Navy rescued 12 people out of our group of 14 on Tuesday morning. Two are still missing,” said Madhesia, who worked as a helper on the barge. “It is the mistake of the company to not take the decision to send us to Mumbai from the high sea,” said Dombivali resident Deepak Ingle, 30, a technician who started work on the barge in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ins-kochi-baack-with-125-survivors-of-p305-101621454196099.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||HC restrains BMC from felling trees for coastal road till next hearing||The Bombay high court restrained the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Wednesday from felling and transplanting 61 and 70 trees, respectively at Tata Garden at Bhulabhai Desai Road, based on the January 6 order of the BMC’s tree authority. The permission was granted by the authority to make way for the coastal road interchange. A division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice S P Tavade while hearing the petition filed by NGO Society of Improvement of Greenery was informed by advocate Ankit Kulkarni that it was not aware of the January 6 permission granted by the tree authority to fell 140 trees at Breach Candy for the coastal road. He informed the court that while an earlier proposal involved fewer trees, it was opposed to the decision and wanted to challenge it. However, senior advocate Aspi Chinoy and advocate Joel Carlos for the BMC and coastal road project opposed the submission of the NGO and said the order was uploaded on the civic administration’s website on January 19, and the NGO could not claim it had no knowledge of it to seek a stay. Chinoy further submitted that when the NGO’s petition had come up for hearing in March and the BMC had mentioned about the decision in its affidavit, the NGO had not raised any objection against it. Kulkarni, however, informed the court that the BMC served the affidavit on the NGO only on Wednesday morning hence it wanted time to challenge the decision. After hearing the submissions, the bench restrained the BMC from going ahead with the felling till the NGO added the challenge to the authority’s order in its petition filed in March 2020 and posted the hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-restrains-bmc-from-felling-trees-for-coastal-road-till-next-hearing-101621454075993.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Sena compares WB-Centre tussle to Israel-Palestine conflict||Comparing the ongoing tussle between the Centre and West Bengal government to Israel-Palestine conflict, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece on Wednesday said that PM Narendra Modi-home minister Amit Shah duo has taken the defeat in the Assembly polls to heart and have decided to make Mamata Banerjee bow before the Centre. Amid Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) action against Trinamool Congress legislators and West Bengal ministers in the Narada sting operation case, an editorial on Wednesday said that West Bengal governor was acting unconstitutionally and that he should be recalled. On Monday, the CBI arrested West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former party legislator Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada bribery case sparking another row between the Centre and the Mamata Banerjee government. The editorial said that the attempts were being made to create political instability in the state.Taking on WB governor Jagdeep Dhankar, the editorial said, “Dhankar said that he gave the go-ahead for action against the legislators. The conduct of the governor is against the constitution… Attempts are being made to create instability and unrest in West Bengal ... the governor should be immediately recalled,” said the editorial. It further said that the political career of Dhankar has not been “sparkling”. “He has not done anything great in his politics. Therefore, if he has been given a specific brief to harass a woman chief minister given by the Centre, then the National Women’s Commission must take cognizance of it.”The editorial Marathi daily added that the action against TMC MLAs is “political vendetta”. “They were caught on camera taking bribes in the 2014 Narada string operation. But why no action against the other two accused - Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari - who are now with the BJP? Have they become clean since they are now in the BJP?” it asked.It added that the struggle between the Centre and Banerjee will give a “new direction to the country”. “There was no reason for Modi-Shah to take the victory of Mamata Banerjee to heart... If the Centre has decided to make the victorious Mamata bow before them, it is not good democracy.”The Pydhonie police on Tuesday registered a case against chief managing director and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News TV Suresh Chavhanke and two others panelists of a TV show aired on May 13, for allegedly showing objectionable content on the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict and outraging religious feelings of a community. The FIR is based on the complaint filed by Irfan Shaikh, joint secretary, Raza Academy, Mumbai. Raza Academy president Saeed Noori said, “The content has hurt the religious sentiments of the community.” “Senior police officers will take call on the probe,” said Subhash Dudhgaonkar, senior inspector, Pydhonie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-compares-wb-centre-tussle-to-israel-palestine-conflict-101621454016808.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||HC to hear state petition against CBI FIR in graft case against ex-home minister||The Bombay high court (HC) heard the petition filed by the Maharashtra government alleging that the first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI,) based on the complaint by advocate Dr Jaishri Patil, after completing the preliminary probe as directed by the HC in the allegations of corruption and interference in police posting and appointments made by former Mumbai Police commissioner against former home minister Anil Deshmukh is aimed at destabilising the government. In a late night hearing which started around 11pm on Wednesday, the division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade was informed by senior advocate Rafique Dada and Darius Khambatta that they would require around 45 minutes to argue. Additional solicitor generals SV Raju and Anil Singh, for CBI, submitted they would require another hour to respond to the arguments made by the state of Maharashtra. While apprising the bench of the contents, Dada submitted that the CBI FIR filed after completion of the preliminary probe had dealt with the issue of former deputy general of police (DGP) Rashmi Shukla’s claim that there was political interference in posting and transfer of police officers. Dada submitted that as the issue had been heard and the inquiry was closed, negating the claims of Shukla by a high-power committee, there was no need for CBI to include the issue in the FIR. He added that as per CBI manual, it could only investigate issues with the consent of the state, which was withdrawn in October 2020. Raju referred to the two unnumbered paragraphs in the order passed by the division bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta on April 5 and said the order did not put any restrictions on CBI from investigating any aspect of the case and had left it to the discretion of CBI director to take appropriate action after completion of the preliminary probe. In view of this, he said CBI was justified in including the issues which were being opposed by the state. He further submitted that the Apex court had, in numerous cases, permitted investigation agencies to go beyond the ambit of the rules. After hearing the preliminary arguments, the bench said it wanted to understand the matter and asked both counsels to furnish their arguments in short written submission by Thursday evening and posted hearing of the matter on Friday 3 pm.Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday recorded statement of advocate Jaishri Patil in connection with the money laundering case against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-to-hear-state-petition-against-cbi-fir-in-graft-case-against-ex-home-minister-101621454016157.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Treatment plant deadline lapse: PPCB slaps ₹1.27-cr penalty on Ludhiana dyers’ body||With the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA, Tajpur Road module) missing the January 31 deadline for making operational the common effluent treatment plant (CETP), the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has imposed an environmental compensation of ₹1.27 crore on the body. According to the information, the PPCB imposed the penalty under Section 33-A of the Water (prevention and control of pollution) Act, 1974.A 50MLD (million litres per day) plant on Tajpur Road is being constructed to stop the discharge of untreated dyeing waste into Buddha Nullah. The project commenced in 2014, but the work came to a halt in 2016 as the state and Union governments failed to issue grants worth ₹22.5 crore to the PDA. Out of ₹22.5-crore grant, the state’s share was ₹7.5 crore while Centre was to provide ₹15 crore. The total cost of the project is over ₹55 crore and the rest of the cost will be borne by the industry.The work on the project resumed in April 2019 after the PDA got a partial subsidy released through the National Green Tribunal and the authorities claimed that the project will be completed in a year’s time. However, the project missed several deadlines and January 2021 was the latest deadline for its completion.PPCB senior environmental engineer, Sandeep Bahl said, “The environmental compensation of ₹30,000 per day has been imposed on PDA and the office-bearers have been directed to submit ₹1.27 crore as penalty. The amount of penalty will increase with every passing day.” PDA chairman Ashok Makkar said, “The PDA cannot pay such a hefty penalty and we will take up the matter with the PPCB. The project got delayed due to delay in releasing the subsidy and the ongoing pandemic. The plant is ready but it has not been made operational as the PSPCL has not yet provided the power connection. We will take up the matter with PPCB officials.” Three CETPs have been approved for the city, of which only one on Bahadurke road with 15MLD capacity is operational. Another 40MLD plant is not operational for want of power connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/treatment-plant-deadline-lapse-ppcb-slaps-1-27-cr-penalty-on-ludhiana-dyers-body-101621453836008.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: Named as accused, dera chief yet to be grilled by SIT||Even 11 months after jailed Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was named accused in a case connected with Bargari sacrilege, Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases never attempted to question him. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera Sacha Sauda followers in a case relating to the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala in 2015, the SIT-led by former inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra had named Ram Rahim and dera’s three national committee members—Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri—accused in this case. The new SIT led by inspector general of police SPS Parmar, too, has not initiated process to question dera chief so farDespite claiming in the charge sheet filed in the ‘bir’ theft case that the order to carry out sacrilege was given by Ram Rahim, who currently in jail in Haryana, the SIT is yet to file any official request for permission to interrogate him. The SIT probing sacrilege cases never visited the dera headquarters in Sirsa even as it claimed the conspiracy was hatched there. The ‘bir’ was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, resulting in an outrage across the state and death of two Sikh protesters in police firing. The SIT in its charge sheet had claimed that it was Ram Rahim who ordered to carry out sacrilege to avenge insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher. “Some dera followers arrested in connection with sacrilege revealed that Mohinderpal Singh Bittu, who was killed in a Nabha jail in 2019, told them that the sacrilege was executed at the behest of the dera chief. During a diwan (religious congregation) in on March 22, 2015, Harjinder Singh Manjhi, a Sikh preacher, asked some dera followers to remove their lockets or leave. Bittu raised the issue with Bareta, Kler and Dhuri, who saw it as an act of sacrilege and decided to take revenge. The sacrilege conspiracy was hatched thereafter,” the SIT charge sheet says. However, the SIT had immediately initiated the process to declare the accused national committee members proclaimed offenders (PO) after which the court declared them PO in January. An SIT member said, “Ram Rahim was named accused on the basis of statements of accused dera followers, who claimed Bareta, Kler and Dhuri had told them that orders were given by dera chief. But right now, all the three are absconding, so there is absence of linking evidence in this case so far. Dera head questioning is on the list but our priority is to nab the absconding dera committee members first. After which we will question him.” SIT probing police firing too didn’t reach Ram Rahim In April 2019, the SIT probing Kotkapura and Behabl Kalan police firing cases secured orders from a Faridkot court to question Ram Rahim. However, the Sunaria jail authorities refused to let the team meet the Dera head stating that permission from the local deputy commissioner was not there. After initial denial by Rohtak administration, the SIT got permission from the Haryana government in June 2019 for questioning Dera head in jail. However, the SIT never went to question Ram Rahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-case-named-as-accused-dera-chief-yet-to-be-grilled-by-sit-101621453597448.html
20-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily deaths shoot up again, 27 recorded in 24 hours||The district’s daily deaths witnessed a sharp spike once again with 27 more people succumbing to the virus in 24 hours, health officials said on Wednesday. The daily cases, however, continued to decline for the fourth consecutive day with 731 cases being detected.Among the latest fatalities, 15 were women and 12 were men. The oldest to succumb is a 72-year-old resident of BRS Nagar while the youngest is a 44-year-old resident of Maharana Partap Nagar.The maximum number of deaths continued to be in the 50 to 60 age group. Ten fatalities were in their 50s while another eight were in their 60s. Five of the deceased were in their 70s while four were in their 40s.The district’s toll now stands at 1,788 while fatality rate, as on Wednesday, was 2.28%. The total number of positive cases since the pandemic outbreak last year is 78,368.There are 11,373 active cases at present.17-hour curfew has started yielding results: DCDeputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said that the current 17-hour daily curfew imposed in Ludhiana has started to yield results as daily cases have started to decline. He said collective efforts of all stakeholders in the society and people’s support have been instrumental in stabilising the wave.Speaking to the residents of Ludhiana during the weekly Facebook Live session on the official page of DPRO, the DC said that non-pharmaceutical interventions like curfew, tireless functioning of civil and police administration teams and the wholehearted support of people have slowed down the spread of the disease but it does not mean we can lower our guard.He said the administration has increased testing for Covid-19 on a war footing and more than 1.5 lakh samples are now being tested every week. DC visits rural area to spread Covid awarenessGiving a clarion call to people residing in rural areas to understand the importance of Covid appropriate behaviour, early testing and vaccination, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday interacted with people residing in villages of Ghaloti and Raqba.During the interaction, Sharma urged people to wearing the mask correctly, maintaining two-yard distance, and wash their hands frequently to keep the virus at bay. He also advised people to get vaccinated and take a Covid test as soon as they see any symptoms.He said that the early testing and treatment would help save the lives of the people. The DC also warned the residents against self-medication as it delays the detection of infection and can lead to health complications. He said the second wave has taken the rural areas into its grip so the villagers must keep tabs on unauthorised movement by holding ‘thikri pehras’ (community policing) to restrict the entry of persons having symptoms of cough, cold, fever, sore throat, and others. Dr Bishav Mohan from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital spoke about the symptoms of Covid-19.Team constituted to ensure availability of essential drugsLudhiana: Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday constituted a committee of experts to ensure the availability of essential drugs for patients in the district.The committee was constituted in wake of a few hospitals prescribing Remdesivir and Tocilizumab even though these are short in supply. Punjab health advisor Dr KK Talwar has already prescribed alternative medicines --Itolizumab and Dexamethasone— for treatment of Covid patients. The expert group is headed by Dr KK Talwar, advisor, health and medical education, Government of Punjab, with Dr Hatinder Kaur Kaler, Ludhiana’s medical nodal officer, Dr Rajesh Mahajan from DMCH Ludhiana, Dr Rajiv Kundara from SPS Hospital, Dr Anil Luther from Christian Medical College and Hospital, Dr Shelly from Fortis Hospital, and Zonal Licensing Authority (ZLA) Kulwinder Singh as its members. The group would take a call on which drugs are urgently required and where these can be sourced from, provided any patient or attendant approaches the administration.He said now there is a shortage of other antifungal or essential Covid drugs due to which family members of the patients run from pillar to post to get these drugs. It has been observed that some major private hospitals and stockists/chemists have available stock of essential drugs but these institutions offer these drugs only to patients admitted on their premises.The DC said that in these unprecedented times, the essential drugs should be offered to patients who need them the most as per medical condition, no matter where they are admitted.The DC said the committee will decide on which patient requires which essential drug and from where it is to be sourced.The prescribing doctor would have to describe to the committee the patient’s record to justify the requirement of medicine, whenever summoned by the committee. ZLA would ensure the presence of stock position with all hospitals/stockists/chemists about these drugs.The DC made it clear that all essential Covid drugs available in Ludhiana are a common resource pool available for all Covid patients admitted in various hospitals of the Ludhiana district. Once any essential drug is allocated by the committee to any particular patient then the stocking hospital/stockist/chemist would be responsible under National Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 to sell that drug to a particular patient.He said that violation by any hospital/stockist/chemist would be dealt with strictly under National Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-deaths-shoot-up-again-27-recorded-in-24-hours-101621453596495.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Special Covid testing drive begins in rural Bathinda||A special drive under ‘Pendu Covid Fateh Mission’ for Covid-19 testing started on Wednesday in nine villages of Bathinda, one of the six worst-hit districts of Punjab. Under the drive, a task force comprising officials from the departments of health, panchayat, police and education will visit one village each in nine administrative blocks of the district daily. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said 200-300 samples will be taken at each camp and the entire district population will be covered by June 16. “In the last few days, most people who tested positive are from villages. Owing to a more village-intensive approach, the special drive will give more clarity on virus infection in rural pockets,” he added. To make the drive result-oriented, panchayats and local community leaders have been taken on board and announcements are being made a day prior to the visit, he said. Civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Bathinda, has deputed 20 nurses to intensify the Covid management drive. On the first day, about 1,000 samples were taken and data of positive cases is being compiled, he added. “Covid infection is taking a toll at the village level. Owing to rumours and misinformation, the rural population was reluctant to testing, the only cornerstone to combat the virus. A coordinated drive will clear the confusion among villagers,” said Dhillon. On Wednesday, 23 deaths were reported in Bathinda, and about 10 were from rural belts, he said. The district had 6,739 active Covid cases till Tuesday and 743 mortalities have been reported so far. Villages go for self-imposed lockdowns, ‘thikri pehra’ Sarpanch of Bhokhra village Fulel Singh said after 14 positive cases and six deaths within a fortnight this month, the panchayat decided to seal the village for two weeks. “Two members of a family died of Covid and there were many others with symptoms. The entire village agreed to a self-imposed lockdown. Nobody is allowed to enter or exit the village except in an emergency. All shops will remain close this week,” said the sarpanch. Similarly, ‘thikri pehra’ (community surveillance) in the south Malwa region, including Bathinda, Mansa and Muktsar, is going on for the last several days. In Mansa, the hotbed of farmer agitation, nearly 200 panchayats have volunteered to seal their respective villages. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surender Lamba said village police officers are assisting the panchayats in implementing self-imposed lockdown to break the virus chain. A community leader from Mansa’s Khiala Kalan village, Chanana Singh, said after weeks of hesitation, villagers have now started accepting the significance of testing and vaccination. “Media played a crucial role in removing misconceptions. Visuals and reports of patients struggling for hospitalisation and queues in cremation grounds made people realising the severity of the crisis,” he said. Fazilka deputy commissioner Harish Nayyar said an inter-department team will coordinate with community leaders to motivate villagers for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-covid-testing-drive-begins-in-rural-bathinda-101621453478335.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Despite SC stricture, Pearls group properties worth crores sold illegally||Despite a ban from the Supreme Court, properties of PACL India Limited, also known as Pearls Group, worth hundreds of crores were fraudulently sold by company representatives and family members of main accused Nirmal Singh Bhangu, including his son-in-law Har Satinder Singh Hayer, police investigations have revealed. Bhangu is in jail in connection with a ponzi scam involving over ₹48,000 crore. In April this year, the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police probing the case, filed a charge sheet, against the multiple accused in a Ferozepur court. As many as 45 people, including company officials and family members of Bhangu, were booked for cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at Zira police station in Ferozepur district on July 16, 2020. Several arrests were made by the police on the complaint of one Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district. In 2016, the Supreme Court restrained the PACL or its directors, promoters and others or its associate companies from selling or transferring properties in or outside India. In December 2015, the Securities and Exchange Board Board of India (Sebi) had ordered attachment of all assets of PACL and its nine promoters and directors for their failure to refund money to investors. A panel headed by Justice RM Lodha (retired) had initiated the process of refunds to investors. The chargesheet says that despite the ban, PACL and its associated companies started disposing of land worth hundreds of crores in and outside India. It says that one Pardeep Singh produced a power of attorney of Bhangu’s daughter Barinder Kaur of Mohali given to one Sarabjit Singh Sanghera of Australia to sell property worth of 6-crore Australian dollars. Sanghera had multiple powers of attorney given by Bahngu’s kin. The powers of attorney were prepared in Zira town of Ferozepur district. There were also financial transactions between Sanghera and Har Satinder Singh, says the challan. The charge sheet says financial transactions were also traced between Manoj Kumar, who was arrested in april this year, and Barinder Kaur and others. Also, Dhillon Empire, an associate company of PACL, kept operating its accounts. “The accused Munish Jakhar got registered land deeds of 112 flats of Nirmal Chaya project despite ban and gave the power of attorney of many commercial properties,” reads the charge sheet, adding the accused also issued no-objection certificate (NOC) of the plots situated at Nishaat Bagh in Patiala district to more than 35 people in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Besides, the police also found allotment letters to flats in Sector 104 in Mohali. “In Fazilka, PACL agent Rampal got transferred commercial property in-connivance with the revenue officials,” reads the charge sheet. When contacted Ferozepur range DIG Hardial Singh Mann refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-sc-stricture-pearls-group-properties-worth-crores-sold-illegally-101621453236929.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fewest Covid cases in a day since April 5, positivity rate falls to 5.78%||The Covid-19 case trajectory in the city continued to dip on Wednesday, with the city reporting 3,846 new cases, the least since April 5, while the test positivity rate also fell to 5.78%, a 44-day low.Delhi has now added an average of 6,390 cases every day over the past week, down from an average of 15,441 cases a day in the week before that.The city also registered 235 more deaths on Wednesday, the fewest since 161 fatalities on April 18.At the peak of the ongoing surge, Delhi reported over 28,300 new cases on April 20. Before this wave, the highest number of cases in a day was around 8,500 during the third wave of infections in November.The virus has infected 1.4 million people in the city so far, claiming 22,346 lives.With the number of cases going down, the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of people who die among those who test positive – has gone up to 4.03%.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targetsA higher seven-day average CFR was last seen in January when the number of new cases had dipped to three digits, with a positivity rate less than 1%. This was because deaths typically lag after fall in cases.Experts consider the spread of the infection to be under control when the positivity rate remains below 5% for at least two weeks.Delhi’s positivity rate remained below 1% for 82 days from December-end through the third week of March.“The cases have been going down since April 24; it has gone down to 4,000 now after the lockdown. Our target is to have a positivity rate of 2%; the positivity rate was 1 to 2% when the cases had suddenly gone up. Experts believe in a target of 5%; anything over that is considered to be high,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Wednesday.Also Read| Centre concerned only about global image: Delhi govt on Singapore controversyHe also said the government was preparing for a third wave, which might affect children as well. “Delhi is also working on preparations for cases in adults as well as children. The wave this time was unprecedented; no agency had warned that there could be such a big wave. This time that we have been told [about a third national wave], we will be prepared,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-fewest-covid-cases-in-a-day-since-april-5-positivity-rate-falls-to-578-101621452690173.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjab farmers die near Singhu border, one found Covid positive||Two farmers from Punjab, who were part of the group protesting here against the new farm laws, passed away with one of them found Covid positive, officials said on Wednesday. Farmers Balbir Singh (50) of Patiala and Mahender Singh (70) of Ludhiana died on Tuesday. They were part of the group protesting near the Singhu border. Sonepat’s chief medical officer Jaswant Singh Punia said Balbir had been suffering from fever for a couple of days. He was declared brought dead at a government hospital and a test revealed that he had Covid, said Punia. Rai station house officer (SHO) Bijender Singh, however, said they were yet to receive the report from the health officials. Mahender’s body was sent for post-mortem and the exact cause of his death was yet to be ascertained, said Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting at various border points near Delhi, including Singhu and Tikri, for the past six months demanding rollback of the Centre’s new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-punjab-farmers-die-near-singhu-border-one-found-covid-positive-101621453002441.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Woman among 3 held with 1.6 kg of heroin, ₹50 lakh||Three people, including a woman, were arrested with 1.6kg of heroin and ₹50 lakh drug money near Tanda Chowk in Hoshiarpur, police said on Wednesday. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said a police party intercepted a Maruti Swift car (PB 02 BH 4443) near Tanda Chowk on Tuesday and recovered 45 grams heroin from occupants, identified as Pushpinder Singh of Narayan Nagar and Amit Choudhary of Bassi Khawaju. During preliminary investigation, it came to fore that they procured drugs from Jasvir Singh, alias Gajju, and his accomplice Jagroop Kaur, the SSP said. “Acting on the inputs, a police party raided Gajju’s house at Jandiala in Amritsar and arrested his accomplice Jagrup Kaur with 100 grams of heroin while he himself managed to flee. During search, 1.48 kg of heroin, 580 grams of opium, 560 grams of gold and ₹49,48,700 drug money were recovered,” said the SSP, adding that raids were on to nab Jasvir.A case has been registered under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Mahal said proceedings were being initiated to attach the properties of drug smugglers. He said during a special drive against drug peddlers, 189 cases have been registered since January and 234 offenders have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-among-3-held-with-1-6-kg-of-heroin-rs-50-lakh-101621452937173.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases on decline, lockdown unlikely to be extended in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 34,031 daily infections pushing the count to 5,467,537. The tally of active cases dipped to 401,695 as 51,457 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. Significantly, state health minister Rajesh Tope also hinted that the state may not extend complete lockdown as the situation in the state is improving.The state saw 594 casualties taking the toll up to 84,371. Kolhapur reported the highest toll with 80 deaths. The district recorded 68 deaths while the city reported 12 fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai and Pune with 57 and 49 casualties respectively.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state task force, said that those who are succumbing to the disease are not new patients and were admitted to the hospital at least three weeks ago. He also said that the virus is fatal and patients are coming in a critical position. “The deaths that are happening are of the patients that were admitted a few weeks ago. These are the patients who were admitted almost three weeks ago but could not be recovered and succumbed to the disease. They are not new patients,” Dr Pandit said, who is also director, critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. After over three months of surge, the daily cases in Maharashtra have started declining gradually. The situation started changing ever since the state government imposed a complete lockdown on April 22, which has been extended till the early morning of June 1. For the straight six days, Maharashtra is reporting less than 40,000 cases.However, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state has been on the rise for the first time since July 2020. This is because the state is reporting a significant number of casualties daily. Till May 19 — 14,462 fatalities have been reported in this month alone, which is record highest in any of the months since March 2020 when Covid-19 hit Maharashtra, according to the statistics provided by the state health department.There are 12 days still left for this month to be completed.Previously, April had reported the highest number of fatalities — 12,496.On May 19, the case fatality rate (CFR) recorded at 1.54% from 1.49% reported on May 1. In the last three months — February, March and April, CFR were 2.42%, 1.94% and 1.5%.The average daily casualties of this month also reached an all-time high — 770. In April, it was 416.Four districts — Nanded (9.17%), Nandurbar (7.74%), Hingoli (5.46%) and Bhandara (4.92%) — have reported the highest death rate across the state past week (between May 12-18). Districts having the highest number of casualties are — Mumbai — 14,373, Pune — 8,987, Nagpur — 6,252, Nashik — 3,940 and Solapur — 3532, according to a weekly analysis report prepared by the state health department.Mumbai also clocked 1,329 cases and reported a total 691,352 cases to date.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 285,647 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.91%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 17.15%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Wednesday.Tope said, “Our tally of active cases has come down to around 400,000 from close to 700,000 in 25 days. Our daily growth rate has also declined to 0.5% and Maharashtra is currently at 34th position among states in the terms of growth rate across the country.”He also hinted that the current lockdown restrictions could be eased to some extent, subject to the prevailing situation towards the end of the month when the ongoing lockdown is scheduled to end.“Lockdown will remain in force till early morning of June 1. The thumb rules for imposing lockdown are the availability of beds, medicines and in case healthcare services are likely to get crumbled. Today, we have beds and medicines available in all the districts. We also have an adequate number of doctors and healthcare workers,” he said in response to a question related to extending lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-on-decline-lockdown-unlikely-to-be-extended-in-maharashtra-101621452876428.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 dera men arrested for Bargari sacrilege test positive for Covid||Three of the six accused arrested by the special investigation team (SIT) in the Bargari sacrilege case tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on Sunday arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village. The Faridkot court on Monday had sent them in police custody till May 21. Following the test reports, members of special investigation team and the Bajakhana police station personnel have been quarantined. Three accused, Sukhjinder, Nishan and Baljit, have been admitted to the isolation facility at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-dera-men-arrested-for-bargari-sacrilege-test-positive-for-covid-101621452758254.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||At 1,329 new cases, Mumbai sees a slight jump||A day after the city reported below 1,000 cases - the lowest in the last two months, the daily case figure jumped by 38% as the city recorded 1,329 cases on Wednesday along with 57 deaths compared to 44 deaths being reported on Tuesday. However, the silver lining is that the daily positivity rate has remained around 5%.The number of cases on Wednesday increased owing to the increase in the number of testing. On Tuesday, 961 cases were reported out of the 17,920 tests that were conducted in the city meaning a daily positivity rate of 5.36%. On Wednesday, the testing went up to 22,788 of which 1,329 were positive meaning a daily positivity rate of 5.83%.According to state health department data, the city’s total case tally is 691,352 followed by a death toll is 14,373. The city’s recovery rate is 93.37% with 645,516 recoveries. The city’s fatality rate is 2.07% and there are 29,445 active cases.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have directed our officials to ramp up testing as they had gone down in the last few days. We have not set any target but have asked officials to ensure proper contact tracing. Though the test has gone down, our daily positivity rate has not increased, which is a good sign.”The city had increased its testing since March 23 owing to the second wave and for one straight month, there were above 40,000 tests being reported in the city. But the number of tests started falling in the last 10 days owing to the positivity rate going down. According to BMC officials, the number of cases is going down as there are very less citizens who are taking up self-testing.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal a city-based physician said, “This means citizens are not getting tested on time, and are waiting for their condition to get worse. This in a way also leads to an increase in fatality rate to a certain point. Hence, BMC has to ensure that the testing number does not go down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-1-329-new-cases-mumbai-sees-a-slight-jump-101621452756839.html
20-05-2021||Other||₹100-cr scam: HC accepts LIT’s plea to stop plot allotment to co-op society||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has accepted the petition filed by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) in the decades-old ₹100-crore scam for stopping the allotment of 33 plots (150 square yards each) to the members of a cooperative society.In its order dated May 12, the HC has directed the Ludhiana police department to submit a report of the special investigation team (SIT) formed to investigate the case within three months.As per the LIT officials, members of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Cooperative Society fraudulently got 55 plots allotted to their members under the Model Town scheme in 1990. While the LIT was developing the scheme, it had planned to acquire the land which belonged to the society in present Model Town Extension Block-C.Even as the society got the land exempted from the state government, it still managed to get 55 plots allotted to the members stating that the cooperative’s land was acquired by the LIT. The land (now in Ambedkar Nagar) was under encroachment at the time and not in possession of the society.While the society got 25 plots allotted in connivance with LIT officials, it sought 33 more plots at some other place.The scam was initially unearthed in 1996 and an FIR was also lodged in 2001. But no proper follow-up was done. The LIT also lost the case in the state and national consumer dispute redressal commissions and the Supreme Court.When the society got execution orders from the consumer court for allotment of 33 plots, the LIT filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the HC against the same and police investigation was reinitiated in the case recently.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said, “It is a major breakthrough in the scam worth around ₹100 crore. The court has observed that the allotment was done in a fraudulent manner. The LIT will not allot the 33 plots and cancel the previous allotments as well.”“We have been regularly pursuing the case in coordination with the state department and action will be taken against all the culprits. We have also decided that from now on, criminal proceedings will be initiated apart from taking departmental action for fraud to discipline the fraudsters,” he added.Six ex-LIT officials were involved in fraud While BD Aggarwal and then executive officer KR Garg were nominated in the FIR lodged in 2001, the police have recommended nomination of four others in the FIR during recent investigation. They include then legal assistant Paramjeet Singh, superintendent Naveen Malhotra, sale superintendent ML Malhotra and assistant town planner BS Sohi. While Garg has been arrested by the police, Naveen Malhotra is on the run. The others have died.Fate of 17 plots uncertain After the LIT commenced the process of cancelling the allotment of remaining 25 plots, uncertainty looms over the fate of 17 bonafide plot holders as they have purchased the same from the original allottees, unaware of the fraud.LIT officials said total 25 plots were allotted, but only eight are situated on the land belonging to the society, while the rest are on LIT land. Some of the current plot holders have also approached the HC over the cancellation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100cr-scam-hc-accepts-lit-s-plea-to-stop-plot-allotment-to-co-op-society-101621452756306.html
20-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC razes 50 encroachments in green belt area||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) on Wednesday removed 50 encroachments in the form of shanties from the green belt area near Chand Cinema amid resistance.The move was aimed at developing the green belts situated along old GT Road from Jalandhar bypass to Sherpur Chowk.The action comes a day after mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal held a meeting with building branch officials on Tuesday.Earlier in February, civic body teams had conducted an anti-encroachment drive in the area to raze illegal structures, but it was stopped due to protests.On Wednesday, building branch officials from all the four MC zones reached the spot to remove the illegal structures.Assistant town planner (ATP) Mohan Singh said the encroachments have been removed and now steps will be taken to develop the green belt area.Building owner misbehaves with MC official While a team of zone C building branch was demolishing illegal buildings in Industrial Area-B on Wednesday, the owner of one such structure allegedly misbehaved with MC building inspector Shavinderpal Kaur and hurled abuses at him, demanding him to stop the drive.On being informed about the ruckus, ATP Satish Malhotra reached the spot along with the police force and razed the illegal construction. Moreover, an under-construction colony was also razed on Lohara Road.Malhotra said that the MC will recommend an FIR against the illegal structure owner for misbehaving with the building inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-razes-50-encroachments-in-green-belt-area-101621452696954.html
20-05-2021||Other||Keep your furry friends away from summer heat, say experts||Summer can mean lots of fun outside with your dog. But when the temperatures soar, take steps to protect your pets as the heat can be hard on them, say experts.According to Dr C S Randhawa, head of veterinary medicine department, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, the most common problems during hot weather are heat stroke and dehydration. Any dog exercising on a hot and humid day, even with plenty of water, can get overheated, so ideally, take your dog for walks during cool hours of the day, he said.Overheating is more common in dark-coloured dogs or those with hairy coats. Never leave your dog in the car. No, not even if you think you’ll only be a few minutes. Even when it isn’t that hot outside, the temperature can soar to dangerous levels in a matter of minutes inside a closed car, even with partially open windows, the veterinarian said.A dog’s normal body temperature is 100.5-102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. While human beings invariably sweat to cool down, dogs cannot sweat and lose heat by panting. Dogs breathe in through the nose and out through the mouth, directing the air over the mucous membranes of the tongue, throat and trachea to facilitate cooling by evaporation of fluid, explained Randhawa.“Dogs also dissipate heat by dilation of the blood vessels in the surface of the skin in the face, ears and feet. If their body temperature rises to 105 or 106°F, they are at a risk of developing heat exhaustion. Its damage to the body’s cellular system and organs may become irreversible,” caution Randhawa.Once the signs of heatstroke are detected, there is precious little time before serious damage, or even death, can occur. Heat stroke is a very serious condition that requires immediate medical attention. Do not take your dog for a walk on a hot surface as it may cause burns on their foot pads, the vet said.Summarising his suggestions, he said never leave your dog alone in the car; avoid vigorous exercise on warm days; when outside, opt for areas under shade; keep cool water available at all times.Certain types of dogs are more sensitive to heat, so use extreme caution in their case. Many dogs enjoy playing and lounging in cool water. Providing them with a tub or kiddie pool or running a sprinkler can be a good option, said Dr Randhawa suggesting to keep an eye on your dog always.This period is quite congenial for the growth and activity of external parasites like ticks and fleas. Many of these can transmit or cause diseases. Consult a veterinarian to keep your dog free from these parasites. You can also consider shaving dogs with long and hairy coats to reduce heat stress.Tips to cool offNever leave your dog alone in the carAvoid vigorous exercise on warm daysWhen outside, opt for playing in shadeKeep fresh cool water available at all timesShave hairy pets to reduce heat stress||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-your-furry-friends-away-from-summer-heat-say-experts-101621452636528.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 208 Covid deaths, 6,407 fresh cases||Punjab on Wednesday registered 208 more fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the death toll in the state to 12,525, according to a medical bulletin.The infection count climbed to 5,17,954 with 6,407 new cases. The number of daily cases was lower than the 7,143 fresh cases that were registered on Tuesday. The state’s single-day recoveries, which were registered at 7,872, again surpassed the single-day infections of 6,407.The number of active cases dropped from 72,277 on Tuesday to 70,499, according to the bulletin.Twenty-seven deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 23 from Bathinda, 18 from Sangrur, 16 from Patiala and 15 each from Mohali and Muktsar, among fatalities witnessed in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana reported the maximum of 731 cases, followed by 661 in Jalandhar, 658 in Bathinda, 603 in Mohali and 530 in Fazilka, among other fresh cases.The state’s positivity rate stood at 8.71%, the bulletin stated.With 7,872 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,34,930, as per the bulletin.There are 405 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,130 other critical patients and 7,939 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 84,10,481 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-208-covid-deaths-6-407-fresh-cases-101621452456507.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Mucormycosis claims 90 lives in Maharashtra||Maharashtra has recorded 90 deaths of recovered Covid-19 patients owing to mucormycosis, also called black fungus. So far, Maharashtra has reported around 1,500 infections and has around 850 active patients across the state, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He also asked the Centre to immediately release allocation of Amphotericin B injections, which is used to treat the disease, as the state is getting around 300-400 cases every week.The issue was also discussed in the state cabinet meeting as ministers raised concern over rising cases of mucormycosis. The state has a stock of only 16,000 doses which were distributed among the districts based on the number of active cases, officials said.Mucormycosis is a rare fungal infection that is found in immunodeficient patients.The state government has placed an order of 190,000 doses of Amphotericin B, but the companies are unable to supply the stock as the Centre has decided to regulate its supply and will determine its allocation based on the availability in the market, Tope said.“Around 1,500 patients are found infected with mucormycosis in the state till date. Of them, the state has around 850 active patients who are getting treatment in various districts, the rest have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. There are also 90 casualties recorded owing to the disease thus far,” Tope told reporters on Wednesday after the cabinet meeting.“We want the Centre to make allocations of Amphotericin B immediately as its cases in the state are rising continuously. Last week, the state clocked around 400 cases. We have also floated a global tender to get doses from the international market. There is no reason for the state to take it lightly and we are exploring all the possible options available with us,” he added.Covid patients who were treated with excessive use of steroids and those with high diabetes are usually found infected with the disease. This is the reason the state government has recently issued detailed guidelines on its symptom, medical investigation, prevention and treatment protocol for local authorities and doctors on May 17. HT was the first to report this on May 18.The guidelines were issued with an aim to reduce morbidity and mortality among mucormycosis patients. It asked for strict glycemic control during management of Covid-19 patients which means blood sugar levels must be continuously controlled. It added that systemic steroids can be used only in patients with hypoxemia, and if used blood sugar level should be monitored.The state government has also declared to treat patients suffering from mucormycosis under Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MJPJAY) for free. It has also decided to remove the cap of ₹150,000 for treating a patient under the scheme only for this disease, Tope said.“Strict infection control measures including cleaning and replacement of humidifiers (to be implemented). Sterile normal saline should be used in the humidifier bottle and changed daily and masks should be disinfected daily. Local public health laboratory should be asked to take swabs of humidifiers, masks, tubing and common touch areas for culture of mucormycosis,” stated the order issued by Ramaswami N, commissioner, health services and mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra on May 17.It has asked the doctors not to miss warning signs and symptoms and also to not consider all cases of blocked nose as cases of bacterial sinusitis, especially in the context of immunosuppression and Covid-19 patients on immunomodulators.It also described signs and symptoms of mucormycosis comprising pain and redness around eyes and nose, fever — usually mid, epistaxis (bleeding from the nose), headache, cough, shortness of breath, blood vomiting and altered mental status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mucormycosis-claims-90-lives-in-maharashtra-101621452275787.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Verbal spat between MVA ministers over quota in promotion for reserved category govt staff||Two Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers — deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and energy minister Nitin Raut of the Congress — were involved in a verbal dual over quota in promotion in government jobs for reserved category employees. The state government had, on May 7, issued an order to scrap reservation in promotions in accordance with a Bombay high court (HC) order given in August 2017. The issue was about quota in promotions in government jobs which, according to Dalit activists, was introduced nationally to ensure that employees do not face discrimination in promotions. It was meant for government employees from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other sections in the quota. During a cabinet sub-committee meeting on Wednesday, Raut questioned the order which scrapped the reservation saying it was unjust. He also asked Pawar how could the government issue the order without taking the sub-committee of ministers, appointed to take a decision on reservation, into confidence. He also said that despite the court order, the Central government has been implementing reservation in promotions on the basis of the Supreme Court ruling in Jarnail Singh case. Raut demanded that the order be immediately scrapped and a fresh legal opinion be sought on the issue. Pawar is head of the cabinet sub-committee.Raut’s office issued a press statement saying that the May 7 order has been scrapped. However, the deputy chief minister’s office clarified that no such decision has been taken and Pawar has agreed to the legal review of the decision.Maharashtra government has given 33% reservation in promotion in government jobs to SC, ST, VJNT and SBC employees. It was challenged in the Bombay HC which, in 2017, ruled against it and asked the government to reverse the promotions given under the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/verbal-spat-between-mva-ministers-over-quota-in-promotion-for-reserved-category-govt-staff-101621452215811.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||HC lauds BMC, pulls up Centre, state for lapses in dealing with Covid||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday lauded the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for its great vision of having civic-run hospitals with affiliated medical colleges which enabled it to control the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, and said the same should be emulated by other civic bodies. The HC then pulled up the state for not complying with its earlier orders pertaining to alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 treatment during the second wave and for not taking steps to curb black-marketing and profiteering during procurement and distribution of Covid-19 drugs. The bench also blasted the Centre for allowing politicians and celebrities to procure and provide antiviral drugs and oxygen. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing public interest litigations (PILs) citing mismanagement of Covid-19 second wave by the state and civic authorities, was informed there was little to no compliance of the court’s earlier orders by any of the respondents. The bench was told the replies and affidavits filed were incomplete and vague as they failed to address the issues raised in the petitions conclusively. The affidavit filed by the state while pointing out that there was no shortage of remdesivir was silent on the administration of the drug in private hospitals. The bench took note of the same and questioned the state as to how they could substantiate its claim of no shortage. The court also noted that though Covid-19 cases were going down, the need for oxygen had not reduced and hence there was a doubt about the facts and figures furnished by the state. In light of concerns raised by advocate Rajesh Inamdar for one of the petitioners over celebrities and politicians procuring drugs and oxygen to help patients, HC asked the Centre, “Allocation is by Union, collection is by state. Where is the window of collection by these personalities? That is our anxiety.” Additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted that the Centre would file a report on the issue along with compliances of the earlier orders of HC. He added that the Central authority had asked all state drugs controllers to conduct investigation drives to prevent hoarding and black marketing of remdesivir. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for BMC informed the bench that the civic body was taking measures for expanding the scope of vaccination and infrastructure for paediatric treatment.After hearing the submissions, the bench said, “We make it clear that we are concerned with the lives of citizens; there cannot be any mileage for popularity or for other things. We are deeply pained if needy patients are being deprived of it. This is sorry state of affairs.” The bench then warned, “By the next hearing, if we find you (state) are not serious in compliance of our orders, we will be compelled to seek presence of the chief secretary of Maharashtra.”Lauding the BMC’s vision of having big hospitals and affiliated medical colleges, the HC said other civic bodies should have followed such mechanism.It observed that while every district has civil hospitals, all of them did not have medical colleges. “The pandemic is an eye opener. Think of future generations. They should not be under fear of doctors not being available to treat. It is high time for policymakers to sit down and decide. We can only echo our sentiments,” said the bench. Seeking affidavits in reply to its queries from Central and state governments, the court posted hearing to May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-lauds-bmc-pulls-up-centre-state-for-lapses-in-dealing-with-covid-101621452155805.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Deaths due to O2 shortage: Amritsar pvt hospital barred from treating Covid patients||The district administration on Wednesday suspended the Covid care facility at Neelkanth Hospital in Amritsar after the probe committee, set up to look into the death of six patients due to shortage of medical oxygen, found lapses in the treatment provided by the hospital.Six patients, four of them suffering from Covid, died at Neelkanth Hospital after oxygen supply dried up on April 24. Following chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s directions, Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira set up a two-member committee comprising deputy director (local bodies) Rajat Oberoi, who is also in-charge of the death analysis committee in the district, and Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh to look into the matter.The probe report submitted to the DC on Wednesday says the private hospital did not meet the criteria required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.The committee said the hospital was authorised to admit level-2 Covid patients only, but it allowed even level-3 (critical) patients without informing the health department.“There is a shortage of specialist doctors in the hospital. The hospital does not have any anaesthesiologist, which is required for looking after the critical patients on ventilators. The hospital management did not have any provision of buffer stock of oxygen for the treatment of critical patients and on the day of the incident, the hospital management had not informed the district administration about the oxygen shortage,” said the DC, adding that Neelkanth Hospital has been excluded from the list of hospitals listed for the treatment of Covid patients in Amritsar.The probe committee also revealed that attendants of patients alleged that the hospital had been overcharging for Covid treatment.DC Khaira has also directed health department to write a letter to the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) to reconsider the certification of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deaths-due-to-o2-shortage-amritsar-pvt-hospital-barred-from-treating-covid-patients-101621452098425.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Why is PM visiting only Gujarat when Maharashtra too is hit by cyclone, asks MVA||Ruling parties in Maharashtra on Wednesday asked why Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi did not visit Maharashtra and announced aid only for his home state Gujarat when both the states were hit by Cyclone Tauktae. Meanwhile, politicians from ruling parties as well as opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) started touring cyclone-hit coastal districts.In the backdrop of PM Modi’s Gujarat tour on Wednesday, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders criticised him for giving Maharashtra a different treatment.The Congress asked why Modi gave a miss to other states hit by Cyclone Tauktae. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole asked why Modi did not visit Maharashtra which was one of the worst-hit states due to the cyclone. “Coastal districts (in Maharashtra) have sustained huge losses due to losses of coconut, mango trees and damages to fishing boats and housing structures. Despite this, the PM visited parts of his home state and announced relief package. Is he the PM of only Gujarat,” he questioned.Shiv Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that PM Modi visited Gujarat because the government in his home state was weak. “I do not want to say anything on his Gujarat tour, because the prime minister should visit the battered parts of the country. Maharashtra has faced similar losses as other states due to the cyclone, but he must have thought of Gujarat first because of the weak leadership in that state. He knows that Maharashtra is in able hands of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, but it may not be the case of Gujarat. He must have felt about more need of giving helping hands to the people of Gujarat,” he said.Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said, “Is this not clear discrimination towards Maharashtra?”BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari has hit back and asked why the chief minister did not visit the affected districts in his own state. “Before raising questions about Modi’s tour, MVA leaders should first reply why the CM did not visit Ratnagiri or other districts hit by the cyclone immediately, as the PM did. They should also reveal about the quantum of losses Maharashtra has sustained while comparing it with Gujarat. The losses in Gujarat are many times more than here. MVA leaders are busy in politicising everything including a natural calamity like this, without maintaining even a minimum amount of decency,” he said.Meanwhile, leaders from ruling as well as opposition parties have started touring coastal districts hit by the cyclone. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg on Friday and Saturday, while relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar will tour five districts over the next four days. Patole too is visiting parts of Konkan on Thursday. Leader of opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis is on three-day tour of Konkan. After visiting affected villages of Raigad on Wednesday, he took stock of the relief work at the district collectorate. “Villagers in Raigad sustained huge losses as crops and horticulture across around 5,000 hectares have been destroyed. 70,000 households in 172 villages are still in the dark owing to disconnection of electricity supply. The villagers have been complaining about not having received compensation for their losses in Cyclone Nisarga last year. The state government should announce a sizable package to give relief to these residents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-is-pm-visiting-only-gujarat-when-maharashtra-too-is-hit-by-cyclone-asks-mva-101621452096371.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Compared to Cyclone Nisarga, 150% more trees fell during Cyclone Tauktae: BMC data||Over 150% more tree falls were reported in the city during Cyclone Tauktae when compared to the figured during Cyclone Nisarga that hit the city last year, according to data of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This, BMC claims, was due to high wind speed of 114kmph (kilometer per hour) during Cyclone Tauktae.BMC on Wednesday said that between May 16 and 18, 812 tree falls was reported in the city compared to 323 tree falls reported between June 3 and 6, 2020 at the time of Cyclone Nisarga. The civic body claims that during both the cyclones, the majority of the tree falls were reported in private properties and not on public roads or places where trees are maintained by BMC. According to BMC data, of the total 812 trees that fell during Cyclone Tauktae, 504 were in private areas and 308 were in public spaces. During last year’s Cyclone Nisarga, of the total 323 trees that fell, 221 were in private areas and 102 trees were in public spaces. The data further adds that this year the highest tree fall was reported in Chembur followed by Bandra and Kurla. The civic body in a statement on Wednesday said, “About 70% of the fallen trees between May 16 and May 18 are of foreign species. These mainly include tree species like Peltoforum, gulmohar, thespesia, rain-tree, royal palm (nautal palm) etc. With this in mind, it has been underlined once again that while planting trees in the BMC area, it is necessary to give priority to native species.”BMC has been appealing citizens to plant native species that include kusum, also known as lac tree, which is a large forest tree with smooth green bark, followed by krishna’s buttercup which is associated with the legend of child deity Krishna.However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed BMC over tree falls in the city. Abhijit Samant, BJP corporator in BMC’s tree authority, said, “The number of tree fall increased this year when compared to last year. This means BMC did not learn anything form Cyclone Nisarga. Even after tree falls, there is not enough manpower available to come and pick the trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/compared-to-cyclone-nisarga-150-more-trees-fell-during-cyclone-tauktae-bmc-data-101621452095807.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||We’ll permit door-to-door vaccination if Centre does not: HC to BMC, state||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to wait for the Central government’s permission to conduct door-to-door vaccination drive for the elderly and differently abled persons who cannot go out to get inoculated. The HC, while rapping the Centre for consulting experts who did not recommend door-to-door vaccination initiative, said the experts were probably unaware of ground realities such as people living in houses where even a stretcher cannot be manoeuvered. The court has asked the state and BMC to file an affidavit on how it proposes to conduct the door-to-door vaccination by Thursday. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed that the Centre failed to give a favourable response to the court’s direction in an earlier hearing on May 12 on whether the door-to-door vaccination could be implemented. The PIL sought directions to the Centre, the state government and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination for people over 75 years of age, differently abled people and those who are bed-ridden. Kapadia further added that BMC had failed to devise a formula to identify beggars without photo IDs required for vaccination and to provide a helpline number to enable advanced age senior citizens to book an appointment for home visit for vaccination as all citizens cannot access the online platform.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for the Union of India, informed the court that the direction was referred to the committee of experts and they had filed a response stating that as there were post-vaccination protocols to be observed and the same could not be facilitated at individual homes, door-to-door vaccination could not be permitted. He, however, added that transport arrangements could be made to take elderly citizens to the centres. Kapadia submitted that some of the elderly and differently abled persons lived in extremely difficult conditions and if they had to go to centres they would have to be taken on wheelchairs or stretchers. However, due to the constrained spaces they live in, it was not possible to take such persons to the centres. Thus, in light of the committee’s denial, such persons would not be able to get vaccinated at all. After hearing the submissions, the court expressed dissatisfaction at the expert committee’s recommendations and termed it to be the opposite of door-to-door vaccination and said, “I am not aware of Mumbai, but in north Kolkata, there are buildings wherein even stretchers cannot be taken inside. If somebody is bedridden and there is no room for stretcher to manoeuver, how will you bring them outside for vaccination?” Justice Kulkarni then pointed out that there are old buildings in congested areas with wooden staircases even in Mumbai, and that the elderly citizens and differently abled persons living there may not be able to come out. “They (expert committee members) are all academic experts, but they seem to have zero knowledge about ground reality. If this decision is taken from Delhi, you should think about the local situation...if the corporation wants to start door-to-door vaccination. If the Centre does not permit it, we will. Saving lives is more important,” said the bench.The bench then directed the BMC commissioner to apprise it as to whether it was possible for the civic body to introduce door-to-door vaccination under proper medical care and upon consent of citizens/beneficiaries to be administered being well aware of the consequences. HC will hear the PIL next on May 20.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have currently allowed walk-in vaccination for those wanting first dose among senior citizens and differently abled persons. If the court is allowing us to do door-to-door vaccination, we will make our stand clear by filing affidavit after discussing it with senior officials.”BMC had, two months ago, sought permission from the Central government to start door-to-door vaccination, but the Centre had not given permission for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/well-permit-door-to-door-vaccination-if-centre-does-not-hc-to-bmc-state-101621452036336.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Mucormycosis claims 19 lives at 3 Mumbai hospitals in the second wave amid medicine shortages||Since the beginning of the second wave in February, a total of 19 recovered Covid patients have succumbed to the black fungus—mucormycosis – at three major government and civic-run hospitals in Mumbai. Doctors attribute the death to the delay in diagnosis and unavailability of life-saving antifungal medicine — Liposomal Amphotericin B – which delayed the timely treatment. Mucormycosis is a serious, but rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated in time, as per doctors. “This infection has a 50% mortality rate. Since the second wave, we have treated over 45 patients suffering from mucormycosis. Of these, 15 have succumbed, which makes the mortality rate 33%,” said Dr Renuka Bradoo, head of department of ENT, Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, which is also known as Sion Hospital. Additionally, three deaths have been reported at government-run Sir JJ Hospital since February. At present, the hospital is treating 51 patients with mucormycosis. Another patient from King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital in Parel died of the infection last week. Almost 80% of the patients are not residents of Mumbai. BYL Nair Hospital is currently treating 11 patients, but none of them are Mumbai residents. After Covid-19 recovery, patients often hesitate to visit hospitals, even if they develop symptoms such as headache, stuffy nose and droopy eyes, according to doctors. “When it aggravates and they develop black patches on noses or eyes turn completely red, they rush to hospitals. Doctors then have to debride the dead tissues and patients lose their noses, eyes and palate,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital. “In severe cases, when the infection reaches the brain, patients die,” he added. Due to the sudden rise in mucormycosis cases, hospitals are running out of the life-saving drug. “We are seeing a lot of patients. We have to monitor the patients for four-six weeks. The best medicine is Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, which is not available for weeks now. Similarly, the other Amphotericin B has also gone off the shelves. Now, we are mostly treating patients with another anti-fungal medicine—Posaconazole,” said Dr Bradoo. Dr Hetal Marfatia, head of the department, ENT at KEM hospital, also confirmed the shortage of medicines. “There is a shortage of medicines. Our procurement department is working on it.” The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also taken note of the shortage and floated tenders last week to procure the medicines. FDA commissioner Parimal Singh said currently they had around 16,000 vials of Amphotericin B. “We are in talks with the Central government to procure more injections,” he said. Dr Bradoo emphasised that the authorities need to expedite the process as these are life-saving drugs. “Earlier, we used to get around 10 cases annually. But since the start of the second wave, we are getting three-four cases on a daily basis. These antifungal medicines have become as essential as oxygen to save the lives of patients,” she added. The Retail and Dispensing Chemists Association has also requested the manufactures to increase the production to meet the sudden demand. “As we have been informed, individuals won’t be able to procure the injection directly from the chemists. They will have to approach their respective collectors’ offices. The admitted patients will get it through the hospitals,” said Prasad Danave, president of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mucormycosis-claims-19-lives-at-3-mumbai-hospitals-in-the-second-wave-amid-medicine-shortages-101621452035768.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 4 dead, 9 injured in Palghar||Four persons, including a 3-year-old boy, were killed and nine were injured during Cyclone Tauktae which wreaked havoc in Palghar and Vasai on Tuesday.In the first incident, Siddharth Singh, 3, died on the spot when an overhead tin roof fell on him in his kutcha house in Pelhar, Nallasopara.In the second case, Alagprasad Yadav, a 41-year-old labourer, died when a few bricks fell on him from the fourth floor of an under-construction building on Tuesday noon. Meanwhile, Mohammed Alam Ansari, 51, died when a huge tree fell on the autorickshaw in which he was travelling. The auto driver suffered injuries and is being treated at a hospital.In another case, Manoj Shivaji Pawar, 42, a Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) lineman, died while repairing a technical fault of an 18-foot electric pole in Sandor area in Vasai on Tuesday evening during the heavy downpour and gusty winds caused by the cyclone. MSEDCL will pay compensation to the kin of the victim, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-4-dead-9-injured-in-palghar-101621451916290.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||NIOS cancels Class 10 exams, postpones Class 12||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country and the resultant lockdown restrictions in many states, the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has decided to cancel its Class 10 board exams and has said that Class 12 exams under the board shall be postponed. The board issued a notification to this effect on Wednesday. “The NIOS is keeping a close watch on the situation and will be reviewed by June 20, 2021. The notification in this regard will be issued 15 days before the actual date of examinations,” stated the notification while announcing the postponement of Class 12 exams. For Class 10, “the NIOS will devise suitable criteria for assessment and result will be prepared in the best interest of learners. Any learner who is not satisfied with the result so computed will be allowed to appear in public examinations or through on-demand examinations as and when the situation becomes conducive to hold the examinations,” it states about Class 10 exams. As per the earlier scheduled exams for the board, exams were held in June. However, due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, the board has decided to cancel and postpone them respectively. Parents said that the decision comes as a relief to them and the students. “It was becoming very stressful for students because of the risk involved in writing an offline exam. The board has taken the right decision,” said a parent. A large number of students from the board are students with special needs and those with learning challenges. “It is especially good for such students to be evaluated on internal assessments,” added the parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nios-cancels-class-10-exams-postpones-class-12-101621451855719.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra MBBS exams to be held offline between June 10 and 30||Putting an end to the ambiguity regarding the pending second- and third-year undergraduate as well as first-year postgraduate medical and dental exams, state minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh on Wednesday announced that exams will be conducted between June 10 and 30 in physical mode. This decision affects at least 6,000 undergraduate and a few hundred postgraduate medical students in the state.A circular to this effect was released by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Wednesday evening, and a detailed schedule will be released soon, said officials.“This decision was taken after a series of discussion with several stakeholders. In a meeting with the MUHS controller of examination on Wednesday, we finalised the exam period,” Deshmukh said via a post on a social media network. This decision will be applicable for all pending undergraduate, postgraduate and certificate courses under MUHS, he added.Second- and third-year MBBS exams, which usually take place in December-January, were postponed three times this year due to the rising Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. At first the exams were postponed to February from January, and then to April. However due to the second wave of Covid-19 gripping the nation, these exams were once again postponed to first week of June by the state government.Earlier this week, MUHS had approached the state seeking permission to start all pending exams from June 2. Since the current lockdown restrictions are in effect across Maharashtra till June 1, MUHS had requested that state allow MBBS and postgraduate medical and dental exams to be conducted with proper social distancing and safety regulations in place.Students and parents have raised concerns about the state’s decision to conduct physical exams. “Most of us are part of the Covid-19 work force and many of us are currently infected by the virus. Several students also have family members fighting for their life at present, so holding exams in such a scenario will be unfair to us all,” said Anup Thorve, a third-year MBBS student. He added that at present, Covid-19 cases are still on the rise and the different variants of the virus are leaving patients with severe issues, including black fungus, which has left more students against the idea of physical exams any time soon.Many students also highlighted how lack of vaccine in the state has left at least 75% of the second- and third-year MBBS students without vaccination, and expecting such students to appear for physical exams will be unfair. “Most of us are living on multiple sharing basis in hostel rooms with common shared bathroom facilities. If any one student is infected, the same will spread among others in no time. We, therefore, suggest either online exams or that the authorities promote us to the next academic year,” said Piyush Dusane, another MBBS student.Officials have assured anxious students and parents that exams will be conducted keeping in mind all safety precautions. “All affiliated colleges are ready and students, too, have been aware that exams would begin in the first week of June. All MBBS and postgraduate students will have enough time to prepare for their exams now, and they can do so knowing that their health and safety is of utmost importance to us,” said a senior official from MUHS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mbbs-exams-to-be-held-offline-between-june-10-and-30-101621451796327.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav to visit cyclone-hit districts this weekend||The state cabinet on Wednesday took stock of the losses caused by cyclone Tauktae, which hit the coastal districts of Maharashtra on Sunday and Monday. The state government is expected to announce a relief package after the tours of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray this weekend, by when the assessment of losses is expected to be completed. Thackeray is visiting the cyclone-affected districts on Friday and Saturday.The cyclone that affected 11 districts, including seven in coastal parts, has so far claimed 18 lives. Of them, 16 are from coastal districts (four in Raigad; three each in Sindhudurg, Thane, Palghar; two in Ratnagiri and one in Mumbai) and two from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. The three who died in Sindhudurg are fisherfolk who died in two separate boat mishaps in Devgad tehsil. Two fisherfolk are still missing. Some deaths were due to tree falls or electrocution.According to primary estimates, crops and horticulture on more than 10,000 hectares have been damaged. Orchards of alphonso mangoes and plantation of chickoo and betelnut have been damaged to a large extent, against which the losses to the seasonal crops were minimum as the coastal parts of the state do not grow summer crops. As per the figures collated by Wednesday evening, highest agricultural losses were registered in Sindhudurg as crops on 3,375 hectares has been affected, followed by 2,500 hectares in Ratnagiri and 1,500 hectares in Raigad.“In comparison with the losses sustained due to cyclone Nisarg last year, the damages due to the cyclone Tauktae is less. The actual monetary losses are not expected to be more than ₹20 crore, as per the preliminary estimates,” said an official from Mantralaya.In Ratnagiri, the financial losses estimated as per the assessment done till Wednesday was ₹3.75 crore. “The spot punchanamas are being held and are expected to be completed by Thursday. All the 4,563 residents who were shifted to safer places have returned to their homes. Until 7 am on Wednesday, power supply of 478,000 of 745,000 affected households were restored,” said Datta Bhadkamwad, resident deputy collector, Ratnagiri.According to the energy department, 4.64 million consumers in Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and other districts of Maharashtra faced power outage. “More than 25% of them are still waiting for the restoration of the supply. We have deployed more than 13,172 workers on the restoration work by diverting staff from other districts as well,” said an offiicla from energy department.The state government is expected to announce relief package for the affected people in coastal districts in the next few days. “As per the set norms of National Disaster Relief Fund, the compensation for the crop losses ranges between ₹6,800 and ₹18,000 per hectare. It’s from ₹6,000 to ₹95,000 for the damages to the houses and ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh is given to the next of kin of the deceased. We have currently decided to go ahead with the set norms and distribute compensation. There may be a special package announced later after the visits of the political leadership,” said a Congress minister, requesting anonymity.Guardian ministers of coastal districts affected have demanded special package for the affected districts, keeping the NDRF norms aside. The state government had announced a special package by increasing amount of the compensation last year after Nisarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-to-visit-cyclone-hit-districts-this-weekend-101621451375625.html
20-05-2021||Other||KDMC sees dip, 168 recorded cases on Wednesday||The Kalyan-Dombivli saw a dip in the Covid cases in the past two days with an average of around 200 new cases reported daily. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), which recently intensified its action against those roaming on road unnecessarily since May 15, claimed that this has helped reduce the cases. Although the number of testings has also decreased from 5,000-6,000 last month to 2,300-2,800 this month. On Wednesday the civic body recorded 168 cases, while the tests conducted were 3,123. On Tuesday, the KDMC recorded 180 cases, while it conducted 2,380 tests. The positivity rate was 7.7%.“The cases have reduced in the past two days because we have intensified the lockdown for 15 days. The number of high and low-risk contacts has also decreased. The tests conducted are less now, however, we conducted antigen testing on random people roaming on streets, not many positive cases were found,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. Of the 800 antigen tests conducted on those roaming on streets unnecessarily in the past five days, only one positive case has been detected, claimed the civic body. “We are doing testing at railway station rigorously so that we trace as many as cases. The positivity rate has also reduced,” added Panpatil. On April 21, the KDMC recorded the highest single-day spike with 2,552 cases with 5,992 tests carried out for the day. Earlier in May, when the civic body carried out 3,000 testings an average of 500-600 cases were recorded. Earlier in October 2020, the civic body when conducted 2000-2500 tests on an average of 200-250 cases were recorded. The current positivity rate in KDMC is 15%, while the death rate is 1.32% and recovery rate 95.08%. The civic body has so far conducted 6.81 lakhs Covid testings. “Recently the KDMC has started testing those who roam around and do not follow the norms. This will help keep track of cases. However, the civic body should also focus on shops which are not following the norms effectively,” said Swadesh Patil, 34, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (West).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kdmc-sees-dip-168-recorded-cases-on-wednesday-101621451015567.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport transports 387 tonnes of Covid aid||As the country struggles to fight against the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) facilitated the transportation of over 387 tonnes of Covid relief supplies.Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, CSMIA facilitated the arrival of over 17,700 oxygen concentrators, 319,800 vials of Remdesivir injections and 113,900 vials of Tocilizumab injections between April 26 – May 14 to cater to the increase in demand for these goods for the treatment of patients in India.CSMIA saw the arrival of essential pharmaceutical supplies from 20 countries including Singapore, Mauritius, Netherlands, Indonesia, China, Scotland, South Korea, Malaysia, England, France, Papua New Guinea, Australia, Poland, Turkey, Germany, Dubai, South Africa, Thailand, California and Hong Kong. CSMIA supported around 110 domestic and international arrivals in the transhipment of essential pharmaceutical goods to Mumbai. “In the wake of the pandemic, the team at CSMIA has been relentlessly operating the cargo handling activities to cater to the greater need to mobilize and supply essential life-saving commodities across India and the world. The airport has been prioritising the shipments of essential medical supplies and achieved an overall processing time of 15 minutes, including offloading and storage,” the airport spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-transports-387-tonnes-of-covid-aid-101621450595454.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||April saw most air passenger plaints for refunds in six months: DGCA Report||While India has been struggling to fight the second wave of Covid-19, air passengers continue to fight against airlines for their refund. According to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) monthly report, 75% air passengers have registered their complaints against the airlines, making them the highest in six months. These passengers are either the ones who are affected due to travel restrictions in their destination states or the ones who have been tested positive for the virus themselves and despite such challenges, airlines are seen to be deducting a major amount of cancellation charges. According to previous DGCA reports, October had seen 83.9% passenger complaints on refund, November had seen 62.4%, December had seen 61.4%, January saw 41.%, February saw 54.6% and March saw 65.7% refund-related complaints. According to DGCA’s monthly report, domestic carriers together registered 57.25 lakh air travellers in April compared to 78.22 lakh in March. In April 2020, commercial flight operations were suspended due to the nationwide lockdown.A recovering Indian aviation industry went back into hazy skies after the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was largely seen in April. As a result of this, the air traffic across the country declined, especially after foreign countries banned travel to/ from India. While the government has allowed the airlines to operate 80% of their seating capacities, it is learnt the airlines are seeing poor seating capacity, due to the fear of getting exposed to the virus. The second wave of the pandemic has also brought in several travel restrictions/lockdowns in various states, not allowing people to travel. Moreover, a significant number of passengers are also seen avoiding travel voluntarily. Due to these, passengers are demanding a full refund, whereas few airlines allegedly are charging cancellation amounts from them, leading to an increase in such complaints.Saurabh Jain, a Malad resident who was to travel to Jaipur, could not go ahead with his travel plan as he along with his wife was detected with Sars CoV-2 last month. He was however not considered to have had a valid reason for not being able to board. “Initially the airline did not bother to refund me and even refused to consider our covid positive reports. I had to chase GoAir for twenty days to get my full amount back. They have however given me in the form of credit shell which is valid for a year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/april-saw-most-air-passenger-plaints-for-refunds-in-six-monthsdgcareport-101621450535496.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 185 cases of black fungus, in possible fallout of Covid-19 surge||Despite a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, hospitals have started reporting an increase in cases of mucormycosis, or black fungus, resulting in a shortage of antifungal medicines used to treat the infection.Hospitals said at least 185 patients have contracted the fungal infection after being infected with Covid-19, and are admitted to seven Delhi hospitals. Smaller facilities are referring their patients to larger public and private hospitals such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which was treating 61 patients with the infection as on Wednesday, and Sir Ganga Ram hospital, which was treating 69.AIIMS, which gets patients from across the country, used to otherwise see only 12 to 15 cases of the rare infection in a year.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targetsDoctors at Sir Ganga Ram hospital said they saw a small surge in cases last December as well, after the November surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. In December, Ganga Ram reported 10 cases in two weeks.“We have seen almost 100 cases of the infection from May 7 or 8. Several smaller hospitals across the city are also referring patients to us,” said Dr Ajay Swaroop, head of the ENT department at Sir Ganga Ram hospital.There were 25 patients with the infection admitted across Max hospitals in Delhi, 15 at Indraprastha Apollo, 10 at Manipal Hospital, and at least three at Fortis (Vasant Kunj). The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital got its first case of black fungus on Wednesday.“We currently have two patients confirmed to have the infection and two others suspected to have the infection, undergoing tests. The cases have been referred to us from small nursing homes. There has been an increase in mucormycosis cases mainly due to the overuse of steroids,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak hospital.“We are seeing a high number of mucormycosis, probably because of two reasons. One, this wave of Covid-19 was massive in comparison to last year; and two, the treatment protocol has evolved since last year. While the evidence shows that steroids make a difference in Covid-19 patients, they were used beyond the recommended guidelines,” said Dr Alok Thakar, head of the ENT department at AIIMS.Doctors said they have also seen cases of mucormycosis among Covid-19 patients who took steroids at home without adequate medical consultation.Also Read| Delhi: Fewest Covid cases in a day since April 5, positivity rate falls to 5.78%Dr Sumit Mrig, head of the ENT department at Max hospital, Saket, said, “People have been taking steroids at home without supervision; many of them were pre-diabetic and not aware of their sugar levels, thus causing mucormycosis.”The sudden increase in black fungus cases has led to a sharp rise in demand for the drug Amphotericin B. “It is the only drug to treat mucormycosis,” said Dr Swaroop.To prevent black-marketing and overuse, the Delhi government has set up a four-member committee that will meet twice a day to review hospitals’ applications for the use of the medicine.Health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said, “The treatment of the infection can be done only in hospitals, so the drug is directly being given to hospitals. Production is not too much, but we’ve asked for extra doses -- we have asked for one lakh doses of the medicine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-185-cases-of-black-fungus-in-possible-fallout-of-covid-19-surge-101621450475424.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Incessant rain brings day temperature to 70-year low||The maximum temperature in the Capital fell 16 degrees below normal, weather officials said, after a day-long spell of moderate rainfall, with Delhi recording a maximum temperature of 23.8 degrees Celsius on Wednesday -- the lowest maximum temperature in May for at least 70 years.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the rains, caused under the residual impact of Cyclone Tauktae, may continue till Thursday afternoon in some parts of the city.The incessant showers led to a sharp drop in the mercury, with the day’s maximum at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the entire city, falling to 23.8°C, 16 notches below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 21.4°C, five degrees below the season’s normal. The Palam observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 25.7°C, 15 degrees below normal. The minimum temperature here was 20.2°C.“We need to understand that this weather was induced by a rare phenomenon, the cyclonic storms. But it is true that even during peak monsoon, Delhi seldom experiences consistent rain,” a senior Met official said.According to IMD recordings, Wednesday’s recording was the lowest since at least 1951 -- the year from when IMD started preserving weather recordings in a digitised format. Before Wednesday (May 19), the lowest maximum temperature recorded in the month was 24.8°C, logged on May 13, 1982.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Safdarjung weather station received 60mm rainfall, Palam observatory recorded 36.8mm rain and Najafgarh station 57mm rain.Met officials said the all-time record rainfall for May was 60mm, logged at the Safdarjung weather observatory on May 24, 1976.“Rainfall between 15mm and 65mm is considered moderate. There is a forecast of the rains continuing through Wednesday night. Some parts of Delhi might receive light rain till Thursday afternoon as well,” Srivastava said.He added that Wednesday’s rain and the consequent drop in temperature were similar to what the city usually experiences during the peak of monsoon in August.“The maximum temperature will rise by three or four degrees on Thursday, and will continue to rise over the next four days. The cyclone is not forecast to have any impact on or around Delhi at least in the coming four to five days,” Srivastava said.Met officials explained that the rainfall began in parts of Delhi on Tuesday night under the residual impact of Cyclone Tauktae. The IMD issued an orange alert for Delhi and the National Capital Region on Tuesday, to alert authorities to the possibility of heavy rain and gusty winds.Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced Tau’Te), which intensified into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” made landfall on the Gujarat coast late on Monday evening, with wind speed between 150kmph and 160kmph.A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds followed by heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tauktae-induced-rainfall-in-delhi-drops-temp-to-70-year-low-weather-officer-101621450355437.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclonic movement shifts eastward, Chandigarh receives only drizzle||The cyclonic movement, remnant of Cyclone Tauktae, has moved east towards Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, causing only cloudy skies and faint drizzling in Chandigarh on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Now, Thursday is likely to remain clear, while Friday may see rain up to 10mm.“The cyclonic movement had been moving towards the region due to pressure differences, however it shifted eastward on Wednesday. There is no specific reason for this deviation, but change by even a small angle can lead to a shift by hundreds of kilometres,” said Shivinder Singh, scientist at IMD, Chandigarh.Due to this, Singh said, there was no impact in Punjab, and only mild rain was seen in southern and south-eastern parts of Haryana. In Chandigarh, trace rainfall was recorded between 8am and 5pm at the Sector 39 IMD observatory.Coldest May day in over 10 years The cloudy weather and cool winds caused the maximum temperature to drop to 27.4°C degrees on Wednesday, 10 degrees below normal, making it the coldest May day in over 10 years.According to IMD, it was only in May 2013 last that a similar day temperature of 27.6°C was recorded.With a night temperature of 25°C, there was only a two-degree gap between the maximum and minimum temperatures on Wednesday. “The sky remained cloudy since morning with little sunlight even in the afternoon. This caused the temperature to drop. The weather is likely to remain clear from Thursday onwards, which will cause the maximum temperature to rise again,” Singh said.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 35°C, while the minimum temperature will hover between 21°C and 25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cyclonic-movement-shifts-eastward-chandigarh-receives-only-drizzle-101621450236049.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Four from Bihar held for cheating people on pretext of selling oxygen cylinders||The Delhi Police have arrested four people from Bihar Sharif in Nalanda, Bihar, for allegedly cheating several people in Delhi on the pretext of providing them oxygen cylinders. Police said the gang has duped at least 300 people of more than ₹1.5 crore till date.Police said all the arrested-- Deepak Ram (21), Pankaj (26), Sarvan Malakar (35), and Mithlesh Prasad (36)--are members of a gang named Chhote Chaudhary, which operates from Bihar’s Nalanda. Police have recovered around ₹20,000 cash, 21 mobile phones, 22 SIM cards, 23 ATM cards of different banks, other valuables and bank related documents from them.Shibesh Singh, additional commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said a complainant, who was in dire need of oxygen cylinder for his relative admitted in DDU hospital, had contacted one Sachin, whose number he got from a social media post. “The suspect offered him two cylinders for Rs. 23,950. The complainant paid the money online but the cylinder never reached him. On his complaint, a case of cheating was registered,” said Singh.The ACP said they followed the trail of the money and found that the amount was transferred to a UCO bank account in Mumbai’s Malad branch belonging to one Ruksana Khatoon. “After a detailed technical investigation, we found that the operators of the scam are based in Nalanda. Our teams zeroed in on Mithilesh Prasad, whose interrogation led to the arrest of the other suspects,” he said.Singh said the arrested suspects claimed to be members of Chhote Chaudhary gang. “Chhote Chaudhary is also a resident of Nalanda and has been running the gang for the past 2-3 years. During the pandemic, Chaudhary found an opportunity amid the rising demand for oxygen cylinders and concentrators. He roped in Deepak, who arranged the bank accounts to receive the cheated money.”“Sarvan used to help Deepak open bank accounts with fake documents and charged ₹25,000 per account. While Mithlesh withdrew the money using the ATM cards that Deepak gave him at a rate of 2% per transaction, Pankaj used to collect the money, for which Deepak paid him ₹4,500 per week,” said Singh.Enquiry of the contact numbers given by the suspects has revealed that several people had paid them various amounts for oxygen regulators, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. “Three bank accounts have so far been seized with ₹1.28 crore, ₹2.17 lakh and ₹96,000,” respectively.Further investigation is on to trace and arrest gang leader Chhote Choudhary and his other associates, police said.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said in the last one month since the lockdown in Delhi, the Covid helpline of Delhi Polic, 112 and cyber helpline have received many complaints and reports of people being cheated online by unscrupulous elements who are cashing in on the short supply of Covid essentials.“Most of these cheating and frauds took place using social media and instant payment transfer methods. Over 500 cases have been registered and investigations are being done by district cyber units and crime branch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-from-bihar-held-for-cheating-people-on-pretext-of-selling-oxygen-cylinders-101621450115413.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||10kg cocaine haul in Chandigarh: Mastermind, aide nabbed||Police have arrested two more Chennai men for their involvement in the smuggling of the 10.24kg cocaine recovered from their aide here on May 13. The accused have been identified as Vijay Kumar, 41, and N Jaffer Shariff, 28. They were arrested from Chennai on the disclosure of Ashfaq Rahman, who was the first to be arrested on May 13 following the recovery of the cocaine in one of the biggest narcotic seizures ever in Chandigarh. According to investigators, Shariff is among the masterminds of the racket wherein the accused smuggled drugs abroad through couriers. The duo will be produced before a Chandigarh court on Thursday. Rahman was caught while preparing to courier the contraband to Australia. The cocaine, packed in two cartons of crockery boxes, was discovered by the employees at Excel Worldwide Courier Agency in Industrial Area, Phase 2, who further alerted the police. The UT Police have also informed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) regarding a consignment of drugs sent via courier to Australia in April this year. “Investigations have pointed out that in April, the accused had succeeded in shipping a big consignment of drugs to Australia through Fedex company. The drugs were concealed in medical equipment in six cartons weighing more than 150kg,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. He added that NCB had been informed regarding this consignment, which was still on its way to Australia. “The bureau has been alerted to track the consignment through proper channel with the respective countries,” the SSP added. Apart from this, police have also shared information in this regard with the Enforcement Directorate; special branch, counter intelligence, Delhi; and special task force of Punjab Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10kg-cocaine-haul-in-chandigarh-mastermind-aide-nabbed-101621450058098.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn slashes oxygen cylinder security deposit||The Chandigarh administration has reduced the security deposit for an oxygen cylinder to ₹8,000, a day after it informed the Punjab and Haryana high court that it is examining the issue.The administration had come under severe criticism from the civil society for charging a hefty amount of ₹25,000 as security for the oxygen cylinder, following which the amount was reduced to ₹10,000 for certain types of cylinders.Nodal officer for oxygen supply in Chandigarh, Yashpal Garg, on Wednesday said that the refundable amount for B-type cylinders has now been reduced to ₹8,000. A person having their own B-type cylinder would pay ₹196 including taxes as refilling charges.The administration has clarified that the security amount was prescribed on the insistence of the vendor to get back the cylinders in time and to keep the supply continuous. However, if the vendor was satisfied, they may provide the cylinder to the person without any security.An application for e-permit can be submitted on the Chandigarh administration’s website http://chandigarh.gov.in/health_covid19.html and cylinders will be provided by the firm, Super Agencies, 40-MW Industrial Area-I, Chandigarh. The firm can be contacted by phone at 9888035000 or by email at superchandigarh@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-slashes-oxygen-cylinder-security-deposit-101621450056853.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targets||With Delhi’s Covid-19 case trajectory and positivity rate falling, the state government has given district administrations fresh guidelines for home isolation, and updated their contact tracing targets in an attempt to revive the test-trace-treat system that went on the back-burner due to the unprecedented surge in infections since mid-April.All district administrations have been asked to trace 30 contacts for each Covid-positive patient in their jurisdiction, a senior Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) official said.Between May 15 and 17, the city’s 11 districts traced an average of 31.3 contacts for each person tested positive. With 35.30 contacts per case, east Delhi recorded the highest and west Delhi the lowest with 28.37 per case, showed government records.Neither Delhi government nor DDMA officials shared contact tracing data for all areas for March and April.Also Read| On Kejriwal's comment, Singapore says reserve right to invoke fake news lawOn March 15, government data showed, districts traced around 32 contacts on an average, against the target of 30 per Covid-19 case.HT reported last month that the contact tracing process had slowed as cases surged.With the fourth wave of infections adding record numbers of cases, some patients reached out to control rooms complaining that they did not receive any calls from the administration after they tested positive.“When things went out of hand, most subdivision level control rooms and dispensary level teams, which were set up to call up patients, could not keep up with the load. Doctors got busy in hospitals, and hardly anyone could be spared to check on home isolation patients, or help with telephonic consultancy on a large scale, even though the government issued helpline numbers from time to time,” said a district surveillance official who asked not to be named.The Delhi government on Tuesday revised its home isolation guidelines in line with those of the Union health ministry to include people who might be clinically presumed to have a mild case of Covid-19, as well as those diagnosed with mild or asymptomatic infection, in a move to ensure that people get help from the administration, whether or not they have a confirmed Covid-19 test.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases in a day on April 20, while on April 22, the city recorded a test positivity rate of more than 36%. But the surge has eased in recent days, with cases, deaths, and the positivity rate all coming down.Also Read| Don’t let your guard down, even if Covid wave wanes: Delhi L-G to Kejriwal govtDelhi on Wednesday recorded 3,846 new cases, the lowest since April 5, while the positivity rate fell to 5.78%, the lowest in 44 days.The Capital has recorded a daily average of 6,390 cases over the past seven days, down sharply from the average of 15,441 daily infections it added a week ago.As on Wednesday, Delhi had 45,047 active cases, nearly half of the 82,725 active cases it had a week ago.The virus has infected 1.4 million people in the city so far, claiming 22,346 lives, state government health records showed.Experts said the government should take the present decline in cases as an opportunity to strengthen its home isolation and contact tracing systems, and scale up protocols such as triaging before another potential wave.Triaging is determining the priority of patients’ treatments by the severity of their condition or likelihood of recovery with and without treatment.“Delhi cannot afford to let things go out of hand. In Covid-19 management, there is no alternative to home isolation and contact tracing. In contact tracing, the government should not only reach out to people, but also guide them in quarantining themselves, test them and isolate the ones who test positive. Delhi now should learn and establish a strong model of triaging at a district model or subdivisional model. And ensure that investment on Covid-19 strategies are data driven,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said, “The home isolation system is bound to fail if patients are not monitored through periodic calls and visits. This is an opportunity to strengthen the model. They should also have a triaging model in place.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-makes-new-tracing-push-with-revised-targets-101621450055427.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-affected clusters getting bigger in Chandigarh||The size of Covid-affected clusters is getting bigger in congested parts of Chandigarh.There are currently 280 active containment and micro-containment zones that demarcate these clusters with higher incidence of infections. Around one-third people in these containment zones are in just seven clusters, with Manimajra accounting for four (see box). Since March this year, when the city was hit by the pandemic’s second wave, the administration has notified curbs in more than 400 areas, which, after the Centre’s push, has emerged as a key strategy to contain the virus spread. In the initial months of the pandemic, Bapu Dham Colony had become its epicentre in the city. With large clusters spread across the colony, the administration had declared nearly all of its pockets as containment zones. After the first wave receded, the administration had started creating micro-containment zones, which generally had three to four houses with 10 to 20 people. The strategy continued as the city was hit by the second wave, with multiple such zones carved out in March and April. However, now the cluster size has gone up in peripheral areas, such as Manimajra, where there is high population density with more people living in relatively smaller houses in congested neighbourhoods. With this, the administration has again started creating containment zones, such as the one in Manimajra’s Shanti Nagar that was notified on May 17 and has a population of 400.‘In congested areas, size has increased’“We are creating containment zones on the basis of contact tracing report and infection incidence in a locality. The aim is to limit the spread and break the infection. In congested areas, the size of the cluster has increased,” said deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar.Another senior official said that in the earlier weeks of the second wave, cases were mainly coming from sectors. “In May, villages and rehabilitation colonies also started reporting positive cases. As these areas are congested, more people are coming under containment restrictions for every new positive case reported than in relatively sparsely populated sectors,” said the official, who didn’t want to be named. Manimajra is becoming the new hub with the highest number of houses and a major chunk of population under containment curbs. Micro-containment zones were being created here since the start of the second wave, but, worryingly, it is in the last one week that the size of clusters has become bigger. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER, said, “Congested areas are more prone to spread of the infection. This indicates more people can be exposed to the infection in these areas. In a locality with less than five positive cases, a micro-containment zone is created. If cases are 5-15 in a contiguous area, then containment zone has to be created.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidaffected-clusters-getting-bigger-in-chandigarh-101621449876582.html
20-05-2021||Other||Teacher killed as ex-pradhan, his son open fire on villagers||MEERUT A teacher was killed when a former pradhan and his son, annoyed by defeat in the recent panchayat election, opened fire on villagers after an altercation in Basera village of Bijnor district, police said on Wednesday. Police have arrested three people and are on the look-out for two others. SP (city), Bijnor Praveen Ranjan said that five people, including former gram pradhan Ajab Singh, his son Nikhil Kumar and three others had been named in the FIR registered on the complaint of slain teacher Sanjay Singh’s family. He further said that prime accused Ajab Singh also got injured in the scuffle with villagers and was presently undergoing treatment in police custody. His son Nikhil and another accused had been arrested and sent to jail and teams had been formed to arrest the other two named accused, he said. Ranjan said that Ajab Singh was village pradhan for two terms but this year the villagers lobbied against him because of his criminal record. “He is recorded as a history shooter in Chandpur police station with six cases against him”, said Ranjan and added that Ajab was annoyed with villagers due to his defeat in the panchayat election. On Tuesday night, Ajab Singh and his supporters were abusing villagers after consuming liquor. The villagers approached him and told him to stop abusing them. This led to an altercation which eventually turned into a scuffle between the villagers and supporters of Ajab Singh. Ajab Singh and his son allegedly opened fire on the villagers and teacher Sanjay Singh, 37, who was also in the crowd, sustained bullet injury and later died while being taken for treatment. The incident was reported to Chandpur police and senior officials also visited the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teacher-killed-as-ex-pradhan-his-son-open-fire-on-villagers-101621449877106.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula to launch drive-through vaccination facility||Following in Mohali’s footsteps, Panchkula is also launching a drive-through vaccination centre at Parade Ground, Sector 5. The drive will take place on Friday and Saturday for three hours in the morning and two hours in the evening, said immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan. Pre-registration is compulsory, she said.The decision was taken by the deputy commissioner in order to intensify the vaccination campaign, which has become sluggish in the recent days. A committee comprising administrative, traffic police and medical officials will ensure the drive-through facility runs smoothly, while the civil surgeon will provide technical inputs.Meanwhile, after a gap of at least two weeks, the Panchkula health department has also started administering the first vaccine dose to the people in 45+ age category. It was suspended a few days after the drive for 18-44 age group was launched. Meanwhile, the number of vaccination sites for the younger group has been reduced to two.To date, 1,82,314 people have been vaccinated in Panchkula, including 1,888 in the age group of 18-44 years.Vax for 45+, drive-through centres resume in Mohali After five days, the vaccination drive for the 45+ age category also resumed in Mohali on Wednesday.The two drive-through facilities at the sports complex in Sector 78 and New Chandigarh, which were closed within three days of their May 12 launch due to the non-availability of vaccine, were also reopened.According to the Co-WIN portal, the drive was carried out at 44 government centres and eight private centres.Dr Vikrant Nagra, district immunisation officer, said: “We have got 11,000 doses of Covishield and 10,000 doses of Covaxin for the second dose. We have also got 6,000 doses from the Punjab government for the 18-44 age group. We are hopeful that the drive will run smoothly now.” From around 10,000 doses being administered daily till around May 10, the number had dropped to a paltry 875 on May 16, as the drive had been restricted to construction workers and family members of health care workers and frontline workers in the 18-44 age category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-to-launch-drive-through-vaccination-facility-101621449816533.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s mini Covid centres now open to all tricity residents||With more oxygen beds now available with the mini Covid-care centres in the city, the UT administration on Wednesday stated that the facilities were open to all residents of the tricity.UT adviser Manoj Parida, while inaugurating the fifth such facility at the Sector-47 community centre, said, “Thanks to great voluntary efforts of local organisations, we have 100 oxygen beds available for Covid patients, with free medical treatment. Any patient from the tricity is welcome. This 20-bed mini Covid centre has been set up by the Rotary Satellite Club of Chandigarh in association with the administration.”Four other mini centres with 134 beds are functional and 84 patients are admitted there.Earlier in the day, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore also held a meeting with UT officials on the working of the mini Covid centre, and decided that additional facilities would be set up only after 70% of the existing ones were occupied.The administrator directed the officials to ensure the quality of food being given in government hospitals and the centres is checked regularly and only fresh and nutritious food is supplied to the patients.Badnore thanked residents, traders, shopkeepers, etc, for their cooperation and for bearing with Covid curfew restrictions that had possibly prevented many more infections and even fatalities. The hardships borne by them have started bearing fruits with the visible plateauing of the Covid caseload in the city, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-mini-covid-centres-now-open-to-all-tricity-residents-101621449755812.html
20-05-2021||Other||Minor gang raped, three arrested||VARANASI: Four youths allegedly gang raped a 14-year-old girl in a house near the bus stand in Bahuara village under Robertsganj police station area of Sonbhadra district on May 13, police said. The incident took place when she was on her way to her village, they said, adding the medical examination of the girl was being done. The girl filed a police complaint on May 18, said a senior police officer. Three of the four accused have been arrested while a police team has been deployed to ensure arrest of the fourth culprit still at large.The officer said that the victim, a native of a village in Robertsganj police station area, informed that she was way back to her village by an auto on May 13 after attending a marriage in the house of her relative in another village. The girl alleged that four youths were also present in the same auto. As the auto reached Bahuara bus stand, they forcibly dragged her to a house near the station. Later, they raped her. They also made a video clip of the incident and threatened to make it viral if she informed anyone about the incident. After that, they fled the scene. The girl said that she didn’t inform anyone about the incident due to their threat. In the meantime, they made the video of the incident viral. The officer said that the girl then filed a complaint, alleging that the four youths raped her and made the video of it viral on social media. Following the complaint, a case was registered against the four ( two of them named) on Tuesday under Section 376 D (gang rape) and 34 (criminal act with common intention). Relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were also included. Superintendent of police, Sonbhadra, Amarendra Prasad Singh said, “Three accused, including two named accused, have been arrested. Strict action would be taken against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-gang-raped-three-arrested-101621449335171.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||15 Covid patients die in Mohali for second day in a row||Mohali district, which is the worst hit by the pandemic’s second wave in the tricity, on Wednesday reported 15 Covid-related deaths for the second consecutive day. Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported nine deaths and four patients succumbed in Panchkula, taking the tricity’s toll to 28.However, in some respite, with 1,382 people testing positive, the tricity registered the lowest number of cases since the 2,000 mark was breached on April 22. As many as 603 people were diagnosed with the virus in Mohali, followed by 414 in Chandigarh and 378 in Panchkula.Though the second wave of infections is ebbing but experts have said there is likely to now be a spurt in fatalities as people who have been battling for their life from when the cases hit a peak begin to either recover or succumb after prolonged critical care stay.The peak was hit on May 10 with 2,612 cases, with even Mohali logging a record 1,382 cases. Chandigarh registered its all-time high of 890 twice, on May 3 and 7, while Panchkula’s cases peaked at 654 on May 5. The total has remained below 2,000 since May 14. In terms of deaths, the tricity had reported an all-time high of 38 on May 5, Mohali recorded 17 deaths on May 5 and 9, Chandigarh hit the peak of 14 twice, on May 5 and 12, and Panchkula logged record nine deaths on May 17.Meanwhile, with more people getting cured than those testing positive, the tricity’s active case load dropped to 16,958 from the peak of 24,201 a week ago.After 2 weeks, 5 ICU beds become available in MohaliFinally, after two weeks, five intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients became available at some private hospitals in Mohali on Wednesday. The occupancy of oxygen beds, too, dropped to 80%, with 179 vacant, according to figures available in the evening. There are 395 ICU beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients at various private hospitals in Mohali district, and all were occupied for the past two weeks. Meanwhile, the civil hospital in Phase 6, which is the government’s lone Covid-19 facility in the district, has no ICU bed while all its 120 oxygen beds remain occupied.Mohali has also become the first city in Punjab where the a makeshift Covid hospital will come up under a new scheme of the state government. Under the scheme, Invest Punjab will coordinate with all departments concerned to ensure the grant of approval within 24 hours of the submission of application with self declaration. On Wednesday, it issued an NOC to Mohali Medical Group Private Limited to set up an 80-bed temporary facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-covid-patients-die-in-mohali-for-second-day-in-a-row-101621449216710.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Mucormycosis: HC quizzes Delhi govt, Centre on medicine stock||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought to know from the Delhi government what steps it had taken to resolve the shortage of amphotericin- B, an antifungal drug used in the treatment of Mucormycosis, or black fungus, is a life-threatening disease that is affecting recovered Covid-19 patients.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the government to provide them the details of the drug stock; how much is required and how it is being distributed currently to hospitals. The court also sought to know the rationale of the Delhi government in putting out a circular by which it had constituted a technical expert committee (TEC) to vet hospital requests for the drug.In its circular, the city government has said all Covid hospitals requiring amphotericin-B will have to apply to the experts committee, which will meet twice a day to scrutinise applications and facilitate rapid decision-making.“What is the rationale? What is the stock? What are your supplies and how are you distributing it? Why suddenly it (amphotericin- B) is in shortage if it is locally manufactured? You have to point out the bottleneck. This time we will not be caught unawares. This cannot be a case of artificial shortage,” the bench said while also seeking the Centre’s stand on the issue.The discussion ensued after petitioner lawyer Rakesh Malhotra told the court that there is a shortage of amphotericin- B, the antifungal drug used in the treatment of black fungus. He said even last year, there were Covid-19 recovered patients who had developed black fungus. However, the authorities still had not taken enough steps to augment the production of the medicine.He also submitted that hospitals have to presently go through a lengthy process to acquire the medicine, after sending requisition and completion of necessary formalities.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra said the demand of this drug has shot up in the past four days and the situation is even worse than that of remdesivir, not just in Delhi but in the entire country. A shortage of antiviral drug remdesivir had led to widespread hoarding and black marketing of the drug -- each vial with an MRP of ₹900-3000 was being sold for as high as ₹40,000, especially during the month of April and the first half of May, when Covid-19 cases were at an all-time high across the country.Mehra said that even though the amicus curiae has suggested a buffer stock should be created for hospitals, the same could not be done because they do not have any stock.He said the requirement for one patient is 90 vials of amphotericin- B and they have sent necessary requisitions to the Centre which has taken over the supply of the drug. He submitted that the Centre’s counsel can also take instructions on the issue and the matter can be considered on Thursday.“Let the Union (govt) come tomorrow. They have taken over the supply. We are getting it in a rationed way. We have made requisitions which we will place before this court. We have written to the Centre that 90 vials are required for a patient,” Mehra said disputing the stand of the petitioner who said that the city government has 1,000 vials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/black-fungus-hc-quizzes-delhi-govt-centre-on-medicine-stock-101621449095157.html
20-05-2021||Other||‘Those killed in Sukma were from frontal outfits of Maoists’: Police||Three people who were killed in an exchange of fire between security forces and Maoists near a new police camp in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district earlier this week have been identified as members of frontal outfits of the outlawed CPI (Maoist), police officials said on Wednesday.The incident took place on Monday afternoon when a group of villagers were protesting against the camp which opened on May 12 near Silger village - a Maoist stronghold along the border of Sukma-Bijapur districts. While villagers claimed that security forces opened fire unilaterally on protestors, police had said Maoists were part of the crowd that was protesting against the camp and the ultras started the gun battle.According to police, three people were killed in the exchange of fire while five others sustained injuries in the incident. Local villagers claimed that the deceased and the injured were villagers and not Maoists.Inspector-General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P on Wednesday said, the preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased were allegedly linked with frontal organizations of banned CPI (Maoist) but police are trying to ascertain this input.Prima facie, the deceased have been identified as Uska Pandu, a Bhumkal commander from Timmapur village (Sukma); Kowasi Waga, DAKMS (Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan) member from Chhutwahi; and Kursam bhima, militia member from Gundem village (Bijapur), the IGP said.All these formations are frontal wings of Maoists which function at the village level, he added. The bodies have been handed over to their relatives, he added.Of the five injured in the firing, four have also been identified as members of frontal outfits of the Maoists, he added.The camp, where personnel from CRPF’s 153rd and 168th battalions, CRPF’s elite unit CoBRA, Special Task Force (STF) and District Reserve Guard (DRG) are stationed, was opened on May 12. Residents from the nearby villages were protesting and demanding its removal since May 14.Briefing the sequence of the incident, the IGP said, the protesting villagers had returned on Sunday night after being pacified by police officials and the executive magistrate but the Maoists again forcefully sent them near the camp on Monday.Around 3,000 villagers, wielded with bows-arrows, axes and other sharp-edged weapons, sticks and stones, charged towards the camp shouting slogans to remove it, he said. The crowd pelted stones at security personnel positioned at the outer cordon leaving many of them injured and causing damage to two Mine Protected Vehicles (MPVs) parked there, the IGP added. The crowd also tried to dismantle the barricading around the camp and snatch rifles and magazine from security personnel, he said.Meanwhile, ultras belonging to Jagargunda, Pamed and Kerlapal area committees of Maoists and other lower rung cadres who were hiding in the crowd opened fire at security personnel.Despite warnings, they continued firing that triggered a stampede-like situation and villagers started fleeing from the spot, he said. At that moment, security forces had no option but to retaliate in self-defence, he said.After the situation normalised, the bodies of the three killed were recovered and later five injured were admitted to hospital, he said.Villagers later claimed that the police resorted to lathi-charge and unilateral firing, a charge denied by the police.Alok Shukla, convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan (CBA), a group of activists, on Tuesday alleged that the police opened fire on the tribals who were protesting against the camp. Shukla demanded that the incident be probed by a retired judge of the High Court in a time-bound manner and an FIR be registered against those found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/those-killed-in-sukma-were-from-frontal-outfits-of-maoists-police-101621448976230.html
20-05-2021||Pune||PMC guidelines keep political interference away from vax centres||Pune: A day after vaccines arrived in the city and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued guidelines on vaccination at the centres, the process went on smoothly. The city got its stock of vaccines four days later which meant that the drive had to be shut for two days. On Wednesday too, the drive was restricted to only the second dose for those aged above 45 years. In view of the shortage of vaccines, the civic body had issued fresh guidelines to restrict any outside interference at the vaccination centres and even avoided giving out tokens from Wednesday which lead to a smoother vaccination drive in the day. On Tuesday, PMC issued guidelines that all vaccinations have to be registered on the CoWIN portal under the eligible criteria. In view of political party workers hijacking the vaccination centres to provide tokens to their recommended people, PMC had stated that no person, except the health workers, is allowed to enter the centre without due permission and that only those who have an online slot booked and those who have come for walk-ins will enter the premises. With limited vaccines in the city and no slots available for those aged between 18-44 year age group, the vaccination centres saw no rush and the process went on smoothly. In the case of token system too, only civic officials present at the spot are allowed to distribute tokens and the process for the same would begin at 10 am. The civic chief Vikram kumar in his guidelines also stated that the local ward officer or the health officials concerned at the ward can also seek police protection to maintain law and order if need be. Meanwhile, the Pimpri Chnchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) administration issued a statement on Wednesday stating that the vaccination drive for any age group will not carried out within the civic limits on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-guidelines-keep-political-interference-away-from-vax-centres-101621440033861.html
20-05-2021||Pune||PMC standing committee approves ₹733 crore for Swargate-Katraj Metro route||Already battling paucity of funds due to Covid pandemic, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved a proposal to spend ₹733 crore for Swargate-Katraj Metro rail extension. The estimated share of the PMC in the fresh proposal approved on Tuesday by the standing committee of PMC is 15 per cent of the overall project cost, compared to 5.44 per cent decided earlier. PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar had earlier tabled a proposal in the standing committee to approve 15 per cent financial contribution for Swargate-Katraj Metro extension project which is expected to be a major relief for those living on Satara road. His proposal came after Centre reduced its own share, passing the additional burden on the civic body. On Tuesday, the standing committee approved the proposal and passed on the general body meeting for final approval. However, most opposition parties have taken objection on the approval of the proposal and pointed out the financial condition of PMC. Political parties including Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP alleged that the fresh proposal puts an additional pressure on taxpayers as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has failed to get money from Centre. Aba Bagul, Congress party leader in PMC said, “The Congress party has given a proposal to reconsider Swargate-Katraj extended Metro route proposal to give permission to take responsibility of 10 per cent of the project cost. Actually, the Central government should have to give us 20 per cent share as per other Metro extension project such as Mumbai and Nagpur.” He further said, “If PMC will have to bear the cost of the project, there is no need to continue the project. The Swargate-Katraj BRTS route is going well. If the Metro starts on this route, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal limited (PMPML) will have to face a financial loss on this route. It is a contradictory decision. After all, taxpayers’ money will be wasted.” Prithviraj Sutar, Shiv Sena Party leader in PMC said, “We are not against the Metro, we have supported the Swargate-Katraj Metro route, but the Central government suddenly reduced its share and put a burden on the PMC. The PMC is already facing a financial crunch; we have given priority to Covid. It is not feasible to allocate more money to Swargate-Katraj Metro. It will adversely affect other development projects of PMC. The BJP should have to convince the Central government to give 20 per cent share to PMC as BJP is in power at centre. We will not allow putting an extra burden on taxpayers.” Deepali Dhumal, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader in PMC said, “The BJP should have to correspond with the Central government and restore 20 per cent share in Swargate-Katraj Metro route. Earlier, the Central government was ready to pay 20 per cent, how can they suddenly decide to reduce their share. In the pandemic situation, it is difficult to raise money as the revenue is declining.” Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “The state has also reduced its share in the project. We will not share right now. We gave node to the proposal as it should not be delayed. There are options to approach the Central and state governments and request them to increase their share in the project. The project has already been delayed. We don’t want to delay it further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-standing-committee-approves-rs-733-crore-for-swargate-katraj-metro-route-101621437513503.html
20-05-2021||Pune||Autos pack passengers, flout Covid norms in Pune||Pune: The continuous lockdowns in the state have left residents who use public transportation face a lot of inconvenience. As those in emergency services are allowed to use public transport buses, commuters are seen sharing autorickshaws across the city. It is observed that share autorickshaw drivers take 4 to 5 passengers at one time in violation of social distancing norms and risking the lives of passengers. “I have been daily using share auto for work from Swargate to Katraj since the past one month. Sometimes, I see the auto ply with 4 passengers. With Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) buses off roads, we have no option but to bank on these autos,” said Shailesh Pandey, a worker. Autos carrying passengers beyond permissible limits are seen on major routes, including Sinhgad road, Katraj to Warje on the bypass highway, Swargate to Hadapsar and Katraj and Ahmednagar road. These autos mainly ply between 7 and 11 am when essential shops are allowed to remain open as per the Covid lockdown restrictions. “People should not risk their lives as the second wave of Covid has claimed many lives. Using share auto poses risk of getting infected. The state government should now allow commuters to travel by public transport buses by following the Covid protocol,” said Atul Namekar, secretary, Sinhgad Road - Warje residents association. Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) said, “More than taking action, auto drivers and passengers should realise the risk of getting infected when they travel in groups. Only two passengers are allowed at one time in an auto. We will review busy roads and take action against violators.” As per the Covid lockdown restrictions, transport vehicles are allowed to travel to and from place of residence to virus testing centre, vaccination centre, airport/ railway station, emergency medical requirements, personnel of essential services, marriage, funeral/ last rites. Rickshaw drivers are allowed to not carry more than two passengers at a time and maintain social distancing. Autos are allowed with driver plus two passengers in the back seat for the permitted purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autos-pack-passengers-flout-covid-norms-in-pune-101621431692857.html
