21-05-2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray visits cyclone-hit Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday visited Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, the districts hit the most by Cyclone Tauktae early this week, and assured relief to those affected, once the assessment is completed. Although the CM did not spell out the details, the Maharashtra government is expected to announce a package early next week. Thackeray visited two affected villages in Vengurle and Malvan tehsils in Sindhudurg and held a meeting with the district administration. He also held a review meeting with Ratnagiri district administration and took stock of the damage caused by the cyclone and the Covid-19 situation. Thackeray said the spot assessment of the losses is expected to be completed in the next few days. “We have started giving compensation as per the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) norms. We will ensure that nobody goes without relief. The additional relief will be determined after the assessment is completed. Although the coastal parts have sustained damages, it was less severe this time, compared to last year’s Cyclone Nisarga,” he said. Cyclone Tauktae, that hit the coastal districts on Sunday and Monday, claimed 19 lives and caused damage to structures and horticulture in the state. According to preliminary estimates, crops and horticulture on more than 12,000 hectares (ha) have been damaged. Hundreds of villages in Ratnagiri and Raigad are still without electricity and internet. “As per the assessment so far, crops and horticulture on more than 12,500 hectares have been damaged. As per the set norms of NDRF, the compensation for crop losses ranges between ₹6,800 and ₹18,000 per ha and ₹6,000- ₹95,000 for damage to houses. The state government had increased the relief amount as special case for the damages in last year’s Cyclone Nisarga. But it would not be possible to give that much this time. The total losses are expected to be around ₹60 crore,” said an official from Mantralaya. Coastal districts do not grow any seasonal crops, so there was not much damage to the crops. However, plantations of Alphonso mango and chickoo were damaged largely. Thackeray said the state will press for long-term measures that will help the coastal districts that face such cyclones. He said the state government has requested the Centre for assistance for cyclone-risk mitigation measures, including underground power supply infrastructure and anti-erosion measures. “I am sure Prime Minister Narendra Modi will help Maharashtra, similar to how he announced a package for Gujarat,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders slammed the CM for his short tour of the cyclone-affected districts. “I do not want to politicise the issue, but one should answer why the CM visited only two districts? His tour lasted for just three hours and travelled just a few kilometers. The ruling parties have questions about Modi’s Gujarat tour. They should first look at Thackeray’s tour,” said leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Thackeray took a dig at Fadnavis, saying that he was not frustrated like the opposition leader. “I have not come here for a photo session. I want to give true relief to the affected people from coastal areas. I did not restrict myself to the aerial tour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cmuddhav-thackeray-visits-cyclone-hit-ratnagiri-sindhudurg-101621621730756.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Crime branch arrests history-sheeter on the run for 28 years||A 58-year-old history-sheeter, who had been absconding for over 28 years, was arrested by Mumbai police’s crime branch on Thursday evening. The accused, Suresh Ganpat Jamsandekar, had fled when a non-bailable warrant was issued against him in a murder and robbery case by the sessions court more than two decades ago.According to officers from unit 11 of crime branch, Jamsandekar was booked by Goregaon police for dacoity and murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and of the Arms Act after he had shot and killed a shopkeeper in Goregaon (West) during robbery in 1992.Officers said they received information that Jamsandekar had been hiding in Tembipada area in Bhandup (West), following which a team of five police officers kept watch on the locality with the help of informers and arrested Jamsandekar when he was spotted outside his house.The officers said that under “Operation All Out” which is carried out every month, the police are expected to get a status update on the criminals in their areas and search for absconding and wanted accused. “We had been keeping a tab on all the wanted and absconding accused of past cases and had given a description of those criminals to our informers,” said an officer from the crime branch.Vinayak Chavan, inspector from unit 11 crime branch, said Jamsandekar has been handed over to Goregaon police for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crime-branch-arrests-history-sheeter-on-the-run-for-28-years-101621621431260.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Forest department extends scheme linked to sustainable use of mangrove ecosystems||The state forest and revenue department this week extended its Mangrove Protection and Employment Generation Scheme for a period of five years, by way of a general notification issued on May 19. First cleared by the state cabinet in September 2017 at a cost of ₹15 crore and launched in the same year, the scheme aims to generate employment opportunities linked to sustainable use of mangrove ecosystems, whether on government or on private land.It is so far active in five of the seven coastal districts in the state including Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The scheme is funded through the mangrove foundation established by the state government and the district development fund. Though originally launched only for a three-year period, the scheme has now been extended to 2024-2025, which will be its second phase. In its first phase, the scheme enrolled an estimated 3,000 beneficiaries across 103 villages or wards where mangroves are present. This was done by instating an equal number of joint mangrove management committees which are responsible for identifying sustainable livelihoods — whether through aquaculture, eco-tourism or other means — for communities that live nearby and have been historically reliant on mangroves.“Under the scheme, if a person or group wants to conduct some sustainable business that also aids in conservation of mangroves and coastal areas, they are given subsidies by the state up to 90% of their capital cost. If a person, who owns private land with mangroves, wants to take on a similar business, the state may provide subsidies up to 75%,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, mangrove cell.These businesses, according to the general resolution issued on May 19, largely include aquaculture projects, such as crab, shellfish, jitada and oyster farming, as well as rearing of ornamental fish. There are a total of 1,024 villages where this scheme can be made eligible, but so far around 103 steering committees have been formed. In the next phase of the scheme, the forest department is aiming to set up at least 40 additional committees every year.“Our goal is that within 10 years, at least 50% of all eligible villages should have a joint mangrove monitoring committee to provide guidance in business planning, budget management and implementation of sustainable businesses. The main objective is to link community livelihoods with mangrove conservation. The scheme will also deter violations,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forest-department-extends-scheme-linked-to-sustainable-use-of-mangrove-ecosystems-101621621430681.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||MVA parties attack Centre over ‘bias’||With little over six months left for the politically crucial elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the tug-of-war between the ruling and opposition parties kicked off over the discriminate treatment given to Maharashtra as compared to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state Gujarat. Issues ranging from PM Modi’s recent tour of Gujarat after Cyclone Tauktae to vaccine allocation to the state have once again triggered the comparison over the treatment to the two states; and it may intensify ahead of BMC elections.The ruling parties in Maharashtra have criticised PM Modi and his party for the step-motherly treatment to Maharashtra. All the three ruling parties — the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — slammed the PM for not visiting Maharashtra and other cyclone-hit states and choosing only Gujarat to take a review of damages this week. Modi on Tuesday did an aerial survey of parts of the Gujarat which was hit by Cyclone Tauktae on Monday and announced a relief package of ₹1,000 crore for the state. Congress’s state unit chief Nana Patole, NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik, and Sena MP Sanjay Raut raised questions over PM’s bias. “Why did Modi not visit the cyclone-affected areas of Maharashtra? Is he the prime minister of Gujarat only,” Patole remarked. Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Friday said that Gujarat and Maharashtra are twins but when it comes to relief packages, the former is treated as a stepchild. An editorial in Saamana questioned as to why the PM has not conducted an aerial visit in Maharashtra, adding that Cyclone Tauktae has left a trail of destruction in Goa and Maharashtra. “Why should the Centre, which has given ₹1,000-crore relief package to Gujarat, discriminate against Maharashtra and Goa?… Gujarat is Maharashtra’s twin brother. The stepbrother treatment given to Maharashtra of late is not correct. Keeping in mind that Mumbai contributes ₹2.5 lakh crore annually to Delhi, there is no harm in expecting that the rulers of Delhi will provide relief of around ₹2,000 crore for the people who were displaced in Konkan,” it said.The Sena mouthpiece said that Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who is on a tour of affected areas in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, should tell the Centre to provide help to the state. “Fadnavis has demanded that the state government give an abundant package for affected areas. He should make this demand forcefully with the Centre. He is from Maharashtra, he must forget political lines and tell Modi saheb to give relief like the Centre gave to Gujarat,” the editorial said.Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “First, it is the duty of the state to provide immediate relief. They have not announced any relief but are expecting the Centre to give. The Centre will definitely give relief packages to the states which have been affected by the cyclone.”On Friday, Congress raised questions over the “step-motherly” treatment to Maharashtra while allocating Covid vaccines. After a spat between the leaders from both the sides over short supply of vaccine and its wastage in Maharashtra last month, Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that the Centre supplied vaccines to Gujarat disproportionately. Sawant asked as to why the Modi-led Centre allotted 16.2 million vaccine doses to Gujarat, against just 20.15 million doses to Maharashtra when the latter’s population is double than Modi’s home state. “The distribution of vaccines should have been in the proportion of population, active cases, total Covid-19 cases and inoculation rate. Against 404,229 active cases of 4,978,337 infected people in Maharashtra, Gujarat has just 669,490 cases including 92,617 active cases. Similarly, Maharashtra has reported 84,371 deaths while Gujarat reported 9,340 deaths, as on May 19. In vaccination Maharashtra tops in the country, while its population (around 130 million) is double than Gujarat’s population. Despite this, Maharashtra has got much less vaccine doses from the Centre,” he said.Sawant also questioned Fadnavis and other BJP leaders to reply over the discrimination. “BJP leaders have been claiming Maharashtra received highest number of doses, because of which it could achieve the top positon in vaccination. They should speak about the special treatment given to Gujarat,” he said.MVA leaders have upped the ante against the BJP by attacking the Centre over the alleged discrimination in allocation of the Covid-related medical equipment and vaccines. State public health minister Rajesh Tope has been attacking the Centre over short supply of vaccines and oxygen to Maharashtra by the Centre. The leaders feel the political rhetoric and comparison between Maharashtra and Gujarat is expected to intensify as BMC elections near. “High stakes are involved for both Sena and BJP in the polls for one of the richest civic bodies in Asia. The attack and counter-attack will go on increasing between ruling and opposition parties. The card of Marathi pride is always played by the Sena during elections and it has the old backdrop of six decades, since the days of fight for unified Maharashtra. The incidents of favouritism to Gujarat at the cost of Maharashtra may play a crucial role in this political game plan,” said a NCP leader.The ruling parties have always been playing up incidents such as shifting International Financial Services Centre from Mumbai to Gujarat, shifting National Institute of Coastal Policing from Palghar to Dwarka in Gujarat five years ago. The Sena has staunchly opposed Modi’s dream project of Bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad, saying it was meant to benefit Gujarat. Political analyst Hemant Desai said that though Gujarat has been given an upper hand by the PM, it would not emerge as Maharashtra versus Gujarat or Marathi versus Gujarati in the BMC elections. “The Sena, under Uddhav or Aaditya Thackeray, had never taken anti-Gujarati or anti-north Indian stand over all these years. It is true that Gujarat has got favoured treatment under Modi, be it shifting of IFSC, bullet train designed to give advantage to Gujarat, shifting of RBI offices to Gujarat and now the relief package to the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mvaparties-attack-centre-over-bias-101621621370707.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy man arrested for raping colleague’s wife||Cuffe Parade police arrested a Navy man for allegedly raping wife of another Navy personnel who had gone to Kerala on a five-month training. Police said the 29-year-old complainant, while resisting the accused, had slit her wrist with a blade. The accused was arrested from INS Agnibahu after being on the run for over a week.The complainant and her husband reside in a shared Navy staff quarter with the accused. The quarter is allotted to the accused by the Navy administration. The complainant and her husband live in one room while the arrested accused lives in another room while washroom and kitchen were shared. On April 23, the complainant’s husband had gone to Kochi, Kerala for training for five months. The police said that on the night of April 29 the complainant had high fever and severe headache. She did not have food and was weeping in pain while trying to sleep.When the accused had come to use the washroom he heard her and asked if she was okay. After she said she had severe headache, he offered to get her pills for the same, which she refused. “A few minutes later, the accused, who was drunk, entered her room and offered to help her relax. When she asked him to leave, he gagged her and raped her,” said a police officer. After she managed to free herself, she grabbed a blade and threatened him. upon seeing that he was not scared, she threatened to kill herself and slit her wrist with the blade. The accused then, in order to scare her, told her that he would shoot himself and frame her husband in a false case, the officer added.Next morning the complainant contacted her husband and asked him to return. After he returned on May 4, the woman narrated the ordeal and the couple reported it to Navy police, who asked them to file a police complaint. The two then lodged a complaint with Cuffe Parade police.“He was caught on INS Agnibahu by Navy police and handed over to us recently,” said Rajkumar Dongre, senior inspector, Cuffe Parade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-man-arrested-for-raping-colleague-s-wife-101621621310730.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Governor should decide on nominee list, cannot sit on it: HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) observed that the governor cannot sit on the list of 12 nominees submitted to him by the council of ministers in November 2020, and directed the state and other respondents to file their replies to a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought directions for a decision to be taken on the list as per the stipulations of the Constitution of India. On November 6, the council of ministers had submitted the list of 12 nominees to be nominated by the governor to the Maharashtra Legislative Council after the cabinet approved it. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade while hearing the PIL filed by Ratan Luth, a social worker from Nashik through advocate Gaurav Srivastav, was informed that as per Article 171 (2) (2) and 171 (5) of the Constitution, the 12 members to be nominated by the governor included persons having special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, art co-operative movement and social service. The plea submitted that as per the said articles of the Constitution, the governor has an obligation to decide on the recommendations of the council of ministers, but as he had not done so even after a passage of four months, there was a loss to the cabinet and the citizens of Maharashtra as they could not benefit from the expertise of the 12 members having expertise in various fields. Additional public prosecutor Geeta Shastri for the state informed the court that as the governor could not be expected to respond, the secretary to the governor should be added as a respondent. The court agreed and directed the petitioner to carry out amendment in the PIL. The court then refused to allow advocate Satish Talekar, who has filed two separate petitions opposing the list of 12 members suggested by the council of ministers, to make submissions and observed, “The governor has to approve or reject the list and cannot sit on it and let it lie in his drawer.” The bench then directed the state to file an affidavit in response to the PIL within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/governor-should-decide-on-nominee-list-cannot-sit-on-it-hc-to-state-101621621250681.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyberattack hits Air India: Data of 45 lakh fliers leaked||A cybersecurity attack on Air India’s passenger service system has compromised the data of lakhs of passengers, according to a message sent out by the national carrier on Friday. In a text message, the airline said the SITA PSS data processor of the passenger service system, which is responsible for storing and processing of personal information of the passengers, was subjected to a cybersecurity attack which led to a leak of personal data leak of around 4.5 million passengers in its system. The data leak reportedly took place on February 25.SITA confirms that it was the victim of a cyber-attack, leading to a data security incident involving certain passenger data that was stored on SITA Passenger Service System (US) Inc servers,” SITA said in a statement on March 4, according to media reports.Cybersecurity experts said they were yet to see specifically Air India data being sold on dark web forums, but added that since the hack did not include passwords, the data may instead be sold as a tranche of credit and debit card data. “The credit card data may show up as individual tranches of card information based on limits etc”, said Yash Kadakia, founder and CTO of Security Brigade.Experts have separately said that sensitive person information like contact and passport data could potentially lead to impersonation attacks and allow perpetrators to break into people’s bank accounts by using such data for verification.According to Air India, personal data registered between August 26, 2011, and February 3, 2021, including name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, Star Alliance and Air India frequent flyer data as well as credit card details, were leaked due to the breach. The information did not include CVV/CVC numbers, the carrier clarified in a message posted on their website.The airline said the identity of the affected data subjects was only provided to them by their data processor on March 25 and April 5. “The present communication is an effort to apprise of accurate state of facts as on date and to supplement our general announcement of 19th March 2021 initially made via our website,’ the airline’s media statement uploaded on their website read.“However, in respect of this last type of data, CVV/CVC numbers are not held by our data processor,” the statement read.Air India said to ensure the safety of the data, investigations of the breach incident were immediately ordered, compromised servers were secured, and external specialists of data security incidents were engaged.The national carrier said that it notified credit card issuers and reset the passwords of Air India’s frequent flying programme. Air India said, “Our data processor has ensured that no abnormal activity was observed after securing the compromised servers. While we and our data processor continue to take remedial actions including but not limited to the above, we would also encourage passengers to change passwords wherever applicable to ensure the safety of their data. The protection of our customer’s personal data is of the highest importance to us and we deeply regret the inconvenience caused and appreciate continued support and trust of our passengers.”Air India spokesperson did not comment when asked about the update on the investigation findings. A senior airline official said, “We do not know the extent of misuse of the data. This is a serious matter and is being investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyberattack-hits-air-india-data-of-45-lakh-fliers-leaked-101621620951332.html
21-05-2021||Other||Pain of the pandemic - instead of marriage festivities, many households holding post-death ceremonies||Destiny has been cruel to Afreen (name changed) of Kareli, who was engaged in March, to be married soon. The groom-to-be, a merchant navy employee, arrived during Ramzan for preparations of marriage after Eid but fell ill and tested positive for Covid-19. After fighting for his life at a hospital for a few days, the youth breathed his last on the fifth of Ramzan, shattering the dreams of Afreen.It is not just Afreen but hundreds of Muslim households in the district are now mourning loved ones instead of preparing for grand marriages, which are generally solemnised after Eid-ul-Fitr. Instead, ceremonies praying for the repose of the soul of the deceased are now being observed across the district. There are many households where marriages have been postponed due to the death of a near relative of the bride or the groom.A resident of C-Block in Kareli, Mohd Shadab, was to be married in the first week of June. However, following a death in his family, the marriage has been put on hold. Although marriages are still taking place according to guidelines issued by the government, families who have lost loved ones are finding it hard to move on and organise marriages of their sons and daughters.Corporator Fazal Khan of ward number 78 of Kareli said he knew many families who had cancelled marriages after losing a close relative. “Instead of marriage songs and festivities, ‘Chaliswa’ (post death ceremony among Muslims) and ‘terahi’ (post death ceremony in Hindus) are being observed at these households which is tragic. People have stood with each other in difficult times and have supported people who have lost their dear ones,” Fazal said.Rambali Mishra of Badokhar in Koraon area was happy after the marriage of his son and daughter was to take place in May. However, after the death of a relative due to Covid-19, both marriages have been postponed.A similar situation prevailed in the house of Chhotelal of Naini who had to cancel his daughter’s marriage which was to take place on April 30 but was put off as a close relative of the groom died in the pandemic.Sarita Khurana of Civil Lines has had to put off her son’s marriage after his mother-in-law-to-be fell ill and was admitted to the hospital.Pandit Balak Maharaj, who solemnises marriages, said that many marriages have been cancelled with the start of second wave of the pandemic. Now, the next ‘muhurt’ will be taken out for such marriages, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pain-of-the-pandemic-instead-of-marriage-festivities-many-households-holding-post-death-ceremonies-101621620891288.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 29,644 new Covid-19 cases, 555 deaths||Even as the state government planned various methods to rein the fatality rate, the high number of deaths continue to remain a concern. The state on Friday recorded 29,644 new Covid-19 cases and 555 deaths. The total number of deaths till May 21 stood at 15,755, while the total number of deaths in April was 13,835.The death toll has now reached 86,618, with Mumbai leading with 14,464 deaths, followed by Pune with 11,015 deaths. The total number of Covid cases stand at 55,27,092.Currently, there are 367,121 active patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 58,840 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,579 active cases.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management said the major focus now is to reduce the number of deaths. “We are planning micro-management measures where we will decentralise our whole efforts to contain the virus as well as the death rates. We are making people aware that they need to test after they develop any symptoms. We are also ramping up the number of tests, and have asked the labs to fast-track the reports. We are also beefing up the hospital infrastructure, like increasing the number of beds along with ensuring adequate oxygen supply as well as medicines for the patients,” said Salunke.According to Dr Amin Kaba, who is associated with various city hospitals, several reasons contribute to the high fatality rate in the second phase. “The current mutant is more infective and virulent compared to the previous ones. In addition, we saw large youngsters dying as many believed they had stronger immunity and hence, they neglected the initial symptoms. In rural areas, the casual attitude of the people along with lack of proper hospital infrastructure added to the toll,” said Dr Kaba.He said that government needs to speed up the vaccination process if it wanted to control the deaths. “The lockdown should have ideally coincided with large scale vaccination but that was not the case. Vaccination impairs the severity of the virus,” Kaba added.The state government has imposed a severe lockdown in the rural parts of Solapur, which has been witnessing a surge in cases.Meanwhile, the Aurangabad police have raided a prominent cloth store that was conducting the business and detained the staff and consumers, for violating Covid-19 guidelines. In Nagpur, the police tightened its drive-by catching those roaming without valid reasons and conducted the Covid-19 test on violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-29-644-new-covid-19-cases-555-deaths-101621620771811.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Hold exams in the online mode: MBBS students urge Maharashtra govt||Less than three weeks before their exams are scheduled to take place in offline mode, second- and third-year medical, dental and para-medical students are demanding that the upcoming exams be held online. In a series of online petitions and letters addressed to the state government as well as officials at the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), students have highlighted that offline exams could prove dangerous for staff as well as students who will participate in the examination process.These demands come days after state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh announced that the long-pending winter examination session for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses will be held between June 10 and 30.“These exams have been postponed three times already because it was not feasible to hold an offline exam for 6,000-8,000 students at the time when the state is grappling with a pandemic. The situation hasn’t changed still, then how is the state planning to conduct physical exams in June?” asked a student, requesting anonymity. He added that time and again, students have highlighted the need for these exams to be conducted in the online mode, but the authorities have not paid heed.Second- and third-year MBBS exams, which usually take place in December-January, were postponed three times this year due to the rising Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. At first the exams were postponed to February from January, and then to April. However due to the second wave of Covid-19 gripping the nation, these exams were once again postponed to first week of June by the state government. “Many students are presently in their hometowns, away from the college campus, because all lectures were being held online this academic year. In order to appear for exams in the physical form, we will all have to travel to our college, share hostel rooms with at least three other students and share bathrooms as well. What guarantee does the state or university give us that we will not contract the virus,” asked another student.In a letter marked to MUHS officials, students highlighted how at present, at least 3,000 students across MUHS-affiliated institutes have tested positive for Covid-19, or have a close family member fighting for their lives. Conducting exams in the offline mode in such times could make the situation worse, students said.“All affiliated institutes have already started ensuring that safety measures are implemented during exams as well as at the hostels. Taking exams online will be difficult for several students and therefore exams will be conducted in offline mode,” said an official from MUHS. In a previous circular, the National Medical Commission (NMC) had clarified that in case students are unable to appear for their MBBS exams due to their health status or travel restrictions, those students be given the chance to appear for these papers at a later date by the examination authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hold-exams-in-the-online-mode-mbbs-students-urge-maharashtra-govt-101621620710584.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Week before exam, Mumbai university releases sixth merit list for LLM course||Merely a week ahead of semester exams, the University of Mumbai (MU) released the sixth and final merit list of candidates admitted to the Masters of Law (LLM) course on Wednesday.The first semester exams for LLM students are scheduled to kick off on June 1 and newly admitted students will have only a week to prepare. “It is unfair of the university to expect students to prepare for exams in a week,” said a student on the condition of anonymity. On May 15, the university’s department of law issued a notice allowing candidates, who couldn’t make it to the five merit lists, to apply afresh to vacant seats for spot admissions. On the same notice, the department announced that the sixth merit list would be the last one. Rajeshwari Varhad, head of the department of law, did not respond to calls or messages. Meanwhile, the final merit list states that nine seats reserved for students from marginalised backgrounds would remain vacant for want of applicants. There are around 800 seats for LLM in six divisions—Constitutional and administrative law, business law, intellectual property and information technology law, human rights law, criminal law and criminal administration and environmental and legal order. The sixth merit list states that since there are no applications from Vanjari nomadic tribes (NT-D category) and as well as from other backward classes (OBC Category), one seat in the intellectual property law course will go vacant. Eight seats will go vacant in environmental law and order. Applicants claimed that until last year, all unclaimed seats were converted into general category seats in the final round of admissions. “This is an arbitrary rule brought in by the department this year that seats will go vacant if there are no applications from that category. As it is, the number of seats are precious few,” said an applicant, who had applied for environmental law and order after the fifth round. He didn’t make it to the sixth merit list despite scoring 70 marks in the entrance exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/week-before-exam-mumbai-university-releases-sixth-merit-list-for-llm-course-101621620650686.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Vax and wane: Mumbai sees sharp dip||The vaccination drive in Mumbai slowed down in May, with the average number of beneficiaries vaccinated per day dropping to 20,000 or lower, in comparison to 45,000 to 50,000 beneficiaries vaccinated per day in April. A total of 22,686 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai on Friday, of which 19,863 got their first dose, and 2,823 their second dose. On Thursday, a total of 19,361 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 16,769 got their first dose and 2,592 got their second dose. Over the past few weeks, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has introduced newer rules to streamline vaccination, avoid crowding at centres and achieve internal targets for certain age groups on priority, leading to confusion among beneficiaries. The BMC has pointed out that there are days during the drive when all vaccine slots are not filled up, and citizens are unwilling or unable to get their shots. Shortage of vaccine doses is another reason for reduced numbers. The BMC started vaccination of healthcare workers on January 16, of beneficiaries above age 60 years and those between 45 years and 59 years on March 1, and for beneficiaries in the age group of 18 years to 44 years on May 1, in line with the Centre’s directives. Until March, the BMC was vaccinating about 25,000 to 30,000 beneficiaries per day. However, by the end of March, the civic body set a target of 100,000 beneficiaries per day, and allowed walk-ins to accelerate vaccination in April. Subsequently, vaccination was stepped up to over 45,000 beneficiaries per day. However, in May, the BMC briefly stopped walk-in vaccination for all age groups to avoid crowding. Beneficiaries could opt for vaccination only by registering online and pre-booking a slot, posing a challenge to senior citizens. Saloni Sikdar, 26, a resident of Goregaon, said, “I booked slots on the Cowin application for my parents. Both of them have now received both their vaccine shots. But even for me, it was tedious to book a slot online. It is like a lottery, and you get virtually five seconds to manage your booking. It took a lot of research to understand the process. But one of my relatives, who is 50 years old, has been trying to register herself and her 70-year-old mother, but is unable to figure out the process. For those without younger family members at home, it is very challenging.” From Monday, the BMC will restart walk-in vaccinations for beneficiaries above the age of 60 years for the first and second dose, to increase the turnout and speed up the vaccination. Of the 1,100,000 beneficiaries in this age group, 300,000 have still not got their first dose. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the public health department, said, “Shortage of vaccine doses is one reason. The BMC also wants to prioritise vaccinating citizens above age 60 years, especially those who are due for their second dose. To avoid crowding at centres, some days, we limit the drive only to senior citizens. On some days, all our slots are not booked, indicating there is still some hesitation among citizens to get vaccinated. “ Anjum Shaikh, 28, a resident of Mumbai Central, who is a healthcare worker, said, “I booked slots for my parents, and my uncle and aunt. While my parents got the vaccine shots, my uncle and aunt were hesitant to get vaccinated and missed their appointment. They fall in the 45-60 age group. Now we are unable to book slots for them. There is also a lot of confusion about which days the drive is open for 45 years and above. We were trying to book slots again last week, but we found out the BMC had paused vaccination for this age group.” Vanita Kawale, 78, got her first dose of covaxin in March. When she was due for her second dose, Covaxin was not available at many centres, and Vanita had to run pillar to post to get her second dose in time. According to data from the state government, in the first week of May, a total of 190,074 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 122,654 received their second dose and 67,420 the first dose. In the second week of May, a total of 209,428 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 104,973 received their second dose and 104,455 received their first dose. In the third week of May, 69,490 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 61,395 received their first dose, and 8,095 their second. On the contrary, in the last week of April, 263,461 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 113,967 got their first dose and 149,494 their second dose. In the third week of April, 280,735 beneficiaries were vaccinated, in the second week, 309,578 beneficiaries were vaccinated, and in the first week of April, 340,461 beneficiaries were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-and-wane-mumbai-sees-sharp-dip-101621620590581.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Compared to April, Mumbai cases drop 76%, deaths up 61%||The number of Covid-19 cases recorded in the first 20 days of May has dropped by around 76% when compared with the first 20 days of April, which was considered to be the peak of the city’s second wave, according to the state health department data. However, in the same period, the number of deaths has gone up by 61%.On Friday, 1,415 cases were reported followed by 54 deaths. The total case tally in the city is 694,200 while the death toll is 14,464. The recovery rate in the city is 93% with 649,128 recoveries. The city’s fatality rate is 2.08% and there are 28,579 active cases in the city.The daily positivity rate in April, during the second wave in the city, has gone down from around 25 to 15% to around 4%, as of Friday. The daily positivity rate was 4.27% on Friday, as 1,415 samples were tested positive for Covid, of the 33,078 samples tested.According to the data, between May 1 and May 20, 40,417 cases were reported, compared to 170,640 in the same period during April. Further, 1,195 deaths were reported between May 1 and May 20 compared to 738 during the same period in April.In the same period, Mumbai reported 897,951 number of tests between April 1 and April 20 compared to 557,817 tests during the same period in May. The number of discharges decreased in the month of May compared to April, owing to a fall in the number of cases. Between April 1 and April 20, 141,732 discharges were reported compared to 69,292 discharges between the same period in May.Owing to the increase in the number of deaths, the state task force has termed the Covid scenario in the city to be worrying. The state task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said though the overall fatality rate is not increasing, number of deaths on a week-on-week basis is on a rise.“We need to be vigilant, as despite in decline in the number of cases, we are seeing an increase in the number of deaths. This is very worrying. Two major reasons for this can be - late treatment or self-treatment, and the patients who have got infected last month during the peak, succumbing to the virus now after prolonged treatment on ventilator and ICU beds,” Dr Joshi said.Another expert, Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “Nowadays we are also seeing many patients being referred to Mumbai for treatment. This could be one of the reasons increase in the number of deaths in the city. However, the concern remains on those getting self-treatment via searching on the internet and those going to the hospital late.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/compared-to-april-mumbai-cases-drop-76-deaths-up-61-101621620531744.html
21-05-2021||Other||UP govt schools kids to study Covid, Vedic Maths and Namami Gange too||As part of syllabus revamp, students enrolled in around 1.59 lakh government-run primary and upper primary schools of Uttar Pradesh would soon get to study Covid-19, Vedic Maths and Namami Gange scheme, said an official of basic education department. Besides, Sanskrit would now be taught from class one instead of class three.The new syllabus has been approved by Basic Education Council recently.Director (basic education), UP, Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh said, “Revamping the syllabus and making suitable changes in it is a continuous process which is being done in consultation with our team of expert academicians. The aim is to keep our students abreast with the contemporary knowledge.” As per the changes, students of government-run 45,625 upper primary schools (class 6 to 8) would be learning about Covid-19 which would be included in their science syllabus. Besides, Vedic Mathematics has also been included in the course for students of classes 4 and 5, said officials of basic education department who are in the know of things but not authorised to speak. Also, for the first time around 20 lakh children studying in classes 1 and 2 in 1,13,289 government-run primary schools across the state would get to learn Sanskrit, they said.Recently, the Yogi government had decided to impart Sanskrit knowledge to children of classes 1 and 2. The officials said five small illustrated lessons in Sanskrit have been included in class 1 from this year in which names of fruits and vegetables, names of farmers and workers, names of family members etc have been included. Besides, four-line poems and numbers up to five have been introduced for students of class 2. These books would also have illustrations that would interest the children and help them in understanding the subject with ease. The officials further said other diseases such as Japanese Encephalitis had been included earlier.On Vedic Maths, the officials said, things like addition, subtraction, LCM and HCF etc will be taught. Similarly, lessons on Namami Gange have been added to “Hamara Environment”, a book for children of classes 6 to 8 from the current session (2021-22), they added. It will teach students about the efforts being made to clean Ganga and the scheme so that children can be sensitized on the issue and contribute in the mission once they grow up. Besides, the names and photographs of the books have also been changed considerably. Now, the textbooks would have photos associated with children’s surroundings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-schools-kids-to-study-covid-vedic-maths-and-namami-gange-too-101621619510530.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to import black fungus medicines: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday said that the state government will import medicines needed to treat black fungus disease which is surfacing mostly among people recovering from severe spell of Covid-19.Admitting shortage of medicines needed to treat black fungus due to spike in cases, Vij said global tenders are being floated to import the medicine at the earliest.“Black fungus has come to fore recently due to which there is shortage of its medicine,” he said, in a statement.Haryana has approached the Centre in this regard and sought medicine. Apart from this, the Haryana government is floating global tenders for one crore doses of anti-Covid vaccine and other essential injections.Vij on Thursday held a meeting regarding black fungus (mucormycosis) cases and had ordered to float global tenders for injections needed to treat black fungus along with one crore Covid vaccine doses.Meanwhile, to ensure complete recovery post-Covid, Vij said that soon post-Covid centre, ‘Umang’ will be started in government hospitals of Haryana.Vij said these centres are being started where Covid recovered patients will be treated and given training for their physical fitness through yoga and ‘pranayam’.Besides this, services of physiotherapists and other physicians will also be available at these centres. Vij said due to increasing cases of Covid, patients are facing problems even after recovering from it and the state government is all set to tackle the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-import-black-fungus-medicines-vij-101621615491382.html
21-05-2021||Other||Covid vaccination drive picks pace in Jind villages||The residents of Jind’s Ahirka, Amarheri, Roopgarh and other villages of Kandela Khap, who are at the forefront in the farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws, have been coming forward in large numbers to receive vaccine jabs amid rise in Covid-19 cases, said health officials.The health officials said people of these villages were coming in for inoculation in small numbers but the vaccination drive got a push after local farm leaders agreed to start the inoculation drive daily at Khatkar toll plaza, where scores of farmers assemble everyday against the farm laws.The villages of Kandela Khap were the epicentre of the farm protest and they landed overwhelming support to BKU leader Rakesh Tikait after the Republic Day violence. Tikait had addressed his first mahapanchayat in Kandela.Jind immunisation officer Dr Navneet Singh said misinformation is tracking in rural areas and many villagers were initially hesitating to get the vaccine jab.“After a combined effort of the administration, farmers, media and the health department, vaccination drive was started at Khatkar toll plaza last month. The response is such that we have administered vaccine jabs to 470 persons above 45 years of age at Khatkar toll plaza,” Singh said.“Farmers are coming to get the jab at Khatkar toll plaza in good numbers. Similarly, we received a satisfactory response at Roopgarh village, where people had earlier asked us to leave the village and were not allowing to set up camp for vaccination. Now people are supporting health officials and appearing for vaccination,” Singh added.“Earlier, due to misinformation, people were thinking that they have strong immunity and are capable of fighting the virus without the jab. We carried out awareness campaigns to inform people the need and benefits of inoculation,” he added.Sandeep Kumar, sarpanch of Roopgarh village in Jind, said they have sanitised the village and collected ₹2.5 lakh from villagers in donations to purchase medicines and install isolation centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vaccination-drive-picks-pace-in-jind-villages-101621615433339.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to bear Covid treatment cost of BPL patients in private hospitals||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced that the state government will bear the cost of Covid-19 treatment of BPL patients in state’s private hospitals.Earlier, the state government had announced financial assistance of up to ₹35,000 to BPL patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals.“All BPL families not covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme will be eligible to get this benefit and the deputy commissioner will ensure that the financial assistance scheme reaches grassroots levels,” said Khattar, while chairing review meeting of Covid management with the DCs and administrative secretaries held on Friday through video conferencing.Khattar said the DCs should ensure that every patient who is eligible for this benefit get it on priority basis.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and state health minister Anil Vij joined the meeting from Chandigarh and Ambala, respectively.Khattar said focus should be shifted on making adequate arrangements to deal with patients suffering from post-Covid complications including keeping a close vigil on black fungus cases while putting up a tough fight against the second wave of Covid.A plan has been formulated for opening special clinics along with regular OPDs in civil hospitals across state to deal with post-Covid symptoms.The CM said from declaring black fungus a notified disease, setting up centres for its prevention and further constituting an expert committee to decide on the distribution of Amphotericin-B injection, a drug required to treat the said disease, state government is proactively focusing on ensuring timely treatment to patients affected with the infection along with making hands-on strategies to tackle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-bear-covid-treatment-cost-of-bpl-patients-in-private-hospitals-101621615370810.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Junior asked to avoid ‘Google Forms’ for Class 11 admissions||On Friday, the Directorate of Education, Secondary and Higher Secondary, issued a circular stating that junior colleges should not ask students to fill “Google forms” for admission to Class 11 for 2021-2022, as so far there has been no decision on to how the admission will be done. Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, the Mumbai Metropolitan region, Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati have a centralised admission process for Class 11. “However, admissions for Class 11 are done on a local level in the rest of the state. A few Junior colleges are misleading students by making them fill forms on private platforms like Google. These colleges are advised to not mislead students and parents,” stated the circular. The circular also clearly mentioned that the admission process for 2021-2022 Class 11 will be declared by the government and until then no college should commence admissions. The State government cancelled the Class 10 SSC board examinations, scheduled in April, due to a surge Covid cases. However, so far there has been no clarity as to how these students will be evaluated. Class 11 admissions for 2021-2022 have, therefore, not yet started. The Class 12 examination for the HSC board has also been postponed. New dates for the examination have not yet been released by the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/junior-asked-to-avoid-google-forms-for-class-11-admissions-101621615311881.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana allows MSMEs to start industry in 15 days: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that due to continuous efforts of the state government, investment in MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) is increasing and entrepreneurs are showing interest in investing in Haryana.Addressing a virtual MSME dialogue series organised by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) on Friday, he said that small industries in state are growing due to big industries such as JCB, Maruti, Flipkart, ATL, and Honda.Dushyant said that under the Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy, 2020, the state is working towards doubling exports. He said due to the new industrial policy of Haryana, a mega plant for battery by ATL company on about 178 acre in Sohna as well as the largest and most hi-tech warehouse on about 140 acre in Asia by Flipkart are going to be set up in Haryana.Big companies such as Amaron are also showing interest in investing in Haryana. He said that the arrival of these big mother units will give boost to the MSMEs in state.He said that the state government is setting up large infrastructure for uplifting MSMEs in Haryana.He added that the state government has signed agreements with three e-commerce companies - eBay, Power2SME, and TradeIndia.com. This will provide a global market for Haryana’s MSMEs.Dushyant said there are about 9.7 lakh MSMEs in state and about 20 lakh people are being provided employment through them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-allows-msmes-to-start-industry-in-15-days-dushyant-101621615190768.html
21-05-2021||Other||Ram Rahim shifted back to Sunaria jail after meeting ailing mother||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two followers, was granted emergency parole in police custody “from sunrise to senset” on Friday to meet his ailing mother at Gurugram, Sunaria jail superintendent Suneel Sangwan said.“He was taken to Gurugram to meet his mother who is undergoing treatment at a private place. Police took Ram Rahim in custody at 7am in the morning and was returned back to the jail. We have given him emergency parole in police custody by taking caution from Panchkula violence,” he said.“Every prisoner has a right to get parole and it was granted after taking feedback from the administration and police. We gave him a day-long parole last year too,” Sangwan added.Singh, who has been taken to Gurugram to meet his mother amid heavy police security, was sought parole four days back. Before this, Ram Rahim was given a day’s parole on October 24, 2020 to meet his mother, who was admitted in a Gurugram hospital.State jails minister Ranjit Singh had justified the parole at that time stating that it was given as per law.“There is a provision under the law that if there is an emergency in the family of the convict, he is allowed to visit his family under police protection,” Ranjit Singh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-rahim-shifted-back-to-sunaria-jail-after-meeting-ailing-mother-101621615130956.html
21-05-2021||Other||Health staff held hostage, threatened in West Singhbhum village||An auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and her husband were held hostage and threatened by irate locals during an immunisation drive in remote Popkanda village under Goilkera block of West Singhbhum district, officials said on Friday.According to officials, the village residents mistook the couple as part of Covid-19 inoculation drive on Thursday. “The ANM Sunita Loba and her husband Laxman Singh Mundari went to Popkanda village for vaccinating children as part of the regular immunisation drive. However, the villagers mistook them as staff of Covid-19 inoculation drive and held them hostage for hours,” Sudhir Prakash, Goilkera block development officer (BDO), said.This assumes significance in view of widespread confusion and reluctance over availing the Covid-19 vaccine among people in rural areas of the three districts of Kolhan division - West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan.Following the incident, the ANM filed an application and forwarded the same to the district headquarters. “We will take action as per the guidelines by the DC. People should co-operate with medical staff on vaccination drive because it is for the benefit of us all. They should not misbehave with medical staff,” added Prakash. In her application, the ANM alleged that she and her husband were held hostage by the villagers for three to four hours. “They threatened us of dire consequences and warned against coming to the village for vaccination. We somehow convinced them and managed to return to Goilkera safely by late Thursday evening,” Sunita said.West Singhbhum DC Ananya Mittal and other senior district officials have been holding a series of meetings with traditional village heads, called Mankis and Mundas, for the past few days to raise awareness about the absolute necessity to get vaccinated against Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar issued order to all BDOs in the district to conduct awareness campaign and rope in people’s representatives, sevikas, sahayikas, self-help groups and sakhi mandals to convince villagers to come forward and get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/health-staff-held-hostage-threatened-in-west-singhbhum-village-101621614469996.html
21-05-2021||Other||Man kills two minor children after fight with wife, arrested||PATNAThe police Friday arrested a man from Mokama in rural Patna hours after he allegedly hacked his two minor children to death following a quarrel with his wife.Superintendent of police (Patna rural) Kantesh Mishra said Kamal Nayan alias Chandan and his wife lived in Kanhaipur village with their children Ankit (9) and Alisha (5). The couple reportedly fought frequently.On Thursday morning, Chandan and his wife had an altercation after which the woman stormed out and went to her parents’ house in rural Mokama, leaving the children with their father.On Friday morning, a relative visited Chandan’s house but saw the two children lying lifeless inside the house. He immediately alerted the police who rushed to the spot and conducted a preliminary inquiry.Neighbours said Chandan, said to be mentally ill, surrendered before the police and confessed to slitting his children’s throats with a sharp-edged weapon between 2.30 am and 3 am on Friday. Rajnandan Sharma, station house officer of Mokama police station, said Chandan was in an inebriated state on Thursday when a fight broke out between him and his wife. He has been booked for murder and bodies sent for autopsy to Barh Sadar Hospital, the SHO said.“Prima facie, the investigation suggests that Chandan doubted his wife’s fidelity and picked up a fight with her, which led to the gruesome incident, resulting in the death of their nine-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter,” Mishra said, adding that police had recovered a sharp-edged weapon from the spot which was used in crime.“Based on our investigation till now, Chandan committed the crime suspecting that they were his illegitimate children,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-kills-two-minor-children-after-fight-with-wife-arrested-101621614410092.html
21-05-2021||Other||1999 Senari massacre: Patna HC acquits all 13 convicts||PATNASetting aside the guilty verdict by a lower court, the Patna High Court Friday acquitted all 13 peole convicted for the infamous Senari massacre in which 34 upper caste members were killed allegedly by cadres of the banned Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) in 1999, the fag end of a bloody decade in Bihar marked by caste wars.Senari village, in Jehanabad district at the time of the incident, now falls into Arwal district.A division bench of Justice Ashwini Kumar Singh and Justice Arvind Srivastava ruled that the prosecution witnesses “are not reliable” and the appellants deserved to be given the benefit of the doubt. “The acquitted persons should be released forthwith if they were not wanted in any other case,” it said. Defence counsel Sanjay Kumar argued that the prosecution had failed to prove the participation of the appellants in the crime with credible evidence. Altogether, 23 witnesses and five doctors who conducted autopsies on the deceased recorded their statement before the court. “On appreciation of evidence adduced during trial, court finds that there is a real and reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the appellants. Accordingly, the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentences are, hereby, set aside,” the bench said. Earlier, on November 18, 2016, the Jehanabad district court had sentenced 10 persons to death and awarded life imprisonment to three others. The court had acquitted 23 others for lack of evidence. Those who were awarded the death penalty are Bacchesh Singh, Buddhan Yadav, Butai Yadav, Satendra Das, Lallan Pasi, Dwarika Paswan, Kariban Paswan, Godai Paswan, Uma Paswan and Gopal Paswan. On the evening of March 18, 1999, alleged MCC members forced 34 people to line up near a temple at Senari village and killed them by slitting their throats and shooting them.Chinta Devi, whose husband Awadh Kishore Sharma and son Madhukar alias Jhabbu were among those massacred, was the complainant in the case. She died in 2011. Sources in the home department said the Senari incident, one of the last in a series of caste-related massacres at the time, is believed to be in retaliation to the Lakshman-Bathe massacre in which 58 Dalits were killed in 1997.Sanjay Sharma and Rakesh Sharma, eyewitnesses of the incident, said the village could have been chosen as target because of its inaccessibility. The village has 300 around houses. Meanwhile, police have been deployed at Senari after the HC order. The massacre had drawn international attention. The bodies were lifted for last rites by kin only after the arrival of the then union ministers George Fernandes, Nitish Kumar and Yashwant Sinha. The bloody decade1987: 52 upper caste members killed in Dalelchak-Bhagaura massacre in Aurangabad1992: 34 upper caste people killed at Bara in Gaya 1996: 22 Dalit and Muslim labourers killed at Bathanitola in Bhojpur1997: 58 Dalits killed at Lakshmanpur-Bathe in Jehanabad1999: 34 upper caste members killed at Senari massacre in Jehanabad 1999: 23 Dalits killed at Shankarbigha in Jehanabad2000: 35 Dalits killed at Mianpur in Aurangabad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1999-senari-massacre-patna-hc-acquits-all-13-convicts-101621614351367.html
21-05-2021||Other||HC seeks status report on ESIC Hospital, says Buxar a test case||PATNAThe Patna High Court, which has been hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, on Friday sought to know if the issues confronting the ESIC Hospital in Bihta, as pointed out by the three-member expert committee constituted by its order, had been addressed and asked the authorities concerned, the Army Service Corp and the state government, to file separate affidavits in that regard. “We must prepare for the third wave and the ESIC Hospital, which has 500 beds and is closer to Patna, could address the problems in the longer run,” said the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar. The three-member committee had earlier raised issues related to oxygen shortage, manpower requirement, security etc. at the hospital. The bench wanted the state government’s response on that. “We are dealing with PMCH and ESIC hospitals separately. There still seems to be issues with ESIC hospital,” the court said. Additional solicitor general KN Singh said that the ESIC hospital was managed by the Army on one floor and ESIC on the other. “The Army authorities have communicated that all beds are not occupied. Same is the condition with the portion managed by the ESIC. Army authorities had earlier pointed out certain deficiencies, which the state acted upon,” he said. Death registration Former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay drew the attention of the bench on the issue of delay in issue of death certificates, which was causing problems to the kin of victims in availing insurance claims and other compensations. “Many of the victims were breadwinners for their families and without death certificate, they cannot do anything,” he said. The bench said that the issue was already under consideration and its order on Buxar death registration issue was a test case. “If the officials of the panchayati raj institutions don’t comply with the court’s order within a week and fail to update death registrations, we will stop their salary and even seize their powers,” it said. On Monday, the court had expressed its displeasure over apparent inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar, where 81 bodies were found floating in the Ganga river and later cremated, as provided in the affidavits filed by the Patna division commissioner and the chief secretary. The court had sought the figures of the entire district to be furnished since March 1. The court said this would apply to all the districts of the state. It also pointed out that in the digital era, the websites were also not updated to get the correct figures of death. Biowaste disposal With the availability of home testing kits likely from next week through the open market, the issue of biowaste disposal was again raised before the bench. The bench said it was time to seek information from the four private agencies, which have been assigned the job of collecting biowaste. The court had on Thursday observed that the matter of biowaste disposal in Patna town was an issue not confined to private and government hospitals only, but also labs and homes, where people were living in isolation, and sought details of the quantum of biowaste generation and the way they were being treated from the Patna Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-status-report-on-esic-hospital-says-buxar-a-test-case-101621614350718.html
21-05-2021||Other||14 fresh cases of black fungus detected Total cases of mucormycosis up at 117; two deaths reported so far||PATNAA total of 14 new cases of black fungus were detected among Covid patients in Bihar on Friday, all admitted in different government and private hospitals in the state capital, taking the total number of cases of mucormycosis to 117. “The total cases of black fungus has risen to 117 from 103 on Thursday. All the new cases have been found among Covid patients undergoing treatment at government and private facilities,” said Dr Anjani Kumar, addtiional director, health services, Bihar. As per the break-up, 40 patients suffering from black fungus infection are admitted in private hospitals in Patna where as rest of 77 patients are admitted in AIIMS, Patna, PMCH, NMCH and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna. “All the patients are Covid infected and have developed black fungus. They come from different districts in the state,” an official in the health department said. Though the infection rate of black fungus among Covid patients is still low i Bihar compared to states like Maharashtra, Delhi and a few others, the health department has made allotments of amphotericin-B, an antifungal drug used for treating black fungus cases, to all major hospitals to tackle the rising cases of the infection. “We are constantly monitoring the cases and ensuring supplies of drugs for treatment of black fungus. There is enough stocks of anti-fungal drug,” said Kumar. Dr Vinay Swaroop, ENT surgeon and former additional director, health, said black fungus itself is nothing new, but its prevalence among Covid patients was rising owing to low immunity and overuse of steroids. “It is advisable that persons affected with Covid and living in home quarantine should take preventive measures, like keeping their rooms well ventilated with lot of sunlight coming in and also rinse their mouth with salt water three times in a day. One should avoid wearing reused masks and take lukewarm water for drinking and bathing . Too much of inhaling steam is also not good as it weaken the nasal blankets. Even healthy persons should apply these methods to prevent fungus entering through mouth and nose,” he said. Meanwhile, sources said AIIMS-Patna and PMCH have set up separate wards for treatment of black fungus affected patients so that they could be kept under constant monitoring. So far, two deaths have been attributed to black fungus, including of one doctor. Bihar has diverted around 14,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection, a specific drug for the treatment of black fungus, available under the kala-azar elimination programme. Around 6,000 vials of injection from this stock were made available to different hospitals. The AIIMS had got 2,000 vials, while each of the nine state-run medical college hospitals had received 200-300 vials each, said Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey. Govt yet to notify black fungus as epidemicEven as the central government has asked states to declare black fungus as epidemic, the state government is yet to notify it.Till late evening on Friday, no notification was issued in this regard. However, additional chief secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit, had said on Thursday that preparations were afoot to declare black fungus as an epidemic and tone up the health facilities in all major hospitals across the state to deal with rising cases of the infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-fresh-cases-of-black-fungus-detected-total-cases-of-mucormycosis-up-at-117-two-deaths-reported-so-far-101621614350112.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Number of Covid deaths in Pune down in the second wave: admin||Pune: As per the district administration’s information, in comparison with the first wave, Pune district saw fewer Covid deaths in the second wave compared to a surge in the number of positives. The administration also claimed that the number of tests for Covid has also increased in the second wave in the district.As per the comparison, Pune saw 8,818 deaths during the first wave between March 20 and November 20, and 6,488 deaths during the second wave between February 21 and May 20. The overall case fatality rate (CFR) in the first wave went up 2.4, while during the second wave it dropped to 1.5.While the number of deaths stayed low during the second wave, the data also showed that the number of maximum active cases during the second wave was much higher, more than double, of that of the first wave. While the first wave saw its peak on September 20 when the number of cases touched 57,298, on April 18 the cases crossed over 0.1 million. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to Maharashtra said, “We knew that the newer strain which could have possibly resulted in the second wave surge was not as deadly as the first wave strain. Although it does spread faster it leads to fewer complications. However, this does not mean that it is to be taken lightly, if the number of infections rises, in proportion the number of deaths among those most vulnerable might also go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/number-of-covid-deaths-in-pune-down-in-the-second-wave-admin-101621610809659.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Loss of biodiversity forces microbes to “hitchhike” on humans: researchers||A research paper published by the Indian Journal of Medical Research in April 2021 called Hitchhiking microbes: Declining biodiversity and emerging zoonoses sheds light on the role of declining biodiversity and emerging diseases on humans which has led to new diseases like Covid-19 being passed on to humans. This research was presented on the occasion of the international day for biological diversity on May 22 by Gurudas Nulkar, Madhura Bedarkar of Symbiosis International University (SIU) and Symbiosis Institute of Business Management (SIBM) along with Ketaki Ghate, Oikos for Ecological Services, Sakshi Nulkar, intern and wildlife researcher, ecological society, Pune. The research paper argues that microbes which were found in animals, have jumped on to other animals, because of habitat loss and food loss, this is why we now see microbes hitchhiking, for example, the way Covid has jumped from bats to human beings. “The connection between nature conservation and human wellbeing is well known, however, the role of declining biodiversity and emerging diseases is relatively less studied. The presence of a thriving biological diversity is known to have therapeutic effects on human health, but economic activities have contributed to a sharp decline in species, resulting in poor ecosystem health. Several studies have shown how microorganisms have switched from animals to humans, leading to novel diseases and we have presented studies on zoonotic diseases and biodiversity, with examples from India,” said Nulkar. According to Nulkar, the biodiversity in the city is undergoing a change which can be seen in bird species seen in the city. “We have more crows, mynas and squirrels seen in the city while in wilderness, you will come across flycatchers, thurshes and other birds which are now completely missing from the cityscape. This is because of urbanization, deforestation and infrastructure that have changed the biodiversity in the city,” he said. Earlier too, we witnessed diseases such as rabies, leptospirosis, plague, scrub typhus, Nipah virus, Kyasanur forest disease, Japanese encephalitis, and various types of influenza are causing small and consistent outbreaks in animal and human populations across India. “Rabies, another disease with a 100 per cent fatality rate, is not an emerging infectious disease, but has existed for a long time. As a rabies-endemic country, India is estimated to have 20,000 rabies deaths every year, among 20 million dog bite cases a year. Nearly 36 per cent of the world’s rabies deaths occur in India every year. This disease has the potential to spillback into healthy populations of wild canids, small mammals and bat species through dog bites, as free ranging dogs are increasingly found to have conflicts with wild animals,” said the research. It also highlights that increasing mining has led to a sharp decline in natural forests, which has forced out apex predators and increased human-animal conflicts. This has denuded millions of hectares of forests all over the world. “Three major infrastructure projects sanctioned in 2020 in Goa will go through the Mollem National Park, diverting over 250 hectares of forest land for commercial purposes. Of this, 170 hectares falls within protected areas. Mollem is host to a large biodiversity and several threatened species are found here. The proposed Hubballi-Ankola rail project in North Karnataka will divert 727 hectares of pristine forests and 2.2 lakh trees will be fallen. This is part of the ecologically fragile Western Ghats, home to rare and endangered flora and fauna,” said Nulkar. Viruses, bacteria and other types of microbes are capable of inflicting diseases in plants, animals and humans. In a healthy ecosystem, they are usually constrained geographically and seasonally by ecological relationships and the regulatory functions of ecosystem services. Researchers have established an association between biodiversity loss and human health. Biodiversity must be conserved even in urban environment, with patches of wilderness given importance, like for example leaving the Tekdis alone and not building any infrastructure that could imbalance the biodiversity. It is argued that conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems and changes in economic activities must be made to ward off new diseases, and this is why cooperation between ministries is critical to restrict the decline of biological diversity in a megadiverse country like India. The diversity of potential disease-causing organisms is also greater, only a fraction of which are currently known to science. The zoonotic disease outbreaks in India like Covid- 19, Nipah virus, Swine flu, KFD among others have pointed to a need for continuous surveillance for detecting zoonoses early and initiating timely and efficient management of these diseases. However, the field of studies concerning zoonotic diseases and their implications are largely isolated, institutionally, with studies undertaken by ecologists, public health experts, and agriculturists, all working in isolation and there is hardly any public awareness and engagement seen. In the recent national budget of 2021-2022, the government has made a provision for establishing the Institute of One Health, to manage endemic and emerging epidemic threats of zoonotic diseases, where it offers a holistic approach for combating the emerging global health concerns with transdisciplinary efforts, especially with respect to zoonotic diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/loss-of-biodiversity-forces-microbes-to-hitchhike-on-humans-researchers-101621610569654.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Pune reports 4,060 new Covid cases, 63 deaths||Pune: As per the state health department, Pune district reported 4,060 new Covid-19 cases in just 24 hours on Friday. The district also reported 63 more deaths due to the infection. This took the total count in the district to 0.992 million cases of which 0.922 million have recovered, 11,073 deaths were declared and 58,840 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,291 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 275,475 and with 51 deaths the toll in the rural areas went up to 3,186. Pune city reported 1,078 new cases which took the progressive count to 478,207 and with 10 more deaths the toll went up to 6,250 while PCMC reported 691 new Covid cases the progressive count went up to 238,989 and with two more deaths, the toll stood at 1,579. The state reported that 44,493 patients were discharged on Friday which took the total to 5,070,801 Covid patients after they recovered fully. The recovery rate in the state is 91.74%. Also, 29,644 new cases were reported in the state on Friday and 555 Covid deaths. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.57%. Of 32,441,776 laboratory samples 5,527,092 have been tested positive (17.04%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 2,794,457 people are in home quarantine and 20,946 people are in institutional quarantine. Vaccination count Pune district also saw 24,78 Covid vaccinations on the day of which 237 were of Covaxin and 2,241 were of Covishield. Pune rural saw 957 vaccinations, Pune city saw 341 vaccinations and PCMC saw 1,180 beneficiaries get the jab. Vaccination for all between 18-44 year age group was shut in the district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-4-060-new-covid-cases-63-deaths-101621609969539.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 29,644 new Covid cases, 555 deaths as tally crosses 5.5 mn||Maharashtra, which has been witnessing a drop in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), recorded 29,644 infections on Friday, taking the tally to 5,527,092, the state’s health department bulletin showed. The state reported a drop of 267 cases from Thursday’s count of 29,911 Covid-19 cases. The state also recorded 555 related fatalities, which took the death toll to 86,618. The case fatality rate in the state is currently at 1.57%. Maharashtra’s marginal drop in the number of Covid-19 cases comes in the backdrop of 287,501 tests done in the last 24 hours.This means 7,590 fewer people were tested in the last 24 hours which could mean lower identification of cases. The state tested 279,911 people between May 19 and May 20. Maharashtra currently has 367,121 active cases.Pune remains among the worst affected with the highest number of active cases in the state with 58,840 cases but the district recorded a drop of 5,244 cases. Mumbai and Thane have more than 27,000 active cases but recorded marginal drop in the number of active cases. Kolhapur, Beed and Ahmednagar also reported a spike in active cases as these districts currently have more than 10,000 active cases. Satara reported a drop in the number of active cases but Sangli reported a slight surge. Ahmednagar and Nagpur have more than 18,000 active cases of Covid-19. Nagpur also reported a slight increase in the number of active cases.The recovery rate in the state rose to 91.74% as total recoveries reached 5,070,801 with 44,493 recoveries.The state while fighting the pandemic second wave is also facing challenges posed by mucormycosis and vaccine shortage. The state is under strict Covid-19 curfew as the state government tries to break the chain of transmission in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-29-644-new-covid-cases-555-deaths-as-tally-crosses-5-5-mn-101621608714503.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Forest department to clear encroachments at Sinhagad fort||The forest department authorities have warned for a crackdown on illegal structures which have come up inside and along the historic Sinhagad fort. The structures erected by locals as stalls for food have been issued the third and final notice for removal failing which action will be taken. Forest officials said surprise action will be taken against violators. As many 300 establishments comprising of hotels, zunka bhakar kiosks, curd outlets and others are going to come under the hammer of the department which seems to be in no mood to relent. The kiosks are mostly owned by villagers from Avsarwadi, Sinhagad, Mardari, Kalyan peth, Koliwada, Atkarwadi, Golewadi (Donje), Kondanapur. The forest department claimed that Sinhagad forest was situated in reserve and protected forest area in survey no 321/323 and the notices to the encroachers have been given under reserve forest act 1927 and 1980. The first notice seeking removal of the encroachment was given on April 15, 2017, followed by second one on Oct 13, 2017, while the third and the last notice was slapped on May 5. Bhamburda range forest officer Deepak Pawar said, “We have given them notice thrice and they will have to remove all the encroachments failing which we will remove them by our staff. We have mentioned about the violations in the notice which has been served to all.” Meanwhile, on behalf of the vendors, Dattatreya Jorkar, former president of forest protection committee of Ghera Sinhgad-Sambrewadi village said, “The forest department will have to face the wrath of the villagers as the action amounts to snatching away their livelihood. The forest department threat is injustice to the sons of the soil and the matter must be resolved with discussion between elected representation and forest officials. We will take all the villagers into confidence and offer all necessary cooperation to the forest department. However, the drive must be cancelled taking into Covid-19 lockdown and the problems the villagers are facing due to it.” Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests (Pune) said, “The road that leads to Sinhagad is with forest and no construction work involving cement, bricks and sand will be allowed. The permission from Public Works Department (PWD) and Pune Metropolitan and Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) is essential. We will take strong action and remove the encroachments soon.” Box In October 2020, the forest department issued notices to four villagers staying on Sinhagad fort and had directed them to submit a written explanation failing which they will have to vacate their residing properties on immediate basis. The families which have been asked to vacate have been residing there for the past five to six generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-department-to-clear-encroachments-at-sinhagad-fort-101621607449217.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Prolonged power cuts irk Keshavanagar residents in Mundhwa||Residents of Keshavnagar in Mundhwa had to face power cuts for nearly 50 hours on multiple days in the month of May which caused untold suffering for citizens, patients and work from home professionals. According to the residents, the main supply duct was tampered from the motive of power theft which led to the breakdown. According to residents, the alleged illegal tampering of the electricity supply line has been done near Bolhaimata Mandir locality. Sanjay Bhoir, who has recently recovered from Covid-19 said, “We had to face power cuts for many times during the month. The summer heat has been unbearable, and I had to stay without a fan for hours together. Also, a lack of electricity made other tasks difficult for women of our house like water. As there were power cuts, water could be filled in the overhead tank and women had to go down to fetch water from the common tap and climb back home. I hope that the MSEDCL corrects its mistake and provides electricity without any breakdown.” Citizens staying on the banks of the river in the area complained that they had to face mosquito bites in the absence of electricity. “Power failure caused total disruption of our sleeping habits and we found it difficult to complete the household chore work. We have small kids and aged people in our house and performing daily tasks had become a challenge this May. The sudden power failure early morning and evening affects cooking and leads to frustration,” said Sandhya Ghogare. Atul Lonare, another resident said “We are worried about the power failure impact on sensitive and expensive electronic equipment such as LCD televisions and air conditioners, stabilisers and inverters. It is very difficult for an ordinary resident to buy these gadgets and their maintenance is costly. We are worried that the outages should not destroy our gadgets. The MSEDCL must take active steps to mitigate our sufferings.” MSEDCL authorities maintained that due to private and public works underway the MSEDCL power supply lines ( high and low tension) were broken at 85 spots at least which was causing untold suffering to over 33,000 area residents and even resulting in financial losses in the entire Mundhwa area. The cable wires are broken late night either by private operators or persons and it becomes a cumbersome task to attend to the faults. The MSEDCL staffers ensure that the faults are repaired, and power restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prolonged-power-cuts-irk-keshavanagar-residents-in-mundhwa-101621607389343.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Pune receives 8mm rain on Friday, more rain likely||Due to moderately strong western winds, Konkan and Central Maharashtra including Pune may receive rainfall in the next few days. Cyclone Yaas may affect monsoon progress over Bay of Bengal thus affecting the progress over Maharashtra as well, said meteorologists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, Maharashtra and Pune city will receive rainfall before the monsoon begins, according to the weather department. As of Friday, the onset of Southwest monsoon occurred Nicobar Island, according to IMD. Conditions are favourable for further advance of Southwest monsoon into some more parts of southwest Bay of Bengal, most parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, the entire Andaman Sea and Andaman Islands and some parts of east central Bay of Bengal until May 23. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that cloudy weather will continue in Pune city. “We have forecasted that cloudy weather will remain in Pune city and there are chances of light rainfall. Due to moderately strong westerlies winds, Konkan, Central Maharashtra will get isolated light rain and Pune will also receive light rain in the next few days,” said Kashyapi. On Friday, Pune recorded a total of 8mm rainfall. “Cloudy weather along with light rainfall towards afternoon is likely in Pune city until May 26. This rainfall may be accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning,” said IMD officials. On Friday, cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood now lies over Southeast and adjoining Central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence IMD officials said that a low-pressure area is very likely to form over east central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Andaman Sea around May 22. The IMD said that it is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24. It is very likely to move north-westwards and reach Odisha-West Bengal coast around morning of May 26. “This system may not directly affect Maharashtra. However, it may affect the progress of monsoon over Bay of Bengal,” said Kashyapi. Speaking about the delay in Monsoon advancement, OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and forecast, IMD Pune said that the picture will be clear after the cyclone conditions are over. “The clear picture about the advancement of monsoon can be seen only after the cyclone is clear. The cyclone may affect the cross-equatorial flow of winds but because of the cyclone many parts of the country will receive rainfall,” said Sreejith. He added that Maharashtra is also likely to continue receiving rainfall due to other active weather systems. “So even if there are chances of delay in Monsoon advancement, there will be rainfall in many parts,” said Sreejith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-receives-8mm-rain-on-friday-more-rain-likely-101621607269230.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Petrol price reach ₹99 mark in Pune, diesel price at ₹89.31||The price of petrol has reached the mark of ₹99 per litre in the city on Friday. The diesel price soared as well and recorded a price of ₹89.31 per litre. After a two-month hiatus, fuel prices began to soar from the first week of May. If the trend continues, petrol prices will touch ₹100 in Pune. On Friday, the petrol price hiked by ₹0.18 and diesel price hiked by ₹0.30. After February 27, the fuel prices in the city had started to record a hike from May 4. On May 4, the hiked prices of fuels were petrol at ₹96.62, premium petrol at ₹100.30 and diesel at ₹86.32. This was the first hike in the fuel prices after almost two months. In the months of March and April, fuel prices had marginally declined but from May 4, the prices soared again. As the fuel price has been soaring, transporters are getting more and more worried about the prospect of their business. “Now, because of lockdown, there is less transportation at present but increasing fuel prices is adding to the misery. If the restrictions are eased and transportation of goods increases, then everyone will feel the burn of these soaring prices as we won’t be able to continue our business with current rates. We are already going into the loss, and it is becoming difficult to survive for those who are in the transportation business. If the cost of transportation increases then the cost of everything in the market is bound to increase,” said Ram Kadam, president, Pune district motor goods transport association. Ali Daruwala, spokesperson All India petrol dealers’ association did not comment on when the fuel price hike will discontinue. Experts say that the only way to provide immediate relief to common people is to waive taxation imposed on the fuels. “There are heavy taxes imposed by the state and the Central government. Steps must be taken to ease the burden on the common people,” said Vivek Velankar, president, Sajag Nagrik Manch Pune. “After the lockdown, the government will have to reduce the fuel prices. People are already stressed out because of the pandemic and the exceeding cost of the treatments. Soaring fuel prices will just add to the misery,” said Ram Kadam, president, Pune district motor goods transport association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-price-reach-99-mark-in-pune-diesel-price-at-8931-101621607209323.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Pune rural accounts for 48% of Pune’s Covid cases in the dist, available beds only 17%||Pune: The rise in cases from Pune rural has now become evident as over 48% of the cases from the district are reported from its 1,405 villages. However, despite the spike in cases, only 17% of the beds in the district is reserved for Covid from rural Pune. The shortage of beds in rural areas will add the load on hospitals located on the periphery of city limits. The administration is convinced that the current number of beds is sufficient enough to handle the surge in Covid cases in the rural areas. As per the Covid-19 dashboard, the district has a total of 33,314 beds dedicated for Covid for the entire district of which 16,629 are vacant. While PMC has 14,156 dedicated beds for Covid, PCMC has 10,563 beds, Pune rural has only 5,920 beds of which, as of Friday morning as per the dashboard, only 2,110 are vacant. Of the vacant beds, 1,420 are isolation beds, 615 are isolation beds with oxygen and 67 are ICU beds without ventilators and 8 are vacant ICU with ventilator beds. On Thursday, as per the district health office report, Pune district reported 3,801 new Covid cases of which 1,854 were from rural areas. As per the progressive Covid count, rural has 210,046 total cases of which 179,015 have recovered, 2,755 declared dead and 28,276 are active cases (8,166 in hospital and 20,110 in home isolation). The overall positivity rate of rural Pune is 24.06% while on Thursday the positivity rate of rural Pune stood at 20.08%. However, zilla parishad officials who overlook the administration in the 1,405 villages claimed that the current number of beds in rural Pune is sufficient enough. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, zilla parishad said, “We just got 25 ventilators for rural Pune through CSR and other funds, of which we have distributed 14 and 11 are about to be distributed. Also, we are hoping to get more ventilators through CSR and PM Cares. Also, we are pushing more private hospitals to invest more money into their hospitals and ramp up their infrastructure as well. We have a smooth coordination system at taluka level to ensure that no bed skips our radar and that every patient gets it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-accounts-for-48-of-pune-s-covid-cases-in-the-dist-available-beds-only-17-101621606969348.html
21-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka extends Covid-19 lockdown by 14 days till June 7||Karnataka on Friday extended the Covid-19 lockdown from May 24 for 14 days till 6am on June 7 "We had a meeting with senior officials and ministers. We have taken a decision on lockdown. We had strict restrictions till 24th May. As per the opinion of experts, we are extending the strict restrictions till 7th June at 6am," said Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa.He said that the government has decided to give free treatment for mucormycosis (black fungus) patients in the government district hospitals.Yediyurappa said that there are no changes in the restrictions but added that people were not following the lockdown norms and has allowed the police authorities to take action against the violators."Same guidelines will continue. People are roaming after 10am as well which is creating a lot of problems throughout the state. That's why such movements must be stopped. I urge people to stop unnecessary movements," he added.Many ministers and experts have suggested an extension of the lockdown as the number of deaths and Covid-19 cases have increased, according to the Chief Minister's Office. They are of the opinion that the current lockdown is yielding results with the number of fresh Covid-19 cases gradually declining.The Karnataka government initially announced a 14-day lockdown from April 27, but later on imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the state was reporting over 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day.Karnataka on Thursday reported 28,869 new Covid-19 cases, 52,257 recoveries and 548 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-extends-covid-19-lockdown-from-may-24-for-14-days-till-june-7-101621604487039.html
21-05-2021||Pune||More than 300 patients of mucormycosis in district, need 1,800 injections per day: Ajit Pawar||Pune: Pune guardian Ajit Pawar highlighted the worsening situation regarding shortage of medicines to treat the post-Covid fungal disease Mucormycosis. He said by Friday the district had more than 300 cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) and there is demand for almost 1,800 injections per day. The minister said the medicine count is not available in this proportion and there is no more shortage of Remdesivir. “Currently in Pune there are more than 300 cases of black fungus. In Pune, patients from outstation are also hospitalised. There is a shortage of injections for this disease. Six injections have to be given to a patient on a daily basis. The issue of this shortage has been raised with the Prime Minister.“We have contacted the manufacturer of these medicines and they have said that we have to give it to the Centre first and then it will be allocated to states. At least 1,800 injections are required in Pune district in a day, but those many are unavailable. We are trying to do what we can,” said Pawar.A control room was established at Pune collectorate on May 18 to regulate the supply and distribution of the medicines required to treat mucormycosis patients. On Thursday, the first round of the medicine distribution to the private hospitals was done by the district administration. According to the details issued by the authorities, there were 247 patients being treated in 33 private hospitals in the district. In Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in Erandwane there are currently 55 mucormycosis patients admitted. Hospital administration claimed that there is only 15-20 per cent supply of the medicines than the requirement. “Currently, it is not possible to administer the required daily dose of medications to the mucormycosis patients because of the shortage. The plight of the relatives for these medicines continues. There is only 15-20 per cent of the supply than the demand,” said Dr Dhannajay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-than-300-patients-of-mucormycosis-in-district-need-1-800-injections-per-day-ajit-pawar-101621605889165.html
21-05-2021||Pune||PMC will hire skilled firemen on contract for Covid centres||Pune: Manpower crunch forces the Pune fire department to appoint firemen on contract basis to be deputed at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Covid-19 care centre (CCC). PMC issued a tender to call agencies to provide trained firemen. After fifteen people died in the Virar (Mumbai) fire incident at a Covid hospital last month, a minor fire incident was reported at the Kamala Nehru hospital parking lot in Pune. As many as 24 Covid patients had died after oxygen supply was disrupted due to a leak in the main oxygen storage tank at a Nashik hospital on April 21. Following these incidents, PMC issued an order to depute two firemen for 24x7 on 16 Covid-19 care centres (CCC) for surveillance as well as nodal officers to the medical oxygen supply system of PMC hospitals. However, it was not applied because of manpower shortage. Now, the corporation has floated tender and invited agencies to supply trained firemen to depute on Covid care centres. Prashant Ranpise, PMC head of fire department, said, “Due to lack of manpower, we have taken the decision to hire trained firemen from private agencies such as government recognised fire institutes. At present, Pune city has 14 fire stations and 296 staff. As per the state government sanctioned staff, we need 910 firemen. In 2014, the strength was 510. After that, there is no recruitment at the fire department and firemen retire every year. Around 15 firemen are going to retire next month.” In a week, the department receives 35-40 fire calls and the count touched 70 during summer. The main station is located at Bhavani peth which has 40 firemen. There are nine firemen at work daily in each shift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-will-hire-skilled-firemen-on-contract-for-covid-centres-101621605469077.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: In The Eye of The Cyclone||This Monday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal woke up at his usual hour of 6am at his stately official bungalow on tree-lined Carmichael Road, but despite his salubrious surroundings, the senior bureaucrat was circumspect. Four days earlier he had received an alert from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) of the very severe Cyclone Tauktae that would be approaching Mumbai that day. Chahal, who credits his Army officer father for his ethic of never leaving anything to chance, had immediately convened a meeting with his senior colleagues where standard operating procedures (SOPs) to tackle flooding, tree falls and damage to life and property had been established. The next day, at a four-hour meeting called by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, these preparations were reviewed and finessed. As a matter of abundant precaution, it was decided to shut the sea link and the airport and shift all 580 Covid patients from jumbo facilities into hospitals. As soon as he awoke, Chahal began receiving half-hourly updates from his colleagues. Then, at 8am he set off on his rounds to assess the situation himself, first stopping at Worli Koliwada, then Bandra and Andheri. By 11.30am he was headed back to BMC headquarters, from where he began monitoring developments on the mammoth screen at the central control room adjoining his office. Its 5,500 camera feeds afforded him a real-time, vantage view of the unfolding situation. Despite the gathering storm, things seemed under control, except for a small hiccup at 6pm, when he received a red alert that an 18-kilometre-thick cloud had appeared over Mumbai. Fortunately, the crisis was managed and by 11pm, realising that the worst was over, the father of triplets returned home. “Despite a wind speed of 130kms and the highest recorded rainfall since 1948, there wasn’t a single fatality in the entire BMC area of 406 square kms with a population of 16 million,” he said when we spoke the next day. Most importantly, the decision to move the 580 Covid patents had been a crucial one as there had been considerable damage and flooding at the jumbo centres. Extreme challenges and catastrophes are no stranger to Chahal, who has the distinction of clearing his IAS entrance exam on his first try at the age of 22. Consider his first month as Mumbai’s municipal commissioner: When he took over on May 8 last year, the city was reeling from the blow of the first wave of the pandemic; positivity was at its highest, with Dharavi on fire and corpses being found on footpaths and road dividers. “My friends and relatives sent me WhatsApp messages asking if they should congratulate or commiserate, as I had inherited a deadly situation in what was considered the most difficult job in the country,” he said. A lesser man would have been daunted, but not Chahal — a national-level swimmer, half-marathon runner and yoga practitioner. Realising that Mumbai’s 3,700 beds would be woefully inadequate to service the expected demand, Chahal managed to convince CEOs of private hospitals to surrender 80% of their beds, telling them that their short-term commercial losses would be nothing compared to the long-term pain of losing a foothold of the future medical tourism industry. Their compliance had immediately taken the bed count to almost 9,000. Simultaneously, with support from Thackeray, who he credits for his visionary, empowering leadership, he requisitioned the construction of eight new jumbo centres across the city, taking the bed count to a staggering 23,000. It was in the same month that Chahal took the controversial decision to scrap BMC’s central Covid control room and instead created war rooms in the city’s 24 wards — a decision that earned him much criticism. “Every day by 7pm, when about 1,500 patients would be informed by labs that they were Covid positive they would generate around 10 panic calls each,” he explained. “Our 30-line control room would collapse between 7pm and 9pm under their onslaught of 15,000 calls. Then, the media and opposition would begin relaying that Mumbai’s health system had collapsed creating more panic,” he says. Chahal’s next move was even more controversial. He decided to scrap direct communication between labs and positive patients, making Mumbai the first city in the country to do so. The plan was that the city’s daily results would instead be fed by the labs into a software which would split the list. “If 10,000 cases came in one day, they got divided into roughly 400 cases per ward, and with each war room having 10 dashboards, every doctor would get about 40 names, of which 80% would be asymptomatic, requiring allotment of only seven to eight beds,” he says. But the plan would only work if Chahal could find 1,000 doctors to man those dashboards. Overnight, he enlisted medical interns from across Maharashtra. “We hiked their stipend from ₹11,000 to ₹50,000 deciding that money was not an issue. And they were housed in five-star hotels, with free boarding and lodging, at walking distance from their ward war rooms,” he says, adding, “And they worked remarkably well.” With all this in place, Chahal began to get a grip on Mumbai’s out-of-control pandemic. Dharavi was the first to benefit from his strategy, attracting international attention and winning praise from WHO when its positivity rate dropped significantly. Chahal further explained this “Chase the patient” approach of the now-renowned Mumbai model, “Once the doctors in the war rooms received confirmation of positive patients, they would visit them at their homes, check their markers and find them an appropriate hospital bed for treatment. The same ambulance would then transport them to the hospital, where a universal subsidised rate had been organised.” Sangitaa Advani, founder-director of Skill Shakti Institute, is one among the many beneficiaries of this strategy. When members of her household tested positive, they were pleasantly surprised to receive daily calls from BMC doctors, enquiring about their condition. “What’s more,” she said, “They were always polite, professional and caring.” The efficiency of Chahal’s plan had been further tested when one Sunday the oxygen level of Advani’s staff member began dropping alarmingly. Recollecting the episode, she describes it as a miracle. “Within 20 minutes, BMC had sent a well-equipped Covid ambulance and transported the patient to a jumbo centre.” That wasn’t all. Once admitted, the patient was made comfortable and received nourishing timely food and medicines. “Most importantly, he received humane, thoughtful care from the entire medical team,” said Advani. For an organisation notorious for being at the receiving end of the city’s wrath for its apathy and inefficiency, this validation, shared by many, is perhaps among Chahal and Thackeray’s greatest achievements. But, even as Mumbai’s success at tackling Covid-19 has won it praise and new cases are down to almost three digits, a devastating tragedy is unfolding across the country as the pandemic wreaks havoc across rural India, where 70% of India’s population resides. This surge has been marked by dire shortages of hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, and media reports of hundreds of corpses floating in the Ganges and of thousands of unmarked graves. What’s worse is that many suspect there is a deliberate attempt to undercount and underreport the extent of fatalities. “It’s as if we are saying these people have not mattered much to us when they were alive, and they don’t matter now that they’re dead,” said Dr Rajesh Parikh, one of the authors of The Coronavirus: What You Need to Know about the Global Pandemic, adding “Future generations will regard it as a genocide as shameful as the Holocaust.” Who will come to the rescue of India’s rural poor in their hour of dire need? Who will save the loved ones of these simple, hardy, men and women from dying, one by one? When he was appointed as the head of BMC, Chahal recalls thinking, “A pandemic like this comes once in a century. Hundred years before me and hundred years after me, no municipal commissioner will get this opportunity to serve humanity and save thousands of lives. Maybe I am the blessed one chosen by God.” If only Chahal’s mother had given birth to another hundred like him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-in-the-eye-of-the-cyclone-101621605290236.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Amphotericin-B: States race against time to procure mucormycosis drug||As the challenge of mucormycosis grips the country, the health ministers of Maharashtra and Karnataka on Friday said that both states are working hard to acquire Amphotericin-B drug which is required for its effective treatment.Karnataka and Maharashtra have both reported a surge in cases of mucormycosis, a disease which happens due to a fungus called mucormycetes which can enter the body through breathing or skin injuries, and has been widely reported in Covid-19 patients. The disease can be fatal if left untreated and requires several vials of Amphotericin-B to be administered to the patient. Experts say high blood sugar and unregulated administration of steroids during Covid-19 treatment increases the risk of contracting the disease.Pune, which reported a high number of Covid-19 cases, currently has 300 cases of mucormycosis. “Currently, there are more than 300 cases of mucormycosis in Pune, which also includes people of other districts. We are facing a shortage of injections for these patients. If there are 300 patients, we will need more than 1800 injections per day which is not available in the required numbers,” Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also highlighted that patients require 6 injections a day and said that the state will include its treatment in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. He also said that health minister Rajesh Tope asked the Prime Minister to ensure adequate injections are released to treat patients.According to the treatment protocol, when Mucormycosis infects the nose, sinus or palate, doctors will administer a 5mg dose per kilogram (kg) of body weight. For example, if a person weighs 60kgs, he would require 300mg of the dose. Each vial has 50mg of the drug. Hence, a patient suffering from the disease will require six vials which costs ₹60,000 on a daily basis. If the infection reaches the brain, doctors have to administer 8-10mg per kilogram of the patient’s body weight, according to a report by HT.Maharashtra currently has 1,500 cases of mucormycosis and 90 deaths have been reported due to the deadly fungal disease.Karnataka, which has reported at least 97 cases of mucormycosis, is also taking measures to contain the disease. Deputy chief minister Dr. Ashwathnarayan CN said that the state is working hard to procure Amphotericin-B. “Based on the number of Mucormycosis cases, we are trying to procure Amphotericin-B drug to address the demand. The allocation of the drug by the Centre will be done based on the number of cases in Karnataka,” the deputy chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Karnataka chief minister later on Friday said that the government hospitals will treat mucormycosis patients for free, according to news agency ANI.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a meeting held earlier today with frontline workers from his constituency highlighted the need of taking precautionary measures against the disease. He also said that amid the battle against Covid-19 second wave, Mucormycosis has arisen as a fresh challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amphotericinb-states-race-against-time-to-procure-mucormycosis-drug-101621603819294.html
21-05-2021||Other||Sarvagya survey claims 31% of respondents satisfied with PMC work||PUNE Sarvagya Media Services, a media company that has been in the employ of politicians across party lines in the state, has carried out a survey of close to 1,500 Pune voters, which shows that 31 per cent of the Puneites surveyed, are satisfied with work of the Pune Municipal Corporation n general, and its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.Sarvagya Media has handled content and social media for Congress MLA Kunal Baba Patil of Dhule; for Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil of the Shiv Sena and Dheeraj Ghate of the BJP.The survey was carried out online from March 12 till April 15 with different age groups. Only bonafide voters could enter.However, 8 per cent of the people surveyed declared the PMC work as completely unsatisfactory. The rest were undecided on the question.Among the results of the survey released by Sarvagya Media on Thursday, voters surveyed also strongly supported the Pune Metro and expressed satisfaction with works like the Smart City project; 24-hour water supply for the city; electric buses; five-km travel for Rs5 on PMPML buses; and the bringing of water supply from Bhama Askhed. The voters complained of a lack of co-ordination between different the PMC departments leading to rampant road digging.However, local BJP corporators were found wanting in getting in touch with citizens about different schemes of the PMC. In the past, Sarvagya Media has conducted surveys in Kasba peth in 2019 and in Dhule prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Key questions from the surveyShould a new municipal corporation be carved out of the PMC?Yes - 59%No - 31%Can’t say - 10 %Should elections be held on ballot instead of EVMs?Yes - 20%No - 80%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sarvagya-survey-claims-31-of-respondents-satisfied-with-pmc-work-101621604150699.html
21-05-2021||Other||Hindu doc praised for reciting Islamic prayer before her patient died in Kerala||A Hindu doctor has earned much praise for helping a sinking Muslim patient recite Islamic prayers before she passed away at a hospital in Kerala’s Palakkad district. Rekha Krishna said she noticed that the patient, who had been on a ventilator for over two weeks, was struggling with something. Then, she said, she slowly recited kalima in her ears as she could see the patient taking her final breath.The doctor shared her experience with one of her colleagues, who later posted it online. The post went viral. Many people have lauded the doctor, calling her a symbol of amity and brotherhood.Also Read | Maharashtra records 29,911 new cases, 738 deaths“I was born and brought up in Dubai and I am aware of the customs followed by Muslims. I grew up in an environment where every faith was respected,” said Krishnan. She added she did only her duty and never deserved such kudos for this. She said it was not a religious gesture but a humane act.Several Muslim scholars have lauded the doctor. “This is really a heartening development. The doctor is a symbol of amity and brotherhood. There are enough lessons in her novel gesture,” said Islamic scholar Abdul Hameed Faizal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hindu-doc-praised-for-reciting-islamic-prayer-before-her-patient-died-inkerala-101621600609111.html
21-05-2021||Other||Jagannath Temple to create bio bubble for Rath Yatra||With 8 servitors engaged in construction work of chariots for upcoming Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri, Odisha, testing positive for Covid-19, the Jagannath temple administration has decided to create a bio bubble around them to prevent any further infection.Three Maharana servitors and five Bhoi servitors of the 88 servitors have tested positive while constructing the three chariots on the Grand Road of Puri, said officials of Sri Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA).“As the Rath Yatra is still a few weeks away, we don’t want more servitors to be infected and so they would function within a bio bubble. No mediapersons will be allowed near them during construction. They will be in isolation till the construction is over,” said SJTA chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar.Also Read | Jagannath temple shut for public till June 15 as Covid-19 cases surgeThe chariot construction work began on the auspicious occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on May 15 this year. The Rath Yatra is scheduled on July 12.The SJTA is also speeding up vaccination of servitors in the 18-44 age group ahead of the yatra, aiming to cover 4,300 servitors within 15 days.Like last year, the Rath Yatra this year may be conducted without devotees with the necessary Covid protocol in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jagannath-temple-to-create-bio-bubble-for-rath-yatra-101621599829346.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Malana to take shot at Covid vaccine after deity gives nod||Faith can move mountains. Malana, nestled in the Himayalas at 9,900 ft in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district, which made headlines recently for shunning the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the absence of the local deity’s blessings, has had a change of heart. Residents started registering themselves for vaccination two days ago with local deity Jamdagni Rishi or Jamlu Devta believed to have given his approval after a hard-fought debate in the two Houses of the village parliament. Members of both Houses agreed that vaccination is important but left the decision to the deity. Also read: Unregulated online classes affecting health of school children in KashmirMalana panchayat comprises the two villages of Saura Behad and Dhara Behad with a total population of 2,041 in 475 households, including 1,039 men and 1,002 women. So far, none of the residents has contracted Covid-19. Break from tradition “It’s not easy for these people to give up their tradition. But now we are hopeful,” says health educator Birma Thakur, who visited the village along with three staff members on Thursday. Panchayat pradhan Raju Ram and secretary Tek Singh Negi, along with lone accredited social health activist Nirma Devi, have been trying to convince the villagers to take the vaccine for the past two months. The team of health workers from Jarhi, the nearest town from Malana, would trek 7km on alternate days to reach out to the villagers. Raju Ram played a vital role in changing the mindset. He took the help of the panchayat and mahila mandals to convince the villagers. “Belief is one thing, but science is another. I categorically told the villagers that we can’t live in isolation for long. We now have the blessings of the deity,” he said. The panchayat had called a meeting and requested both Houses to deliberate on the matter. People coming forward good sign So far, 142 people have registered themselves. There are nearly 350 people above 60 in the panchayat. Of them, 40 have got themselves registered. “The state government has deputed two teachers to register the villagers for vaccination, few have come forward and the rest are still reluctant,” said panchayat secretary Tek Singh Negi. Nirma Devi is elated that people are finally coming forward for vaccination. She admits that she has not been inoculated either. “I’ll take the vaccine along with the villagers. It’s a good sign that people have started coming forward,” she says. Meanwhile, National Rural Health Mission state director Nipun Jindal has sought a report from the chief medical officers to identify remote villages where not a single person has been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malana-to-take-shot-at-covid-vaccine-after-deity-gives-nod-101621598869169.html
21-05-2021||Other||Unregulated online classes affecting health of school children in Kashmir||Last year in August, five months into her online classes, Nisar Dharma’s 8-year-old daughter suddenly woke up to blurred vision and headache. Her parents were shocked when they saw that she couldn’t tell the number of fingers her father was waving in front of her.“She couldn’t tell what was going on the TV screen and couldn’t even read anything from her books. ‌She couldn’t see my face and could only see some blurred patches,” Dharma, a 34-year-old journalist, said.The class-3 girl had been attending video classes on zoom daily from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm on a smartphone with just 20 minutes of break in between.“Her eyes kind of gave up. It was absolutely scary to the point that if she would stand up, she would just fall,” the father said.For two months, Dharma consulted paediatricians, neurologists and ophthalmologists but could not conclude on an exact illness her daughter was suffering from and its cause. “In desperation, I even went to a faith healer,” he said.Fortunately, he consulted a doctor from Hyderabad on the phone who concluded that her daughter’s illness was directly related to her online classes.“I sent all her tests reports to the doctor and then visited him in September. The doctor told us that the muscles of her eyes had weakened by the constant use of a mobile phone. He called it ‘accommodative spasm’,” he said.The doctor gave her some eye exercises and now her vision has improved a lot, though she has to wear thick eyeglasses.“From then on, she has not attended any online classes. I am totally against online classes, though I have been submitting the fees regularly,” Dharma said.For the second year in a row as the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic is wreaking havoc, the educational institutions have been closed again. The schools, particularly private institutions, have been aggressively pursuing online classes for the students, even for those who are as young as 4-years-old. While government schools have been holding online classes mostly from Class-5 onwards, the private institutions have been even asking KG students to attend online interactions with teachers.Parents and experts are saying that the prolonged exposure of children to screens is affecting the physical as well as the mental health of the children. Some schools have now increased the daily overall class duration from three hours to even five hours causing outrage among the parents. The students have to attend 6 to 8 classes daily on online video apps. “It is very taxing and torturous for children to force them to sit for hours at a stretch on mobiles or laptops. The timings should be minimum as these screens are detrimental to their eyes and are more dangerous for their overall health,” said Ishfaq Shah, a parent whose daughter studies at a prominent school on the city outskirts.Sajad Ahmad Khanday, associate professor of ophthalmology at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital, said that the more the children use near-vision devices like mobiles and laptops, their eyes become more nearsighted (myope).“Their accommodation power overplays and slowly their far-vision gets compromised. And as children remain wedged to the devices inside, they get less exposure to sunlight which contains vitamin D which is important for the development of vision. So with the excessive use of screens and inadequate exposure to sunlight, their myopia increases. And it becomes a very vicious circle,” he said.He said that since the online classes started after March 2020 they were witnessing an increase in the cases of children with myopic eyes.“It has definitely increased. Not only myopia but overall eye discomforts like dryness and allergies have also definitely gone up among children,” he said.The increase in the screen time of children has not only resulted in physical effects on their bodies but has also led to some behavioural changes in the children.“My son is in class-1 and constantly attending online classes have made him temperamental. He feels irritated after spending four hours in front of a camera and runs away. He says he does not understand things on camera. I have now decided to allow him to skip some classes daily,” said a parent who is also a teacher at a prominent private school in Srinagar.“As a teacher, I also feel that the classes tend to get boring online and after some time the students loses interest. They put the zoom classes on mute. Even the teachers become exhausted delivering eight classes on screen every day,” she said.Dr Syed Karrar Hussain, a child and adolescent psychiatrist of the valley, said there is emerging evidence of the developmental impact on children with the increase in screen time.“We as human beings are wired to have ‘human touch’ in our mundane affairs… From my clinical experience, I see emerging flare-ups in behavioural issues following school closure. Unpredictability, lack of structure, poor socialisation, parental pressure in disciplining, temperamental vulnerabilities all contribute somehow to the behavioural problems. We need to learn quickly to find ways to minimise the negative consequences of online academic learning,” he said.He said that children tend to get distracted and find it difficult to focus as there is no face to face supervision.“There is a tendency to digress to other channels on the internet, sometimes adult-oriented content. These are not ideal times. Since online classes are the need of the hour, parents need to take supervisory roles during the classwork,” he said.Parents, teachers and doctors are demanding a reduction in the number of hours of online teaching.“As a parent, I would say the interaction of children with their teachers, even though online, is important. But online teaching can’t replace the classroom. The schools should reduce the number of hours of screen time to 2 hours. This can’t go on like this,” said Javaid Ahmad, a parent of two school-going children.Associate professor of ophthalmology, Dr Khanday, said that children up to 2 years should not be exposed to screens at all. “Those up to 5 years should have around 1-2 hours of screen time. As you go up you can increase the exposure marginally. The problem is that the child does not stop the use of gadgets after their online classes and parents have to maintain discipline on the use of their phones by their children,” he said.GN War, president of private schools association of Kashmir, said that they have received multiple complaints from parents over the conduct of online classes by the schools.“We are looking into the issue to devise a uniform system so that the children are not put under undue pressure and there is no mental trauma,” he said.“We will see what best can be done so that online classes are conducted reasonably with limited timing,” he said.He said that the government should have come out with a uniform system for online classes in government and private schools. “The government issued no guidelines creating chaos and confusion. It should have specified the number of hours students could attend classes and the syllabus. There should have been an open system of teaching with classes not only online but even on radio and TV so that there was no digital divide,” he said. Meanwhile, while the attendance of students for online classes in private schools has been more than satisfactory, the majority of those from government schools have not been able to join online classes owing to a lack of smartphones. Rafiq Rather, chairman of the government teachers’ forum, said there was below 40 per cent attendance of online learning in government schools. “It is not encouraging as there are no android phones with our students. Most of them are first generational learners. The purpose of online classes is not fulfilled in government schools,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unregulated-online-classes-affecting-health-of-school-children-in-kashmir-101621596829322.html
21-05-2021||Other||Goa extends ‘curfew’ till May 31, sets up task force to deal with ‘3rd wave’||The Goa government has extended the ‘curfew’ currently enforced in the state that was to end on Monday, May 23, until May 31 with the same conditions, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant announced. “Curfew which was ending on Monday has been extended till May 31 across the state in the manner that currently exists,” Sawant announced. The curfew that was belatedly announced bars people from moving out of their houses except to buy essential commodities, for medical reasons or work. Only stores selling essentials are allowed to operate between 7 am and 1 pm The decision was taken at a meeting of the cabinet held on Friday. Sawant, who was initially reluctant to announce any statewide lockdown measures, finally announced a two-week-long curfew that many, including his own health minister Vishwajit Rane, said arrived around two weeks too late. The curfew was finally announced but only after villages in Goa began announcing their own lockdown measures that were in variance with the state’s government’s stand that a curfew or a lockdown was not a solution to the cases that were then rising. “Despite numerous requests from the government, people are not taking adequate steps. If people had followed the law, the positivity rate would not have been 51 per cent,” Sawant said two weeks ago while trying to explain why he was forced to announce a lockdown despite speaking against it. Goa’s positivity rate, which had touched 51% across the first week of May, has since fallen to around 31% but remains higher than the rest of the country while deaths continue to be around 40-50 per day. The chief minister also announced the creation of a special task force to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. “We have set up a special task force for Covid third wave. The 15-member team is headed by me and the vice-chair is the health minister and includes professionals from the medical field, etc. There will also be a special expert committee of doctors who will review the treatment protocols. It will be headed by the Dean (of Goa Medical College) Dr Bandekar. It will include paediatrics since there is news that the third wave will affect children,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-extends-curfew-till-march-31-sets-up-task-force-to-deal-with-3rd-wave-101621596769542.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||‘No Bewakoofiyaan’: Mumbai Police cautions citizens on Covid-19 in Bollywood style||The Mumbai Police has yet again used its social media handle in a smart way to convey the seriousness of the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Mumbai Police, which is known for their wit and humour on social media, has been on point with their Twitter game.The Mumbai Police on Friday put out some funny takes on Bollywood actors and their movie names in order to send across the message of the coronavirus infection.Starting from late actor Rajesh Khanna to Ayushmann Khurrana, the Mumbai Police made puns with their names and movie titles.Khanna got featured in one of the tweets, where the Mumbai Police was urging people to order ‘Khanna’ (a pun on ‘Khaana’ - the Hindi word for food) at home in order to avoid risking going out amid the Covid-19 lockdown. A popular dialogue from Khanna's movie was also used in the tweet.Pushpa, we hate rule-breakers!Stay home rey...#BeBollyGood#KakaWouldSay#StayHomeStaySafe#TakingOnCorona pic.twitter.com/TD3kaKdHZGTaking a hint from Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana's movies, the Mumbai police in its Twitter handle said, No ‘Bewakoofiyaan’, let’s meet the ‘Dream Girl’ some other day! (No stupidity, let's meet the dream girl some other day).Be 'Zyada Saavdhan' today to ensure everything’s ‘Shubh Mangal’ everyday. No ‘Bewakoofiyaan’, let’s meet the ‘Dream Girl’ some other day!#BeBollyGood#TakingOnCorona#StayHomeStaySafe pic.twitter.com/4vY557ccDNThe Mumbai Police also used pun with Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan's name. Asking people to wear their masks properly, another tweet of the Mumbai Police said it’s a “‘Big B’ lunder" to keep the facemask below your nose.ऐसे मास्क पहनना भी कोई मास्क पहनना है ‘लल्लू’?#BeBollyGood#StayHomeStaySafe#MaskUp#takingoncorona pic.twitter.com/6E4YaKoI8LMumbai on Thursday recorded 1,425 new Covid-19 cases and 59 deaths due to Covid-19. With this, Mumbai's infection tally rose to 6,93,664. Now, there are 29,525 active cases in the city. The fatality count rose to 14,468, as per the data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-bewakoofiyaan-mumbai-police-cautious-citizens-on-covid-19-in-bollywood-style-101621594248859.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Availability of antifungal med the issue, not its distribution: Delhi health min||Just like oxygen, the problem is not with the distribution but the supply of the anti-fungal medicine Amphotericin B used to treat patients with black fungus infection, said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday. “There is a shortage of the medicine across the country; the Centre has taken control of it and it is being allocated as per quota to states. Delhi has been allocated around 2,000 doses,” said Jain in a press briefing. “Delhi had 197 people with the infection admitted to various hospitals till Wednesday night. Every patient needs several injections each day; if Delhi’s requirement is, say, 4,000 injections, and we are given 1,000, there will be a problem. It is similar to the oxygen situation; when Delhi needed 600 MT of oxygen we were given 300 MT and then people said that there was a problem in distribution.” The Delhi government has set up a four-member committee that looks at hospitals’ demand for the drug after patient information is submitted and gives a go-ahead for the Directorate General of Health Services to dispatch it. As per submissions in the Delhi high court, every patient needs 42 vials of the injection per week. Also Read | DRDO lab develops Covid-19 antibody detection-based kit DipcovanMucormycosis, which is referred to as Black Fungus, is an opportunistic infection which usually happens in Covid-19 patients with uncontrolled diabetes, especially if they have been given high or longer dose of steroids. If untreated, it kills up to 80% of the people and in others, it can lead to loss of eye or disfigurement of face as surgeons debride the dead tissue. To prevent the infection, Jain said, “Please take steroids only on the advice of a doctor. Do not continue taking the medicine even after the doctor has stopped it. In some diabetics, the sugar level shoots up because of steroid use and they have to be prescribed injection insulin. But, they stop taking it once they are home. Please don’t do that. At the moment, controlling diabetes is more important, you will be able to get off the injection in a few days.” He added, “People who have been administered steroids should be alert for up to a week after the medicine has been stopped. And, control the blood sugar level.” The minister reiterated that the stock for vaccines for people between the ages of 18 and 44 years is almost exhausted and several centres would be closed Friday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/availability-of-antifungal-med-the-issue-not-its-distribution-delhi-health-min-101621595749146.html
21-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata likely to contest from Bhabanipur constituency to retain CM's chair||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to contest the bypoll from Bhabanipur assembly seat as Trinamool Congress leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated his seat from which he contested and won in this election.Mamata Banerjee lost the recently concluded elections from Nandigram where she contested against BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, while her party decimated the BJP. In such a scenario, she will have to get reelected to the assembly to retain her chief minister's seat.He also said that he was just merely protecting the seat and highlighted that the chief minister had earlier won twice from the constituency. “The chief minister had twice won from Bhabanipur. All party leaders held a discussion and when I heard that she wants to contest from here, I thought I should vacate my seat. There is no pressure. Nobody else has the courage to run the government. I have spoken to her. It was her seat and I was just protecting it,” Sobhandeb said.West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee said that he has spoken to Chattopadhyay and ensured that he was not coerced into taking the decision. “I have enquired from him if he has resigned voluntarily and without coercion. I am satisfied and have accepted his resignation,” the Bengal assembly speaker was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chattopadhyay is likely to contest from Khardah assembly constituency as a bypoll has been necessitated following the death of party leader Kajal Sinha, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-likely-to-contest-from-bhabanipore-constituency-to-retain-cm-s-chair-101621594897849.html
21-05-2021||Other||Rajasthan HC dismisses plea for temporary suspension of Asaram Bapu’s sentences||The Rajasthan high court on Friday dismissed the application for temporary suspension of sentences of Asaram Bapu and directed the district and jail administration to ensure that proper treatment is provided to the convict appellant at a suitable medial institution in the light of the medical reports from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur.The division bench of justices Sandeep Mehta and Devendra Kachhawaha said: “It shall also be ensured that no sooner, the convict is lodged back at jail after recovery, he will be provided proper treatment, nutritious diet and safe environment looking to his old age and medical condition.”Asaram Bapu, who is serving life term in Jodhpur Central Jail in a minor girl’s rape case, had approached the high court for ayurvedic treatment of many diseases.In the meantime, on May 5, he was tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to AIIMS. Meanwhile, he developed internal gastrointestinal bleeding so his haemoglobin dropped to critically low levels.Also Read | Tested positive for Covid, Asaram seeks interim bailAsaram’s counsel JS Choudhary told the court that the convict has expressed his desire in writing that he does not desire to take the allopathic line of treatment and instead, his followers may be allowed to set up a fully functional medical facility at his Ashram at Pal Village, Jodhpur, so that he can be treated by ayurveda. Choudhary added that if Asaram’s sentences are suspended, he will abide by any condition imposed by the court. He said Asaram may be sent to the Rajasthan Ayurveda University for treatment of his gastrointestinal bleeding and other ailments.Observing that Asaram is also facing trial in another case in Gujarat involving the offence under Section 376 IPC and is in custody in connection with the said case as well, the court quoted the medical reports that his condition is stable but he requires further investigation and follow-up for his gastrointestinal bleeding. “This treatment is unquestionably available at the MDM Hospital, Jodhpur,” the bench said.“Suspending the sentences awarded to the appellant in this case would be nothing short of an exercise in futility because immediately on his release from the Central Jail, Jodhpur, he would be required to be taken to State of Gujarat in connection with the case pending trial as a production warrant certainly would be in force,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajasthan-hc-dismisses-plea-for-temporary-suspension-of-asaram-bapu-s-sentences-101621595149420.html
21-05-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: Settings in the matter of individual versus social media||Last week, a friend asked me what my opinion was on the WhatsApp privacy settings controversy, and if I knew anything about it. “What’s your opinion about it?” I asked him.“I think it’s unfair. It’s an intrusion and they are going to take my data and give it to people.”“Are you sure? What data?”“Everything, what I am browsing, who I am talking to, what I am reading, sharing.”“Who are they going to give this data to?”“Facebook and its business partners and advertisers.”“Are you really sure about this?”“That’s what I have heard.”“And you don’t want them to do that?”“No!”“So stop using WhatsApp.”“All my family and friends are on the platform. I have to stay connected.”“Then stay on it.”“You are not helping.”“I am not here to help. I am just here to enjoy this ping-pong match you’re playing. Besides, I can’t tell you what to do.”“Well can you tell me what you are planning to do - stay or leave the platform?”“I am staying on it.”I have had similar conversations with other friends and family. And it’s a classic conflict of the addict: torn between compulsive desire and the fear of the consequences of that desire.Now there are two problems at hand. First, the addiction to WhatsApp. Second, the new privacy settings. The way I see it, the compulsion on account of the addiction clouds the judgment when it comes to the settings. So first, I shall share my wealth of knowledge on the matter of Individual versus Social Media. During my years of grappling with the problem, I designed many devices to help me overcome the problem. Like the One Tight Slap robot, whose job it was to slap me hard if I opened any social media during the day time. And the Drag Me Away By My Hair robotic hand, whose job it was to drag me away from my phone if I had been on it for more than 30 minutes at a time. Sadly, none of the devices worked, but they paved the way to the super top secret method I developed to deal with this problem. I was going to file patent on it but I have some time today, and so I will tell you, from the goodness of my heart, how you can have your social media and keep it too: The secret is to Not Share. That’s right. You just have to stop sharing stuff. Let me explain how.First of all, I do not exceed the 30-minutes-in-a-day restriction for platforms. Secondly, I access only through the laptop. The only exception is WhatsApp which is on the phone. Thirdly, I read what is of interest to me (and ignore everything else). I share almost nothing. I forward nothing. I re-share less than nothing. If I have to make up a statistic, 99% of what I receive/read, never leaves my device. Since I don’t share, I do not look for reactions, and therefore, I have no reason to go to the platform obsessively. I have rules for sharing, and the rules are simple: share only my original work or works of people I know. I occasionally share jokes and funny videos, but only if they have no agendas or political overtones. If I see a conversation going long, I pick up the phone and call the person.This super top secret method has been very effective and as a result, over the past year, I have moved out of Facebook, Pinterest, phased out of Twitter, Instagram, Tumbler, and drastically reduced Wordpress and LinkedIn. I still use Wordpress and LinkedIn since they are somewhat productive applications, but I go to them when I have something to publish.On the question of the new privacy settings on WhatsApp, well, I read all end-user agreements (Apple, Microsoft, FB, sundry software) and also read the additional terms, the links within each set of terms and all updates to terms; and they all want the same thing: more information and more rights to share your information, but related to their business goals, which of course is to become the centre of your attention, always. Amazon, Google, Apple, Orange, Mango, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, your news channels, the government, the school, the company you work … they all want you to spend more time with them. They already have all the info about you, much of it government mandated. Here’s a pop-quiz: You know all those telemarketers who call you selling insurance and loans? How do you think they get your number? There are regulations which require sharing of customer info, that’s how. As far as WhatApp is concerned, there are a lot of settings to ensure your privacy. You just have to enable them. What WhatsApp has to change is to stop hiding the terms of use - I should be able to read the terms whenever I want (at the moment, you can’t because the terms of use are not available on the app). As far as the legal stuff goes, the government and courts are looking into this, and when they come to a conclusion, we can consider our options afresh. Laws in such matters, in my humble opinion, have to be revisited to make agreements more balanced and fair from its current one-sided avatar where consumers’ options are really limited to one choice: accepting or not accepting terms of use.Meanwhile, if you are worried about what Facebook is sharing with who, you should also start thinking about what information Google, Amazon, your grocery app, the payment banks, and UPI apps have on you. They make life convenient, but these are not critical to existence.As far as the ethical, moral questions go … we should never have left the Garden of Eden. Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-settings-in-the-matter-of-individual-versus-social-media-101621593950573.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare: Vaze’s colleague Riyazuddin Kazi dismissed from service||Assistant police inspector Riyaz Hisamuddin Kazi, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Antilia bomb scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has been summarily dismissed from service. Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Friday issued an order under Article 311(2) (B) of the Constitution of India, dismissing Kazi without a departmental inquiry.Kazi is former colleague of Sachin Vaze, also arrested by NIA for allegedly being the mastermind of Antilia bomb scare and the murder of Hiran, an auto parts dealer. Vaze has already been dismissed from service on May 11.Kazi was arrested by NIA on April 11 in connection with the cases and is in judicial custody.He was posted in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch, which Vaze headed when, on February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the South Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the industrialist’s family.Also Read | Bombay HC declines Deshmukh’s plea for interim protection from CBIVaze was the investigating officer of the case which was eventually transferred to Maharashtra anti-terrorism sqaud (ATS). NIA took over the case on March 8, three days after Hiran, to whom the SUV was linked, was found dead in creek near Mumbra. It arrested Vaze on March 13, after his alleged involvement in the bomb scare came to light.NIA claimed that as his colleague Kazi was aware of Vaze’s plans and purportedly took active part in destruction of evidence during initial investigation of the bomb scare case. They allegedly seized several CCTV footages and DVRs under the garb of investigation and destroyed the same.Kazi was shunted out of CIU last month after NIA arrested Vaze allegedly for devising the plan to regain his lost glory in Mumbai Police by parking the explosive-laden SUV outside Antilia. Kazi was transferred to Tardeo local arms division, which is considered a side branch.Beside Kazi and Vaze, the NIA has also arrested police inspector Sunil Mane, also from Mumbai Police.Former constable Vinayak Shinde, a convict serving life imprisonment in a fake encounter killing of Lakhan Bhaiya, and bookie Naresh Gaur have also been arrested in the case for alleged aiding and abetting Vaze in executing the crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-vaze-s-colleague-riyazuddin-kazi-dismissed-from-service-101621593589172.html
21-05-2021||Patna||Father kills 2 minors after quarrel with mother in rural Patna||Patna police claimed to have arrested a man who allegedly hacked his two minors to death over a fight with his wife on Thursday. The incident happened within the Mokama police station limits of rural Patna, the police said.“Prima-facie police investigation suggested that Chandan, doubted his wife’s fidelity and picked up a fight with her which led to the gruesome incident, resulting in the death of a nine-year-old son and a five-year-old girl,” said Rural SP (Patna) Kantesh Mishra said, adding that police have recovered a sharp-edged weapon from the spot which was used in crime. “Based on our investigation till now, Chandan committed the crime suspecting that they were his illegitimate children,” SP Mishra said.Kamal Nayan alias Chandan and his wife lived in Kanhaipur village with their children, a boy aged nine years and a five-year-old daughter. The boy was a student at a nearby private school. The couple was reportedly having marital issues over the past few years and used to engage in frequent quarrels, as per the police.On Thursday morning, Chandan and his wife fought over something. His wife, in a fit of rage, stormed off to her parents’ house in rural Mokama, leaving the children to their father’s care.On Friday morning, one of the relatives reached Chandan’s house only to see the children lying dead inside the house. Shocked to see their bodies, the relative immediately alerted the police who rushed to the spot and conducted a preliminary inquiry.The locals claimed that Chandan, who is said to be mentally ill, surrendered before the police and narrated the entire incident. The gruesome incident occurred between 2.30-3 am on Friday. He allegedly killed the children by slitting their throats with a sharp-edged weapon.Speaking to HT, the SHO of Mokama police station, Rajnandan Sharma, said Chandan was in an inebriated state on Thursday when the fight broke with his wife. The police booked him under section 302 (Murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the bodies of the children have been sent for post-mortem to the Barh Sadar Hospital and the autopsy is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/father-kills-2-minors-after-quarrel-with-mother-in-rural-patna-101621592149088.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate drops below 5%, city sees 3,009 new cases and 252 deaths||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity has dipped below 5%, as the city recorded 3,009 new cases from 63,190 samples tested for the viral disease in the last 24 hours, a health department bulletin showed on Friday. The cumulative infection tally has reached 1,412,959, with a related death toll of 22,831, as 252 people succumbed to the infection in this time period, the bulletin further showed.According to Friday's bulletin, the Capital's positivity rate, which has undergone a decline in the last few days, stands at 4.76%. Positivity rate means the total number of samples returning a positive result out of every 100 samples tested for Covid-19 per day, and is different from the cumulative positivity rate, which is currently at 7.6%, as per the latest data. Previously, Delhi's positivity rate was at 5.50%.The number of tests conducted in the preceding 24 hours were an increase from the corresponding figure from the 24-hour period before that -- 58,744. Of the samples tested in the last 24 hours, 45,685 underwent RTPCR/CBNAAT/TueNat testing, while rapid antigen tests were conducted on the remaining 17,505 samples. Total 18,595,993 samples have been tested thus far and samples tested per million are at 978,736.The cumulative recoveries and active cases, meanwhile, are at 1,354,445 and 35,683 respectively. While there were 7,288 recoveries in the last 24 hours, active cases declined by 4,531 cases. Recoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 95.85%, 2.52% and 1.61 of the city’s infection tally, respectively.The national capital is currently under a lockdown, which is scheduled to be lifted at 5am on May 24, unless extended. The lockdown came into force at 10pm on April 19 and was scheduled to end at 5am on April 26. It has been extended four times since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-positivity-rate-drops-below-5-city-3009-new-cases-101621589184069.html
21-05-2021||Other||UP village reports 15 deaths in month; scared villagers shun tests, inoculation||The lanes in Lalau village in Agra, Uttar Pradesh are deserted for most of the day as villagers are yet to come to terms with the demise of 15 people in the past month. The health department sub-centre in the village rarely opens. Afraid of the recent deaths, villagers are not coming forward for Covid-19 tests and treatment. According to a rough estimate, only 20 per cent have been vaccinated, HT has learnt. “From April 17 to May 5, 15 people have died but the exact reason is not specified. The screening team of the health department came on May 7 and two people were found Covid positive. They are in home isolation,” said Aman Chahar, a student in Agra who is also the district secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union. He said only 20 to 25 per cent of people had been inoculated for Covid-19 in the village. Located about 12 kilometres from Agra city, Lalau is a gram panchayat that is part of Akola block in Agra district. The population of Lalau, which also has Laxmipur, another smaller village or majra, is about 6,000 with an equal number of Jats and Dalits and a few from the backward Baghel caste. The village has a primary and junior high school till Class 8 and those interested in further studies either go to Akola, Malpura or Agra. The village has a literacy rate of 40 per cent and most of the villagers, mainly Dalits, work as labourers at local shoe factories or in Agra city while Jats work as both farmers and labourers. ‘Marghati’ is a place on gram panchayat land in the village where the deceased are cremated. After panchayat poll voting on April 15, ‘Marghati’ was a much-frequented place as villagers cremated about 15 people, including youths, facing untimely demise. “There was no sanitization drive and village youths collected money on their own to carry out sanitization after so many deaths,” said Chahar. “The sub-centre of the health department rarely opens, that also when the vaccination of the newborns is to take place. Otherwise, it remains locked for most of the year,” complained Omkar Chahar (39), a villager. “As many as 15 deaths took place after voting for panchayat elections on April 15. No specific reason could be assigned to these deaths but most of those who died had a fever while some had breathlessness too. However, they did not get themselves tested for Covid-19 or any other disease,” said Omkar Chahar. “We have never seen so many deaths in such a short time. Still, no public representative or official came here,” said a worried Omkar. Villagers revealed that due to lack of health facilities, they fell prey to quacks practising in and around Akola and Malpura, the towns near Lalau village. Villagers are at ease paying ₹20 to ₹30 for medicines provided by these practitioners active at Naumeel crossing on Jagner Road. Defecation in the open is a common trend, despite government-constructed toilets and raging pandemic. However, Dr Sushil Kumar, medical officer in charge of Akola Community Health Centre (CHC), said he visited the village apart from the screening team that visited Lalau on May 8 as part of the statewide campaign in rural areas to trace, test and treat the villagers. “The screening team referred one case for testing and one of the villagers was found corona positive. He was handed over a medicine kit on May 9 and advised home isolation. Medicine kits were also given to those complaining of fever and sore throat all over the village,” said Dr Sushil Kumar. According to Dr Kumar, Lalau reported no corona deaths as yet. “With respect to other deaths, no communication was made to us,” he said. When asked about health facilities in the village, Dr Sushil Kumar informed that there was a health department sub-centre in Lalau. “The sub-centre is run by an ANM who has to visit nearby villages also besides remaining on constant move. So the sub-centre is closed at times,” Dr Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-village-reports-15-deaths-in-month-scared-villagers-shun-tests-inoculation-101621588969932.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC over ‘misbranding’ of plant-based products as that of milk||The Delhi high court has asked the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to take instructions on a plea by National Cooperative Dairy Federation of India (NCDFI) alleging misbranding of plant-based products as milk products. Justice Rekha Palli posted the plea for hearing on Monday after the FSSAI counsel sought time.NCDFI, functioning as the apex body of the cooperative dairy industry said that its members, totalling 17,216,000, are engaged in manufacturing and marketing of milk and milk products. They also include dairy product giant Amul India.The petition said that there are various business entities which have been misbranding and mislabelling their plant-based food or beverages extracted from almond, soya, and oats etc., as milk and other dairy terms such as paneer, curd, and yoghurt.It said that the statutory scheme of the Food Safety Act, 2006, and its allied regulations prevent the use of the word ‘milk’ and other dairy terms for any plant-based food/extracts as these do not qualify as milk, milk product or composite milk product.The petitioner has made Hershey’s India and Epigamia as parties in the petition which would be now heard on May 24.Also Read | ‘Covishield for 18-44 age group over, centres to be shut’: Satyendar JainReacting to the petition, Gauri Maulekhi, trustee of People for Animals, said; “The dairy sector is riddled with cruelty to animals in a variety of ways. The dairy cooperatives are villianising innovations that provide sustainable healthy alternatives like the plant-based milk and plant-based milk products. Not only are they attempting to dictate to the regulator to create lopsided policies but are also utilising judicial systems to bully startups that are bringing solutions to unsustainable dairy practices.”Alokparna Sengupta, managing director of Humane Society International India said; “In the middle of a raging pandemic, usurping the court’s time to punish a sector which is not even a competition to the dairy industry not only insensitive but makes a mockery of the suffering we are seeing around. Plant-based alternatives to dairy are being chosen for various reasons -- whether ethical, environmental or health.”“Despite this trend [of plant-based milk and its products] across the world, India has only seen a slow increase...We were making and using coconut milk and cream for centuries. How can that suddenly be changed because the said cooperative is now imagining a threat? Coconut milk, soy milk, tofu and milk from plants have been in existence for centuries. There cannot be an exclusive claim to the term milk!” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-in-delhi-hc-over-misbranding-of-plant-based-products-as-that-of-milk-101621588968459.html
21-05-2021||Kolkata||Arrest of 3 ex-mayors by CBI puts Kolkata in unique list; citizens recall Netaji||As two heavyweight Bengal ministers, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sovan Chatterjee, waited in judicial custody for the next hearing of their bail petition in the Narada sting operation case, mixed reactions were heard in Kolkata as all three had served as mayor of the 300-year-old city which was also the capital of British India till 1911. Though arrest of serving or former mayors is not new in India or other countries, Kolkata became unique for the wrong reasons on May 17 since no other city in the nation witnessed the arrest of three former mayors on the same charge, academicians and lawyers said. Recorded in 2014, the sting videos were made public by Narada News a month before the 2016 Bengal assembly polls but the TMC leadership dismissed the clips as doctored. The Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court asked the CBI to start an investigation in March 2017 after hearing a case filed by another former city mayor and noted lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya. He held the chair between 2005 and 2010. Mukherjee served as mayor between 2000 and 2005 while Chatterjee took oath in 2010 and resigned in 2018. He was succeeded by Hakim who served till last year when the elected body outlived its tenure. Hakim was appointed head of the board of administrators since civic polls were not held because of the Covid19 pandemic. He was also the first Muslim mayor of Kolkata after Independence. Some iconic figures in Bengal’s history served as mayor of Kolkata. Among them was the legendary barrister and freedom fighter Chittaranjan Das. He was the city’s mayor from 1924 to 25. His political protégé, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, held the chair between 1930 and 31. “Arrest of mayors, be it in Brazil’s Sao Paulo or some of the east European cities, is related to corruption that crept in when capitalism replaced socialism. It is a product of neo-liberal politics. In Kolkata, most of the former mayors were part of the freedom movement. I cannot draw a comparison between them and today’s leaders. Subhas Bose, too, was arrested when he was a mayor but it was because he led a political movement demanding the removal of the Holwell monument. He was injured in baton charge,” said Shouvik Mukhopadhyay, a professor of history at Calcutta University. “This is the first time three former mayors of an Indian city were arrested on the same charge and on the same day. But many more have been accused in this case. They have not been arrested yet. In 2016, we all saw the sting videos,” Mukhopadhyay added.Anup Ghosh, an executive with a top private sector company and resident of Kolkata, said, “This is a unique and hilarious situation. There are no holy cows in politics and corruption charges are pending against many more. I smell politics in these arrests.”Film director Subrata Sen, a south Kolkata resident, said, “Nobody is guilty till the crime is proved in court. It is just a coincidence that four of the three arrested men are former mayors of Kolkata. Going by the history of similar cases probed by the CBI, proving the bribery charge in this case, may not be easy.”Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, who also served as advocate general of Tripura is now a Rajya Sabha member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M). “Arrest of three former mayors is unique as well as unfortunate. It is shameful for Kolkata because that chair holds a special position in history. People like Bose, Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy (first chief minister of Independent Bengal), freedom fighter Jatindra Mohan Sengupta, educationist Triguna Sen were among many luminaries who served as mayor. Mamata Banerjee has blended corruption with politics. The case would not have started had we not moved court,” said Bhattacharya. The three former mayors, who also served as ministers, are considered heavyweights in state politics. Mukherjee, 75, took oath as panchayat and rural development minister on May 10, set a record by winning his Ballygunge seat in south Kolkata by a margin of about 72,000 votes. He started his political career in the 1960s as a Youth Congress leader and close associate of former Union minister Praya Ranjan Dasmunsi. Both were known to be close to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Between 1972 and 1977, Mukherjee served as the youngest face in the cabinet of then chief minister Siddhartha Shankar Ray. As deputy information and cultural affairs minister, Mukherjee’s job during the Emergency was to clear news reports that the Bengal media wanted to publish. While he criticised the Emergency later in life, Mukherjee acknowledged that he came to know the media better during those years.Aged 62, housing minister Firhad Hakim is considered one of the most influential leaders in the TMC. He rose from the ranks in the TMC as a civic body councillor. He was given charge of important departments such as municipal affairs and urban development after Banerjee came to power in 2011. Chatterjee, 57, was the mayor of Kolkata till he resigned in 2018 following differences with the leadership. Chatterjee also served as a cabinet minister. He joined the BJP in 2019 and was made election observer for the Kolkata zone. He quit the BJP after being denied a ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/arrest-of-3-ex-mayors-by-cbi-puts-kolkata-in-unique-list-citizens-recall-netaji-101621587888479.html
21-05-2021||Other||Akhil Gogoi alleges manhandling while being brought to assembly to take oath||Newly elected MLA and president of Raijor Dal, Akhil Gogoi, who has been under arrest since December 2019 for his role in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests, alleged on Friday that he was manhandled by the police and other officials while being brought to the state assembly to take an oath as an MLA, HT has learnt. “I am an elected member of the state assembly. Why am I being targeted and pushed around like an animal? This is an insult to the people of Assam and Sibsagar. No one can silence my voice or the development of my constituency,” Gogoi said on arrival at the assembly. He alleged that no Covid-19 protocol was maintained while he was brought from Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), where he is now lodged, to the assembly for the oath-taking ceremony. “I was brought in a run-down bus along with nearly 20 policemen. I was threatened by the magistrate present on the bus and not allowed to interact with anyone. Once we reached the assembly premises, my dress was pulled and I was nearly dragged inside,” said Gogoi. The matter was later brought to the notice of chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who is reported to have entrusted parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika to inquire into Gogoi’s allegations. “We are hurt by the police’s behaviour with Gogoi. He is an elected representative and we condemn the incident of him being insulted inside the assembly. We urge the state government to take appropriate action and punish those guilty,” All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA, Aminul Islam, said. The 45-year-old, who contested from the Sibsagar seat, defeated Surabhi Rajkonwari of BJP without campaigning himself. Gogoi became the first person in Assam to win an election while being under arrest. Earlier this month, a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court allowed Gogoi to take oath as a new MLA. The first session of the new assembly began on Friday with the oath-taking of newly elected members. Pro-tem Speaker Phani Bhushan Choudhury administered the oath to all new MLAs while following Covid-19-related safety measures. Raijor Dal was formed in October last year and Gogoi was named as the president of the party later. He filed his candidature from the hospital. For this election, Raijor Dal had tied up with the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), another newly formed outfit. Gogoi was the lone winner from both parties. Gogoi was arrested in December 2019 after a case against him was lodged in Chabua police station in Dibrugarh district under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal conspiracy, unlawful assembly, rioting etc. Subsequently, sections 15(1) (a)/16 of UAPA were added to it. The trial in the case is yet to commence. The case was later transferred to the NIA the same month and a charge sheet was filed in June last year which alleged that Gogoi had led the anti-CAA movement which turned violent and led to arson and attacks on police personnel. It alleged that the peasant leader hatched a conspiracy to target a particular community to disturb the unity and integrity of the country. Last month, the Gauhati High Court upheld an earlier order issued by an NIA court granting bail to Gogoi. The leader is still in custody as he is yet to get bail in another case lodged against him by the investigative agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhil-gogoi-alleges-manhandling-while-being-brought-to-assembly-to-take-oath-101621586928727.html
21-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM says holding discussion on extending lockdown, decision soon||Amid all indications that the Karnataka government will be extending the lockdown as the state battles second wave of Covid-19, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said he is holding discussions in this regard and will take a decision soon.The state is currently under complete lockdown till May 24."We will sit and discuss tomorrow, tonight also I'm meeting Ministers, we will take a decision," Yediyurappa told reporters to a question on extending the lockdown.Responding to a similar question from reporters, Health Minister K Sudhakar said, "several Ministers are of the same opinion, the Chief Minister is also of the same mindset, and a final decision will be taken by May 22 or 23."There is also intense speculation whether the lockdown will be extended for seven or 14 days.The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the Covid cases continued to spike.With the current lockdown ending early next week, several leaders, including ministers, have expressed themselves in favour of extending it, to control the spread of Covid.They are of the opinion that the current lockdown is yielding results with the number of fresh cases gradually decreasing.The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka is witnessing a decline, as the state on Thursday reported 28,869 new cases, which was outnumbered by recoveries with 52,257 discharges.However, the number of fatalities continued to remain high at 548.While the total number of infections in the state so far stood at 23,35,524, the death toll was at 23,854.Total number of active cases was 5,34,954.The state during the last two days had reported over 30,000 fresh cases, which was around 40,000 last week.However, there are concerns being raised about decline in the number of tests being done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-says-holding-discussion-on-extending-lockdown-decision-soon-101621585721647.html
21-05-2021||Kolkata||Post poll violence: SC to hear plea for direction to Centre, WB to stop exodus||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear next week a plea seeking directions to the Centre and the West Bengal government to prevent alleged exodus of people due to "state-sponsored" violence and constituting of a SIT to fairly investigate and take appropriate action against culprits.A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai was told by senior advocate Pinky Anand that more than one lakh people have been displaced due to the poll-related violence in West Bengal.She told the bench that this matter required urgent listing as people are forced to leave their homes and stay in shelter homes and camps.“Ok, we will hear the matter next week,” the bench said.The PIL filed by social worker Arun Mukherjee and other social workers, victim of the violence and lawyers said that they are aggrieved with the post electoral Violence in West Bengal from May 2 onwards.The plea alleged that the police and the state-sponsored goons are in cahoots because of which the police proves to be a mere spectator in the entire episode, discouraging and threatening victims from filing FIRs, non-investigation of cases, inaction in incidents where cognizable offences have been committed in presence of police authorities, non-provision of security to those facing threats to life.It said various media platforms including social media, print and electronic media have covered the entire trail of incidents and various government organizations and autonomous institutions like National Human Rights Commission, National Commission of Women have either suo moto or on receiving of complaints from the helpless victims have taken cognizance of the matter and sent out teams to investigate the matter.“No support/assistance was offered from the State Government and even their security was compromised at many instances. They have reported the inaction of the police in providing protection to the women, who were attacked and threatened by hooligans and no action was taken by the police officials in this regard”, the plea submitted.The plea further said that due to the circumstances, people are internally displaced and are forced to stay in shelter homes/camps in and outside West Bengal.“The exodus of the people in West Bengal due to state- sponsored violence has posed serious humanitarian issues related to their survival, where they are forced to live in deplorable conditions, in violation of their fundamental rights enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India”, it submitted.The plea also sought formation of Commission for rehabilitation of displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, and livelihood, mental and emotional agony.The petitioners sought direction to Centre to discharge its duty vested under Article 355 of the Constitution to protect the state from internal disturbance and to ensure that the government in the state is carried on, in accordance with provisions of this Constitution.It sought direction to Centre and West Bengal chief secretary to provide immediate relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence by setting up camps, make provision for food, medicines, pandemic resources, and make appropriate medical facilities accessible to them in light of COVID pandemic.It said that Centre should also constitute an Inquiry Commission to assess the scale and causes of the exodus as well as direct West Bengal to provide long-term relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence, by making provision for their rehabilitation, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, mental and emotional agony.It also sought directions to Centre and West Bengal to set up an alternative helpline number, monitored by central forces to respond to SOS calls and also record complaints and FIRs of internally displaced persons within and outside the state of West Bengal.The petitioners said that direction be also issued to Centre for deploying central protection forces, including armed forces, for the restoration of law and order in West Bengal and setting up a fast-track court to adjudicate matters pertaining to the prosecution of any individual or organization involved in the commission of heinous offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/post-poll-violence-sc-to-hear-plea-for-direction-to-centre-wb-to-stop-exodus-101621585274091.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Inquiry against Panchkula hospital for overcharging Covid-19 patients||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday ordered an inquiry against Paras Hospital, Panchkula, for overcharging Covid-19 patients. Vij formed a three-member committee to probe the complaints forwarded to him by Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta. Also read: PM Modi warns against ‘black fungus’, says must focus on precaution, preparationThe committee, comprising state medical education and research director Dr Shaleen, additional director general of health services Dr VK Bansal and a state finance department official, will submit its report in a week. Gupta had written to the state government, requesting it to carry out an audit of bills issued to Covid patients at private hospitals. He had even visited Paras Hospital after getting complaints of overcharging. Speaker cited three cases in his letter to VijIn his letter to Vij, Gupta mentioned three cases of overcharging.A patient, Jog Dhyan, was handed over a bill of ₹7.59 lakh by Paras Hospital on May 13 for his treatment for Covid-19 between May 2 and 13. The charges were later reduced to ₹2.9 lakh after the district administration intervened and a district-level committee was set up to look into the allegations. The family of another patient who succumbed to Covid on April 9 was handed a bill of ₹9.77 lakh for his treatment since March 24 at Paras Hospital. Dharam Pal Singhal, who had been admitted to the same hospital on April 17 and was discharged on May 3, was handed a bill of ₹4.97 lakh for various procedures and lab tests. Haryana had in June last year issued an order capping the daily package rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between ₹8,000 and ₹18,000. Hospital claimed bills were provisional The hospital authorities had told the district-level inquiry committee that the summary of tests and the charges for those tests were for the record of the hospital only. The hospital had maintained that the charges were provisional but the final billing would be done strictly as per the government’s instructions. The response of the hospital was part of the minutes of the meeting of the committee. Paras Hospital marketing head Yashwant Kumar said that the authorities would be able to comment only after going through the order of the committee constituted at the state level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inquiry-against-panchkula-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-19-patients-101621583448160.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||FIR registered in Mumbai against captain of barge P305||Mumbai Police have registered a case of negligence against the captain of Papaa-305 (P305), the barge that sank in the Arabian Sea amid Cyclone Tauktae, leading to the loss of at least 49 lives. The Yellow Gate police station have based the case on a complaint lodged by the barge engineer.The First Information Report is lodged under sections 304(II) (an act done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the barge captain and others.“We have registered a complaint against the captain (of the barge) and others on the basis of a statement given by chief engineer Rahman Shaikh who has complained that an alert was issued by the meteorological department but was not taken seriously by the captain and others who should have moved the barge to a safer place,” said joint commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil (Law and Order).“It is at a very preliminary stage but investigation has started,” added Patil.Also Watch | Navy officers recall rescuing survivors of sunken barge Another police officer said they have recorded the statements of more than 100 survivors who were rescued by Indian Navy and Coast Guard from barge P305. The concerned company has also been asked to submit the details of employees working on the barge, he added.According to Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that had chartered the barge along with its marine crew, the master of P305 chose to stay in the sea despite instructions for returning to Mumbai harbour in the wake of warnings for Cyclone Tauktae.The barge was deployed at a platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest of the ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. It got de-anchored on Sunday night and according to deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar, sank at about 7pm on Monday, forcing most of its 261 crew members to jump in a very choppy sea and rough weather that made the Navy’s search and rescue operation one of the most challenging operations the force has undertaken in four decades.The Navy has so far rescued 186 crew members of the barge and recovered 49 bodies even as search is on for 37 missing persons -- 26 from P305 and 11 crew members of a tug boat, Varaprada, who also went missing during the cyclone.The Navy has so far rescued two crew members of Varaprada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-registered-in-mumbai-against-captain-of-barge-p305-101621582968337.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC ex-chief justice AB Saharya dies of Covid-19||A former chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court, AB Saharya, 80, has passed away in Delhi due to Covid-19 complications. Family members said he was admitted at Apollo hospital in Delhi, where he died of multiple organ failure caused by Covid-19, on Thursday. Also read: Jaishankar in US next week, to discuss vaccines and Indo-PacificBorn on September 15, 1940, he got enrolled with the Mysore State Bar Council in October 1963 and shifted to Delhi in 1965, where was designated as senior advocate of the Delhi high court in November 1984. He was appointed a permanent judge on April 24, 1986, at the Delhi high court before he joined as the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court on November 7, 1997. He retired on September 14, 2002. He was living with his family in Delhi, where his wife Prabha died in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-hc-ex-chief-justice-ab-saharya-dies-of-covid19-101621582188310.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||'Covishield for 18-44 age group over, centers to be shut': Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday that the city did not have doses of Covishield vaccine for those in the age group of 18-44, and the stock of Covaxin for the age group was also on the verge of getting over."We don't have Covishield vaccines for the 18-44 age group and the available stock of Covaxin vaccine for the same age group will be consumed soon. Many vaccination centers will be closing today," he said, according to news agency ANI.We don't have Covisheild vaccines for the 18-44 age group & the available stock of COVAXIN vaccine for the same age group will be consumed soon. Many vaccination centers will be closing today: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain pic.twitter.com/DtTcfcPf84Delhi on Thursday continued to record a dip in its daily Covid-19 cases. As many as 3,231 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the city's tally to 1,409,950, according to a health department bulletin. The number of people who died due to the virus in a day were 233. The overall death toll stands at 22,579, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covishield-for-18-44-age-group-over-vaccination-centres-shut-satyendar-jain-101621579711616.html
21-05-2021||Other||15 Maoists killed in gunfight in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli||At least 15 suspected Maoists were killed in a fierce gun battle between the Gadchiroli police and CPI (Maoist) in a forest area between Potegaon and Rajoli in south Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on Friday morning. The exchange of fire began at 5.30am when, responding to a tip-off, around 200 jawans of C-60, an elite anti-Maoist squad of the district, raided a hideout. “At least 15 members of the CPI (Maoist) were killed in the encounter in the jungle,” confirmed Sandip Patil, the deputy inspector general of police, Gadchiroli. “We kicked off the operation early morning after learning about Maoist presence in the forest. So far, 13 bodies have been recovered from the site. Searches are still on,” Patil said. Also Read | NIA takes over probe into 2019 Maoist encounter in ChhattisgarhDistrict police superintendent Ankit Goyal said the C-60 commandos have recovered some arms, weapons and Maoist literature from the site. According to him, several Maoists escaped and also took away the bodies of some of their slain colleagues. Among those killed is reportedly the commander of the local dalam (squad). The bodies were yet to be identified, and search operations were still on, said the senior police officer. Police got the information that the local squad of the CPI (Maoist) was trying to organise a meeting with the villagers and tendu leaf contractors over wages for collection of tendu leaf. Many contractors from Telangana and other states buy rights for plucking of tendu leaves from Gadchiroli district every year. These contractors have to pay huge protection money to the CPI (Maoist) every year during the season. Earlier this month, the Gadchiroli police gunned down four suspected senior Maoist leaders, including two women, in two separate gunfights in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-maoists-killed-in-gunfight-in-maharashtra-s-gadchiroli-101621580148208.html
21-05-2021||Other||‘We don’t discriminate’: Goa health secy on complaints of non-residents booking vaccine slots||Goa Health Secretary Ravi Dhawan said that the State would not ‘discriminate’ against people from outside Goa who are booking slots for Covid-19 vaccination via the Cowin app in Goa among the 18-44 age group, HT has learnt. “The quota that is remaining… that has been procured by the state - as of now, we are given to understand that the 36,580 doses that have come - they are for the entire month of June. My only worry is that many people from other states also have booked this, the portal being online and our slots are going to others. We have reported this to the Government of India and have asked them to take appropriate steps. The ministry has also been informed,” Goa state immunization officer Dr Rajendra Borkar, said.The health secretary’s assertion came after the state immunization officer Dr Rajendra Borkar said he was ‘worried’ that since Goa had limited vaccine doses for the 18-44 age group, vaccines that were procured by the state are being availed off by those from ‘outside’. The health secretary, however, countered such ‘fears’ saying that no state, including the neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka, was discriminating against who is booking slots. “The government has taken a considered decision not to discriminate against anyone when it comes to administering vaccines in Goa and that is in line with what all states have done. Whether it is the neighbouring state of Maharashtra or Karnataka. We do not discriminate,” health secretary Ravi Dhawan said. The Goa government has opened limited slots for the 18-44 age group to get them vaccinated owing to limited vaccines being available. However, since the pre-booking for a slot is mandatory via the CoWin App for those in the age group of 18-44 years, several people have been booking slots wherever they are available irrespective of how far the centre is from one’s place of residence. Till date, Goa has been able to administer 4.56 lakh doses out of which 2.65 lakh people have been administered one dose while 95,687 people have received both doses and are considered fully vaccinated. The fully vaccinated population makes up roughly about 5 per cent of the state’s total population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-don-t-discriminate-goa-health-secy-on-complaints-of-non-residents-booking-vaccine-slots-101621580088418.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||O2 concentrator hoarding case: ED raids Navneet Kalra’s offices, home||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday launched raids at the residence and offices of arrested businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with its money laundering probe into alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, people familiar with the development said. The officials said about nine places were being searched in Delhi-NCR, including Kalra’s residence, office of Matrix Cellular -- a company named in the case -- and others to collect any documentary evidence available there. Kalra is currently in judicial custody and has been trying to get bail from the high court through a battery of lawyers. The ED’s money laundering probe is based on the Delhi Police case in which it has been alleged that Kalra was selling oxygen concentrators, bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, at an inflated price of ₹70,000 to ₹75,000. The central agency has already taken relevant documents from the Delhi Police and is set to approach a court to take Kalra’s custody soon. Also Read | Cops’ plea for Navneet Kalra’s custody junkedKalra’s dramatic arrest from a farmhouse in Gurugram took place on Sunday even lawyers were trying to obtain an anticipatory bail for him from the Delhi high court throughout the week. Police were searching for him since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular on May 7.As part of its probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the ED is looking into the money trail of sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators, whether the hoarded concentrators were being given to Covid-19 patients at exorbitant prices. The federal anti-money laundering probe agency has powers to attach properties if established that money made by the accused is proceeds of crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/o2-concentrator-hoarding-case-ed-raids-navneet-kalra-s-offices-home-101621579788232.html
21-05-2021||Patna||Bihar Jewellers Federation wants implementation of new hallmarking rule to be extended||The All India Jewellers and Goldsmiths Federation (AIJGF), Bihar, has requested that the implementation of the new hallmarking rule to be extended due to the Covid-19 pandemic, HT has learnt. In letters addressed to Union telecommunication minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Bihar’s industry minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain and deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, the AIJGF has also requested to set up hallmarking centres in all the 38 districts of the state before the implementation of the new rules.As per the new hallmarking rules, hallmarking of gold jewellery and artefacts, which is in fact the certification of the precious metals, will be mandatory and that the jewellers have to get themselves registered with the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). This hallmarking rule is to be effective from June 1st this year.“But it needs to be deferred and be implemented from May 31, 2022,” Ashok Kumar Verma, convener, the AIJGF, Bihar, said.Many jewellers in the state have not prepared for hallmarking which will be mandatory once the new rules would be made effective. Violation of this rule will incur severe punishment and imprisonment in some cases, he added.“But where is the facility to get prepared for the new rules? In our state, there are only five hallmarking centres. What will be the situation with the jewellers located in other areas? During the lockdown, how can they travel to the hallmarking centre located in other districts?” he asked.The infrastructure for the implementation of the new rules is yet to be developed. First, the hallmarking centre should be developed in every district to stop any violation of the rule, he added.“All the ministers have assured that the AIJGF’s request and demand would be forwarded to Union minister of commerce and industries, Piyush Goyal. Earlier also, he considered the requests made by the Confederation of All India Traders. In fact, the hallmarking rule was to be implemented from January 2021 and considering the status of the pandemic, the Confederation requested to extend the implementation to June 2021. Let’s see how he responds to our requests now,” he said.Dhananjay Roy, a jeweller from Bari Path in the state capital, said lots of preparations need to be made on part of the jewellers and from the government’s side as well. “In the current situation, a jeweller based on the Indo-Nepal borders will have to travel to the state capital to get the certificate of purity which is quite difficult during the lockdown. Then he will have to wait for the certificate at the laboratory to check the purity of the precious metals located at few places in the country like in Bangalore and Kolkata,” he said. These are the basic practical problems and things that need to be addressed at the ground level, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-jewellers-federation-wants-implementation-of-new-hallmarking-rule-to-be-extended-101621579128044.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||ED raids 7-8 places in Delhi-NCR, including Navneet Kalra's residence, in connection with a money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Friday that its teams are conducting raids in seven to eight places in Delhi-NCR, including Navneet Kalra’s residence, in connection with cases of alleged money laundering in the hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators.Navneet Kalra, the owner of restaurants like Khan Chacha, Nege and Ju, Town Hall, was produced in Saket court on Thursday at the end of his three-day police custody, and was remanded to a 14-day judicial remand.Kalra was arrested for hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at an inflated price. Between May 5 and May 7 Delhi Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from the three restaurants owned by Kalra and from the office of a company called Matrix Cellular.On May 5, Delhi Police had registered a case against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, which led to his arrest from his farmhouse in Gurgaon on May 16.The police claimed that it was in possession of evidence which shows concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold at an inflated price of ₹75,000 and up.Five other accused, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO), and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were also arrested but all five were later released on bail.On May 20, ED lodged a money laundering case against Kalra for hoarding and selling oxygen concentrators at an inflated price. The agency will be probing the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), and will look into the money trail from the sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators to ascertain if they were being sold at an inflated price and if anyone else was involved in the dealings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-raids-7-8-places-in-delhi-ncr-including-navneet-kalra-s-residence-in-connection-with-an-alleged-money-laundering-case-101621577949028.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wrong signal: 5G towers blamed for rise in Covid cases in Haryana||Mobile towers can transmit coronavirus! Well, that’s the latest misconception being spread across Haryana that has the already stretched administration gearing up to grapple with before it becomes a law and order problem. Alarmed by the swiftness with which the misinformation blaming mobile towers for the rising Covid-19 fatalities in the state is spreading, the Haryana government has directed deputy commissioners (DCs) and superintendents of police (SPs) to crack down on rumourmongers. Also read: India records 2.59 lakh new Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, fatalities go above 4,000“Misinformation attributing the Covid-19 fatalities to the testing of 5G towers is doing the rounds. This has led to damage to mobile towers by misguided elements,” state chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said in his communication to the DCs and SSPs on Thursday. Misinformation campaign to vaccine hesitancy This is the latest misinformation campaign that the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government is battling after facing vaccine hesitancy in Haryana’s hinterland. Villages dominated by a particular community, opposed to the BJP-led Centre’s farm laws, is asking people to violate the Covid lockdown. It is in this backdrop that the one-page order of the chief secretary becomes significant and reflects the gravity of multiple challenges the administration is facing in fighting Covid-19. Virus can’t travel on radio waves/mobile network Vardhan said the World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified that such rumours are misplaced as viruses cannot travel on radio waves/mobile network. Other organisations have also debunked such claims, the order says and advises the DCs and SSPs to safeguard telecom infrastructure and related assets in their districts. “Take strict, coercive and immediate action against any miscreant spreading such misleading rumours,” the chief secretary said. The department of telecommunication, in its May 10 press statement, also clarified that linking the 5G network technology with Covid-19 has no scientific basis. Not just this, Vardhan said, the testing of 5G network has not yet started in India. “Hence, the apprehension that 5G trials/networks are causing coronavirus in India is baseless and devoid of any merit,” he added. Telecom providers express concernTR Dua, the director general of the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association, said he had sought Vardhan’s intervention. “Four towers were damaged in Jind and Rohtak districts. Fifteen villages wanted towers shifted due to the misleading campaign.The operation and maintenance of telecom towers was becoming challenging,” Dua said.Residents of Masudpur, Rakhi Shahpur, Khanda Kheri, Koth Kalan and Majra villages of Hisar district also raised concern amid the rising Covid cases. They met Narnaund sub divisional magistrate Vikas Yadav in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wrong-signal-5g-towers-blamed-for-rise-in-covid-cases-in-haryana-101621574207841.html
21-05-2021||Ranchi||‘Deserted’ by children, septuagenarian woman defeats Covid-19||A septuagenarian woman, who was allegedly deserted by her children after the detection of Covid-19, defeated the deadly virus and reunited with the family members on Thursday after 23 days with an initiative of a doctor of Ranchi Sadar Hospital, HT has learnt.The woman, identified as China Madhu, had been sent to an old age home after hospital authority and district administration failed to find out the details of her family. The woman speaks only Telugu which appeared to be a big hurdle in finding her family.Finally, Dr Ajit Kumar, a surgeon at Sadar Hospital, Ranchi, took to social media which helped Madhu reunite with her family.Dr Kumar said the old woman was brought to Sadar hospital on April 29 and she tested positive for Covid-19 on May 2.“Since then she was under treatment at the hospital. Sister Shashi Barla took her special care right from feeding to combing her hair. Her report turned negative on May 16 but, no one from her family visited or enquired about her during her treatment,” Kumar said.District administration and health officials put their all efforts to find out trace of her family. “Since she speaks only Telugu, it was hard to understand her language. After failing to find her family members, the woman was shifted to an old age home in Nagri by the administration on Wednesday where 30-35 old people reside,” he said.“Finally, I put her story on social media with her photograph on Wednesday. Soon, one Sanjiv Mishra gave a lead about her family. Mishra said her children reside in railway colony Ranchi,” he said.Madhu has six children including three sons and three daughters. Three children including two sons and a daughter live in Ranchi.Madhu’s younger son Govind Rao, who works as gangman in the railway, said, “My mother lived with my elder brother in Ranchi. When she felt unwell, she was shifted to my sister’s house. After her health deteriorated, my sister admitted her to Sadar hospital.”When he was asked why they did not visit their mother, Rao said, “I went to the hospital once but I was not allowed to enter the hospital premises.”Rao said they saw the picture of her mother on social media on Thursday morning. “We are happy to meet our mother again,” he said.Rao’s sister Dhan Laxmi said she could not meet her mother because she also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/deserted-by-children-septuagenarian-woman-defeats-covid19-101621573007464.html
21-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: Arrested leaders to stay under house arrest, rules Calcutta HC||The Calcutta high court, hearing the bail plea of the four politicians arrested in 2016 Narada sting case along with the CBI’s plea to transfer the trial, ordered that all the four politicians, accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, would stay under house arrest. “There was a difference of opinion between Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee over the bail plea of the four accused so the division bench ordered that a large bench be constituted to hear the matter. Till then, the four accused would be kept under house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, advocate. The two Cabinet ministers, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who were arrested by the CBI on Monday have already spent four nights in judicial custody. The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. Also Read | CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIRAdvocate Kalyan Banerjee told the court hat Hakim’s presence was necessary for managing Covid crisis in Kolkata. “As two of the accused persons are ministers in the state government, the court also permitted them access to administrative files and to meet government officials through video conferencing,” said an advocate. The court rejected the requests made by the TMC leaders’ advocates for their release on interim bail until the matter is heard by a larger bench. It also turned down the CBI’s plea to keep them in jail. Even though all four leaders were sent to judicial custody, all of them had to be admitted in hospitals after their complaint of illness on Tuesday. While Hakim is admitted to the hospital of Presidency Correctional Home, the rest were admitted to the state-run SSKM hospital. The hospital authorities have set up a medical board to treat them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-four-arrested-leaders-today-101621572347665.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Case filed against captain of barge P305 that sank off in Arabian Sea||The Mumbai Police on Friday registered a case against the captain of the barge which sank in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae. As many as 51 lives were lost in the incident that took place on Monday. The captain was booked on the basis of the complaint of rescued barge chief engineer Rahman Shaikh.Mumbai's Yellow Gate police station registered the case under sections 304(II) (an act done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also Read: 11 more bodies recovered, search on for 47 after cyclone sank barge off Mumbai“We have registered a complaint against the captain and others on the basis of a statement given by chief engineer Rahman Shaikh. He has complained that alert was issued by the meteorological department but it was not taken seriously by the captain and other people concerned who should have taken the alert seriously and move the barge to a safer place," said joint commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil (Law and Order).According to Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that had chartered the barge, the captain of P305 chose to stay in the sea along with his crew despite receiving instructions to return to the Mumbai harbour in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae.The Indian Navy and the coast guard have so far rescued 188 crew members and recovered 51 bodies. Out of the rescued members, 186 are crew members of P 305 and 2 are crew members of a tug boat, Varaprada, which too went missing during the cyclone. Search operation for the missing persons entered its fifth day on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/case-filed-against-captain-of-barge-305-that-sank-off-in-arabian-sea-101621569735780.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Relatively cool day in Delhi today; AQI in satisfactory category||Delhi is likely to see another relatively cool day on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 31°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 19.3°C, and the maximum temperature was 31.4°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 84. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 58.Also Read | Delhi gets highest 24-hr rain for MayAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality has improved to the good category as forecasted. Widespread rainfall helped to remove suspended particle through washout process. Surface winds are northwesterly and high. Overall AQI is forecasted to stay in the good to the low end of satisfactory for tomorrow and satisfactory to moderate on 22nd and 23rd May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/relatively-cool-day-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-satisfactory-category-101621566647726.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets highest 24-hr rain for May||Over 119mm of incessant rainfall, induced by cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance, lashed Delhi in the 24 hours to 8.30am on Thursday, breaking the Capital’s all-time 24-hour rainfall record for the month of May.The spell of rainfall was so heavy that it surpassed what is generally received in the entire month, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. The last time Delhi saw more rain in all of May was in 2008, when the city recorded 165mm rain in the entire month.IMD said that in the 24 hours till 8.30am on Thursday, Delhi recorded 119.3mm rainfall, which was around twice the rain recorded on a “regular” monsoon day – around 55-65mm. The rain and the gusty winds also led to the pollution levels in the city dropping to “satisfactory” levels on Wednesday for the first time since September 23, 2020, or after a gap of 238 days, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Delhi had also recorded 60mm rainfall, which was equivalent to the previous all time record lodged on May 24, 1976. “The rainfall activity intensified at night and by 8.30am on Thursday, Delhi had received 119.3mm rainfall, which broke the all-time (24-hour) record for May,” he said.The rain continued to give Delhi residents a cool summer with the maximum temperature at Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, touching 31.4 degrees Celsius, nine degrees below what is considered normal this time of the year. The minimum temperature was also 19.3 degrees Celsius, seven degrees below normal.An unusually high number of western disturbances in March, April and now in May has subdued the searing heat normally felt in the city and north India through April and May, IMD has said.Scientists explained that rainfall activity began in parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) from Tuesday night under the residual impact of cyclone Tauktae. “The heavy rainfall was the impact of the remnant of cyclone Tauktae. Only such rare weather phenomenon can do this in peak summer in Delhi,” said Rajendra Kumar Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.According to weather expert Navdeep Dahiya, the cyclone-induced rainfall also broke records in several cities, including Gurugram that recorded 100mm rainfall (previous record of 58mm on May 2, 1987), Meerut recorded 86mm (previous record of 64.3 on May 29, 1886), Varanasi recorded 83mm (previous record of 55mm on May 2, 1969), Narnaul at 77mm (previous record of 60.3mm on May 14, 1982) and Sultanpur at 73.4mm (previous record of 70.5mm on May 25, 1970).Cyclone Tauktae that intensified into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” made landfall on Gujarat coast late on Monday evening with wind speed between 150kmph and 160kmph.CPCB data shows that the air quality also drastically improved following the day-long rainfall. The overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 58, in the ‘satisfactory’ category. On Wednesday, the overall AQI was 78, also in the ‘satisfactory’ zone.While the rain brought relief from the heat and pollution, it also wreaked havoc on the city’s infrastructure, which could not match the intensity of the downpour.Late on Wednesday night, a portion of road at Khaira Road Dhansa Stand metro station in Najafgarh caved-in after a drainpipe burst due to excess flow of rainwater. The cave-in caused partial damage to an adjacent building, and a truck fell into the crater, but was pulled out without anyone getting hurt.“Repair work of the caved-in portion is in progress and all efforts shall be made to complete the work at the earliest. DMRC is now filling the road with additional concrete to avoid the recurrence of this problem in the future,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-highest-24-hr-rain-for-may-101621563001031.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to set up oxygen plants of 300 MT for third Covid wave: CM Kejriwal||Sweta Goswamisweta.goswami@htlive.comNew Delhi Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the state government will buy oxygen tankers and set up pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants of up to 300 metric tonnes (MT), and set up more beds to better prepare the Capital for another potential wave of Covid-19, even as ongoing surge appeared to be ebbing.“Day before yesterday (Tuesday), I held a meeting to decide on the steps to be taken to prepare for the third wave. The people of Delhi should not face the problems that emerged during the second wave of Covid-19 again. We have made a team of officers that will list all preparations to be made,” he said.The chief minister added that this team is inspecting all aspects of health care infrastructure that need to be bolstered and managed in preparation of any possible surge.“The number of oxygen beds required; whether we should set up 35,000-40,000 oxygen beds and 10,000 ICU beds? Further, of those oxygen and ICU beds, how many should be reserved for children? We have already prepared 6,500-7,000 ICU beds,” Kejriwal said while speaking to reporters on the sidelines of his visit to the family of a school teacher who died of Covid-19.Kejriwal also said the Delhi government will buy its own oxygen tankers and install PSA oxygen plants on in the city on a “war footing”. He said Delhi’s regular oxygen consumption on a daily basis is about 250 MT.“Therefore, we are planning to install oxygen plants with a total capacity of 250-300MT at least, so that we do not have shortage of oxygen when the next wave hits,” he said.“Delhi also needs to set up its own storage tanks for oxygen. This is another aspect being looked into. So things like these need to be fine-tuned. By next week, the team will prepare the basic plan and work will then begin on a war-footing based on that plan,” Kejriwal said.For children, he said the government has made a separate team that is looking into aspects ranging from the line of treatment if they contract the infection to the medical supplies they will need. “For example, oxygen masks for children need to be smaller. So, the team is looking into things like this. If we had completed the vaccination drive, we would have got some relief from Covid-19, but this is not the case. We have repeatedly asked the Centre for more vaccine doses, because we have just a day’s stock left. We hope the Centre sends doses soon,” he said.Decision on lockdown soon, say officialsWhen asked about the lockdown which has been in place for almost five weeks now, the chief minister said he will have a meeting with Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal over the weekend, and take decisions necessary. “Whatever is decided, I will let you know well in time,” he said, without elaborating if the government will spell out relaxations this week.Senior officials in the government said the lockdown will be eased in phases from next week.“The relaxations will be very gradual, as we cannot afford to lower our guard now,” a senior government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-of-300-mt-for-third-covid-wave-cm-kejriwal-101621559571309.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Antifungal drug supply short of govt estimates||Owing to the limited supply of Amphotericin B from the central government, Delhi is on the brink of facing a crisis of the antifungal medicine required to treat mucormycosis.As on Thursday, the city had 203 active black fungus cases. The Centre allocated the city 2,750 vials of the drug, which, officials said, would suffice for only 30 patients for the full 15-day treatment regimen.State health officials said that of the allocation of 2,750 vials, Delhi had not received 600 vials till Thursday. Going by the number of active cases, the Delhi government has projected it needs at least 18,000 vials to treat the existing number of patients.“Delhi was earlier allocated 2,150 vials of Amphotericin B by the Centre for the month of May. On Wednesday, it increased the allocation by 600 vials, making it a total of 2,750 vials. But, at least till 6pm (on Thursday), we did not receive the 600 vials,” said a senior state health official.According to doctors, as of now, Amphotericin B is the only effective last-line medicine to treat mucormycosis.“What is worrying is the increasing number of cases -- from 185 cases on Wednesday, the number of patients affected by black fungus stood at at least 200 on Thursday. We hope fresh stocks arrive soon,” said another state health official.Since supply is less than demand, the Delhi government is regulating the distribution of Amphotericin B to ensure judicious and equitable distribution to the needy patients. On May 18, the city administration formed a technical expert committee (TEC) to examine applications from various hospitals for the medicine and approve the requisite number of vials.Of the 2,150 vials available, the TEC, till Wednesday, cleared distribution of 1,800 vials to hospitals that are treating black fungus patients, documents seen by HT showed. This indicates that the Delhi government is left with only about 350 more vials, unless fresh stocks arrive.“The treatment protocol is for 15 days and, usually, 300mg dosage is recommended for one day. So, one patient needs approximately 90 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) during the full course of treatment,” said a second health official.“The Delhi government has written to the department of pharmaceuticals, the Government of India (GoI) and the Drugs Controller General of India, requesting for 18,000 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) at least. Apart from this, we have also calculated that Delhi will need approximately 15,000 vials of 50mg each on a weekly basis. This also has been communicated to them,” said the official.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also wrote a letter to the Centre demanding an allocation of 100,000 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) for Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday.Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers, Mansukh Mandaviya, on Thursday said shortages of the drug will be resolved soon.“Within three days, five more pharmaceutical companies have got new drug approvals to produce it in India, in addition to the existing six pharma companies. The existing companies have already started ramping up production,” said Mandaviya in a statement issued on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/antifungal-drug-supply-short-of-govt-estimates-101621548897692.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen hoarding case: Cops’ plea for Navneet Kalra’s custody junked||A Delhi court on Thursday rejected a Delhi Police plea seeking five more days of custodial interrogation of businessman Navneet Kalra, and instead sent him to 14 days in judicial custody.Kalra, who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices, was arrested on Sunday evening from a Gurugram farmhouse. The Delhi Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – owned by Kalra and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7.He was sent to three days in police custody by a court on Monday.Metropolitan magistrate Akanksha Garg said that even if the accused is remanded to judicial custody or released on bail, there is no impediment before the investigating agency to confront or interrogate the accused.The court also rejected the police contention that Kalra’s custody was required for recovering the mirror images of the recovered mobile phone, saying, “I do not find any force in it”.The magistrate said the fact that replies of various banks with regard to financial transactions were still awaited cannot be a ground to deny the accused his “valuable right”.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court, “Almost 516 transactions were made and 23 banks were involved and he has to be confronted with this. These bank accounts are voluminous.”Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing Kalra, requested the court to not grant further custody of the businessman to the police, as all the recoveries have been made and his presence is not required. He said that all transactions were routed through a single bank account and that Kalra was not required to verify the same.Advocate Vineet Malhotra, representing Kalra, also showed the Instagram page of actor Salman Khan, contending that the concentrators he was distributing were similar to the ones being sold by Kalra. The public prosecutor responded that Khan was donating and not doing business with them.On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also registered a money laundering case against Kalra.Five persons, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were also arrested in the case. However, all five were later released on bail with the court observing that it was unable to understand the offence they had committed as the government did not regulate the prices of the devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-hoarding-case-cops-plea-for-navneet-kalra-s-custody-junked-101621548268202.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||‘Get black fungus medicine from wherever in world’: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi high court on Thursday suggested that the Centre should procure Amphotericin B, a drug required to treat mucormycosis, internationally to meet the shortage in the country, saying that this is the only way to bridge the gap between demand and supply.An unprecedented surge in mucormycosis infections, which was typically rare, has caused a clamour for the anti-fungal drug. Doctors have said that where they would previously see 10-15 cases a year, they now have close to a 100 within weeks.“We are not questioning your allocation… you are doing good work… You need to import this to bridge the gap between your plan to enhance the capacity and completing manufacture before we lose more precious lives. So act fast on this… Float a global tender and ask internationally... Make a global enquiry,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.Seeking a status report from the Centre, the bench said, “You can make emergency imports… And we want you to act today… You have to get the medicine from wherever in the world. You have to take steps right now. Wherever it is available in the world get it…Time is at a premium and so are human lives.The court also directed the Union government to file a status report, detailing the present production, the producers, their capacity, their enhanced capacity and by when can the enhanced capacity be put in use.Amphotericin B, an antifungal drug, is used to treat mucormycosis, or black fungus, a rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated in time. There has been a large number of cases since steroid overuse during Covid-19 has left many, particularly those with uncontrolled diabetes, particularly susceptible to the disease.The issue of shortage of Amphotericin B was first raised by petitioner-lawyer Rakesh Malhotra. The court directed both the Delhi and Union governments to respond to reports of the shortage of the drug.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, told the court that the Centre has allocated 2,150 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) to Delhi for the period up to 31 May 2021, which includes 1,850 vials through Bharat Serums and Vaccines Ltd. and 300 through Mylan Laboratories.He said that 600 vials have also been allocated through Cipla Ltd. However, stock has not yet been received. Mehra argued that the supply is much less than the demand.The Centre told the court that there are 197 patients in Delhi and each requires 42 vials for a week, not 90 vials, as claimed by Delhi government. It said that, by this calculation, Delhi would require 8,400 vials per week.The central government’s standing counsel Kirtiman Singh told the court that there is a shortage due to rise in the cases of mucormycosis.On the suggestion of the court to procure it from foreign countries, Singh said that the drug is generally used for a disease known as Kala Azar, or black fever in some countries. He said the Centre will request for the drug from the countries which are producing it and also list steps to increase its production.He also said that one of the five companies, Bharat Biotech, has already agreed to double its production capacity.He said on May 20 when the overall allocation across the country was 15,960, 430 vials were given to Delhi. He also said that there are 7,251 patients of black fungus in the country and 200 in Delhi, so the case load in the national capital is 3% of the country’s.Mehra said that Delhi government is seeking 100,000 vials of the medicine, which the city is estimated to need in the next five weeks, and the state government was not misplaced in asking the Centre for these vials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/get-black-fungus-medicine-from-wherever-in-world-delhi-hc-to-centre-101621545808555.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM orders 3 hospitals to set up black fungus care centres||Three Delhi government hospitals will set up dedicated wards to treat patients who contract mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday, after medical facilities in the city reported an increase in the number of cases of the fungal infection over the few days. He also said the state will ensure the adequate supply of an anti-fungal medicine needed to treat the infection, following an order the previous day that the state government will directly regulate its supply to hospitals.“Chaired an important review meeting with experts in the light of increasing black fungus cases. We have to stop black fungus cases and ensure that those infected by it get treatment. We have taken some important decisions to contain spread and treatment of black fungus,” Kejriwal tweeted.At least 203 patients are currently admitted with the infection to Delhi hospitals, hospitals and officials have told HT over the past two days.The wards have been set up in Lok Nayak, Guru Teg Bahadur, and Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospitals – three of the Delhi government’s largest hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.Both Guru Teg Bahadur and Lok Nayak hospitals have earmarked 20 beds each, while Rajiv Gandhi hospital has set up a 16-bed ward.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.“A team of five specialists — an ENT surgeon, a general surgeon, a chest physician, and doctors from the medicine department — has been created to treat patients. All of the cases received at the hospital are referred here from other facilities and smaller nursing homes in the city where medicine to treat the infection (Amphotericin B) is unavailable,” said a senior doctor from Lok Nayak hospital who asked not to be named.Doctors have said Amphotericin B is the only drug which can treat the fungal infection.He added, “We haven’t had any case of mucormycosis in patients treated for Covid-19 at Lok Nayak. These cases usually happen due to an overuse of steroids.”There are three patients with the infection admitted to GTB hospital, according to a senior doctor, all of whom have been referred from other hospitals for the want of the drug.“The treatment for the infection needs specialists from various departments including ENT, ophthalmology, and neurosurgery doctors since dead tissues need to be debrided from the nose and eyes. The brain may also be affected in some cases. The key is to detect the infection early. However, the medicine needed is manufactured by only one company and is currently in short supply,” said a doctor from Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.On Wednesday, the Delhi high court asked the Delhi and central governments to report on the steps taken to resolve the shortage of Amphotericin B.Currently, the Centre supplies the medicine to the states. In Delhi, a four-member committee evaluates hospitals’ applications for the medicine and allocates it when doses are available.“We are seeing a large number of mucormycosis cases because of several reasons. One, the sheer number of people who got Covid-19 during the second wave; when there is a huge denominator more cases of such secondary infection are likely to be detected. Two, the infection this time around was more severe, meaning patients were on steroids and oxygen for longer. Three, there was also indiscriminate use of steroids by people, some of whom might have been pre-diabetic and might not have monitored their sugar levels putting them at risk. Four, Covid-19 in general leads to an increase in ferritin level in blood; ferritin contains iron which is a food source for mucormycosis,” said Dr Ameet Kishore, senior consultant of ENT at Apollo hospital.Meanwhile, chief minister Kejriwal urged doctors to control the use of steroids on Covid-19 patients to prevent a rise in instances of mucormycosis.“We appeal to all doctors and hospitals to reconsider the use of steroids in Covid-19 treatment. It has come to light that the excessive use of steroids have contributed to cases of black fungus across states. Also, people should maintain their sugar levels,” Kejriwal said later in the day, on the sidelines of his visit to the residence of a frontline worker who died of Covid-19.He also acknowledged the shortage of the antifungal drug, but said he was confident the Centre will help with its stocks.“We are also preparing an SOP (standard operating procedure) for hospitals for treatment of black fungus cases,” he said.On being asked whether Delhi too would declare black fungus an epidemic, Kejriwal said, “We will take all necessary steps”.Earlier in the day, the Union health ministry asked states and union territories to declare mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act.So far, several states, including Telangana and Rajasthan, have declared black fungus an epidemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-orders-3-hospitals-to-set-up-black-fungus-care-centres-101621545493720.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Live-in couples entitled to protection, rules Punjab and Haryana HC||Live-in relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held . “Such couples fear for their safety from relatives and not from the society, further holding that in law such a relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence. Hence, such persons are entitled to equal protection of laws as any other citizen of the country,” the court said in its May 18 order. The order comes days after two different benches had refused to grant protection to live-in couples. While one of the benches observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if the plea is accepted, the other said “the petitioners, in the garb of filing the present petition, are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable.” The fresh order comes from justice Sudhir Mittal, passed on plea of a couple from Jind in Haryana, who had submitted that both are major but fear for their life and liberty as the girl’s parents are against the relationship and are threatening to cause physical harm to the boy. State counsel had contended that live-in relationships are not legal and are frowned upon by the society. Thus, no protection can be granted to the petitioners. “The Constitution of India is the supreme law of the land. Right to life and liberty is enshrined therein and is treated as a basic feature. The said right includes the right of an individual to full development of his/her potential in accordance with his/her choice and wish and for such purpose, he/she is entitled to choose a partner of his/her choice. The individual also has the right to formalise the relationship with the partner through marriage or to adopt the non-formal approach of a live-in relationship,” the bench observed. It further added that the concept of live-in-relationships has crept into the Indian society from western nations and initially, found acceptance in metropolitan cities, probably because individuals felt that formalisation of a relationship through marriage was not necessary for complete fulfilment. “Slowly, the concept has percolated into small towns and villages as well, as is evident from this petition. This shows that social acceptance for live-in-relationships is on the increase. In law, such a relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence and thus, such persons are entitled to equal protection of laws as any other citizen of the country,” the bench added. The court further observed that the constitutional courts grant protection to run away couples who apprehends threat to their lives and liberty at the hands of their parents and it does not make any difference whether they are in a live- in relationship or have formally got married.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/livein-couples-entitled-to-protection-rules-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101621544989499.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mutant virus variants found in 94% samples from Punjab||Mutant strains of the coronavirus are actively present in Punjab with 94% of fresh genome sequencing reports coming positive for such variants, posing challenge to the state health department in containing the second pandemic wave. Of the 188 samples from across Punjab tested for genome sequencing at the central government’s epidemiology testing units, 176 were tested positive for the “mutant strains”, health department officials said. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out complete genetics of viruses. Of the 176 samples, 81 carried the UK virus strain (B.1.1.7) and 92 had the Indian variants (B.1.617). Of the new strains (UK, South Africa and Brazil) detected in India, the former is believed to be 70% more infectious than others. Health experts believe that the high prevalence of mutant strains in Punjab is the prime reason for the spike in infections amid the second wave. In March this year, the UK variant was found in 326 (81%) of the 401 samples from Punjab tested for mutant strains.“So far, the state health department has sent around 2,000 swab samples of randomly infected people from all the districts of the state. The samples were sent mostly from government medical colleges (GMCs) in Amritsar and Patiala to the Centre’s epidemiology units for testing. We have received results of only 900 samples till now,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. “The national epidemiological units have huge pendency of samples as gene sequencing is not done commonly. It takes around one month to get reports from these units. The mutant strains are definitely a big challenge to us,” Dr Bhaskar added.According to the health department, in March’s reports, the UK strain was active in 12 Punjab districts, including Mohali, Jalandhar, Patiala, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Rupnagar, Bathinda and Tarn Taran.“The state health department will regularly send swab samples for genome sequencing as better detection can help us in planning safety measures. Also, people must follow social distancing norms and must wear masks to protect themselves from the mutant strains as they are highly communicable,” Dr Bhaskar said. Hussan Lal, principal secretary (health), Punjab, said, “The UK strain is highly active in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mutant-virus-variants-found-in-94-samples-from-punjab-101621543729623.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three youths held with 1.6kg charas in Jalandhar||Police on Thursday arrested three youths in Jalandhar and claimed to have recovered 1.6kg charas from them. Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the crime investigation agency (CIA) staff intercepted a Suzuki Swift car during a special checking at Dairy Chowk in Model Town. “Upon noticing the police party, the driver tried to take a turn to flee, but was stopped. The cops nabbed Varun Kumar, Mohit Sharma, alias Pandit and Simranjeet Singh Randhawa. During checking, they recovered 900 gram charas from Varun, 700 grams from Mohit and 80 grams from Simranjeet. “The accused revealed that they used to bring the contraband from Himachal Pradesh and sell it at high rates in Punjab,” he added. A case under sections 20, 61, 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the accused. Bhullar Simranjeet was arrested in a case of attempt to murder in August 2017 registered and was out on bail since 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-youths-held-with-1-6kg-charas-in-jalandhar-101621543726553.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda ‘pathi’ held for holding ardas for Sirsa dera chief’s release from jail||Police on Thursday arrested a ‘pathi’ of a gurdwara at Bir Talab village in Bathinda district for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by holding special ‘ardas’ for the controversial Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. The action was taken after Harpal Singh Khara, a lawyer, lodged a police complaint against the pathi Gurmel Singh Khalsa. Gurmeet Ram Rahim is undergoing 20-year jail sentence in Haryana’s Rohtak for raping his two women disciples. The sect chief was accused of blasphemy and sacrilege of Sikh scriptures.A video of Khalsa, a former sarpanch of Bir Talab, went viral where he is heard offering prayers for the jailed sect chief and saying he was a victim of a political conspiracy.The video, which was shot in the presence of devotees at a gurdwara, also contained an appeal calling for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention for the release of Ram Rahim.In the ardas, Khalsa said being a member of the Dalit community, he wished the next Punjab chief minister should be a scheduled caste and the BJP deserves appreciation for making a similar announcement.Khara, the complainant, said Khalsa’s conduct hurt the sentiment of Sikhs and a strict should be initiated against him. He also demanded action against the Bir Talab gurdwara management committee for allowing Khalsa’s address at the shrine. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said a case was registered under sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian penal code.“A team will probe the role of other persons named in the complaint,” said the SSP.Meanwhile, BJP state secretary Sukhpal Sra shot a complaint to the National Commission for Schedule Castes that Khalsa was arrested for raising a pro-Dalit sentiment of attaining more political power in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-pathi-held-for-holding-ardas-for-sirsa-dera-chief-s-release-from-jail-101621543725647.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot medical college plugs O2 wastage, treating twofold patients with same supply||The Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, has plugged the wastage of oxygen and is now treating more than two times the patients with the existing supply. On May 14, as many as 421 patients were under treatment with oxygen consumption at 10 metric tonnes against 9.9 metric tonnes on April 22 when only 177 patients were receiving medical care at the hospital’s 450-bed isolation facility.The hospital is catering to critical Covid-19 patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. The Covid isolation wards at the hospital were divided into two zones — high flow and low flow — according to the requirement of oxygen. “The high flow oxygen zone has been set up on the ground floor, where level-3 facility is for critical patients, while low-flow zone wards have been set up on the first floor. Oxygen concentrators were placed at 50 points where oxygen supply was not required,” said Dr Ruhee Dugg registrar, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS).“To ensure the hospital does not face oxygen shortage, an audit committee was constituted. The team visits Covid wards regularly to prevent any wastage,” she said. The BFUHS has also conducted a research study on the zoning of Covid wards, which they have now sent to other facilities so they can ‘replicate’ it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-medical-college-plugs-o2-wastage-treating-twofold-patients-with-same-supply-101621543666499.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Row over nurses: AIIMS Bathinda constitutes 3-member inquiry panel||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, on Thursday constituted a three-member committee to look in detail into sending back of 50 of its male nursing officers from Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, a day before. The state department of medical education and research on Wednesday relieved the nursing officers of duty and sent them back to their parent institute after they against “pathetic” accommodations provided to them. AIIMS, Bathinda, director Dr DK Singh said the matter needed to be thoroughly probed before fixing any accountability or contemplating action against the staffers. Dr Singh added that since the incident took place at Patiala’s medical college, they have limited information about what actually happened as no senior faculty member accompanied them. “We have set up the committee comprising senior doctors who will submit report to me. Further action will be initiated accordingly,” Dr Singh said. The nursing officers reached Patiala three days ago and were deployed in the government medical college’s Covid wing. Besides poor sanitation, the nurses complained of substandard meals in the hostel mess and deplorable living arrangements. The AIIMS, Bathinda, which has recruited 400 staff nurses and only 45-level 2 beds and 20 level-3 beds, had decided to send them in groups of 50 each for duty in four government medical colleges of the state with the approval of the Union health ministry. The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association has demanded termination of the services of the AIIMS nurses. Association president Dr DS Bhullar and general secretary Dr Darshanjit Singh Walia, said the nurses left the duties by making irresponsible and baseless allegations against the hospital authorities and have defamed the institution. “This is gross dereliction of duty. Besides termination of their services, criminal cases under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act should be registered against them,” Dr Bhullar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-nurses-aiims-bathinda-constitutes-3-member-inquiry-panel-101621543665557.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ban on kirpan: Sikh bodies take up issue with New South Wales govt||Enraged over the ban on wearing kirpan by Sikh students in the government schools of New South Wales (NSW) state of Australia, as many as 56 Sikh bodies have written a joint letter to the NSW government, terming the ban “wrong” and “unfair”. The Sikh community is in talks with NSW education minister Sarah Mitchell to get the order withdrawn. They have also asked the government to stop bullying of Sikh students, which leads to such incidents. The ban was enforced after a 14-year-old boy allegedly used a kirpan to stab a 16-year-old at a Sydney school. “The Sikh community has been hit hard by the knee-jerk reaction of the NSW government in the blanket banning of the Kirpan in NSW schools. The NSW government’s decision to impose a ban contravenes a statutory right to wear a kirpan for religious reasons. The right is not due to a ‘loophole’ in the law, as referred to by the education minister Sarah Mitchell. The ban has been imposed without taking the Sikh community into confidence, or consultation, in response to an alleged incident involving a 14-year-old Sikh student, who is believed to have been bullied in school,” reads the letter. Sources said the minister was urged to consider a compromise, including allowing the kirpan in schools under the condition that they remain locked in a case. Manjinderpal Kaur, volunteer of United Sikhs, who was among the Sikh panel engaging with the minister, said, “The state government is seeking inputs from the Sikhs in this matter and almost all the organisations, including largest Sikh body in the country Australian Sikh Association (ASA), have signed the letter.” “The minister told us that this ban is temporary. However, this issue must be resolved at the earliest as it has dire consequences for the Sikhs globally. And the Sikh leaders in Australia are trying their best to get it resolved as per the Sikh sentiments,” she added. SGPC president Jagir Kaur also wrote to external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Australian high commissioner in India urging them to ensure revocation of the ban order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ban-on-kirpan-sikh-bodies-take-up-issue-with-new-south-wales-govt-101621543425994.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||10 villages in Fazilka district declared containment zones||As many as 10 villages of Fazilka district have been declared containment zones, the highest number of villages in any Punjab district, following surge in Covid-19 cases. According to the official data, Fazilka saw a two-fold increase in new infections and Covid-related mortalities in May. In this month so far, the district saw a daily average of 404 new cases and 11 fatalities. Sources said most of these cases were from the rural pockets. The home district of state Congress president Sunil Jakhar has no facility to treat critical patients requiring ventilator, neither in government hospitals nor private health institutes. Health authorities say a cluster of five villages adjoining the Rajasthan border reported sizeable virus cases. Experts say attending weddings and visiting crowded places in Sriganganagar without Covid-appropriate behaviour contributed to the fast spread of infections in villages. On May 1, Fazilka had 7,906 positive cases and the tally was 8,085 on Thursday. Similarly, 137 deaths were reported in the district this month, taking the total number of fatalities to 348. District epidemiologist officer Dr Sunita said Bazidpur Kattanwali village was the first village to be declared a containment zone earlier this month. “Total 172 people have been tested positive for Covid-19 and casualties were also reported at Bazidpur Kattanwali. Several patients and deaths were reported from Ruhariawali, Dutrawali, Kular, Bhagsar, Panjkosi and other villages. After initial hesitancy, villagers have now started approaching the health department whenever they develop Covid-19 symptoms,” she said. Three localities in Arniwala, Bhagu and Ghallu are micro-containment zones. Civil surgeon Dr Parminder Singh said two weeks ago, a task force started a testing drive in villages. “A sharp increase in positive cases is due to aggressive testing. We have been focusing to mobilise panchayats to contain the infection spread,” he added. Sources said the civil hospital at Fazilka district headquarter has no Covid care facility and only the government hospital at Jalalabad has a 60-bed facility for patients needing oxygen support. “A community health centre at Ramsra village near Abohar town is being prepared as the level-2 facility. The health department had four ventilators which were handed over to Ludhiana as Fazilka has no trained personnel to handle ventilators,” says a district functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-villages-in-fazilka-district-declared-containment-zones-101621543065131.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six cases of black fungus detected among Mohali’s Covid patients||Mucormycosis or black fungus has been detected in six Covid-19 patients from Mohali, health authorities said on Thursday.The confirmation comes on a day when the Chandigarh administration notified the fungal disease as an epidemic in the city, where 23 patients from other districts and states are under treatment at PGIMER (16) and GMCH-32 (7). Panchkula, too, has confirmed six cases of black fungus, but the residential status of these patients was not immediately clear.In Mohali, apart from the six local patients, another seven from Punjab, Delhi and Ambala are also admitted in various private hospitals of the district.“Six cases of mucormycosis have been reported from Mohali. Three were detected at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6, from where two patients were shifted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and a private hospital in Zirakpur. Two more were confirmed at Fortis Hospital and another at the Sohana hospital,” said Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali. She said, “Early diagnosis and intervention is important. Repeated endoscopic examination of the nose, saline irrigation and surgical debridement can help treat the infection.”Mucormycosis is an invasive infection caused by a class of moulds called mucormycetes. The fungus enters the body by inhalation and affects the sinuses or lungs.“The infection is primarily found in Covid positive patients and is caused by indiscriminate use of steroids, uncontrolled diabetes, prolonged stay in the ICU and comorbidities,” said Dr Ashok K Gupta, director, ENT, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, who has been treating black fungus patients.Patients may experience swelling, pain, watering and redness of eyes; drooping of eyelids, double vision and in some cases, loss of vision. Further, black discolouration of the skin, facial swelling, ulceration in the nasal cavity and facial nerve paralysis have also been observed.All health facilities to report every case: UT health secretaryIn the order notifying black fungus as an epidemic, Chandigarh’s principal health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the UT administrator had notified the Chandigarh Administration Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations, 2021, under which all healthcare facilities, including government and private, will follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis, issued by the Union health ministry.All healthcare facilities will report every suspected or confirmed case of mucormycosis to the health department. No person, institution or organisation will spread any information for management of mucormycosis without prior permission from the health department, the order added.A committee under the chairpersonship of the UT health director, with specialists of internal medicine, ophthalmology, ENT and epidemiology as members, will be constituted to review any violation of the notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-cases-of-black-fungus-detected-among-mohali-s-covid-patients-101621542885692.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s daily Covid-19 deaths touch record high of 20||The Covid-19 pandemic wiped out 20 lives in Mohali on Thursday, the highest single-day toll since the pandemic broke out last year.With 10 and seven deaths in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively, the tricity logged 37 fatalities – second only to the all-time high of 38 on May 5, when 17 people had died in Mohali, and 14 and seven in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively.Chandigarh’s record deaths (14) were witnessed on May 5, and Panchkula’s (9) more recently on May 17.In some respite for Mohali, at 467, the fresh cases on Thursday were the lowest in 36 days since April 14, when 373 people had tested positive. Since then the daily infections had been steadily rising, hitting the record high of 1,382 on May 10.Showing a steady decline, at 1,076, tricity’s Thursday tally was also the lowest since April 14 when 1,070 cases were detected and 22% lower than Wednesday’s 1,395 cases.Chandigarh and Panchkula also contributed to this dip. The UT confirmed 404 fresh cases against 414 on Wednesday, while the number dropped from 378 to 205 in Panchkula.Steady decline in casesTricity’s daily cases have been receding ever since touching the peak of 2,612 on May 11, staying below the 2,000 mark for the past week. The active cases, too, have been declining, coming down from the peak of 24,201 on May 12 to 15,371 on Thursday – a 36% drop in eight days.However, there hasn’t been much change in the daily deaths, which have remained over 20 on nine of the past 10 days.The latest fatalities pushed Mohali’s toll to 821. The district’s total cases stand at 63,276, of which 7,078 are active. But, with 1,442 patients getting discharged on Thursday, the number of recoveries climbed to 55,377 (87%). Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said most of the deceased on Thursday were senior citizens or had comorbidities.25-year-old among UT’s fatalitiesChandigarh’s total cases and deaths have reached 57,331 and 666, respectively.A 25-year-old man from Dhanas was the youngest among those succumbing to the virus on Thursday. As many as 6,073 patients are still recuperating and 50,592 (88.2%) have successfully beaten the virus till date.In Panchkula, four of the seven casualties on Thursday were above the age of 60. The latest deaths took the toll to 307, while the cases have reached 28,660.There are 2,220 active cases in the district, but recovery rate has improved to 91% with the total patients getting cured reaching 26,133.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-daily-covid-19-deaths-touch-record-high-of-20-101621542526840.html
21-05-2021||Other||FIR against dog’s death: GADVASU vets threaten to suspend OPD services||A day after a veterinary doctor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) was booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act over the death of a pet dog, the teachers’ association threatened to suspend emergency and OPD services at the veterinary hospital from Friday if the FIR is not scrapped. The teachers’ body will also be holding a protest on campus at 10am. Phillaur police had registered a case under Sections 428 (killing, poisoning, maiming, or rendering useless any animal or animals of the value of ten rupees or upwards) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act against Dr Charanjit Singh of the veterinary hospital. GADVASU teachers’ association president Dr Ashwani Kumar alleged that the FIR was registered under pressure as the dog belongs to a high-ranking official. “The FIR against Dr Charanjit Singh was registered without conducting a preliminary investigation. If the FIR is not cancelled, we will suspend OPD and emergency services,” said Dr Ashwani Kumar. In a statement, the teachers’ association said the dog belonged to a high-ranking official in the state government and was brought to the hospital by the guards of the VIP. The statement further read, “The attendants were unwilling to handle and control the animal. The allegation about the use of a jute bag to handle the canine is false. The fact is that the animal was restrained with a muzzle by the guards themselves. The said dog was suffering from ocular discharge and subcutaneous nodule on chest and the post-mortem has revealed that the dog was tentatively suffering from liver cancer. The said case had been examined by a very senior, competent and kind-hearted clinician.” GADVASU has the region’s biggest veterinary hospital which receives approximately 30,000 cases from Punjab and other parts of north India annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-vet-for-dog-s-death-gadvasu-teachers-threaten-to-suspend-opd-emergency-services-101621542225602.html
21-05-2021||Other||PAU tweaks snakes and ladders game to teach farmers benefits of DSR||To encourage farmers to adopt the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) is making use of the age-old game of snakes and ladders. In the re-designed version of the game, the benefits of the DSR technique are shown as ladders and the common mistakes, faulty practices, and myths in agricultural practices are presented as snake bites. The university has also shared a booklet that explains the DSR technique in detail and provides contact numbers of experts from PAU and Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVKs’) from across the state. Anil Sharma, assistant director, communication centre, PAU, who is also known for writing jingles to exhort farmers to give up stubble burning, is the brain behind modified board game. Sharma said he had conceptualised the game nearly six months ago with the aim of promoting eco-friendly agriculture techniques. “We have been conducting farm visits, seminars, and discussions to promote DSR among farmers. Science is a dry subject. To make it simple and entertaining, we are coming up with such games so that farmers can grasp it quickly. Right now, the challenge is to keep farmers up-to-date with the rapidly changing agricultural technology,” said Sharma. Available at an introductory price of ₹50, the university is planning to distribute boxes, containing the game and relevant information, in all villages across the state. Dr TS Riar, additional director communication, said, “It is a crucial juncture for us. We want to circulate as many copies as possible before the start of the rice sowing season next month. A game on similar lines has also been developed for cotton crop. In that game, farmers have been told about the best and safe practices of sowing of the cotton crop.” Dr JS Mahal, director, extension education, said such experiments should be promoted. “Our targets are farming families. Once such games reach their homes, children, as well as adults, will play these and subconsciously learn about the benefits of DSR. The elders may even reach out to PAU experts, on the numbers mentioned behind the box.” Earlier, Sharma had created furniture from paddy residue to encourage farmers to look for alternative use paddy stubble instead of brazenly burning it and polluting the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-tweaks-snakes-and-ladders-game-to-teach-farmers-benefits-of-dsr-101621542045704.html
21-05-2021||Other||Khaki warrior on life support awaits funds for lung transplant||In urgent need for a lung transplant, a 49-year-old cop, who is currently on life support, has been waiting for the last nine days to hear from his own department regarding the provision of funds for the process. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Harjinder Singh, who has been with the police department for the last 28 years, had contracted the virus in early April. He managed to recover from the disease but due to post-Covid complications, his lungs were damaged and doctors recommended a transplant. His brother Harjinder Singh said, “The procedure will cost ₹70 lakh but our family does not have that much money. We have approached the police department for help. They said that they sent my brother’s reports to a panel of doctors who will go through it and recommend the further course of action. But we don’t have much time. Every minute is important for us and more delay could prove fatal.” “For the lung transplantation procedure, we may have to take my brother to Mumbai or Hyderabad and then wait for a donor. We are feeling helpless,” he added. The family members of the cop have also met police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, requesting him to speed up the process for fund allocation. The DSP, who was deployed in the securities department of Ludhiana central jail, has also sent a letter to the commissioner through Whatsapp. Delay causes resentment among fellow cops The delay in the response from the police department, meanwhile, has caused resentment among his colleagues. Whatsapp groups of the police are being flooded with messages decrying the apathy of the department. One message that has been doing the rounds of Whatsapp, reads, “After the death of an officer of good conduct, the department gives ₹50 lakh as compensation and job to the next of kin. But the department is delaying treatment of an officer whose life can be saved.” A decorated cop Harjinder Singh had served as the station house officer of Daresi and Koomkalan, besides being deployed in the chief minister’s security. He has earned DGP commendation disc and a number of appreciation letters from the department for his service. When contacted, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “The department stands with the DSP. We are arranging funds for his treatment. The department will speed up the process.” On Thursday, the police commissioner sent a letter to the prison department for approval for treatment of the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-khaki-warrior-on-life-support-awaits-funds-for-lung-transplant-101621541865579.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn’s top brass sponsors 18+ vaccination drive in Masol village||Senior officers of the Mohali administration on Thursday decided to sponsor vaccination of an entire village in the district.Deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said, “When you lead by example, you create a picture of what’s possible. It then becomes easy for others to follow. So, I along with my colleagues decided to pay for the vaccination of 18-44 years population of Masol village.”Citing the reason for choosing Masol, the DC said, “The 45+ population of this village has already been vaccinated so we decided to cater to the remaining population, ensuring that the entire village stands hundred percent vaccinated.”Besides DC Dayalan, the officers who will chip in to pay for the drive are ADC (G) Aashika Jain, ADC (D) Rajiv Kr Gupta, Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain, Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa and Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal.Meanwhile, in a generous move, Priyanka Gupta, owner of The Great Bear, Sector 26, Chandigarh, has sponsored the inoculation of 18-44 population of Nagalgarhian village, paying for 200 doses. “Let us all put in our might and join hands to save the human race from the worst adversary ever known,” she said.To sponsor/ donate vaccine, fill an online form at bit.ly/3wkMLgX and make payment of ₹430 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-s-top-brass-sponsors-18-vaccination-drive-in-masol-village-101621541325557.html
21-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid cases continue to dip but no let-up in fatalities||Though daily infections continued to reside, there was no let-up in fatalities with another 26 succumbing to virus on Thursday. A day before, the district had recorded 27 deaths. In the last 24 hours, 784 persons tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana, taking the cumulative count of cases since the pandemic outbreak to 79,152.The latest fatalities, which include 18 men and eight women, have taken the district’s toll beyond 1,800. The maximum number of deaths continue to be of people in their 50s (seven deaths) followed by those in their 70s (six deaths) and 60s (five deaths).In a disturbing trend, young lives continue to be snuffed out with four persons in their 30s, two in their 40s and one patient in 20s losing the battle to the virus. The youngest to die is a 28-year-old male resident of Shivpuri.There are 10,687 active patients in the district at present.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols to stay safe in these times.City hospital to take care of newborns with Covid +ve parents City-based Deep Hospital has announced that it will be taking care of any infant whose parents are Covid positive till their recovery. Founder Dr Baldeep Singh said the idea is to minimise the risk of exposure to newborns and protect them by keeping them in specialised NICU (newborn intensive care unit). These infants will be given expert physiological and even medical care, as necessary, during their stay at hospital while the parents recover.This programme has been announced by the hospital only for children under 28 days given that the first month of life is the most crucial period wherein immunity levels are the lowest, making babies highly susceptible to any form of virus or infection in the air. The hospital has allocated 15 beds for the same. Dr GP Mangla passes awayDr G P Mangla (65), who had retired from the civil hospital and was serving as the Red Cross blood bank in-charge passed away due to Covid on Thursday. His wife also succumbed to the virus on May 18. He was a resident of Barewal area of the city and has been undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital for over a week. IMA president Dr Saroj Aggarwal and secretary Dr Ashish Ohri have expressed condolences over the death of Dr Mangla. Dr Rajiv Gupta, member of the IMA, said yet another doctor has sacrificed his life for humanity. Dr Gupta said with the passing away of Dr Mangla, he has lost a sincere friend who devoted his life to providing healthcare to the poor and needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cases-continue-to-dip-but-no-let-up-in-fatalities-101621541207119.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fear of isolation, death drives Ambala’s rural population away from testing||Even as Ambala has recorA ded a substantial dip in daily coronavirus cases this week, testing hesitancy still remains a challenge for health teams in the rural areas.The district has logged 670 fresh infections and 1,285 recoveries in the last three days, but the contribution to caseload from urban and rural belt is almost equal for the last two weeks, health officials said.More than 480 teams from health department and district administration are engaged in door-to-door screening under Haryana Villagers’ General Health Checkup Scheme in the Ambala.Scheme’s nodal officer Dr Balwinder Kaur said, “As per the insights and experience gained in the last three to four days, more than half of those screened are hiding their symptoms. There is a belief among them that if they test positive, they’ll be shifted to isolation centres and have to spend time alone. But the infection might spread among their family members, which might have serious consequences if they continue to conceal their symptoms.”As per figures, 10 isolation centres are operational in Ambala villages and more will come up at areas where active cases are more than 10.Dr Kaur said the centres are almost empty and the teams are struggling to motivate infected patients to avoid home isolation in joint families.Sources said that the villagers still prefer to consult local practitioners or doctors, as they fear that if admitted to a health centre, “they might never return”.“This fear has confined most of the villagers to their homes. Reluctance to get tested or vaccinated may have gone down, but the patient or beneficiary has to travel a lot to avail facilities,” one of the residents of a village declared containment zone said.SDM (City) Sachin Gupta said the administration is trying to rope in former sarpanchs, teachers and other influential people in villages to motivate residents to undergo testing.Peri-urban areas hit tooAs per figures provided by the health department, peri-urban areas like Babyal, Jandli, Boh, Durga Nagar and Saha are the most affected in Ambala. These areas report to rural health centres but come under the limits of civic body.District epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said all these areas are the extension of mainline areas, hence have a larger density of population and poor hygiene behaviour.In an order, deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma has assigned municipal commissioner Parth Gupta to ensure screening in these areas on the lines of rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fear-of-isolation-death-drive-ambala-s-rural-population-away-from-testing-101621541205955.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC launches special sanitation drive for streets, parks||Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Thursday launched a month-long special sanitation drive under Swachh Bharat Mission from Sector 22 here. Such joint drives will be conducted throughout the city daily till June 29.Sharma said the drives would be carried out jointly by all wings of MC this time, including sanitation department for cleaning the whole area, horticulture department for pruning of trees and cutting of grass, public health department for cleaning road gullies and chambers, and B&R wing for removing accumulated debris from the berms and other open areas.Special emphasis will be laid on cleaning parks, berms, streets and back lanes of houses and backsides of market places, he added. The mayor said that repair of underpasses, main roads, existing dustbins, painting of children playground equipment and railing will be done during the cleanliness drives. Focus will be on cleanliness of public toilets and community toilets as well, he added. During the Thursday cleanliness drive, workers from different wings of MC such as health, roads, horticulture and public health wings cleaned Sector 22. The mayor also distributed gloves, masks and vitamin D3 tablets to all sanitation workers.16 more vehicles to be boughtThe MC has planned to buy 16 new vehicles, including tractors and trucks, and outsource drivers for them at a cost of ₹1.5 crore to clear horticultural waste.The machinery is required for the collection and disposal of dry leaves and lifting of pruned branches of trees. The MC had made the allocation in the current financial year’s budget of ₹2.10 crore for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-launches-special-sanitation-drive-for-streets-parks-101621541147199.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Customs seizes undeclared cigarettes worth ₹3 crore||A Ludhiana-based garment firm is in the dock for not declaring cigarettes of British, Korean and Indonesian brands worth over ₹3 crore to evade customs duty running into lakhs of rupees. The cigarette cartons were concealed behind the bags of dry dates imported from the UAE. Customs officials of Dhandari Kalan’s Inland Container Depot (ICD) have registered a case of illegal import of cigarettes against Shreyans Apparels & Leatherites. Officials said the firm through its customs house agent Mojos Impex International filed the bill of entry dated May 13, 2021, for import of 1,120 bags of dry dates from the UAE as per import documents. During physical examination of the consignment, 250 undeclared cigarette cartons were found in two containers. There were 120 cartons of Esse brand, 20 cartons of Benson & Hedges and 110 cartons of Gudang Garam having 29.8 lakh sticks. The total value of the cigarettes has been pegged at over ₹3 crore. Commissioner customs AS Ranga said the cigarettes were not declared. “The import of cigarettes shall be subject to provisions contained in cigarettes and other tobacco products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 and related rules. The importer has not declared any such document in this regard and hence the goods are prohibited for import,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/customs-seizes-undeclared-cigarettes-worth-3-crore-101621541146018.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Barge toll now 49, hope fades for 37 still missing||The Indian Navy on Thursday recovered 23 more bodies of crew members of accommodation barge P305, which de-anchored and sank in the Heera oil fields in the Arabian Sea, hours before the powerful cyclone Tauktae battered the region late on Monday. The toll has risen to 49, as rescuers continue to search for 37 more personnel.Three barges and an anchor boat deployed by private contractor Afcons for a project it was doing for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), and a drillship of a state-owned firm lost anchors and drifted away in cyclonic winds of up to 210 kmph. While 440 personnel on two barges and the drillship were brought to safety, barge P305, carrying 261 personnel, sank. Of the 261, 186 were rescued and the bodies of 49 have been recovered, officials said. Search for the remaining 26 is still on. Of the 13 on anchor boat Varaprada, two have been rescued, while the search for the remaining 11 is on.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae maintained intensity even after landfall, affected hit 9 statesCommander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command, said search and rescue (SAR) operations were renewed from Thursday morning and the SAR involves Indian Navy Ship (INS) Kochi, Talwar, Tejas, Betwa and Beas.The efforts are being augmented by the aerial surveys undertaken by P-8I surveillance aircrafts and two Sea King helicopters, Chetak and advanced light helicopters. Coast Guard units have also joined the search for the missing crew.Navy officials said the search was initially limited to an area of 550-750 square kilometres, and after bodies were found to have drifted further, the search area was increased from Wednesday night and by Thursday evening it was widened to 1,800-2,300 square kilometres. Officials said the area would be further increased, if required.Barge P305 was deployed at a platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian Sea. It got de-anchored on Sunday night and according to deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar, sank around 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea and rough weather, making the subsequent search and rescue operation “one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades”.Also Read| Firm that ran cyclone-hit barges says people on board had life jackets, raftsAfcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that had chartered barge P305, along with its marine crew — mostly skilled and semi-skilled labourers — said there were in all 261 crew members on board the barge, including 13 Afcons employees. The Navy had received an SOS from the barge on Monday morning, following which, three warships — INS Kochi, INS Talwar and INS Kolkata — were dispatched for the SAR operation, along with two Sea King and two Chetak helicopters. The aerial surveillance was augmented by two P-8I surveillance aircrafts.Meanwhile, the Yellow Gate police station in Mumbai registered 22 accidental death reports (ADRs) after 22 bodies were brought to Mumbai, of the 49 recovered, on Thursday. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem to JJ Hospital. Police sources said 16 of the 22 bodies were identified and the process of identification of the remaining 6 was going on at JJ Hospital, where relatives of the deceased have arrived to claim the bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-toll-now-49-hope-fades-for-37-still-missing-101621540966162.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar breathes cleanest air of the year||Yamunanagar on Thursday recorded its cleanest air day this year as the air quality index (AQI) hovered between good (0-50) and satisfactory (51-100) categories for almost the entire day.The website of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) that displays hourly levels from the device installed at Gobindpura showed the levels as low as 50 (good) at 3pm.The AQI defines overall air quality. As per CPCB, it is calculated only if inputs are available for a minimum three pollutants out of which one should necessarily be either PM2.5 or PM10. Nirmal Kashyap, regional officer of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said this was an abnormal situation where the levels dropped to such an extent for the first time this year.“This could have happened as there is almost negligible industrial operations under the limits of municipality and rural areas. The rain due to the Tauktae cyclone has also settled the pollutants emitted from vehicles and other sources,” he added.Haryana is under complete lockdown for past almost three weeks owing to the rising cases of coronavirus in its second wave. The district is an industrial hub of plywood, mica, aluminium, and utensils, factories of which emit carbon to certain levels and as it is situated on the banks of the Yamuna, mining activities have always contributed to its air quality.In March, it was placed at 26th position in the top-30 most-polluted cities in the world and was among eight polluted places of the state and 22 of the country in a report released by IQAir, a Swiss air quality technology company.As per an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), HSPCB has also prepared a time-bound district environment plan last month and assigned tasks to various departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-breathes-cleanest-air-of-the-year-101621540965610.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A ‘qabr’ by the chowk||In this city of many tombs and grave-centric pilgrimages, it is probably the only chowk, or intersection, to be named after a qabr, or grave.And yet this very grave is the most ignored aspect of Chitli Qabar Chowk. The Old Delhi intersection is forever teeming with various street sounds—people hawking, squabbling, abusing, singing, shouting, laughing, begging... Like New York City, the chowk never sleeps. A fish seller parks his cart right at its centre every morning, and from then on the activity doesn’t stop until far beyond midnight, bustling around the flower sellers and groceries, the bakeries and tea shacks, the biryani stalls, and more. The qabr (grave) that gives its name to the chowk lies right at its heart, inside a small room recently painted pale pink that looks like a Sufi shrine. Its solo window remains closed, with an artificial jewellery stall installed right in front on the pavement.Everybody can go in, but you rarely see anybody going in.This evening the tiny chamber is bustling with rows of ants, busily running about the tiled grave covered in the offerings of green chadars, or sacred fabric, and some fistfuls of rose petals. A few flower baskets are piled up on one corner, probably belonging to one of the florists outside. Despite the organised clutter, the smallness, and the proximity to so much chaos, the grave chamber is dappled in serenity. A wall clock is ticking on loudly though. There’s also a hole in the facing wall that reveals a view of the adjacent street—it gives the feeling of a secret opening in a prisoner’s cell, doomed to an eternity of captivity. Pendant lighting hangs from the ceiling but is covered in transparent plastic, perhaps to keep it dust-proof.Nobody in the surroundings could confidently enlighten on Chitli saint’s life and times. The general consensus assumes him to be a long-ago Sufi mystic.At about midnight the jewellery stall owner shuts down his street-side stall and keeps his stuff inside Chitli’s shrine. He locks the door, which he opens the next day around noon, on coming back. Until then Chitli’s qabr stays undisturbed.These days, due to the pandemic-triggered lockdown, the shops are closed, the noisy pedestrians have disappeared, the jewellery seller hasn’t surfaced for weeks, the shrine’s door is locked and the chowk is lying as still as a grave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-qabr-by-the-chowk-101621539716032.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||4 cops injured in clash between raiding team, liquor smugglers||Seven persons, including four cops, were injured in a clash between a police party and a family involved in liquor smuggling at Jagatpura village in Patiala district on Thursday.The incident took place when a team of the Patiala crime investigation agency (CIA) conducted a raid at the residence of alleged liquor smuggler Harbhajan Singh on Thursday morning. The accused, his family members and neighbours overpowered the police party and also fired multiple gunshots. Senior superintendent of police Sandeep Garg said the police also made a failed bid to conduct a raid at the house on Wednesday night. “We have booked 55 persons. One of the cops received a bullet injury in his thigh,” the SSP said, adding that the police fired in the air for self-defence.“Harbhajan Singh is a history-sheeter and nearly a dozen of cases of liquor smuggling and robbery are registered against him. He was presently out on bail,” the SSP said.The injured cops, head constable Raja Singh, who got a bullet injury in his thigh, ASI Malwinder Singh, senior constables Harinder Singh and Gagandeep Singh are admitted to the Government Rajindra Hospital.Police said 35 persons, including 11 by name, have been booked for murder bid and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-cops-injured-in-clash-between-raiding-team-liquor-smugglers-101621540665623.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Punjab farmers leave for Delhi to join stir||Amid surge in Covid cases, especially in the rural Punjab, a large group of farmers left for Delhi on Thursday from the district’s Harike Pattan town to take part in the protest against three farm laws.The protesters, including women and elderly, left Harike Pattan in tractor-trailers, cars and mini-buses. Before embarking on their journey, the farmers shouted slogans against the central government. No one was seen wearing face mask and social distancing norms were also not followed. More than 40 people were seen huddled in some trailers. The procession, which is expected to reach Delhi on Friday, was organised under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) having a considerable hold in the Majha region and some districts of Malwa. It was the 13th procession of the KMSC from Tarn Taran since the beginning of the Delhi agitation. KMSC’s district president Sukhwinder Singh Sabran said: “The Centre is spreading misinformation about Covid to weaken our protest. This virus is pretty much similar to the other viruses. Covid will not kill farmers, but the black farm laws will.”He said besides revoking the three farm laws, the government should also apologise to the farmers for forcing them to stay on roads for six months.He said the farmers will continue to throng the national capital until the government revokes these laws, adding that they will also hold marches in villages to observe May 25 as a black day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-punjab-farmers-leave-for-delhi-to-join-stir-101621540485695.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot private lab, pharmacy owners held for providing fake Covid reports||Two persons, including private lab and pharmacy owners, have been arrested for issuing fake Covid-19 test reports. The accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, owner of Atulya Laboratory and Avinash Chawla of Regimen Pharmacy near Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot.In a joint operation, a team of the CIA staff and CID unit nabbed both the accused after conducting an undercover operation. The private lab was providing fake positive or negative Rapid Anitgen Test reports. The CIA sleuths also seized Covid-19 testing records and other documents from the lab.CIA staff in-charge inspector Amritpal Singh Bhati said they got a tip-off that the private lab is providing fake Covid-19 reports. “An undercover cop was sent to the lab who asked for a fake positive report. They demanded ₹8,000 from him and later, the deal was struck at ₹5,000. “They did not collect any swab sample of that person and kept only a copy of his Aadhaar Card. They took the money and told him to collect a positive report in the evening. When they provided a fake Covid positive report to our man, we nabbed them,” he said. He said they are interrogating both the accused to find out whether there are more labs or persons involved in such illegal activity, which is endangering lives of the people.A case has been registered under Section 420 (fraud) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) at the Faridkot city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-private-lab-pharmacy-owners-held-for-providing-fake-covid-reports-101621540366370.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir demands waiver of power, water bills for Covid-hit||BATHINDAShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday demanded waiver of power bills for both domestic and industrial consumers for a period of six months to help people amid coronavirus outbreak.At Ferozepur, he said that the government should also give relief from water bills and other taxes. Sukhbir was in the district to inaugurate a 25-bed Covid care centre in which all beds are equipped with oxygen concentrators at Gurdwara Jaamniwala at Bazidpur.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur said this was the fourth Covid centre started by the SGPC to provide free treatment to patients.Expressing concern over the non-availability of several Covid medicines, SAD chief said the situation could go worse as several parts of Punjab, particularly the Malwa belt, is under the grip of a pandemic.He said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should now step out of his farmhouse and meet people to understand hardships faced by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-demands-waiver-of-power-water-bills-for-covidhit-101621540185483.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: Call all-party meeting, special assembly session, Bhagwant Mann asks Capt||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said people were suffering due to the coronavirus pandemic, but chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other Congressmen were busy twisting each other’s arms instead of supporting them during this crisis.Addressing a press conference here, AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann urged Amarinder to learn from his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, who had taken a slew of steps to help the people. “Capt Amarinder has failed miserably in dealing with the pandemic and providing financial assistance to the families affected by it,” he said.Mann said Amarinder should convene an all-party meeting and a special session of the state assembly on the Covid pandemic. The Congress government did not punish the culprits of sacrilege and its ministers and other leaders were now afraid to go to the villages, he said.AAP MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Amarjeet Singh Sandoa, state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat and state treasurer Neena Mittal were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-call-all-party-meeting-special-assembly-session-bhagwant-mann-asks-capt-101621539945439.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Be wary of leaders furthering own agenda, Jakhar tells party workers||Amid efforts by a section of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s detractors to regroup themselves, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday cautioned party workers against such leaders who were always trying to seek opportunities in any crisis situation. Reiterating that the biggest challenge before the state at present is to save the people from the Covid pandemic, Jakhar said any attempt to divert attention from this core issue cannot be termed as public interest. “After the decision of the high court to inquire afresh into the sacrilege related issue the people of Punjab, as well as Congressmen, were more than concerned regarding the case, but the Punjab government and the Congress high command are very serious about it and justice will be assured in the case,” he said in a statement here, taking a dig at Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and others for trying to foment trouble in the party. Bajwa and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu have been openly targeting the chief minister ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the SIT report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. They are blaming the chief minister and his aides for the legal setback. Jakhar said that in such a challenging time, the behaviour of a few leaders trying to further their own agenda cannot be justified in any way. “By giving false figures of the people reportedly attending their meetings, some leaders were creating the illusion of leading a campaign which is a figment of their own imagination,” he said. Though he did not name anyone, the jibe is aimed at Bajwa who had on Tuesday claimed that five ministers and seven MLAs were present at a meeting held at cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house whereas not more than half-a-dozen Congress leaders, including two ministers and three MLAs, attended it. Jakhar is also learnt to have spoken to central leaders about Bajwa’s efforts to fuel dissent in the party. Cong high command watching closely The Punjab Congress president said the party high command was monitoring the actions of leaders who were trying to seek accolades by giving an ultimatum to the government. “Any kind of support to such leaders would be a losing proposition. Instead of using their position to consolidate and strengthen the party, these self-styled leaders are creating fissures in the party cadre to further their not so hidden agenda,” he said, accusing them of pursuing their own goal instead of fighting the real issue, Covid-19. He said the party high command was seized of the matter and working to sort out the issues in an amicable manner, advising all the party leaders to focus on the programme given by the government to check the spread of Covid. On May 21, the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi should be observed by doing service to prevent the further spread of coronavirus, he added. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat had also spoken to some of these leaders and told them that the central leadership was watching the developments and would intervene soon. (Box) Sidhu exhorts MLAs to meet central leaders Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu asked the party MLAs and workers to go to Delhi and tell the high command about the situation in Punjab. In a tweet, Sidhu said he had started seeking justice for sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and punishing the culprits during the campaign for the parliamentary polls three years ago. “Now, our MLAs and party workers must go to Delhi and speak the truth of Punjab to our high command, as I regularly do!” he posted with a video clip of his speeches during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, who has also been critical of the chief minister, had indicated two days ago that some MLAs might go to Delhi to meet the central leadership on these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/be-wary-of-leaders-furthering-own-agenda-jakhar-tells-party-workers-101621539766828.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Explore possibilities of floating global tender for vaccines: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the health department to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of vaccines from all possible sources to ensure early inoculation in the state. The state government will also reach out directly to all vaccine manufacturers for direct purchase of Covid vaccines, including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, he said.Punjab has storage space for 35 lakh Sputnik V vaccines, which require storage temperature of minus 18 degrees Celsius. The CM said efforts would be made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state, which had received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from the Union government, of which only 1 lakh is currently available for use and which will also be exhausted within a day.The state government was forced to stop vaccination for Phase 1 and 2 categories in the last three days because of non-availability, said the CM, directing the departments concerned to continue pursuing the matter of supply aggressively with the Centre.As per Government of India allocation for Phase 3 (18-44 age group), the state government has been able to buy only 3.6 lakh vaccine doses, including 63,000 received on Wednesday. A total of 2.3 lakh doses have already been used, leaving only 1.3 lakh for use as of now, said the CM.Pointing out that almost 1 lakh unregistered construction workers and their family members had so far come forward for getting vaccinated in line with the state government’s prioritisation of vaccination for 18-44 category, the CM asked the labour department to ensure the registration of these workers on priority. DGP Dinkar Gupta said Punjab Police lost 21 personnel to Covid in the last five months, and of these, 50% were not fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/explore-possibilities-of-floating-global-tender-for-vaccines-capt-101621539765898.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Free education, ₹1,500 per month to kids orphaned during pandemic in Punjab||Punjab government will provide ₹1,500 per month as social security pension, along with free education up to graduation, for all those children orphaned in the Covid pandemic, as well as families that have lost their breadwinning member. This financial assistance will be provided from July 1 this year.Reviewing the Covid situation in the state, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh dubbed it as the state’s duty to become the foster parents of the children who have lost both their parents in the pandemic.He said affected persons would also be eligible for grant of ₹51,000 under the Ashirwaad Scheme from July 1, and would be entitled to free ration under the State Smart Ration Card Scheme and coverage under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. The state government would also assist the affected family members to find a suitable job under Ghar Ghar Rozgaar te Karobaar Mission, he added. Amarinder said the relief measures will be provided to orphans until they attain the age of 21. In the case of families whose breadwinner has died, these would be provided for an initial period of three years, after which their situation will be re-assessed, and where the vulnerability continues to exist, the period may be appropriately increased. The CM also announced the constitution of a monitoring committee, headed by the minister for social security & women and child development, to review progress and relief measures for every single case. The committee will meet at least once a month, he said. CM for house-to-house surveillance Amid projections and concerns of a possible third wave of Covid and its impact on children, Amarinder ordered the health department to go into mission mode with preparation, which will include specialised training of all doctors in the health department by June-end, while directing house-to-house surveillance to control the current spread of the disease in the rural areas. Expressing concern over the spread of Covid in rural areas, the CM directed teams of the health and other departments to start house-to-house surveillance in every village. Stressing the importance of involving sarpanches in this exercise, the CM ordered their prioritisation, along with that of panches, as well as block samiti and zila parishad Chairmen and members, in vaccination. A day after Punjab government notified black fungus as a disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the CM directed the health department to ensure that the necessary medicines for treating the same are made available to all the government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-education-rs-1-500-per-month-to-kids-orphaned-during-pandemic-in-punjab-101621539706155.html
21-05-2021||Other||Vigil up as Nepal man shot by NAPF personnel while trying to cross border for medicine||The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and civil police have been alerted on the India- Nepal border in Maharajganj district after personnel of the Nepal Armed Police Force (NAPF) allegedly shot dead a Nepalese man near the border in the Himalayan nation when he was trying to cross over to the Indian side to buy medicine that was not available in his village.The incident led to angry villagers in Nepal protesting near the international border.Superintendent of police (Maharajganj) Pradeep Gupta inspected the border and held meetings with SSB and district police officials to review the situation. “To maintain law and order on the international border, a meeting will be held with NAPF officials,” he said.A Maharajganj district official said Avinash Rajbhar, 30, resident of Katawaha village in Nepal’s Nawalparasi district, was trying to cross the international border on Wednesday when he was allegedly shot by NAPF personnel near no man’s land. The India-Nepal border was currently sealed due to Covid-19 and only transport vehicles carrying essential goods were permitted to cross the border, he added.Rajbhar told the jawans that he was going across the border to a chemist at Bahuar Bazar in Maharajganj district to buy medicines for his ailing father, according to the official. The medicine prescribed by the doctor was not available in the shop near his village in Nepal. The NAPF men told him that border was sealed, and people were not allowed to cross it from either side, the official said. When Rajbhar insisted, there was an argument between him and the jawans. Soon, local villagers arrived at the spot, opposing the NAPF’s stance and this led to a tussle between the jawans and the villagers, the official said. NAPF personnel opened fire, hitting Rajbhar and he was rushed to hospital but succumbed to injuries, the official said. India-Nepal Friendship Society president Anil Kumar Gupta said the society had sent a letter to the Union home ministry as well as the Nepal government to permit people from Nepal to procure life-saving medicines from chemists in Maharajganj on humanitarian grounds. Covid- 19 had infected people on both sides of the border, he said, adding that people residing in villages across the border in Nepal often visited towns in Uttar Pradesh to purchase medicines or for treatment in hospitals. The movement of people across the border had been restricted after the Covid pandemic, he said. Often, there was scarcity of medicines in Nepal and patients had to try and get it from shops in Maharajganj or other districts in UP, he said. To escape detection by SSB and NAPF, they sneak into UP border through agricultural field. Villagers’ clashes with SSB and NAPF were reported in March and April, leading to tension on the border, he added. The governments of both the countries should permit patients to get treatment or procure medicine on the valid prescription of a doctor, he said.A Nepal government official who did not wish to be named said, “The Nepal government has constituted a five-member probe team to inquire into the episode and submit a report. The members of the team will visit the bordering village on Friday. They will also hold a meeting with the district administration officers of Maharajganj.”Caption: File photo of Nepal police deployed on the international border near Sonauli in Maharajganj district of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vigil-up-as-nepal-man-shot-by-napf-jawan-while-trying-to-cross-border-for-medicine-101621539644923.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees dip in Covid cases, positivity rate||Punjab on Thursday witnessed further dip in Covid cases and positivity rate. The state registered 5,566 fresh cases taking the infection tally to 5,23,423, according to a bulletin. The state reported 193 fatalities, taking the death toll to 12,716. The positivity rate also dropped from 8.71% on Wednesday to 7.03% on Thursday, the lowest in two months. This is for the sixth consecutive day that the daily caseload is less than the recovered cases. According to the bulletin, 26 deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 21 from Bathinda, 20 from Mohali, 13 from Gurdaspur and 12 each from Sangrur and Fazilka.Ludhiana reported a maximum of 784 positive cases, followed by Bathinda 604, Mohali 467, Muktsar 417 and Jalandhar 382. The number of recoveries reached 4,43,666, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-positivity-rate-101621539525428.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 29,911 new cases, 738 deaths||Maharashtra witnessed a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 29,911 new cases. The cases have remained less than 35,000 for the sixth consecutive day. There were 188,233 new cases in the last six days (May 15-20) which averaged 31,372 cases per day.This is a sharp decline as the previous six days (May 9-14) recorded a total number of 255,879 which averaged 42,646 cases daily.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor, government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management said, “Both Maharashtra and Delhi have crossed the peak and we will now see only decline from here,” said Salunke.The state recorded 738 deaths reported Thursday, taking the toll to 85,355. The total number of tests conducted were 279,911.Salunke said, “Though cases have started reducing in urban pockets, we are seeing them increase in rural pockets. The focus should be to concentrate on such areas and beef up the entire medical infrastructure there.”. He said now the main thrust should be to reduce the number of deaths.Also Read | Coronavirus self-testing kit to be in market next week: Here is how to use itThe state currently has 383,253 active cases, while the total number of people affected by Covid-19 to date has reached 5,497,448. There are currently 383,253 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 64,084 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,987 active patients. The death toll has now reached 85,355 with Mumbai leading with 14,410 deaths, followed by Pune with 10,728 deaths.Dr Jeevan Jain, a medical practitioner at Lalbaug said that the second wave is gradually fading out. “We are seeing the decrease in the virulence of the Covid-19 virus and people are no longer needing to rush to the hospital. They are getting cured at home,” said Jain.However, Jain warned against social gatherings due to the decline and cited a recent case where a high-end building in south Mumbai saw seven Covid-19 cases. “Some 15 people had come together, after which seven contracted the virus. This needs to be avoided,” said Jain.In a shocking incident, three members of the family—father, mother and son all died within 13 hours due to the Covid-19 at Sangli. Meanwhile, at Tadoba tiger reserve, care is being taken to ensure that tigers do not get infected with Covid-19, by ensuring minimal contact with human beings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-29-911-new-cases-738-deaths-101621538564917.html
21-05-2021||Other||At PM Narendra Modi’s virtual meet, Ahmednagar Covid-19 model gets praise||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray participated in a virtual meeting in which Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi interacted with the collectors of 17 districts from Maharashtra to share the best practices to tackle the rising Covid-19 cases. Senior government officials said collectors of districts with high infectivity rate in the state had been chosen for the meeting. Health minister Rajesh Tope, who was present in the meeting, said that the idea was to share the best practices and to learn from each other’s work and emulate it to bring the pandemic in control on district level. Ahmednagar district collector Dr Rajendra Bhosale spoke about the protocol and practices adopted in his district to curb the cases and overall management. Both Modi and Thackeray appreciated the efforts put in by Dr Bhosale to control the cases, a statement from the chief minister’ office (CMO) stated.In the meeting, Bhosale spoke about how Hivre Bazar village was made Covid-free, following which the pattern was implemented in 1,316 other villages in the district. The ‘Hivre Bazar model’ was adopted by social worker and sarpanch from the village Popatrao Pawar. He formed four teams of health and volunteers who first conducted house-to-house surveys of an entire village and shifted every infected person to the isolation centre for further treatment. People who first hesitated to go to the centre, got ready after teams ensured taking over their day-to-day duty responsibilities towards their farms and animals. Bhosale said that similarly they appointed separate nodal officers for testing, vaccination and charges levied by private hospitals and it brought more consistency in the work. He added that in the second wave, home isolation was stopped completely and patients were treated in Covid care centres that brought down the case load in the district. After the meeting, Thackeray called up Bhosale and congratulated him for the work, a CMO statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-pm-narendra-modi-s-virtual-meet-ahmednagar-covid-19-model-gets-praise-101621538204825.html
21-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae: 80 birds, animals rescued in 3 days from Mumbai Metropolitan Region||A volunteer wildlife rescue group operating in the city has responded to nearly 300 calls for rescuing various birds, mammals and reptiles in and around the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in the past three days, after Cyclone Tauktae passed by the Maharashtra coast. As of Thursday afternoon, 80 animals – largely birds, some of which were pelagic and migratory birds – have been rescued. The birds include an Amur falcon (rescued from Khar), one sooty tern (rescued from Santacruz East), a one-bridled tern (rescued from Jogeshwari), a black-headed ibis (rescued from Goregaon with a fractured wing) and two Indian pittas (rescued from Mira Road in Thane). Rescuers said these birds were not usually seen in interior Mumbai and were probably displaced by the strong winds that lashed the city earlier this week.“These birds are uncommon in Mumbai, except the ibis which is sometimes seen in mangrove areas around the coast. The birds we found were likely displaced from their migratory paths, and were mainly found in a state of extreme exhaustion,” said Pawan Sharma, founder of the Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW).Two other rescue groups, Owls and the Wildlife Welfare Association, rescued sea birds, including a brown nadi and a wedge-tailed shearwater, from Pune and Thane, respectively. These sea birds are not typically seen in interior Maharashtra. Wildlife workers saying the birds had likely been thrown very far off course due to strong winds during the cyclone.Other birds affected by the extreme weather event include two juvenile red-wattled lapwings, 33 black kites, two cattle egrets, a pond heron, six house crows, a little egret, six pigeons, one common-hawk cuckoo, seven rose-ringed parakeets, a purple-rumped sunbird and four Alexandrine parakeets. Another seven birds – including two crows, two crows, an ibis, a tern and a parakeet –had already died or died soon after rescuers got to them.Other animals that had to be rescued include a golden jackal from Pimplas in Thane district, which was suffering from a 103-degree fever. Additionally, one monitor lizard, five rat snakes, seven palm squirrels, four checkered keelback snakes and six spectacled cobras, a wolf snake and three buff-striped keelback snakes were also rescued from Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.“As predicted, we are seeing the after-effects of the cyclone on resident and migratory wildlife. Incidents of such birds being injured and displaced are still being reported every hour to our helpline. We are trying to reach to as many cases as we can in MMR,” said Sharma, adding that his team of 20 wildlife volunteers has been working round the clock for the past 72 hours. Treatment and rehabilitation of the rescued animals is also underway, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-80-birds-animals-rescued-in-3-days-from-mumbai-metropolitan-region-101621538084870.html
21-05-2021||Other||Sowing area in Maharashtra increased to 15.7 million ha for kharif season||In view of predictions for higher-than-average rainfall this year, the Maharashtra government has set higher production targets from the coming kharif season by increasing the state’s sowing area to 15.7 million hectares (ha) from last season’s 14 million ha. The state had utilised 15.1 million ha for kharif crops in 2020-21, despite setting the 14 million ha target. The state is also expecting a record 128.52 million tonnes of production this year from kharif season, officials said. The higher targets were set in a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray (CM) on Thursday to take stock of the preparedness for the kharif season starting from June. Thackeray also asked officials to encourage farmers to go for ‘Vikel Te Pikel (sow crops that are in demand)’ model and create their own brand in the market. The ‘Vikel Te Pikel’ initiative enables farmers to take up the crop based on the demand of value chains that will guarantee sale of their produce at proper prices. It also will help them in minimising the post-harvest loss of the crops as the produce will be sold out without any delay. “It is necessary to research the market for agricultural commodities. Increasing crop production alone is not vital, but Maharashtra should also work for producing quality crops and build its brand by adopting modern technology and research methods,” Thackeray said in the meeting. “Take crops being sold by their demand in the market. Whatever we grow should be of good quality. Maharashtra should become a brand in the agriculture sector by bifurcating agriculture produce into regions,” CM said. Total land under cultivation in Maharashtra is 16.8 million ha and the average rainfall prediction between June and September is 1075.3mm. State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse informed that the maximum area (4.35 million ha) for sowing is expected to be used for soya bean, followed by cotton (4.3 million ha), cereals (2.3 million hectare) and rice (1.55 million ha). Around 884,000 ha is expected to be used for sowing maize. For this, the state will require 6.364 million metric tonnes of chemical fertilisers and 1.826 million quintal of seeds for the farming community. Maharashtra has around 15.2 million farmers. Of them, 28.40% are small farmers, while are 51.10% are marginal farmers. “The state has set a target of ₹42,388 crore as crop loans by commercial and district banks for kharif season. Of this, ₹6,091 crore has already been disbursed to 0.929 million (929,000) farmers by May 15,” said a senior official from the state agriculture department. The total target set for crop loans this year is ₹57,143 crore. Deputy CM and finance minister Ajit Pawar directed the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to hold a meeting and ensure that farmers get crop loans from the banks without any delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sowing-area-in-maharashtra-increased-to-15-7-million-ha-for-kharif-season-101621538025502.html
21-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra CM to visit cyclone-affected Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg today||The Maharashtra government is expected to announce a package for the cyclone-affected coastal districts after chief minster (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s tour to Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg on Friday. The spot assessment of losses in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Raigad and other districts is expected to be completed in a day or two.Cyclone Tauktae, that hit the coastal districts on Sunday and Monday, caused damage to structures and horticulture in the state. The death toll rose to 19, after the body of one of the missing sailors from Devgad was found on Thursday.CM will hold review meetings with officials from Ratnagiri and Sindhdurg, following his visit to the affected areas of the two districts. In Sindhudurg, Thackeray will be visiting the villages at Vengurla and Malvan tehsils. “The assessment of losses after following due procedure will be completed in next couple of days. CM is visiting the affected districts on Friday. The relief package will be announced after the assessment is completed,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who is also on a visit to Konkan.According to preliminary estimates, crops and horticulture on more than 12,000 hectares (ha) have been damaged. “Total losses are expected to be around ₹60 crore as the damages this time are much lesser than last year [caused due to Cyclone Nisarga]. Coastal districts do not grow any seasonal crops, and thus there was not much damage to the crops. Horticulture has sustained losses as Alphonso mango trees and chickoo plantations were damaged largely. We have asked district collectors to immediately release ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to the next of kin of the people who died due to the cyclone,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.As per the set norms of the National Disaster Response Fund, the compensation for crop losses ranges between ₹6,800 and ₹18,000 per hectare and between ₹6,000 and ₹95,000 for damages to houses. The state government had increased the relief amount as a special case for the damages in last year’s Cyclone Nisarga.Meanwhile, thousands of households in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg continue to remain without electric supply as the restoration work is underway. Energy minister Nitin Raut on Thursday said restoration of power will be completed within the next few days. “We have diverted workforce from other districts such as Kolhapur, Nanded and Nashik so that the restoration work is completed fast. We have suffered losses of about ₹62 crore due to the damages caused to the electric infrastructure,” he said.Leader of Opposition in legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis also went to various affected villages in Ratnagiri on his second day of Konkan visit, on Thursday. He alleged that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government led by Thackeray was “biased” towards Konkan. “The government has been discriminating the cyclone-affected coastal districts by stating financial constraints as reasons. Some of the favourite districts get ₹500 crore through various schemes. But it’s not ready to announce a relief package of ₹150- ₹200 crore for Konkan,” he said.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar visited Palghar and held a meeting with chickoo growers who have sustained huge losses. Shelar said that he has received complaints from farmers about the “faulty assessment” of losses by district authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cm-to-visit-cyclone-affected-ratnagiri-sindhudurg-today-101621537964826.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Final-year MBBS students with ATKT wait for summer exam schedule to start working||A day after state minister for health education Amit Deshmukh clarified that exams for undergraduate medical and dental students will be conducted in the physical mode between June 10 and 30, a bunch of final-year MBBS students, who cleared their degree exams with one or two subjects in Allowed to Keep Term (ATKT) in April, are still waiting for their degree. There are 240 such final-year students who now have to wait for the summer exams session to be conducted, in order to appear for the pending exams and gain their MBBS certificates.“Our results were announced in April and only 240 of us have failed in one or two subjects which, as per rule, is conducted in the summer session. However, this year, the pending winter session exams from December-January are being scheduled to take place in June, so we are not sure when our exams will be conducted,” said one of the students, requesting anonymity. He added that without clearing the ATKTs, these students do not get their degrees from respective institutes. While second- and third-year medical, dental and para-medical exams were postponed due to high number of Covid-19 cases, final-year MBBS exams were conducted in March and the results for the same were announced in the last week of April. “The idea behind conducting final-year MBBS exams in March despite rising Covid-19 cases was to ensure more students clear the degree and join the work force across the state. However, with no degree in hand, we are stuck at home unable to be of any help at present,” said another student, with one ATKT. Since May this year, these 240 students have approached the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) as well as the Directorate of Medical Education & Research (DMER) for clarity in this matter, but no official word has come out yet. “As per rules, we can conduct supplementary exams for this with ATKTs only after a 90-day period. So as per that, exams for summer session should be conducted in July and students will be informed about this soon,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, DMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/finalyear-mbbs-students-with-atkt-wait-for-summer-exam-schedule-to-start-working-101621537845355.html
21-05-2021||Other||Of 656 teachers at IIT-KGP, only one from SC community, 10 from ST: RTI data||Only 0.15% of all faculty positions at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kharagpur are held by teachers from Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities. Teachers belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) form 1.5% of all faculty positions and 4.1% are from Other Backward Classes (OBC), according to responses received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The replies come a week after the institute suspended a professor after videos of her purportedly abusing students from SC, ST categories and those with physical disabilities emerged on social media. The RTI query was filed by Egalitarians, a not-for-profit group working for democratising the Indian academia, on April 28. Responses from the institute, which have been reviewed by HT, were received Monday. Of the 656 teaching staff at IIT-Kharagpur, only one belongs to SC community, 10 are from ST category and 27 from OBC category. Only 88 of them are women. There are three faculty positions at IITs — assistant professor is the entry-level position, followed by associate professor and then professor. The representation of faculty from these marginalised groups was worse in senior faculty positions. The institute does not have even one associate professor or professor who belongs to the ST category. Only two associate professors are from SC category and seven from OBC category. Among professors, five are from SC category and three from OBC. According to government of India (GoI) norms, 10% of all faculty positions in IITs are reserved for candidates belonging to economically weaker sections — 27% for OBC category, 15% for SC, 7.5% for ST, and 5% for candidates with physical disabilities. Until 2019, these reservations were applicable only for recruitment of assistant professors. A detailed questionnaire sent to institute director Virendra Kumar Tewari remained unanswered. Registrar Tamal Nath said the institute had a defined recruitment process for faculty positions. “We follow the recruitment process of the institute. A selection committee is set up and external members are appointed to the committees. The selection is based on academic proficiency of the candidate and performance in the selection process. We do not compromise on the quality of our faculty members,” Nath said. Egalitarians refuted Nath’s claim and said lack of diversity among faculty positions was institutionalised injustice. “Elite institutions such as IITs do not take into account the financial and social capital of candidates when they consider merit, which is primarily focused on academic performance,” said a member of Egalitarians. The group’s members said the data revealed in the RTI puts into context the alienation of dalit and adivasi students at the hands of faculty members such Seema Singh, who was suspended last week. On April 24, video recordings of Singh, an associate professor of English from the department of Humanities and Social Sciences at IIT-Kharagpur, were posted anonymously on the confessions page of the institute, an informal group of students on social media. The recordings are those of preparatory classes, allegedly taught by Singh online and attended by over 100 students and parents, where she can be heard hurling abuses repeatedly. Avatthi Ramaiah, chairperson, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policies at Mumbai’s Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), said the discrimination was systemic. “If a reserved category candidate has applied, the law mandates that the selection committee should have a member from the category. Most times, it is this member that bats on behalf of the reserved category candidate alone. There is resistance from all quarters because the department members have a set idea of who they want,” said Ramaiah, who has served on several selection committees. In March, HT had reported that IIT-Bombay has not recruited a single associate professor from ST and OBC categories since 2006. RTI data showed that of the 317 candidates hired as assistant professors over the past 12 years, 97% were from the general category, 1.9% were OBC, 0.9% SC and 0% ST. Between 2006 and 2020, 42 general category candidates were hired as associate professors and 97.7% of all associate professors were from the general category, while 2% were SC, ST while there was no one from OBC category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-656-teachers-at-iit-kgp-only-one-from-sc-community-10-from-st-rti-data-101621537725861.html
21-05-2021||Other||350 farmers booked for Hisar incident||The Hisar police have booked over 350 farmers under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) among others of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Urban State police station after they protested in Hisar outside a temporary Covid hospital, where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate the hospital.Hisar police spokesman Vikas Kumar said police have registered the FIR against 350 unknown farmers under attempt to murder and other sections for trying to enter inside the newly-inaugurated hospital, where patients were admitted.“Police had already registered the FIR against farmers before their leaders held a meeting with senior district officials on Sunday. We were not aware that the Urban State police had registered the FIR till Wednesday night,” the spokesman added.Police had not shared the FIR copy in public domain. Farmers announced to gherao the commissioner’s office on May 24.Farm leader Vikas Sisar said, “The senior administrative officials betrayed the farm leaders by assuring them that no FIR will be registered against them when they released 85 farmers on Sunday evening. We have decided to gherao the commissioner’s office. Senior leaders of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha will take part in the protest,” he added.Meanwhile, residents of Hisar’s three villages - Majra, Umra and Mahjat on Thursday decided to ‘boycott’ the Covid lockdown alleging that it has been imposed to suppress the farm agitation. Residents of the villages held a meeting and passed resolution to boycott the lockdown, testing and vaccination drive.The villagers said a group of youths will impose ‘Thikhri pahra’ to stop entry of government employees in their respective villages. The BJP-JJP leaders’ entry will also be prohibited in the villages.Hansi SDM Jitendra Ahlawat said they are trying to convince the farmers so that they can check the rise in Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/350-farmers-booked-for-hisar-incident-101621537245674.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Speaker restores unseated Kalka MLA’s membership||The Vidhan Sabha membership of unseated Haryana MLA Pradeep Chaudhary was restored on Thursday by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta with effect from April 19, the day Himachal Pradesh high court suspended his conviction in a criminal case. He was elected from Kalka on a Congress ticket.The Speaker on Thursday said Chaudhary’s membership of legislative assembly stands restored following a stay granted on his conviction by the HC.In January, Chaudhary was convicted and sentenced by a Nalagarh court for three years of imprisonment in a case of rioting.The Congress leader was subsequently unseated as a member of the Haryana legislative assembly as per Section 8 (3) of the Representation of the People Act.The disqualification provision says that a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years will be disqualified from the date of such conviction and will continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his release.Following the HC order, Chaudhary’s counsel Bipin Negi had said that a single judge bench of justice Sandeep Sharma of the Himachal HC has suspended his conviction.“The Solan sessions court had already stayed his sentence. Suspension of the conviction will continue till the appellate court decides our appeal against his conviction,” Negi had said.Legal experts said that if the HC stays the conviction of an unseated MLA, the assembly speaker will have to restore his or her membership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-speaker-restores-unseated-kalka-mla-s-membership-101621537065314.html
21-05-2021||Other||Naini jail in Prayagraj bans outside food, commodities to check Covid||: In a bid to control spread of Covid infection inside barracks at Naini Central Jail, prison administration has completely restricted outside food items etc sent by kin of jail inmates. Many relatives of prisoners who arrived with eatables to be given to them were returned by jail staff after the new order was implemented on Thursday.Before this, the family members of under trial prisoners used to send eatables, clothes and other items for them. The items were collected and were properly checked and sanitized before being delivered to inmates living in different barracks of the jail after 24 hours. The packets used to contain the details of prisoners and the person sending them.However, the jail administration was alert after 114 male prisoners and 15 women prisoners were tested positive for Covid-19. They were shifted to Covid care centre established at jail premises last year where they were treated under care of two doctors, 5 nurses and 3 ward boys. Due to precautions and intensive care by jail administration, 98 of the infected prisoners were tested negative for coronavirus.After the new orders were issued by DG Prisons Anand Kumar on Wednesday, jail authorities held a meeting and implemented the restrictions from Thursday without any concessions. Senior superintendent at Naini Jail PN Pandey said at present 31 prisoners are undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Precautions taken by jail administration helped in controlling spread of coronavirus inside jail premises. New orders had been strictly implemented and persons who have arrived with food items and other commodities were returned, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/naini-jail-in-prayagraj-bans-outside-food-commodities-to-check-covid-101621536944813.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,433 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths||Mumbai on Thursday recorded 1,433 new Covid-19 cases and 59 deaths, taking the tally to 692,785 and the toll to 14,410. Thursday’s case fatality rate (CFR) was 4.1%, while the overall CFR so far is 2%. There are now 28,987 active cases in the city. The number of cases recorded on Thursday was slightly higher in comparison to Tuesday’s and Wednesday’s figures. On Wednesday, Mumbai conducted 29,391 Covid-19 tests, which resulted in Thursday’s cases, with a positivity rate under 5% for the first time in almost three months. On Tuesday, Mumbai had reported 961 cases, which were under 1,000 cases for the first time since March 2. Mumbai had conducted 17,920 on Monday, with a positivity rate of 5.3%. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 1,329 Covid-19 cases and had conducted 22,788, with a positivity rate of 5.8%. Positivity rate is the number of Covid cases reported, as a per cent of the total number of tests done. So far, Mumbai has conducted 5,986,344 tests, with a positivity rate of 11.56%. Between 40% and 60% of the tests conducted on any day are rapid antigen tests. Since the beginning of May, active cases in Mumbai have gone down by 51%. On May 1, Mumbai had 59,318 active Covid-19 cases. The highest active cases were recorded on April 11, at 92,464 cases. According to data from BMC, around 64% of the active cases as of Wednesday are asymptotic, 31.3% are symptomatic and around 4.4% are critical. Out of the 22,202 Covid-19 beds in hospitals across Mumbai, 10,967 are vacant; 420 ICU beds and vacant and 113 ventilator beds are vacant, as of Thursday morning. According to BMC, 1,460 patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday. Mumbai’s recovery rate is now 93%, the overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.23%, and the doubling rate is 297 days. There are 73 containment zones and 276 sealed buildings in Mumbai at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-433-new-covid-19-cases-59-deaths-101621536584785.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gave first vaccine dose to 16.12 million||Of the targetted population of 33.8 million, Maharashtra has administered the first vaccine dose to 16.12 million people across all age group till Thursday. A total of 4.34 million (12.84% of the targetted 33.8 million) have got both the doses. It means, against the state’s total population of 125 million, around 3.47% or 4.34 million people have been vaccinated with both the doses. Very few districts such as Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur and Kolhapur have crossed the state average, while most of the backward districts are way behind it. Hingoli in Central Maharashtra, Gadchiroli in Vidarbha and Sindhudurg in Konkan are lagging much behind with 126,383, 137,405 and 172,565 people vaccinated with their first doses. The percentage of the vaccinated population against its targeted population of 45-plus hovers around 20-25%. “There is huge hesitancy among people over vaccination for various reasons, including illiteracy, apprehension about safety, availability of resources and in some cases low percentage of infection. The districts which have taken proactive steps to motivate people for the vaccination have improved the percentage,” said an official from the health department. Districts like Gadchiroli, Nandurbar, Hingoli and Washim are lagging behind the state average. Some of the tribal districts have undertaken special drives to encourage the people for the jabs. In Nandurbar, district collector Rajendra Bharud has mobilised logistical resources to take people to the vaccination centres from far-flung areas. It yielded the results and helped the district improve the percentage. “The hesitancy is basically because of illiteracy among people. We have made video clips of prominent social workers such as Abhay Bang appealing people to come forward for vaccination. Still our percentage is low comparing other districts,” said Dr Anil Rude, civil surgeon, Gadchiroli another tribal district. Kolhapur district has led the way and vaccinated 57% of the eligible population above 45 years with first dose. “A total of 1.15 million people of the 1.59 million eligible in this age group have been vaccinated with first dose and 0.22 million have been vaccinated with second doses. We reached out to every village with the help of our sub-centres for vaccinations, which have helped us in reaching near the target. We also paid attention to keep the wastage low by training our vaccinators. We could give 13,000 doses more than the expected doses by saving additional drops in the vials. Our wastage rate of vaccine is -0.5%,” said Dr Farooque Desai, district immunisation officer. The state is currently facing shortage of vaccines, forcing it to suspend the drive for the 18-44 age group. The state is expected to resume the drive for the age group in the last week of May. Until May 19, Maharashtra received 20,709,240 doses of vaccines. It included 2,672,370 doses of Covaxin, while the remaining were Covishield. A total of 1,9891,50 were procured by the state government for the age group of 18-44. The state has inoculated 661,016 people in the age group of 18-44 years with first doses. The state has floated global tenders for procurement of 50 million doses of vaccines that have been approved by WHO and USFDA. Three days after the expression of interest, the state has not received any response. “Despite relaxing the terms, we have not received response from any manufacturer. We will urge the central government to facilitate the import of vaccine as well as other drugs required to treat Covid-19. We have been requesting the Centre for integrated national policy on import of the vaccine. It will help in distributing the vaccine quota to all states and also decide which vaccine suits the requirement of the country,” Tope said. The shortage of vaccines resulted in drastic drop in weekly vaccination rate. In six days between May 15 and 21, 722,528 people were inoculated, against 1,834,369 in the preceding week of May 8-14 and 1,433,165 during May 01-07. In the last week of April from 24 to 30, 2,080,998 doses were administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gave-first-vaccine-dose-to-16-12-million-101621536524766.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Housing societies, private establishments rush to private hospitals for Covid vaccination||While Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has expressed its inability to start door-to-door vaccination in absence of guidelines from the state government, several housing societies and private establishments in the city are approaching private hospitals in the city to set up vaccination camps in their premises.Private hospitals like Fortis, HN Reliance, Nanavati and Apollo Hospitals are receiving a significant number of queries for setting up vaccination camps for residents of housing societies or employees of private establishments.The BMC had on May 10 issued a circular allowing vaccination sessions for housing societies and private establishments for those above 18 years of age. The vaccination would be on a payment basis and the payment per vaccine would need to be mutually decided by the private centre (hospital) and private establishments/housing societies, as per the BMC guidelines.Post this, several housing societies and private establishments have started approaching private hospitals for vaccination but it has not yet taken off due to shortage of vaccines.A spokesperson for Fortis Hospital said, “We have received several requests from housing societies and workplaces to begin Covid-19 vaccination drive for its residents and employees. Following the local municipal guidelines, we are working on the logistics that will be needed to initiate these camps. We hope to start with this engagement very soon.”Under the guidelines, private hospitals will organisation vaccination session at the premises of the housing society or private establishment. Beneficiaries are needed to be registered with the Co-Win app. The vaccination team would be needed to have a doctor, vaccinator, vaccination officer to verify Co-Win details and one person to manage the crowd. An ambulance is mandatory to be stationed at the place of vaccination drive be it housing society or private offices. It is expected to be used to rush vaccine beneficiary to the hospital in case of adverse effects post-inoculation.Dr Santosh Shetty, executive director, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital said, “We are in touch with corporate house and housing societies for the administration of Covid vaccines, and we will start it once we get a fresh stock by month-end. Currently, we have got few request letters and are in touch with 10-12 big housing societies nearby our hospital and the same number of corporate houses.”Borivli resident Ankit Arora said, “We contacted several private hospitals but they expressed their inability to start such a drive. Unless we have sufficient stock, I don’t think it is of any use to have such facilities.”Meanwhile, from Friday, vaccination for all age groups will be conducted on an appointment basis. The BMC has decided that vaccination will be done on a walk-in basis for three days for those above 60 years of age between Monday to Wednesday and appointment basis between Thursday to Saturday, while the vaccination drive will remain shut on Sunday.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “Currently, for next week we will continue walk-in vaccination for those above 60 years of age, but in the week after that, we might change our policy depending on the vaccine doses that we will get from the global tender that we have floated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/housing-societies-private-establishments-rush-to-private-hospitals-for-covid-vaccination-101621536465439.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Kin of patients affected by Mucormycosis shelling out lakhs for treatment||Even after winning the battle against Covid-19, there is no respite for many patients who are falling prey to a black fungus infection — mucormycosis. A serious but rare fungal infection, mucormycosis is caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated on time, said doctors.Due to the sudden surge in the price of life-saving antifungal medicines, patients at private hospitals have to shell out lakhs during their treatment that stretches between four-six weeks.Siddhesh Parulekar, 71, who recovered from Covid-19, lost his left eye to mucormycosis. The Girgaum resident was detected with Covid-19 in April. With moderate infection - his oxygen saturation levels were around 92 -he underwent treatment at the Worli Covid care centre for almost two weeks and returned home. But within a month, his left eye started drooping and he started squinting. When he was rushed to an ophthalmologist, his MRI report revealed that he had been infected with mucormycosis. On May 9, he was admitted to Saifee Hospital. Struggling to arrange ₹10 lakh for the treatment, the family has started a campaign on the crowdfunding portal—Impactguru.com.“Last week, he underwent surgery where his left eye was removed. His condition is quite critical as the fungus has reached his brain. Currently, he is in the intensive care unit (ICU),” said his son Sunil Parulekar.In another case, Sudhir Mishra, 56, is raising funds for his father’s treatment who has been diagnosed with mucormycosis. Only last month, Mishra spent ₹4 lakhs on his father Anand who was tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, Anand is at Lotus hospital, Borivali that has given the family an estimate of ₹12lakhs towards the treatment of mucormycosis.Pre-Covid-19, patients with mucormycosis were treated at half the current expense. With the sudden surge in mucormycosis cases, however, there has been a severe shortage of life-saving drug — Liposomal Amphotericin B in the market. Taking advantage of the increasing demand, drug suppliers have increased the price of one injection from ₹8,000 to over ₹10,000, said doctors.“There are two types of drugs—Liposomal Amphotericin B and plain Amphotericin B.During pre-Covid days, the first one used to cost ₹3000-5,000. The latter one was ₹150. However, we preferred giving Liposomal Amphotericin B as it is more effective even for Rhino mucormycosis when the infection reaches the brain. So, during the second wave, when cases increased, suppliers surged their price to over ₹10,000. While the price of Amphotericin B has been raised to ₹500,” said Dr ChandraVeer Singh, consultant otorhinolaryngologist, head and neck onco-surgeon, Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road.As per treatment protocol, when the black fungus infects the nose, sinus or palate, doctors give 5mg dose per kilogram (kg) of body weight. For instance, if a person is 60kgs, he would require 300mg of the dose. Each vial consists of 50mg of the drugs. So, a patient needs six vials which costs ₹60,000 daily. But when the infection reaches the brain, doctors have to give 8-10mg per kg of the body weight. This doubles the daily medical expenditures.Dr Milind Navalakhe, consultant ENT, Global Hospital, Parel said that plain Amphotericin B often affects the kidneys so patients who can afford the medical expenditure opt for Liposomal Amphotericin B. “Patients have to spend a minimum of ₹60,000 daily on the medicines for four-six weeks,” he said.After receiving several complaints of overcharging and channelise the supply of these drugs, hospitals have been instructed to procure the injections directly through the collector’s office.“For the last two-three days, case wise, we send the details to the collector’s office who then supply us the injections. This has helped break the chain of middlemen and over-pricing of doses,” said Dr Singh.Abhay Pandey, national president of All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF) said mucormycosis before Covid-19 was considered an extremely rare fungal infection. A handful of pharmaceutical companies produce the Liposomal Amphotericin B. Now, with the surge in cases, companies are struggling to meet the demand and arrange for raw materials. “When the pandemic started in March last year, the suppliers increased the price of masks and sanitisers for their profit. So now, as cases of mucormycosis have increased, they are using the opportunity by surging prices of the injections,” he said.A spokesperson from Cipla which is one of the manufacturers of the injection said, “The demand for the antifungal medicines has increased by 3-4 times. We are getting orders from all across the country. We have escalated the production and we believe the demand will soon be met.”Meanwhile, doctors said unlike last year the black fungal infection during the second wave is more aggressive which deteriorates the condition of the patients faster.“In the second wave, the infection rate is not only more but it is also affecting younger patients. I have a patient who is just 25-year-old. Also, the infection is so aggressive that it is quickly spreading to eyes, palate and even brain,” said Navalakhe.Doctors said incidences of mucormycosis can be controlled by stopping the unregulated usage of insulin. “This black fungus was earlier visible among patients with immunosuppressants like diabetes and cancer. Patients with Covid-19 are unnecessarily given a large number of steroids which compromises their immunity. So, it (dispensing steriods) needs to be controlled,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the state’s Covid-19 task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mucormycosis-treatment-costs-lakhs-say-patients-kin-101621536404706.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 6 Uttan fishermen return after 3 days||After battling Cyclone Tauktae, six fishermen aboard trawler New Help Mary finally returned to the coast after spending two days and three nights at sea, 35 nautical miles off Uttan coast.The owner of the trawler, Justin Miranda, said, “The trawler left Uttan on May 14 for fishing. After covering around 35 nautical miles, we got a message on the wireless to return to the nearest coast due to the cyclone warning. Following this we started to return, but around 15 nautical miles off Uttan, we were caught in the cyclone. We conveyed this to Bernard D’mello, fishermen leader, so that our family members would get some hope.”The fishermen initially decided to go to Dahanu coast, but as it would take around 12 hours, they decided to drop the anchor and stay at the spot. “We dropped the anchor after we covered only nine nautical miles in three hours. However due to the gusty winds, it broke. The second and third anchor also broke, and we were drifting four nautical miles in the opposite direction. Our boat was tossing in the sea and we just had a long rope for support,” said Miranda. Due to the tossing, the steering wheel of the trawler also got partially damaged. After the condition improved on Tuesday, they decided to move towards Uttan and reached Chowk village in their partially damaged boat around midnight.“We could see the Indian Navy chopper coming to our rescue, but they had to return thrice due to inclement weather and we were at the mercy of Mother Nature,” said Miranda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-6-uttan-fishermen-return-after-3-days-101621536345314.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Mira Road resident arrested for illegal sale of travel passes||DN Nagar police arrested a 31-year-old man for allegedly illegally selling travel permits or e-passes to people wanting to travel within the state amid the restrictions on movement. The accused was arrested from Mira Road where he sold the e-passes for ₹400 each.According to DN Nagar police, the accused, Amir Imtiyaz Munshi, had sold around 400 e-passes since the beginning of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Police officers said that when travel restrictions were announced during the second wave, the government started a portal for e-passes for emergency travel within the state and districts. The officers said they had received information that a person had been selling online e-passes illegally.On tracking the IP address of the computer, police reached Munshi’s house and arrested him after seizing his computer.During interrogation, Munshi confessed to selling e-passes and also revealed that an employee of the collector’s office used to take ₹300 for each pass.“We are now looking for the government employee who was helping Munshi in procuring the e-passes. We are also looking for people who have bought the passes from Munshi,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mira-road-resident-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-travel-passes-101621536286731.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Centre must allot Amphotericin B injections to Maharashtra under any circumstances: Tope||As cases of mucormycosis are increasing in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the Centre must allot Amphotericin B injections to Maharashtra at the earliest. Looking at the increasing cases, the state Covid task force has prepared guidelines for the treatment of such cases in the state. Tope said that the guidelines will soon be issued and the department will also hold training programmes across districts.“Maharashtra has several cases [of mucormycosis]. Depending on the severity of the case, a patient needs anywhere between 60 to 100 injections during the treatment. The task force has prepared a detailed guideline for the treatment of mucormycosis. It will be issued soon and the state will be holding training programmes for districts as well,” Tope said.The minister said that rising cases of mucormycosis is a “real concern” for the state government and have therefore pressed for the Centre’s approval to get the injections needed for the treatment of mucormycosis, which is also referred to as Black Fungus, colloquially. So far, Maharashtra has about 1,500 cases and have reported around 90 fatalities due to it. The state, according to Tope, has placed orders for over 200,000 injections but the manufacturers need permission from the Centre to supply it to the State. “The real concern for us now is mucormycosis and our stress remains that Centre must allot Amphotericin B injections. We have given purchase orders for 200,000 injections to various companies that manufacturer these injections, but the Centre is not allocating the quota and till then these companies cannot deliver these orders,” he said.The minister said that another challenge for the pharma companies is the availability of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) or raw material to manufacture the drug, which has to be imported from Germany. “The Centre must overcome these issues and make Amphotericin B injections available to Maharashtra under any circumstances,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-must-allot-amphotericin-b-injections-to-maharashtra-under-any-circumstances-tope-101621536285399.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks NEGVAC to check possibility of door-to-door vaccination for elderly, disabled||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) to look into the possibility of door-to-door vaccination for those who are above the age of 75 and differently-abled. The expert committee, under the aegis of the health ministry, is required to submit its report before June 2. The bench further observed that if the NEGVAC comes out with a policy favourable to the select group of citizens, then the same may be implemented immediately without waiting for the high court order. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed by the counsel for Brihanmumbai Mumbai Corporation (BMC) that as per the directions of the bench on Wednesday it had filed a response. The HC had asked the BMC commissioner to inform it whether the civic body was in a position to conduct door-to-door vaccination for elderly and disabled citizens and if the response was in the affirmative the court would permit it to do so even if the centre did not permit it. The affidavit filed by Dr Mangala Gomare stated that the civic authority was willing to implement door to door vaccination if the Central government comes out with a policy for the same and issued guidelines to that effect. Dissatisfied by the response the bench observed, “What was the praise in the newspaper and media for.. publicity? You cannot think for the elderly and bedridden. If you do not have stock, you stop vaccines for all. Why is this selective vaccination going on? Can you discriminate like that?” The latter observation was in light of the petition on issues for booking of vaccination slots on the Co-Win vaccination portal which is also being heard by the bench. Kapadia, a petitioner-in-person submitted that the village of Behrampur in Odisha had a door to door vaccination policy which was discontinued today morning. To this, the court noted that the reason for discontinuation of the door-to-door vaccination drive was not because of some Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) but because the centre did not have a policy. Suggesting a change in approach for the vaccination drive the court said, “Officers are thoroughly insensitive. Instead of having people rush to the centres, you should chase them for vaccinations. Why can’t this approach be thought of? This is not how you deal with such an important issue. Your officials have disappointed us.” The bench then noted that as NEGVAC had been constituted in August 2020 specifically for dealing with Covid vaccination directed it to consider the possibility of the door to door Covid vaccination policy for elderly and disabled citizens. The court further directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India and NEGVAC to get instructions from the chairman of NEGVAC and ask him to submit their opinion on the door to door vaccination policy to the court within two weeks. With regards to the plea to have a separate Co-Win portal for Mumbai in light of complaints of registered patients not getting vaccines though they have been given appointment slots due to walk-in vaccines being administered at centres, the court directed BMC to give preference to online registrants who have confirmed appointments over the on the spot registrants. They also added that the respondent authorities will make “honest endeavours to ensure that the elderly citizens are not made to wait in long queues and that immediate steps are taken to vaccinate them at the centre”. The court has posted a hearing of both petition on June 2, 2021, and has asked the authorities to respond to the specific queries raised by them by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-negvac-to-check-possibility-of-door-to-door-vaccination-for-elderly-disabled-101621536224703.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||God save education system: HC raps Maharashtra govt on SSC tests||The Bombay high court (HC) has rapped the state government for not having a contingency plan in place for assessing students before cancelling the Class 10 exams and asked it to file an affidavit on the measures it plans to take to address the issues raised in public interest litigation related to admission to Class 11 given the cancellation of the Class 10 exams.The court said that as the Class 10 exams were the last schooling examination for students, they could not be promoted without having been assessed, as it would have an adverse effect on their future. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by retired professor and Pune resident Dhananjay Kulkarni, was informed by advocate Uday Warunjikar that though the notification announcing the cancellation of Class 10 exams in the state was issued on May 12, as per news reports the decision was taken on April 15. He added though the government resolution was issued a month after the decision was taken, the state had not prepared a plan for assessing the students. Warunjikar added that while other boards like CBSE, ICSE and IB had an internal assessment to evaluate their students and declare their class 10 results, the students of the state board were not assessed from class 1-8 as the Right to Education (RTE) Act did not permit exams till then and due to the pandemic, Class 9 students were also not assessed last year and promoted to Class 10, hence there was no internal assessment based on which the state board students could be assessed like students from other boards. Government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade for the state submitted that the issue of coming up with an evaluation system for students of the state board had been referred to the State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT) and their response was awaited. He submitted that SCERT had control over the marking system and performance standard in Maharashtra, hence the state would have a formula on marking within a week. When Kakade said did not respond to the court’s query on whether an examination would be held for class 10 state board students, the court said, “Are you thinking of promoting them without examination? God save the education system of this country. This is the only examination and the last examination of their schooling. If you are waiting for suggestions from them (SCERT), who took this decision?”After the court sought to know whether such Class 10 examinations were cancelled in other states as well both Kakade and an intervenor informed that the states of Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh had also done so. The court then questioned as to why Class 10 exams were being cancelled while Class 12 exams were being conducted and then sought to know from other boards how they would be assessing and promoting students if they had also cancelled Class 10 exams. Advocate Mihir Joshi for CBSE said that the board had conducted internal assessments which is part of the final assessment. He added that the performances of students of the last three years would be considered to ensure no student gets over and above what they usually get. Advocate Pratik Kothari for ICSE submitted that the board conducted internal assessments and had exams till Class 9. He added that the board would appoint experts and come up with a formula like they had done last year which was approved by the Supreme Court. After hearing all submissions, the court addressed Kakade and said that as a decision was yet to be taken on how to assess the state board students for Class 10 the state should have had a blueprint in place before making the decision. “Exams have to be conducted now or later. If you are cancelling then you have to have some blueprint, not just some getaway for students. Checks and balances have to be in place. There are law firms which say we will not take students who get above 90% in exams.” The court then permitted the state to submit the decision of SCERT within a week and posted a hearing of the PIL thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/god-save-education-system-hc-raps-maharashtra-govt-on-ssc-tests-101621536164725.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Congress, Sena demand petroleum minister’s resignation over barge tragedy; NCP calls for case against ONGC officials||Terming the barge incident wherein at least 37 workers drowned in Arabian Sea a “manmade tragedy” and a failure of the Narendra Modi-led Union government to avert it, Maharashtra Congress has demanded resignation of petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on moral grounds.Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan has asked as to why the 600 people on-board the barge were not brought to offshore immediately after cyclone warnings. He said the responsibility should be fixed for criminal negligence. State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant has demanded for Pradhan’s resignation on moral grounds. “The tragedy in which 37 people have lost their lives is manmade. More than 38 people are still missing. This is clearly a manmade tragedy as warning of cyclone was given in advance. It is the responsibility of the people who put the lives of 700 people in danger, and action should be taken against the people responsible. The moral responsibility should be taken by the minister by resigning from the post,” he said.Sawant said it was negligence of the people at the helms of the affair due to which the tragedy took place. “Lakhs of people of lost their lives because of the mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis in the country. Similar failures have come to the fore from the irresponsible management in other ministries too. We want to ask whether the Modi government is going to learn anything from its blunders it has committed so far,” he said.Chavan has said ignoring Coast Guard warnings has led to the tragedy. “Ignoring Coast Guard warnings has caused a huge tragedy. Why did the 3 accommodation barges hired by #ONGC with more than 600 persons on board not forced to return offshore. Responsibility must be fixed for this criminal negligence and compensation given (sic),” he tweeted on Thursday. Shiv Sena MP from south Mumbai Arvind Sawant, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanded that he seek resignation of Pradhan and ONGC CMD. Sawant, who is also Sena’s chief spokesperson, demanded an inquiry under a retired Supreme Court or high court judge over the “callousness” of ONGC management and the ministry of petroleum and natural gas as to why they could not alert the staffers who were on duty on the barge. He also sought financial assistance for the families of the deceased and the 52 missing employees.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), too, has demanded that a culpable homicide case be registered against ONGC officials responsible for risking the lives of the 700 employees working at the barge. “There were alerts of Cyclone Tauktae from concerned authorities, but ONGC chose to overlook them and risked the lives of 700 employees. Around 37 employees lost their lives after the sea barge drowned in the cyclone and over 40 are still missing. Search and rescue operations by the Coast Guard and Indian Navy are still on. Declaring a probe by Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in the matter is not enough. We want the responsibility of the officials concerned to be fixed. They should be suspended with immediate effect and should also be booked for culpable homicide,” said Nawab Malik, state minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson.P305 barge had gone adrift off Heena oil fields in Bombay High area. The oil fields are located around 70km southwest of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-sena-demand-petroleum-minister-s-resignation-over-barge-tragedy-ncp-calls-for-case-against-ongc-officials-101621536044687.html
21-05-2021||Other||Covid patient who escaped from hospital found dead in Palghar||The body of a 62-year-old Covid-19 patient was found at Nirmal village in Nallasopara on Thursday morning. The deceased had escaped from Cardinal Gracias Covid Hospital, Sandor village in Vasai on Wednesday night.The patient was admitted to the hospital on May 11. On Wednesday, the patient sneaked out of the hospital taking advantage of the power outage reported due to Cyclone Tauktae.However, on Thursday, his body was found at Nirmal village.Dr Manish Pandye, taluka medical officer, Vasai, said, “Due to the cyclone, there was no power in the entire Vasai-Virar stretch. Hence, when the patient escaped from the centre, the staff did not notice the same.”The police are awaiting the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of the death and have registered a case of accidental death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-who-escaped-from-hospital-found-dead-in-palghar-101621536045249.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge master chose to stay close to oil field: Afcons Infrastructure||Afcons Infrastructure, the company which chartered Papaa 305 (P305) that sank off the coast of Mumbai on May 17 due to Cyclone Tauktae claimed on Thursday that the barge master chose to stay close to the oil field where P305 was anchored though he was warned of the storm three days in advance.The weather forecast received on May 14, 2021 “predicted sustained wind speed of maximum 40 knots (classified as a “Tropical Storm” by our service provider) was likely to occur at our specific work location late 16th or early 17th May 2021.”“While the other barges moved to Mumbai port or outer anchorage, the Master of P305 chose to move 200m away from the platform where they were working, and to remain at that location, deciding this as a safe location since the maximum predicted wind speed was only 40 knots and his location was 120 NM [nautical miles] way from the eye of the tropical storm,” a statement issued by Afcons on Thursday read.“Durmast is the owner and the responsibility for marine operations rests with the vessel owner and his marine crew stationed on the vessel... Afcons, as charterer deploys its construction workmen and supervisors, who stay on the barge and carry out construction or revamp work on the platform,” the statement added.Afcons further claimed that the responsibility for the marine side of the operations, namely safe vessel operation, navigation and vessel management, come under the scope of work of the vessel owners, carried out through the vessel’s master, officers, and the crew appointed on the vessel by the owner.A statement from Durmast Enterprises is awaited.P305, an accommodation barge with 261 personnel on-board, sent out a distress call on Monday morning, following the intensification of Tauktae to an extremely severe cyclonic storm. The people on board comprised marine crew, labourers on contract, as well as 13 employees of Afcons. Till now, 186 people have been rescued, while 49 bodies have been recovered in the Search and Rescue (SAR) operations launched by the Indian Navy and the coast guard late Monday.The barge, owned and operated by M/s Durmast Enterprises Limited, was chartered by Afcons and consortium partner Halani-TES-Nauvata to work on a project for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in the Western Offshore fields in the Arabian sea. The barge was located 72 km off the coast of Mumbai in the Heera Oil Fields in Bombay High, where some of the country’s biggest offshore oil rigs are located. Two other barges chartered by Afcons were battered by the cyclone, but all on board were rescued, including 137 on board barge Gal Constructor, which ran aground about 90km north of Mumbai’s Colaba Point, and 196 on board barge SS-3. The 101 on board oil rig Sagar Bhushan, which was also set adrift due to the gusty winds, were brought to safety as well, an official involved in the SAR operations said. However, a tugboat with 11 members on board, remains missing.The statement said that the consortium followed the standard practise of offshore contractors to hire a service provider for location-specific weather forecast, which is issued twice a day.“The sudden deterioration of weather left no time at all for any further action to be taken by the Master of the vessel,” the statement added.Afcons has also set up a 24-hour help desk to address concerns of all distressed family members of the affected crew. The helpline provides updates to family members about every development of the rescue operation. “We’re fully committed to stand in this crisis together and offer our full support to the families, including financial assistance,” Afcons stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-master-chose-to-stay-close-to-oil-field-afcons-infrastructure-101621535984773.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge tragedy: Kin identify bodies, some wait for missing family members||Thirty-five-year-old Satyendra Singh, a resident of Devaria district in Uttar Pradesh, survived Cyclone Tauktae — the most powerful storm to hit the west coast in more than two decades that packed sustained winds of up to 210km per hour and nine- to 10-metre-high waves. Singh and two of his cousins reached to the safety of Mumbai port in nick of time, but on Thursday he learnt that his elder brother, Upendra, who was working as a rigger on the ill-fated barge Papaa305 (P305), died. Singh and his two cousins were on another barge —Trinity Nissi — deployed in the same area in the Arabian Sea before Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai coast. Their barge left high sea in the evening of May 14 as they received warning for the cyclone and reached Mumbai coast the next morning. He, however, wandered as to why P305 chose to remain where it was and expose the 261 crew members to the vagaries of the storm. Singh was angry at his brother’s employer for failing to bring barge P305 back to the harbour. “There were around 250 people on barge Trinity Nissi who had to wait till 9pm on May 19. Later we were allowed to go from Barge. After coming out from the ship, I heard my brother is missing and P305 has sunk and several people died. I inquired with the company who hired us and came to Sir JJ Hospital, identified the body,” he said. He added, “He was everything to me. We lost the main person of the family.” Upendra has three children — two daughters aged 12 and 3 years and a 5-year-old son. Ajay Singh, a 39-year-old from Ajagara village, Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, who was working on Barge P305 since a few months is among those missing. His distant relative JP Singh, who resides in Koperkhairane, said, “I got a call from the family after the company informed them about the incident and asked them to come to Mumbai to identify Ajay. We were shown few bodies and photos at Sir JJ Hospital but I could not identify Ajay, as I had not seen him in the past 20 years. Last I saw him was at his wedding. We informed Ajay’s father and are now waiting for the family to come from their hometown.”Ajay, who is listed as a missing person, has two kids — a son studying in Class 10 and a daughter studying in Class 7. He is the only earning member of the family.Arjun Pandey, 29, is another person listed as missing. Pandey, a resident of Gopalganj in Bihar, worked on barge P305 since January this year. “He came to Mumbai on January 10 and stayed at his brother-in-law’s house in Navi Mumbai. He went to work on the ship in the last week of January through a company which provides manpower to these ships,” said his cousin Prince who has been waiting at the hospital to identify the body since morning, without eating anything. Prince said, “Arjun last called his wife, who is expecting, on May 17 around 7am. He informed her about the condition on the ship. We got no news of him since. He is the only earning member of the family.”Prince had visited the Nerul office of the company Pandey worked at to check the list of survivors, but as he could not find his name there, he came to identify the body at Sir JJ Hospital on Thursday. “We were asked to reach JJ hospital to identify the bodies. But so far we have not found him,” he said.Prince, in tears, said the family has been calling him every hour but he is yet to inform them about Pandey.Meanwhile, the body of 44-year-old Nilesh Pitale, a fire safety officer of barge P305, was identified by his younger brother Vishwanath at the hospital, but he and his relatives claimed they will not accept the body till the company assured them of compensation. “Pitale was the only earning member in the house. Both his father and mother are heart patients. He has a 17-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son,” said his cousin Dinesh Madhukunta, adding, “We have not informed parents till now and his wife.”“The cyclone alert was given, so why was the barge not sent to Mumbai coast? Who will take care of the families of the people who died? It is a complete failure of the company due to which many people lost their lives,” said Madhukunta. Of the 49 bodies recovered from P305, 26 have arrived at Sir JJ Hospital. Among them, 16 have been identified by their family members, relatives and colleagues, said an officer from Yellow Gate police station. So far, only one body has been handed over to the family. Most of the people are from outside the state, so the hospital has been conducting Covid tests of the deceased so as to ensure there will be no hurdle while traveling from Mumbai to another state, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-tragedy-kin-identify-bodies-some-wait-for-missing-family-members-101621535924716.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||All Delhi hospitals should install oxygen plants: HC||All hospitals in Delhi having more than 100 beds should install pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants with a capacity of at least twice their requirement of medical oxygen in view of the “bitter experience” that the city had recently due to shortage of supply and the lessons learnt from it.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh directed the principal secretary, Delhi government, to look into the issue and file a status report by May 27.“The bitter experience that everyone in the NCT of Delhi has had with huge shortage of medical oxygen has certainly left a lesson to be learnt particularly by hospitals and nursing homes operating in Delhi,” the bench said.“Considering that the pandemic is once in a century and hopefully we will see the end of it sooner or later, we are of the view that larger hospitals with 100-bedded facilities or more should have their own PSA plants which should have a capacity of at least two times of their normal requirement,” it added.The bench also said that even the smaller hospitals and nursing homes with 50 to 100 beds should also have PSA plants to meet their requirement, which will help if “such a situation arises again in the future”.A PSA plant uses sieves that absorb nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen for supply to hospitals or the industry. The oxygen is then supplied either through a pipeline or is compressed to fill cylinders.The court said these directions should be complied with by all the hospitals in the national capital, which comes under the Delhi government, the central government, municipal corporations and others and it should also be followed in case of new hospitals.The Centre’s counsel told the court that some plants which are to be installed have not been received as they form part of the aid being received from several countries.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that for the Delhi government, five plants have been commissioned and 32 are yet to come up.He said the Centre and the Delhi government shall designate nodal officers, sufficiently senior, to monitor the aspect of supply and installation of PSA plants inhospitals, if not done already.The court warned authorities that they should not relax after the recent dip in Covid-19 cases in the national capital as “there is a likelihood that the virus would again raise its ugly head”, and reminded them to create a buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO).The high court said it is the duty of the Centre and the Delhi government to ensure that they are again not caught underprepared to deal with the situation.“If you have not taken steps, we will come and chase you again. We are telling you, we mean business. Please don’t take it lightly we are again warning you,” the bench said.The Delhi government told the court that it has created a buffer stock of 419 metric tonnes of LMO at different locations here and they are making arrangements for creating further stock in next 10 days.The court also asked the Delhi government to make its Delhi Fights Corona website bilingual since many people don’t understand English.The bench also warned private hospitals and nursing homes here that failure to comply with directions to update data on occupancy and availability of beds for Covid-19 patients in their institutions will invite precipitate actions.The bench also asked the Centre, the Delhi government and municipal corporations to provide accommodation to all the health workers, who are willing to avail it, so that they do not carry the Covid-19 infection to their homes and infect their family members.The high court also asked the Delhi government to examine issuing an order under the Disaster Management Act so that such facilities are also made available to health workers of private and charitable hospitals in the city.“In our view, it is desirable that such a facility is available to all frontline workers since it is likely that they may carry the infection to homes and infect family members,” the court said.The court, which asked the Delhi government, Centre and the MCDs to file their respective reports in this regard, also directed Delhi Police to file a status report on the facilities available to their personnel and listed the issue for hearing on May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-delhi-hospitals-should-install-oxygen-plants-hc-101621535025210.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi woman recovers from Covid after 35 days on ventilator||‘Dilliwali Meenu’ was a popular name in a Kurukshetra hospital which doctors and nursing staff used to refer to a patient from Delhi who was on ventilator support for 35 days battling Covid and survived severe lung infection to beat the disease.Meenu Chauhan, the principal of a private school in Delhi, lives in the national capital with her husband Rohit Chauhan and daughter. She had reached her maternal home in Kurukshetra on April 1 to fetch her daughter back to Delhi when she developed Covid symptoms and was forced to stay back, said her husband.Doctors said she tested positive for Covid on April 3. Her condition became critical after her oxygen saturation plummetted to 70 (the optimum is 90% and above) and the infection spread to both her lungs.She was taken to the private hospital in Kurukshetra and when her condition started deteriorating, she was put on oxygen support, said the doctors who treated her. A few days later, the infection had spread to her lungs, they said.When she was unable to breath normally, the doctors shifted her to the intensive care and put her on ventilator support on April 8.Recalling her month-long battle against Covid, Meenu said, “It was a very critical time that I had to face. I was very tense when doctors shifted me to the ICU. I began to realise that I may not recover or see my family again.”“But the doctors and staff members of the ICU gave me strength to fight this invisible enemy and I started recovering after over a month,” she said.Dr Anurag Kaushal, who treated Meenu, said she is a very strong woman and every staff member of the hospital was in awe of her willpower to fight. “But I think luck also plays a crucial role in the recovery of many a critically ill patient.”He said Meenu’s battle against Covid-19 and her almost miraculous recovery is inspiring other patients to fight against the deadly viral infection.Chauhan said Meenu has been discharged from the hospital, but she will still stay in Kurukshetra to recuperate as she is too weak to travel to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-woman-recovers-from-covid-after-35-days-on-ventilator-101621535024671.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi University postpones final semester exams to June 7||Delhi University (DU) on Thursday postponed semester exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students for the second time and announced that these will now commence on June 7.The exams, which will now be held in the open-book format online, were earlier scheduled to start from May 15 but were postponed to June 1 owing to the spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the country.Dean of examinations DS Rawat said the university has decided not to conduct exams for students of intermediate semesters -- first and second-year students-- and to promote them on the basis of internal assessments. “We will conduct online open-book exams -- the way it was done last year -- for final semester students from June 7. Detailed guidelines will be issued on Friday,” he said.In the last academic session, DU had conducted open-book exams (OBE) online for final year students in August, amid widespread opposition from students and teachers. The university also conducted another round of OBE in October for students who could not appear in the first round.This year, too, several students and teachers have questioned the feasibility of conducting exams amid the raging pandemic. Abhigyan, a final-year BA (Hons) in Political Science student at Ramjas College and a member of the All India Students Association (AISA), said the association had conducted a survey of over 2,000 students across DU colleges who were overwhelmingly against holding exams amid the pandemic.“Many students have lost their loved ones and their families are witnessing huge financial crises. How can we expect students to take their exams in such a situation? The university should come up with some alternative mode of assessment for this year, considering the unprecedented times we are living in,” he said.Rajesh Jha, a faculty member at Rajdhani College and former member of the university’s executive council, said, “Both teachers and students have been going through tough times. DU has lost over 35 teachers in the past month to the pandemic. Several students have lost their family members, including parents. The university should review its decision to conduct exams.”Rawat, meanwhile, said the varsity will ensure that “no students is left behind”. “DU Colleges are conducting practical exams in the online format these days and as per the data collected from over 15 colleges, over 97%-98% students are appearing for these exams… In case any student won’t be able to sit for the exams owing to any reason, the university shall surely help them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-postpones-final-semester-exams-to-june-7-101621534964658.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Deceased govt teacher’s kin get financial aid of ₹1 crore||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday met the family of a government school teacher -- who was deployed on Covid-19 management duty and died of the disease in June last year – and offered financial assistance of ₹1 crore under a government scheme and a government job for the man’s elder son.“Late Shri Sheoji Mishra was a very hardworking and dedicated teacher in our Delhi government school. He passed away after getting infected while being on Covid-19 duty last year. I can understand the pain and grief of his family. While we cannot bring him back, I, on behalf of the Delhi government, have provided him with the monetary support of ₹1 crore. He is survived by his wife and two sons... the Delhi government will provide his elder son with a job. We will also stand beside them should they need any assistance in future.”In June last year, when the first lockdown was in place, Mishra was deployed at a night shelter and entrusted with screening, arranging beds and providing food to migrant workers taking shelter there. He tested positive for Covid-19 on June 4 and died at a hospital on June 7, said the CM’s office in a press conference.Under a Delhi government scheme notified in May 2020, families of health workers and frontline workers in the city who die of Covid-19 are entitled to financial assistance of ₹1 crore from the government.Earlier this week, Kejriwal also announced ₹50,000 financial assistance for families of individuals who died of Covid-19, and an additional financial assistance of ₹2,500 a month for orphaned children and those who have lost the sole breadwinners in their families. These announcements have to be cleared by the Delhi Cabinet, after which they can be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-deceased-govt-teacher-s-kin-get-financial-aid-of-1crore-101621534906402.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fire breaks out at ESIC hospital in Punjabi Bagh, none injured||A fire broke out at the Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital in west Delhi’s Basaidarapur near Punjabi Bagh on Thursday afternoon, trapping over 24 medical personnel, who were later rescued by firefighters. Senior fire department officials said the blaze was doused within one hour of receiving the alter by a team 20 firefighters and seven fire tenders. No casualty or injury was reported in the incident.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said the hospital campus has two buildings – a three-storey building and a seven-storey building. The fire had broken out on the second floor of the three-storey building, which did not have any wards.“There were no patients on the floor where the fire started -- it only has an operation theatre and an intensive care unit (ICU), which did not have nay patients at the time of the incident. Nearly 25 nursing staff and attendants were trapped on the floor due to the thick smoke. All of them were safely rescued,” said Garg, adding that the fire control room was informed about the fire at 1.17pm.The ESIC hospital authorities could not be reached for their comment on the fire incident.Divisional fire officer MK Chattopadhyay said the blaze originated from the UPS room near the operation theatre. “Black smoke had engulfed the entire floor and medical staffers were trapped there. We safely rescued them and controlled the blaze,” Chattopadhyay said.“The fire may have started due to a short-circuit in the electric circuit -- there was no mischief involved. No case has been registered,” said deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel.This is the second case of fire in a hospital in the past 15 days. On May 5, nearly 26 patients, including 17 Covid patients -- some of them on oxygen support -- were trapped after a fire broke out at the UK Nursing Home in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri. The hospital has been recently converted into a Covid facility. All patients and staff were safely rescued by firefighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-esic-hospital-in-punjabi-bagh-none-injured-as-floor-was-vacant-101621534904676.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||DU teacher dies of Covid-19 days after her husband, leaves behind two sons||A 45-year-old assistant professor at a Delhi University (DU) college succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, less than 10 days after her husband died of the illness Covid-19, orphaning two children.Chetan Jassal, an assistant professor in the commerce department of Mata Sundri College for Women, and her husband, Pawan Kumar Jassal,were rushed to Chandigarh by relatives on April 25 after reportedly failing to find a hospital bed in Delhi. Her husband died on May 8, said her Chetan Jassal’s relatives.Her colleagues, and friends said she was unaware of her husband’s death. “She called me on April 24 asking for some leads for an oxygen cylinder for her husband. He was having difficulty breathing and they were trying to find a hospital bed. They were both infected at the time. After failing to get a bed here, she took her husband to Chandigarh with the help of her relatives. In that time, her condition got worse, and she was hospitalised as well. She was on ventilator support since April 30. She did not know about her husband’s death,” said Veenakshi Sharma, a colleague and close friend of Chetan Jassal’s.“She was a very dear friend. I can’t believe a person as lively as her has gone so early,” she said.The DU Teachers Association (DUTA) said more than 35 faculty members from across colleges in the university have died of Covid-19 since March.Veena Agarwal, an associate professor at SGTB Khalsa College also succumbed to the infection on Monday. Last week alone, at least five DU faculty members lost their lives to the deadly disease.Harpreet Kaur, principal of Mata Sundri College for Women, said Jassal sent her documents to the college for a pending promotion, days before she left for Chandigarh.“She would have been promoted to the post of associate professor soon. It’s so shocking for us to believe she is not among us any longer. She was a very hardworking and responsible colleague. We will never forget her ever-smiling face and lovable personality,” Kaur said.Kaur said the two are survived by two sons — a 20-year-old studying psychology in DU, and a 14-year-old in Class 10.“At the college’s level, we are trying to help the family. The chairperson of the college’s governing body has promised he will sponsor their sons’ education,” Kaur said.Jassal’s brother Dr Maheshwar, who last met her in September, said, “We tried our best to find beds for them in Delhi, but to no avail. We had to call them here [to Chandigarh] then. It’s a difficult time for the family.”Several students and colleagues also posted messages expressing shock over Jassal’s untimely demise on social media. Students had also organized a virtual prayer meet in her memory on Wednesday. “A moment of grief for all of us, as we have lost a very dear teacher who not only guided us but was also a pillar of strength… It’s very hard to believe that you are not with us and the college anymore,” said Sifat Kapoor, a student in a Facebook post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-teacher-dies-of-covid-19-days-after-her-husband-leaves-behind-two-sons-101621534845203.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Mother and son found dead in East Delhi, cops suspect they were strangled||A 56-year-old woman and her 29-year-old son were found dead at their home in north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar on Thursday morning, the police said, adding that they suspect that the duo may have been murdered by strangling.The suspected double murder comes three weeks after the woman’s husband died of complications arising from a hernia surgery, the police said.The police identified the dead by their first names as Umlesh and her son Ashok. The mother and son ran a grocery store from the ground floor of the building in which they lived. Ashok was unmarried.Umlesh’s husband, Shyam Sunder, died on April 29. Until his death, he lived with his other son in another house in the same neighbourhood, the police said.The police said the deaths came to be known around 8am on Thursday when a relative noticed that the grocery store had not opened at the usual time.“The relative checked on the duo to find the door of the house open and them lying dead inside. Ashok was frothing from the mouth while his mother was bleeding from the mouth,” said the police spokesperson.The police were informed and they visited the spot to move the bodies to a hospital. Since Umlesh and Ashok were the only people in that house, it was difficult to immediately ascertain if anything was stolen, the police said.The police said though, prima facie, it appeared to be a case of double murder by strangling, they would await the autopsy reports to determine the cause of death. No case has been registered yet in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mother-and-son-found-dead-in-east-delhi-cops-suspect-they-were-strangled-101621534844641.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Over 300 Covid-19 cheats arrested in Delhi in 35 days||Over 800 oxygen concentrators, 557 vials of remdesivir, 288 oxygen cylinders and over 680 pulse oximeters — these were among the 3,267 Covid-19 treatment-related medical essentials that the Delhi Police have seized from over 300 people arrested on charges of cheating, hoarding and black marketing over the past five weeks, shows data.The arrests and seizures have been made in 601 first information reports (FIRs) registered between April 13 and May 18. Of these, 492 cases pertained to cheating by individuals as well as organised groups on the pretext of providing products essential for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Instances of hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators were most frequent between mid-April and the first week of May, when Covid-19 cases were at their peak and there was an acute shortage of such products in the city, said a police officer.However, as the Capital’s Covid-19 graph dips, the data shows also shows a consequent drop in incidents of hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, medicines and injections used to treat the viral infection.“Apart from filing cases, arresting suspects and recovering the items, we are also releasing the seized goods and sending them to hospitals and Covid care centres with approvals from the courts concerned. We have also been issuing advisories about the kind of cyber frauds taking place during the pandemic,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Crime branch and special cell teams, along with forces from Delhi’s 15 police districts, have been tasked to act on complaints of cyber frauds, hoarding and black marketing of such medical essentials.The police data shows that of the 109 cases of hoarding and black marketing, West zone registered the most (38), with South zone (34) next. The Central zone, crime branch and special cell have registered 22, 14 and one case respectively. Similarly, of the 492 cheating cases, West zone topped the list with 230 cases, as South zone filed 211 cases. The Central zone, crime branch and special cell registered 128, 17 and 15 cases each, respectively.Police data shows they had seized 537 fire extinguishers in two separate raids in outer and southwest Delhi. The suspects were allegedly trying to pass them off as oxygen cylinders after painting them black. Additionally, of the 557 seized remdesivir vials, over 200 were fakes, tests showed.“Many individuals and gangs saw the crisis as an opportunity to make money. As desperate people posted SOS messages on social media along with their contact numbers, these fraudsters began tricking them into transferring money by promising to deliver the essentials. However, these items never reached them,” the first police officer quoted said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-300-covid-cheats-arrested-in-delhi-in-35-days-101621534784631.html
21-05-2021||Pune||First dose for 45-plus resumes in Pune; no vax drive on Friday||Pune: The first dose vaccination for beneficiaries above the age of 45 years restarted within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits from Thursday. However, beneficiaries trying to book a slot faced many issues.Meanwhile, no vaccination will be done at government hospitals on May 21 due to shortage of vaccine stock, said PMC officials.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal Commissioner, PMC said that vaccination will not continue on May 21 in government hospitals.“Due to vaccine shortage we are unable to continue the drive on May 21. However, when the doses are available, the process will restart with priority to second dose and first dose beneficiaries,” said Agarwal.She said the vaccination drive will continue on the same lines as carried out on Thursday.“We will give priority to first dose beneficiaries who are HCW, FLW and are above the age of 45 years. Also, second doses for Covishield beneficiaries will be given to those who have completed 84 days since the first dose,” said Agarwal.In the PMC limits, 21 centres were administering Covishield vaccine. These centres were giving both, first and second dose. Around 60 per cent doses were administered by online booking, as per PMC officials. And 20 per cent doses were given to healthcare workers, frontline workers and 45 years and above beneficiaries by on-spot booking. Remaining 20 per cent doses were for beneficiaries with the second dose who have taken the first Covishield dose before February 24.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that in spite of vaccine crunch, about 20 per cent population in Pune circle is vaccinated. “Till May 20, we are able to vaccinate more than 3.7 million that is, approximately 20% population in Pune circle. In Pune district, over 2.5 million, that is 23% of population is inoculated,” said Deshmukh.On Thursday, there were 15 centres functional in PMC limits which were administering Covaxin. Each center had 150 doses and a second dose was given to beneficiaries who had taken the first dose before April 22. Smita Kakade, a 55-year-old beneficiary, said that her son booked her an appointment for Thursday.“I was lucky enough to get the slot. It is a good thing that vaccination for the first dose has started again for beneficiaries above 45 years of age,” said Kakade.Arun Shinde, a 48-year-old beneficiary who tried booking the slot on Thursday, said that as many beneficiaries were trying to book a slot, the slot got filled quickly.“It was very difficult to book an appointment at a centre as there was a lot of rush. I could not get a slot on Thursday. But will try again the next day,” said Shinde.However, even on Thursday, many second dose beneficiaries were turned away from the vaccination centres as they have yet to complete the 84 days from the first dose.Asmita Joshi, a 52-year-old beneficiary, said that she was asked to come again later after completing 84 days from the first dose.“I have completed 60 days from the first dose. It is extremely frustrating to go back from the vaccination centre after booking the appointment and standing in line. Earlier, there was no vaccination stock available. And now the central government has changed the guidelines. I had to apply for leave at work to come to the centre today,” said Joshi.Vax driveOn Thursday, 4,579 beneficiaries from PMC and 1,680 beneficiaries from Pune rural were inoculated. However, there was no vaccination drive in PCMC on Thursday. A total of 6,259 beneficiaries were inoculated on Thursday and only 101 centres were functional. Of 101, 30 were Covaxin centres and 71 Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-dose-for-45-plus-resumes-many-face-slot-booking-issues-101621516843524.html
21-05-2021||Pune||22,000 school drivers face loss of livelihood in Pune||Pune: The closure of schools for the past 14 months has left those ferrying students face loss of livelihood for the second consecutive year. Last year, the nationwide lockdown led to shutdown of schools and loss of business for around 22,000 school drivers from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The driver category comprise school vans, school buses and auto drivers. According to a driver association, most of the drivers have taken up odd jobs like selling vegetables, labour work to eke out a living. Some have doubled up as drivers for other private operators. The association stated that most of the drivers were unable to pay vehicle loan due to lack of earnings. The insurance cover on their vehicles has also expired and the reserve funds they had kept to run their families have been spent on daily expenses. Some opted for alternative businesses and sustained losses, the association stated. Sanjay Dahiwale, a school van driver from Baner, said, “I have been a school van driver for last ten years before the lockdown hit my income. I tried my hand at autorickshaw but failed. I am left on my miniscule savings to look after my parents, wife and three children. It is a tough time and I hope school reopen soon.” Amresh Nalge, an auto driver, said, “I am now working as a Swiggy executive to earn for my family. Parents must also think about us and provide financial help during this distressing times. Since the government has ordered closure of schools, they should compensate us with taxpayers’ money.” School bus driver Arun Shinde said, “I am in the profession for the last 30 years and never faced a crisis like this before. I am currently selling vegetables to feed six members in my family. The state must give us financial assistance.” Bapu Bhave, president, PMC and PCMC Vidyarthi Vahtuk Sangh said, “Some of our drivers are selling fruits and vegetables. They are facing the worst financial crisis. Government must provide funds to save drivers from poverty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/22000-school-drivers-face-loss-of-livelihood-in-pune-101621515463292.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, 91, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He is in home isolation at his residence in Sector 8, Chandigarh. Though his condition is stated to be stable, the veteran Olympian is learnt to be running 101 fever since Wednesday night. Also read: Aerosols from Covid-19 infected person can travel in air upto 10 metres: GovtHis son, Jeev Milkha Singh, an Indian golfer, said, “He is fine and in good spirits. God willing, he will pull through. I’m out of the country but returning on Saturday.” Jeev, who had gone to Dubai to compete in a tournament, also tweeted to thank all for their good wishes and that his father was receiving wonderful care. “He is doing fine and is stable. But I’m worried as he is 91. The PGIMER has sent an attendant along with oxygen facilities to look after him. We are all praying for his speedy recovery,” Milkha’s wife Nirmal Kaur, 82, said, adding that he had not been vaccinated yet. The whole family was tested a few days ago after one of their staff members tested positive. While Milkha was found positive, his wife, daughter-in-law Kudrat and 11-year-old grandson Harjai Singh tested negative. The legendary athlete’s daughter, Mona Milkha Singh, is an emergency room (ER) doctor at Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York City. “Mona is constantly on video call with me and Milkha jee. She is a great help and is guiding us. We are now waiting for (son) Jeev to join us,” said Nirmal, who had been India volleyball team captain. Milkha is a former track and field sprinter, who was introduced to the sport while serving in the Indian Army. He was and still is the only athlete to win a gold medal in the 400m event at the Asian and Commonwealth Games. 1960 Rome Olympian, Milkha had recently called upon people to stay indoors during the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flying-sikh-milkha-singh-tests-positive-for-covid19-101621501182574.html
