23-05-2021||Mumbai||‘Study in India’: The slogan for foreign university aspirants||With the travel restrictions amid the Covid-19 pandemic and uncertainty, students are dropping their plans to study abroad altogether, making India their top choice instead. For example, Renuka Bankar from Sangli had plans of pursuing a PhD at the University of Colorado, after completing her Masters in Science in Virology from the National Institute of Virology in Pune last year. After clearing a series of interviews, she began her application process, when the first lockdown was announced in March last year. Without wanting to waste any time, she soon took the National Eligibility Test (NET) for admissions to Indian institutes. Since then, Bankar has been working as a Junior Research Fellow for a Covid-19-related project at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay. “This is a project-based work that will extend for a few more months. After that I will start applying for PhD in an institute in India,” she said, adding that her plans of going abroad have been cancelled. Like Bankar, many are making India their top choice. “One of the biggest advantages of going to a foreign university is that we get to interact with people from all over the world. Studying online is not the same. Most of us pursuing research do not have a lot of time to wait around, so it makes sense to get admitted to an Indian institute of repute,” said another research scholar, from IIT Bombay, on condition of anonymity. For admission to PhD seats as Junior Research Fellows (JRF) at various institutes in the country, candidates must qualify the NET exam, which is held in June and December every year. However, with the lockdown, the June 2020 session was postponed and held in December last year. The December 2020 session was held this month. According to Anjan Ray, head, Human Resource Development Group-CSIR, which conducts the NET exams, the pandemic has only accelerated the existing phenomena of more researchers choosing India over foreign countries. In 2016, the June session saw applications from 1.57 lakh candidates for JRF positions at institutes affiliated to both CSIR and University Grants Commission (UGC). This dropped to 1.63 lakh in 2017, 1.55 lakh in 2018, 1.53 lakh in 2019. However, in 2020, the June session received 1.71 lakh applications, of which 2,247 qualified for CSIR JRF and 1,638 for UGC JRF. “As a conservative estimate, we have usually seen that half or one-third of those who qualify apply for jobs or PhD in India. A majority of the rest are expected to go abroad,” Ray explained. He said that over the past few years, however, this number has come down. For instance, in 2017, a total of 2,920 candidates applied for PhD in India. In 2018 and 2019, 1,601 and 1,127 candidates applied, respectively. However, those who qualified in 2018 and 2019 are still eligible to apply as results are valid for three years. “This means more people are expected to apply. This can be attributed to the fact that India is not able to retain more talent through a good fellowship programme. Another reason could be that many Indian senior researchers, working abroad, are returning and are now available as PhD guides to more students,” said Ray, adding that this is a gain for Indian academia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/study-in-india-the-slogan-for-foreign-university-aspirants-101621794543716.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid shadow over bike sharing project in Chandigarh||The second Covid-19 wave has put into question the continuation of the popular public bicycle sharing system in the city.On one hand the Cycle4change challenge, under which the public bicycle sharing was launched in October last year, will be ending on May 31. And at the same time, the launch of the first phase of the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) public bicycle sharing system (PBSS) project has been delayed by at least two months. The first phase was to be launched in May.Currently, 225 bicycles, including more than 100 pedal-assisted e-Bikes, can be rented from 25 docking stations spread across the city. The stations include prominent locations such as Rock Garden, High Court, Sukhna Lake, PGIMER, Sector 17, Sector 22, Sector 34, Sector 35, and Sector 43.Cycles likely to be unavailable after May 31Chief general manager of CSCL, NP Sharma, said, “We have written to the company managing cycles under the Cycle4Change challenge to stop charging people from June 1 onwards as the challenge ends on May 31. We are awaiting their response on whether the cycles will be available after May 31 or not.”If the company says no to offering free cycles, there would be none available for public use. Users are charged at ₹10 for an hour and ₹5 for half an hour.On the delayed start of the CSCL’s project, Sharma said, “We have given two months (May and June) deadline extension to the private firm implementing the public bicycle sharing system in the city.” He attributed the delay in the implementation of the first phase to issues related to the pandemic, particularly, the lockdown.Project to be developed over 4 phasesUnder the CSCL’s project, 5,000 bicycles will be provided in the city along with a network of 617 docking stations spread throughout the city giving last mile connectivity to the users. The size of the project will make it India’s largest and densest public bike sharing network.The project will be developed in four phases of 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations each, with the availability of pedal-assisted e-bikes with charging facility.All bicycles will be GPS-enabled and will be monitored from a command-and-control centre with 24X7 helpline facility for users. The PBSS project is being implemented and operated by the concessionaire M/s Smart Bike Tech Private Limited, Hyderabad, for a period of 10 years on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-shadow-over-bike-sharing-project-in-chandigarh-101621794365629.html
23-05-2021||Other||Covid patient escapes from LLRM Medical College||MEERUT A Covid-19 patient escaped from LLRM Medical college on Sunday afternoon. A complaint was lodged in the medical college police station and search was underway to trace the patient. Dr Gyanendra Kumar, principal of LLRM Medical College, said that the patient Surendra,60 was brought to the Medical College from the district hospital on Saturday by a ward boy. Dr Gyanendra said that the patient was physically challenged. As per the ward boy, the patient had no caretaker, so his contact number was noted in his file, he said. Dr Gyanendra said at around 3 pm on Sunday, doctors and nurses on round in the Covid ward noticed that the patient was missing. The staff searched for him but in vain. Following this, the police were informed. “The patient is still missing and efforts are underway to locate him”, said SP (city) Vineet Bhatnagar. To recall, recently the medical college was recently in controversy for a missing Covid patient and received criticism from Allahabad high court. A Covid patient was admitted to the medical college Covid ward on April 21. The staff kept on updating his daughter about his health status till the morning of May 3 and in the evening she was told that no such patient was admitted to the ward. It was later discovered that the patient had the day after his admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-escapes-from-llrm-medical-college-101621794123707.html
23-05-2021||Other||Union minister lauds Ambala jail inmate for Covid safety song||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday praised an inmate lodged at the Ambala central jail for composing a Punjabi song promoting Covid-19 precautions.“Sheru, an inmate of Ambala jail, has set an example by creating a Punjabi song to spread awareness about Covid-19,” the minister tweeted, sharing the lyrics Muh te mask laga lae tu, nahi to duniya ton jaana... (wear a face mask or risk your life).The 40-year-old prisoner, who is serving a ten-year jail term, along with his six-member team, runs the prison radio station started by Tinka Tinka Foundation in February this year.He was among the 21 inmates selected from three jails in the state to be trained as radio jockeys (RJs) by Dr Vartika Nanda, founder of the foundation and head of journalism department, Lady Shri Ram College, New Delhi.“Before being imprisoned, singing was among his hobbies. He couldn’t get a platform to do it before, but the jail radio has helped shaped his new identity,” an official statement read.Jail superintendent Lakhbir Singh Brar said this will help boost the morale of other inmates.The radio broadcast happens for an hour daily and issues like health, law and order, education are given priority, the jailer said.Established in 1872, Ambala Central Jail is among the historical jails of the country. In 1949, Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi, was executed here along with his co-conspirator Narayan Apte.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-minister-lauds-ambala-jail-inmate-for-covid-safety-song-101621793944221.html
23-05-2021||Other||Five years on, piped gas remains a pipe dream for Mohali residents||Already behind schedule by five years, Mohali residents will have to wait longer to get piped natural gas (PNG) as the firm appointed for the project has stalled the work.Earlier in 2019, due to delayed permissions from the municipal corporation (MC), the project could not pick up pace.The work was allotted to Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), in collaboration with the Adani Group, in 2016. The company has only laid the main 12-km gas pipeline on Airport Road, some parts of Industrial Area Phases 7 and 8-B, and in Sectors 67 and 68.Even in April 2018, the Punjab government notified the policy for providing PNG connections to households, but the project got delayed.A senior officer of the company said, “The Government of India allotted the gas pipeline work in 2014 and we applied for digging permission in 2016. However, it was approved only last year. Currently, the company is focusing on commercial areas instead of domestic. The work has been stopped completely now and I believe it will take another three years for the project to complete.”He added that initially, the firm’s plan was to start the work in Phase 10 and 11, but the main pipeline was laid only in the housing societies of Sectors 67 and 68.When contacted, Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have already given digging permission to the company. Why is it delaying the work now?”In Zirakpur, the company has laid a 3-km pipeline on VIP Road, but the permission to connect the main pipeline with households is still awaited.According to the project, the gas pipeline would be laid underground across the city leading to houses, just like water or electricity connections. Meters would be installed to measure the usage.The company has already covered most of the southern sectors in Chandigarh and will start the work in Sector 20 and Manimajra.PNG is around 20% cheaper than LPG supplied in cylinders, but the slow progress in laying underground pipes has been a major stumbling block and eluding customers from cheaper fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-years-on-piped-gas-remains-a-pipe-dream-for-mohali-residents-101621793824626.html
23-05-2021||Other||Covid claims 29 more lives in Chandigarh tricity||Even as 29 more people succumbed to Covid-19 in the tricity on Sunday, the number of new cases dropped below 1,000 once again with 938 people testing positive for the virus.With more patients being cured and discharged than those testing positive, the active case load has plunged by nearly 50% from the peak of 24,201 logged on May 12 to 12,223 on Sunday.Even recovery rate was recorded at 90% or above across the tricity, while positivity rate dipped below 10% in Chandigarh and Panchkula and stood at 11% in Mohali, pointing to a receding second wave.Mohali, which is the worst hit in the tricity, recorded 454 cases and 16 deaths on Sunday, followed by 360 cases and 10 casualties in Chandigarh, and 124 cases and three fatalities in Panchkula.In Mohali, the number of active cases has dropped to 5,663 with 995 more patients being discharged on Sunday. Of 64,621 people tested positive so far, 58,092 have recovered. Meanwhile, the death toll has climbed to 866.With a dip in cases in the past five days, the demand for medical oxygen has also come down from 26 metric ton to 20 metric ton, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.In Chandigarh, 4,874 cases remain active. Positivity rate stood at 9.8% on Sunday, which means of every 10 people sampled, only one tested positive for the virus. During the peak, it had jumped to around 25%.Meanwhile, among the 10 dead, there was a 37-year-old woman from Burail. While two victims were in their 50s, all others were senior citizens, including a 99-year-old man from Sector 25.As many as 58,489 people have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 52,913 have recovered and 702 have died. Panchkula is faring better than both its neighbours, as positivity rate has dropped to 6.9%, recovery rate has jumped to 94% and active case load stands at 1,686. The district has reported 29,145 cases so far, of which 27,145 have been cured and discharged and 314 patients have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-claims-29-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-101621793286166.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Residential bodies collaborate with hospitals for vaccinations||Noida residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) are collaborating with hospitals to help vaccinate people on their premises.With the district suffering a vaccine shortage and the vaccination drive having expanded to all adults, residents have been finding it tough to book their slots.“We are creating a database for the 18-44 age group from several societies in Greater Noida West. We already have almost 2,000 entries. Once we have the necessary information, we will share it with the Noida-based Fortis hospital Sector 62 and provide logistical support in organising camps in societies. We plan to start the camps by next week,” said Abhishek Kumar, president, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association.He said each resident will be charged ₹1050 for the shot and the camp will may be held next week.Residents will have to register on the Co-Win portal, submit it to their RWA that will then forward it to the hospital, said Kumar.Fortis did not respond to request for comment.In another plan, those who are at least 45 years old and in need of their second vaccine shot can opt for an on-spot registration at another Noida hospital. People will need to share the Co-Win registration number that they had got for the first shot.“The hospital will offer 50 doses on a first-come, first-serve basis. The usual private centre charges have to be paid and the beneficiaries have to carry their Aadhaar card with them,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association.Societies are also working on registering and scheduling appointments for their staff.“We have volunteers who are now registering the staff of the society (Stellar Kings Court, sector 50) like domestic helps, drivers, housekeeping staff, etc. The staff has been asked to bring their IDs to help with this. Once we have more vaccine availability, we hope to get them all inoculated as soon as possible,” said Singh.“No administrative or health department permission is required for setting up vaccination camps. Hospitals and residential bodies can collaborate and organise drives,” said Gautam Budh Nagar’s chief medical officer, Deepak Ohri.“Health ministry guidelines are very clear for vaccination sites and if the requisite conditions are met, such camps by residential bodies are encouraged,” said district maigistrate Suhas LY.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residential-bodies-collaborate-with-hospitals-for-vaccinations-101621793284906.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Over 6K in rural areas registered for Covid-19 vaccination via common service centres||NOIDA: More than 6,000 people in the age group of 45 years and above in rural areas of Gautam Budh Nagar have registered themselves for Covid-19 vaccination with the help of different common service centres (CSCs) in the district in the past two days, officials said on Sunday. Recently, the state government decided to start registrations for vaccination at CSCs – also known as Jan Suvidha Kendras – in the districts across the state to help people in rural parts register on the Co-Win app for vaccination. According to the officials, the staff of CSCs in GB Nagar have started door-to-door visits to help the people register for the vaccination and their details are being shared with the district vaccination department to provide a vaccination centre in their vicinity. The process of registering for vaccination through CSCs started on Friday in the district.The GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that about 350 CSCs across the district will assist people in registering on the app and eventually, provide the facility of vaccination. “To increase the pace of vaccination in rural areas, we have already roped in the CSCs to help people in rural areas in registration on the Co-Win app. The service will be provided for free,” he said. The DM also said these centres have provided access to the internet to a variety of persons who may not be adept at using it. “Since the CSCs and their infrastructure have always been widely and effectively used in rural areas for various purposes, it (use of CSCs) will yield positive results for vaccination in rural areas too. The vaccination booths can be community health centres, primary health centres, schools, panchayat buildings or any public place – which have waiting, vaccination and observation rooms,” Suhas said. Meanwhile, Pankaj Sharma, in-charge of CSCs in GB Nagar, said that unlike testing, people in rural areas are very much enthusiastic about their registration for inoculation. “We’ve started the registration process on the basis of Aadhaar number since Friday and only in first two days, nearly 6,300 people have been registered through different CSCs in the district. We hope that by the end of this month, over 50,000 people in rural areas will be registered in the district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-over-6k-in-rural-areas-registered-for-covid-19-vaccination-via-common-service-centres-101621793283674.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Two held for black marketing of black fungus drug||Noida: Two men were nabbed by the Noida police on Saturday night from Sector 62 for allegedly black marketing Amphotericin B, a key medicine for treatment of black fungus infection.The suspects were identified as Anurag Kumar and Ankit Bhatt, residents of Delhi and Noida Sector 122, respectively. Kumar worked as a supervisor at a store of a pharmacy chain, police said.“Anurag was using the medicine available at the store as well as at other pharmacies of the chain to sell in the black market,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1.According to police officials, the suspects would contact relatives of patients in need of the drug through social media. Amphotericin B injections are in high demand as the cases of black fungus have gone up recently in the National Capital Region. “The market cost of the medicine starts from ₹2,000 to ₹3,500 and the suspects were selling the injection for as high as ₹16,000,” said the ACP.The officials said that the suspects would give one or two injections at normal prices but then increase the rates exponentially. The suspects would also target people in need of the drug near hospitals, the officials said, adding that the duo was trying to sell the medicine near a private hospital in Sector 62 when they were caught. Police recovered two injections of Amphotericin B from the suspects. “They have deleted most customer chats from their phones. But we were still able to retrieve a few. Many photos of the medicine were also found. We also found photos of Remdesivir from Bhatt’s phone. They may be black marketing other medicines as well. But that is under investigation,” said Verma.The suspects were booked at Sector 58 police station for cheating (Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-held-for-black-marketing-of-black-fungus-drug-101621793284312.html
23-05-2021||Noida||After black fungus, cases of white fungus surface in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: As many as seven recovered Covid patients have been diagnosed with invasive aspergillosis, commonly known as white fungus, so far in Ghaziabad.According to the health department, while cases of white fungus are new, as many as 41 patients of mucormycosis or black fungus are being treated in the district as of now. However, at least three patients in the district have developed both the fungal infections, doctors said.The Harsh ENT Hospital in Raj Nagar has a total of 26 such patients – seven are patients of white fungus while the rest are black fungus patients. Doctors at the hospital said that white fungus in the patients was confirmed on the basis of histopathology reports.“Invasive aspergillosis or white fungus or is a post-Covid complication in which the infection goes to the lungs and causes pneumonia, while black fungus takes a different route and goes to the sinus, eyes and further to the brain. Three of our 26 patients have developed both the fungi. These infections develop in the post-Covid stage in patients, after 15-30 days (of testing negative),” said Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT surgeon, who is treating the patients.Invasive aspergillosis is a rapidly progressive, often fatal infection that occurs in patients who are severely immunosuppressed. In this case, doctors said, most patients are those who have recovered from Covid who had low immunity because of steroidal drugs they were administered to fight the coronavirus disease. “These are mostly found in diabetic patients. While black fungus can be operated upon and taken out from the eyes and sinus, the white fungus has only one mode of treatment – through injections as – parts of the lungs cannot be taken out. While patients are administered Amphotericin injections, those suffering from white fungus are also given posaconazole injections and tablets, in addition. All seven patients suffering white fungus have mild to moderate symptoms,” Dr Tyagi added.Eleven of the mild to moderate symptoms of black fungus and getting treatment through the OPD and staying in home isolation, the doctor added.Doctors at Max Hospital, Vaishali said that they have 13 patients getting treatment for black fungus and two of these are likely to be discharged Monday. “Of these, a couple of patients have mild mucormycosis while others have sino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis, where eyes and brain are involved. In a couple of cases, enucleation (removal of eye) was needed. There is another patient who would need mandibular (lower jaw) reconstruction, like the one needed in cancer patients. Two patients, who had mild symptoms are to be discharged after successful endoscopic treatment,” said Dr Sharad Joshi, principal consultant, department of pulmonology at Max Hospital, Vaishali.The district’s chief medical officer, Dr NK Gupta, said that the 41 patients in Ghaziabad getting treatment for these fungal infections include those from outside the district as well.“The drug posaconazole is effective in cases of white fungus, and is easily available. It has been seen that such infections have developed in Covid-recovered patients. We have directed hospitals to ensure proper hygiene and proper cleaning of equipment, including oxygen pipelines,” Dr Gupta said.“For cases of black fungus which require the drug amphotericin b, we have asked hospitals to refer patients to higher centres,” the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-black-fungus-cases-of-white-fungus-surface-in-ghaziabad-101621793223609.html
23-05-2021||Other||Couple’s marriage called off after altercation, cops help them tie the knot||Lucknow: A couple in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur got unusual help from local police to get married after their marriage was called off following an altercation between relatives. The local police called the couple to the police station and arranged for their marriage in the presence of only a handful of close family members, late on Saturday night. The parents of Kamlesh Verma, 23 and Kranti Verma, 22, got the shock of their lives when their relatives caused a ruckus during the marriage function of their wards in a village under Ramchandra Mission police station. The altercation took place after an argument between a couple of drunk relatives and escalated to a point that the ongoing marriage was stopped. “The groom and some of his friends returned home after the altercation while his father and the bride’s father reached the police station to lodge complaints against each other’s relatives,” said station house officer (SHO) of Ramkrishna Mission police station Sanjay Kumar, “After speaking to them, I realised that the marriage was being cancelled over an argument between some drunk relatives. I tried to help the couple and their family and offered to arrange the marriage if they agreed.” Realising their fault, the parents of the couple agreed to go ahead with the marriage. “We realised our mistake and agreed to get the children married. However, it was decided that the marriage would be held at some other place because returning to the village of the bride could lead to an altercation again,” said Ram Krishna Verma, father of the groom. The SHO then offered to arrange the marriage in a small temple on the police station premises. The family members asked the groom to reach the police station and a police team escorted the bride to the police station from her home along with some family members and the priest. “The police personnel at the police station helped to make some space in the temple where the priest performed the rituals at around 2 am. Around 20 people, including the family members and police personnel, participated in the marriage and gave their blessings to the newly-weds,” said the SHO. Senior police officials of the district, including the superintendent of police of Shahjahanpur, appreciated the quick thinking of the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couples-marriage-called-off-after-altercation-cops-help-them-tie-the-knot-101621793163588.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown likely to continue in Chandigarh||The Covid-19 lockdown will continue in Chandigarh, though a few relaxations are likely, according to a highly placed source in the administration.The final decision will be taken during the review meeting on Monday. The weekly lockdown, which has been extended twice since first being imposed on May 4, is to come to at end at 5am on Tuesday.“Both Punjab and Haryana have opted to extend the lockdown till this month end. Chandigarh will follow the same pattern,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named.The lockdown was imposed in the two neighbouring states on May 3. While Punjab extended it till May 31 last week, the Haryana government followed suit on Sunday. In the fresh orders, Haryana also introduced the odd-even formula for opening non-essential shops, on the lines of Punjab. In Chandigarh, too, traders have been protesting for the past one week against the total closure of non-essential shops, and a decision on some relaxations can be expected on Monday.“Both Punjab and Haryana have announced relaxations for non-essential shops. It is imperative that shops are allowed to open in Chandigarh too, as businesses, particularly small and medium ones, are facing a severe financial hardship. Traders cannot sustain themselves if their shops are directed to remain closed,” said Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.Last week, the Chandigarh deputy commissioner, on instructions of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, had called traders for a meeting on the issue. “We were assured that our demand for opening of shops would be considered, at least on the odd-even basis,” said Singh.‘Inclination towards uniform rules across tricity’The number of positive cases in the city has seen a downward trend since the lockdown was imposed, and so has the positivity rate. “In the meeting to be held on Monday, the administration will consider all health indicators and needs of the businesses before taking a final decision on relaxations. There will be an inclination towards keeping uniformity regarding lockdown and accompanying restrictions across the tricity,” said the official.Even last week, the administration had considered allowing opening of non-essential shops on Punjab’s pattern, but finally decided against it in order to “capitalise on the plateauing of cases”.In Punjab, all shops in urban areas follow the odd-even rule while only essential item shops are allowed to open in malls. Restaurants are allowed to provide only home delivery, till 9pm. In villages, all shops are allowed to operate. According to the fresh orders in Haryana, standalone shops have been allowed to open during the day and others can open on alternate days on odd-even basis from 7am to 12pm . Malls are not allowed to open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-likely-to-continue-in-chandigarh-101621793104177.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Cop suspended for failing to implement lockdown guidelines||Noida: A police sub-inspector, posted as in-charge of a police post under Phase 2 police jurisdiction, was suspended for allegedly failing to implement lockdown restrictions in a market.According to senior police officials, multiple complaints came from public that non-essential shops in the Gejha market were staying open during the lockdown. Following this input, a probe was initiated in the matter, the officials said.“It was found that there was a lapse on the part of the police post in-charge in implementation of the specified curfew guidelines. Non-essential businesses were staying open and this would not have been possible without his knowledge. The sub-inspector was suspended as he was negligent in the discharge of his duties,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.Chander said that a departmental inquiry in the matter is still underway. During the current lockdown which has been extended till May 31, only essential businesses are permitted to operate in Gautam Budh Nagar. In addition, Section 144 is implemented in the district which prohibits a gathering of more than five people.The police officials said that complaints have come from other market areas as well but there were more failure reports coming from the Gejha market.Earlier this month, five police personnel, including two sub-inspectors and three constables, from the Phase 2 police station had been suspended. There were allegations that they had detained a liquor store owner and a salesman from Gejha for illegally running the shop during the lockdown. The two were allegedly booked under lighter sections and allowed to go, following which a departmental inquiry was initiated and they were suspended. The DCP said that the matter is still under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cop-suspended-for-failing-to-implement-lockdown-guidelines-101621792923631.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Mercury on the rise in Noida, pollution levels go up||Noida: The streak of pleasant weather in the city and its adjoining areas seems to be breaking, with the weather analysts predicting the mercury to rise in the coming days. The trend began on Sunday, when the India meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 33.7 degrees Celsius and 23.4 degrees Celsius, respectively, a notch higher than Saturday’s against 32 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius, respectively. The average temperatures are, however, still lower than the usual for this time of the year. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered an average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 33.5 degrees Celsius – six degrees Celsius lower than the season’s average and 22.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the season’s average, respectively.Experts said the mercury is expected to rise about four to five degrees over the next three days.“The mercury will rise to 38-39 degrees Celsius over the next few days. There are no chances of rain for the next three days, so heat will rise during the day time,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. Meanwhile, pollution levels in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad rose sharply from the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘poor’ levels.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Sunday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 241 against 60 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 226 against 72 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 227 on Sunday against 85a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-on-the-rise-in-noida-pollution-levels-go-up-101621792863635.html
23-05-2021||Other||UP cities witness rise in black fungus cases||Lucknow/Agra/Prayagraj/Varanasi: Several cities in Uttar Pradesh are witnessing a steady rise in the dreaded mucormycosis or black fungus cases, with the total case count in the state touching 581. Twenty deaths have also been reported till now. To note, the UP government has declared black fungus as a notifiable disease. In the state capital, a black fungus patient died while 11 fresh patients were admitted to the King George’s Medical University. With this, the total number of patients in the KGMU here has reached 135. Doctors operated on 19 patients to remove dead tissues. “A 58-year-old patient of black fungus died during treatment,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson KGMU. Elsewhere, the number of black fungus patients admitted to SN Medical College and Hospital in Agra increased to 20 on Sunday, while two patients were admitted to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital (SRNH) in Prayagraj and were being treated in isolation, said officials. In Varanasi, 78 patients were under treatment at Sir Sundar Lal (SSL) Hospital, IMS-BHU. Dr Sanjay Kala, principal, SN Medical College and Hospital, Agra, said, “Out of the 20 cases, 12 are in serious condition. In fact, five of these 12 cases are critical. They are admitted to different wards.” In view of rising cases, the hospital authorities are planning to increase the number of beds to 100. “We are constantly getting patients with complaint of black fungus and most of them are coming from nursing homes in Agra and nearby districts with serious complications,” said Dr Kala. “In view of sharp rise in cases, we plan to enhance the number of beds to 100 in days ahead,” he said. In Varanasi, the first patient of black fungus was admitted to Sir Sundar Lal (SSL) Hospital, IMS-BHU on April 24. “So far, 84 patients have been admitted to the SSL hospital. At present, 78 patients are under treatment while six have died. Four black fungus deaths were reported in the past two days, two each on Saturday and Sunday while the rest two occurred two weeks ago. “The black fungus patients who died had comorbidities,” said Prof KK Gupta, medical superintendent of the hospital, on Sunday. A team of 18 doctors from various departments of IMS-BHU had been constituted for treating black fungus patients, he said. He said, “The specialists are providing proper treatment to the black fungus patients admitted here. A total of 78 patients are under treatment in post-Covid and Covid wards here. Of them, 39 black fungus patients are Covid positive.” Prof Gupta said the remaining 39 were admitted to the post Covid ward. These patients had recovered from Covid-19 and suffered black fungus thereafter. In Prayagraj, five black fungus patients are undergoing treatment at SRN hospital at present. They include patients from other districts as well, according to officials. Dr Sujeet Verma, the nodal officer of corona ward at SRN hospital, said the two new cases in the hospital included a man from Dhumanganj and another from Koraon development block. “We have isolated the patients and started anti-fungal treatment as per the set treatment protocol,” said Dr Verma. Earlier, two black fungus cases were reported by two private hospitals of the city. One confirmed case was also operated upon at MD Eye Hospital four days back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cities-witness-rise-in-black-fungus-cases-101621792864232.html
23-05-2021||Noida||At UP Gate, Covid takes a toll on protesters strength||Ghaziabad: The farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws at the UP Gate site said that nowadays they are fighting on “two fronts” -- pressing for their demands and keeping Covid-19 at bay. On Sunday, most of the tents and camps were devoid of protesters as their numbers, according to farmer leaders, have reduced to about 500-700 at the site. The hectic activity at the site, which was in prevalence till mid of April, has now taken a halt as the dais on Sunday saw presence of only a handful of protesters waiting for the proceedings to begin. The UP Gate protest site since November 28 last year had been witnessing participation by thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and other states like Punjab and Haryana. “The gathering nowadays has declined as we have asked many of our protesters to go home. It is done keeping in mind the pandemic situation. However, we are still continuing to press for our demands. On the other hand, we are also handling the Covid situation at the UP Gate and none of our protesters has faced issues,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee. “So, we are fighting on two fronts, and we will not bow down,” he added. Suresh Chand, a farmer from Firozabad in UP, is among many of the first ones who came to the protest site in November. “The activities have halted for a brief period as many people have gone to villages for harvesting of sugarcane. But we are continuing our protest. We have about 10 langars which are operational nowadays. Covid is another obstacle which has come in our way,” Chand said. While few farmers continue to camp in tents put up on the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, others are camping below the UP Gate flyover and have also put up a screen where they mostly spend time watching television during evenings. A visit by an HT team to the site on Sunday revealed that most of the protesters were resting in camps while others were busy preparing food in langars. Saleem Chaudhary from Saharanpur has also been at the site since the beginning of the agitation. “The agitation is not to show our strength. The government knows it. They also know that we will continue to camp here despite spike in Covid-19 cases,” said Chaudhary, who is a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) led by Naresh Tikait. Rajbir Singh Jadaun, state president of BKU, said that they do not allow outsiders to enter the site in the wake of pandemic. “Since the beginning of the agitation, we have a number of poor people coming in to have food at our langars. Despite the pandemic, we have not stopped serving them food. But we have made arrangement for them on two sides of the site where they come in the evening every day in hundreds,” Jadaun said. “To tackle Covid, we restricted the number of farmers at the site and our leaders have also cancelled their rallies. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has written to the Prime Minister to resume talks and we are waiting for reply,” he said. To avoid any infection, the farmer leaders said that they received cooperation from the district authorities to keep the site infection-free. “But we have also roped in our own fogging machine, and we are ensuring that the site remains clean. Now, we demand that our farmers should get vaccine at the earliest,” Jadaun added. The Farmer leaders said that they are also helping out patients and their families in their respective villages. At Bazpur in Uttarakhand, they have set up “oxygen langar” to help patients get oxygen, while others have started a campaign to make “death register” of fatalities which have taken place in villages. “We have asked our members to get the registers prepared in villages where number of deaths seems more during the past two months. These registers will be sent to the government, and we will try to raise issue if there is mismatch with government figures. The exercise is taking place in Muzaffarnagar, and we will do it in other districts as well,” said Dharmendra Malik, state spokesperson of BKU. The BKU has its headquarters at Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar. When asked, Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said, “If the farmers send us a demand, we can arrange for a vaccination camp, and we can also help them get vaccine at the centre near the UP Gate.” Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), said that the gathering has reduced at the UP Gate since the second wave of Covid-19. “We are keeping our communication open with the farmers at the site and our regular police and PAC deployment is continuing. The farmers are continuing their agitation in a peaceful manner,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-up-gate-covid-takes-a-toll-on-protesters-strength-101621792803613.html
23-05-2021||Other||Vaccinators face resistance in some Uttar Pradesh villages||Covid-19 vaccinators are facing resistance from villagers in some districts of Uttar Pradesh, so much so that around 200 residents jumped into the Saryu river in Barabanki district’s Sisaunda village as health workers insisted that they take the jab on Saturday.Several other villagers sat on the river’s embankment, threatening to jump deep into water if the vaccinators did not leave the village.After several hours of persuasion, the villagers came out of the water but merely 14 agreed to take the vaccine that day, an official said on Sunday.Ram Nagar subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Rajiv Kumar Shukla said the vaccinators will visit Sisaunda, which has a population of 1700, again on Monday to inoculate the remaining beneficiaries.In a separate incident, residents of Auraiya district’s Kadalpur village did not permit health workers to enter their village.When accredited social health activists (Ashas) appealed to the villagers to take the vaccine, the villagers emerged with sticks, threatening to attack the vaccinators. As the villagers refused to take the vaccine, the health workers left the village.Villager also refused to take the vaccine at Khandi in Lalitpur district. Although health workers visited each household urging people to visit the vaccination camp, the villagers did not turn up. Later, the health workers left the village.In Hamirpur district’s Bhatpura village, too, villagers refused to take the Covid vaccine. There, some of the residents were not willing to give their samples for tests either after a team of health workers reached the village on receiving reports about suspected Covid-19 cases. A group of villagers surrounded the health workers, threatening them with dire consequences if they did not leave.Taking note of resistance to the Covid vaccine in the rural areas, the state health and family welfare department has directed the respective districts’ administration to launch an awareness campaign with the assistance of village surveillance committees and newly elected gram panchayat members to motivate the villagers to take the jabs .Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the villagers should not believe in misleading publicity about the vaccine.“The vaccine is safe, has no side-effect. It will protect them from Covid infection. Even after taking the vaccine, people should follow the Covid protocol. They should take both doses. The state government has launched statewide test, trace and treat drive in the rural areas to intensify the fight against the second wave of Covid-19,” he said.A state government official said the district administration officials were directed to take strict action against the “anti-social elements” who were spreading rumours against the vaccine. As for the incident at Barabanki’s Sisaunda village, a team led by Ram Nagar sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajiv Kumar Shukla visited the spot. The district administration officials and health department team urged the villagers to come out of the river, assuring them that the vaccine would have no side-effects and it would protect them from Covid -19. As a result, 14 villagers relented and agreed to take the vaccine that day.To protect the rural population from Covid-19, the district administration had launched a vaccination drive in villages under a statewide programme for beneficiaries above 45 years of age, Shukla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinators-face-resistance-in-some-uttar-pradesh-villages-101621792143566.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fake call centres fleecing US citizens busted at Malad||Bangur Nagar police busted a fake call centre in Malad (West) and arrested eight people for selling sex enhancement supplements to American nationals on Saturday. Earlier on April 29, Malad and Bangur Nagar police had raided three such call centres for similar offences and arrested 10 people. Police said they had received information about few fake call centres, which duped foreign nationals, in their jurisdiction, following which a raid was carried on under the supervision of Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (zone 11). A police team raided the premises at Vijay Industrial Estate at Chincholi Bunder, Malad and found eight people working there. Upon investigation, the police found out the call centre was operating using a VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) software to make calls to American citizens and sell sex enhancement supplements. Police officers seized the computers and arrested the owner and manager of the outlet along with the eight employees. Thakur said the owners of the call centre used to steal data and phone numbers of American nationals from the dark web, called them with the help of VOIP and lured them into buying sex enhancement supplements. The employees then used to ask the customers to transfer the amount online through money transfer apps. Police also arrested owners of another fake call centre in Bangur Nagar for allegedly selling Google Play apps at a lesser price. The police had detained the employees and released them after giving a notice to be present in court. “We have arrested the owners of the fake call centres and are now looking out for more such establishments which were run by the accused,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fake-call-centres-fleecing-us-citizens-busted-at-malad-101621791963567.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305 tragedy: Four more bodies recovered; toll touches 70||The Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) found four more bodies of crew members of barge Papaa305 (P305), which capsized in the Arabian Sea hours after cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast on May 17, on the seventh day of search and rescue (SAR) operation. The toll of the mishap has now touched 70. Meanwhile the wreck of barge P305 was located on the sea bed. Barge P305, which was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the sea, sank about 40 nautical miles west off Mumbai. As Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast, the barge got de-anchored on the night of May 16, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. It sank around 7pm on May 17 in choppy seas amid rough weather, which made search and rescue one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades. Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that chartered the barge and hired its crew, said 261 members on board and Indian Navy and ICG rescued 186 members and found 70 bodies. A tugboat Varaprada carrying 13 crew members also capsized the same day. Two of its members were rescued by the Navy, while 11 are still missing. The agencies claimed on Sunday they found 17 more bodies at different beaches in Raigad district, Palghar and Valsad at Gujarat. Four of them were found to be of the P305 crew. Officials said seven bodies were recovered from Valsad, one from Daman at Gujarat, one from Arnala beach in Palghar district and eight bodies were found at Alibag, Murud, Nagaon and Sasawne in Raigad district, Maharashtra. A police team from Yellow Gate police station, along with those rescued from P305 and Varaprada, went to Valsad to establish the identities. “We are co-ordinating with the local authorities in Raigad, Daman and Valsad to check if the bodies are of any crew members of the cyclone-hit barges or other fishing boats. The team has also gone with rescued crew members for identifications,” said Suhas Hemade, senior inspector, Yellow Gate police station. Some of the bodies are in decomposed condition and bloated so DNA tests are being conducted to ascertain the identity, said an officer from the Yellow Gate police station. “Barge P305 was located on the seabed after systematic search by INS Maker employing advance side scan sonar. The diving started in the morning and managed to pinpoint the sunken wreck of P305 by specialised teams on board INS Maker and no bodies have been found,” said a Navy officer. INS Maker is proceeding to locate the wreck of tug Varaprada and diving operation will be conducted on Monday, added Navy officials. The search and rescue operation by naval and coast guard ships and helicopters will continue in the area to locate the remaining crew of the sunken vessels, said the officer. So far, 45 bodies have been identified in JJ hospital and 44 handed over to their respective families. Several other recovered bodies are in JJ hospital, but the police are securing DNA samples to ascertain their identity for the families, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-tragedy-four-more-bodies-recovered-toll-touches-70-101621791903554.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305 tragedy: Families of deceased identify bodies||The Prajapati family was devastated after the body of their 28-year-old son, who worked as a welder on the ill-fated barge P305, which sank on May 17, due to Cyclone Tauktae, was identified at Sir JJ Hospital on Saturday. The deceased Krishna Kumar Prajapati’s body was identified by his cousin Anil, 33, who was also on the same barge but had returned to land on February 28. “It was his bad luck. My cousin Anup, 22, who also worked as a helper on the same barge, was brought to land 10 days before the cyclone, as his parents were unwell. Krishna also wanted to return. He had not seen his one-year-old son for eight months. However, he did not get leave,” said Anil. “It was my destiny that my passport expired in March and I had to return in February to renew it. During the lockdown, I managed to earn more money selling vegetables, hence I did not return to the barge, where I made a mere ₹20,000,” said Anil. “Krishna had sent a message on May 16, ‘cyclone ki wajah se barge full out hai (due to the cyclone, the barge has moved away from the rig). After that, there was no interaction with him. He was the only son and earning member of the family. His father is a farmer in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh and makes ₹600 per day after 12 hours of duty. He gets ₹150 to ₹200 extra after working overtime for three to four hours,” added Anil.Anil had visited the hospital on Thursday and Friday too, in search for his cousin, however, Krishna’s body arrived on Saturday.There are several others like Anil who wait the entire day at JJ Hospital to get clues about their missing family members. Anil Yadav came from Surat on Friday to search for his 32-year-old brother-in-law Santosh Yadav who worked as an electrician on barge P305. Yadav, along with his two relatives have been visiting the hospital every day in the morning and wait till the night. “There is no update till now,” said Yadav. Santosh, a native of Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh, has three children- two sons and a daughter, aged between 11 to 6 years.Similarly, family members of Ranalucky Kumar, 28, who was a technician on the barge, have also been making regular visits at the hospital since Thursday, to enquire about him. Kumar had jumped in the sea, during the cyclone, when the barge was about to sink. “He has not been found yet,” said his cousin Rana Singh, who was on another barge Trinity Nissi. Singh works as a technician and was also deployed in the same area at the high sea. However, his barge, carrying around 250 people, returned due to the cyclone and anchored near Mumbai harbour. “Few of them were released on May 19 from Trinity Nissi barge after we fought with the employer that we wanted to go Mumbai to search our family members. Others had to return to work soon after the impact of the cyclone ended,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-tragedy-families-of-deceased-identify-bodies-101621791843610.html
23-05-2021||Patna||Vaccination for 18-44 years age group resumes after a day’s interruption||Patna resumed regular vaccination against coronavirus for the 18-44 years age group on Sunday, after forced interruption on Saturday, when it ran out of supplies. On paper, however, vaccination did not stop in the state capital even on Saturday. The State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB), which meticulously plans vaccination session sites depending on the availability of vaccines in the state, did well to operate six special camps, where it inoculated 822 people — a symbolic number though against a target population of 5.39 crore in the 18-44 years category in the state. The special camps were held at different offices, including the Raj Bhawan, Delhivery, Chanakya Law University, Indian Oil, Judges Court City and the NTPC-Barh on Saturday. All the 57 regular vaccination session sites, including the 46 rural and urban primary health centres in Patna, were shut in absence of vaccines, said an official who did not wish to be named. Those trying to pre-book vaccination slots, a prerequisite for the 18-44 years population, had a harrowing time doing it on the CoWIN portal. There were some districts left with less than 1,000 doses of vaccine, forcing them to close many vaccination session sites. “We manage our session sites as per availability of vaccines. We have to do firefighting every day,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh also came out in defence of the government. “We cannot entirely close vaccination in the district. So, we reduce the number of vaccination session sites to keep the vaccinations low in case of shortage of vaccines. We have no control over it (supplies),” said Dr Singh. The state received 4.89 lakh doses of vaccine for the 18-44 years age group on Saturday. Out of this, Patna received around 50,000 doses of vaccines on Saturday evening and was able to revive its 57 session sites for vaccination on Sunday. After being able to vaccinate 47,207 people on Saturday, the state inoculated 1,24,175 on Sunday against its initial target to vaccinate 2.50 lakh people per day against 7.50 crore people to be vaccinated in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vaccination-for-18-44-years-age-group-resumes-after-a-day-s-interruption-101621791063525.html
23-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announces three-tier lockdown in state from May 24 to June 8||The Rajasthan government on Sunday imposed a three-tier lockdown in the state to curb the transmission of Covid-19. In a series of tweets, chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced the decision and the new guidelines to be followed during the period.Gehlot also mentioned that the decision has been taken following a meeting with the state ministers earlier on Saturday (May 22). The decision was announced on a day when the state reported 6,521 new Covid-19 cases and113 deaths on Sunday.“Under the three-level public discipline lockdown, social behavior at the family, ward, village, city and state levels is being changed in accordance with the Covid-19 protocol. All people of the state will have to change their social behavior strictly by following these guidelines,” CM Gehlot tweeted in Hindi on Sunday.Also read | Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31What is the three-tier lockdown ?The three-tier lockdown system is being implemented to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour at three different levels.In the first stage, the government has asked people to not allow outsiders into their houses in order to keep children and the elders safe. It also advised that if necessary, open spaces should be used for meeting other people by following Covid-19 protocols.The second stage involves the monitoring at the locality and village levels, wherein not more than five people would be allowed to gather, in a move aimed at controlling the spread of the infection.Under the third tier of restrictions, traffic from one city to another and from one village to another and between cities and villages would be completely banned. However, all medical emergencies and other permissible categories would be allowed. The chief minister also asked the village level monitoring committees to step up their roles in ensuring the restrictions under this tier.Guidelines during the three-tier lockdownMany guidelines have also been issued by the state government to be followed during the 15-day lockdown.Crowding at wedding ceremonies was termed one of the major reasons for the spread of the disease and so all such celebrations have been barred till June 30. However, marriages at homes and court marriages would be permitted with a maximum attendance of 11 people.Also, the penalty for not wearing a mask in public places has been increased to ₹1000 from the existing ₹500.Watch | ‘Delhi lockdown extended for another week till May 31’: CM Arvind Kejriwal﻿Markets except those selling dairy, milk products, mandis, shops selling fruits and vegetables and vendors of such products on carts, rickshaws and flower garland shops will remain closed between 12pm on May 28 to 5am on June 1 and between 12pm on June 4 to 5am on June 8.The state has also mandated a negative RT PCR certificate, not older than 72 hours, for travellers coming from outside the state. If not provided, the passenger would undergo a mandatory 15-day quarantine.Migrant workers have been allowed to continue their work at their respective units. Special buses would be operated for their travel and a transit pass would also be provided for them.Covid-19 vaccination has also been allowed however beneficiaries can only visit the vaccination centres within the same locality as their residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot-announces-three-tier-lockdown-in-state-from-may-24-to-june-8-101621789516243.html
23-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: MBBS interns at Covid hospital threaten to go on strike over hike in stipend||Around 850 MBBS interns in Bihar may strike work from next week if their demands over increase in stipend, providing insurance cover and counting their period of Covid-19 duty as part of the year-long internship programme were not met. “We will try and meet the additional chief secretary (health), Pratyaya Amrit, tomorrow (Monday). Seeing his response, we will decide the date of our strike if the government doesn’t heed our demands,” said Gautam Kumar, a 2016-batch medico at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH). The undergraduate students of the NMCH have blown the bugle of protest by staging a demonstration on college campus Saturday and mobilised support among batchmates of six other medical colleges to get their message across to the state government. Ripples of protest were evident at the Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital in Muzaffarpur and the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital at Laheriasarai in Darbhanga on Saturday. MBBS final year students of other state-run medical colleges, including the Patna Medical College Hospital, Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya, Vardhaman Institute of Medical Science, Pawapuri (Nalanda) and Government Medical College, Bettiah, have also expressed solidarity with the NMCH students, leading the protest, claimed Gautam. The NMCH has been declared a 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital along with the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (IGIMS), an autonomous institute of the state government on the pattern of AIIMS, both in Patna. The students are demanding parity in internship. They claim MBBS interns at the IGIMS get more monthly stipend than any of the other eight state government-run medical institutions. “The enhancement of monthly stipend of IGIMS interns by ₹2,800 to ₹26,300 has been approved in principle. Add to it the ₹1,000 incentive per 8-hour shift for Covid-19 duty, approved on May 21. With an average of eight days of Covid-19 duty in a month, their consolidated stipend would go up to ₹34,000 (approx.), while we will get a pittance of ₹15,000 monthly, with no incentive for Covid duty,” said Gautam. His batchmate Anuj Kumar said the government had not raised their stipend since 2017 when it was last revised from ₹12,000 to ₹15,000. “The stipend of junior doctors, pursuing post-graduation (PG), was increased last year, but that of MBBS interns has not been increased since 2016, though the government is committed to increasing it every three years,” said Anuj. The students are also demanding that their period of Covid duty be counted as part of the one-year MBBS internship programme so that they are eligible to appear in the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) for postgraduate courses. “We need to complete 365 days of internship before we can appear for the NEET entrance test for the PG programme. MBBS final year medicos at Patna’s IGIMS and in other states have completed their exam and joined as interns, but we haven’t. If the government delays our exams, our internship period will be affected, which will make us ineligible to appear in the NEET entrance test next year. So, our Covid duty should be counted as an internship,” added Anuj. The students mock at the Bihar government’s decision to stop the MBBS final year examination mid-way, after it began on April 17, in light of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. “First, the state government defers our exams for the safety of students from the pandemic and a few days later it drafts us for duty in Covid-19 wards,” said Gautam. The medicos are also demanding insurance cover for doing Covid-19 duty, given the risk involved. Bihar has already lost around 130 doctors during the pandemic. Bihar had 44,907 active cases of coronavirus on Saturday, with 6,85,574 cumulative cases and 4,442 deaths. Patna, with 725 new cases out of the 4,375 reported in the state on Saturday, led the district tally with 1,41,380 total cases and 1,135 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharmbbs-interns-at-covid-hospital-threaten-to-go-on-strike-over-hike-in-stipend-101621789743451.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi cases see further dip on Sunday, positivity rate falls to 2.42%||Delhi’s coronavirus cases further dipped on Sunday as the Capital recorded 1,649 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases taking the tally to 1,416,868. Delhi also recorded 189 deaths which took the death toll to 23,202. The case positivity rate fell to 2.42%, according to Covid-19 bulletin released by the health department.Delhi recorded a dip of 611 cases despite conducting 4,888 more tests. Delhi conducted 68,043 tests between May 22 and May 23. Out of the total number of tests, 46,745 tests were RT PCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests. The cumulative positivity rate in the city is currently 7.57%. Delhi’s case fatality rate stood at 1.64%. The Capital currently has 27,610 active cases of Covid-19. The active caseload shrunk by 3,698 cases as the city had reported 31,308 active cases on Saturday.Delhi recorded 5,158 recoveries on Sunday which took the tally of recovered people to 1,366,056. Delhi vaccinated 64,319 people on Sunday out of which 44,752 people were given their first dose of the vaccine. At least 19,657 people received their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The Capital has vaccinated 5,081,898 people so far out of which 1,151,721 people have been fully vaccinated.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown in the Capital by one more week till May 31. Kejriwal said that reopening decision will be taken if cases decrease. "Now the wave is weakening visibly. We haven't won yet but we may be taking control of the wave. In 24 hours, the positivity rate is below 2.42 per cent. At one point we were reported 28,000 cases daily. Now in 24 hours we have reported 1,600 cases," Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cases-see-further-dip-on-sunday-positivity-rate-falls-to-242-101621789114980.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Illegal gutkha worth ₹5.5 lakh recovered, two arrested||The Hinjewadi police have arrested two persons and recovered illegal Gutkha worth ₹5.55 lakh from their possession. The duo was picked up during the raids conducted by the Hinjewadi police along with the Social Security Branch (SSB). The raiding team cracked down on the godown owned by Paras Khimaram Devasi (27), a resident of Susgaon and seized banned Gutkha products worth ₹5.55 lakh from the tempo in which the material was being ferried to different spots for sale and distribution. The action was taken under the guidance of police inspector Vitthal Kubade after directions from Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash to take strict action against sale of banned gutkha products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/illegal-gutkha-worth-rs-5-5-lakh-recovered-two-arrested-101621787523289.html
23-05-2021||Other||3,057 new Covid-19 cases, 93 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 3,057 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours on Sunday. The district also reported 93 deaths due to the infection. This takes the total count in the district to 0.99 million, of which 0.936 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 11,474, with 51,182 active cases undergoing treatment in hospital or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 1,644 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count up to 2,79,066. With 84 deaths reported on Sunday, the toll in rural areas went up to 3,403. Pune city reported 786 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count up to 4,79,901. With nine deaths reported on Sunday, the toll went up to 6,377. PCMC reported 627 new Covid-19 cases. The progressive count in PCMC stands at 2,40,201. No deaths were reported on Sunday. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,634. The state reported that 29,177 patients have been discharged on Sunday, taking the total to 51,40,272. The recovery rate in the state is 92.12%. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.59%. Currently, 26,96,306 people are in home quarantine and 21,771 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3057-new-covid-19-cases-93-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101621783923239.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees a dip in daily new cases, active caseload falls below 480,000-mark||With 25,979 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Karnataka on Sunday reported under 30,000 new cases for the second time in May 2021. So far, 2,424,904 people have been tested positive for the disease in the state, a bulletin from the health department showed. However, new fatalities spiked in the day, as 626 patients lost their lives pushing the death toll to 25,282, the bulletin also showed. There were 31,183 new cases and 451 deaths recorded on Saturday.Earlier on May 20 (Thursday), 28,869 new cases were detected, the only other instance of under 30,000 new cases in the state this month.Karnataka’s active caseload, currently the highest among all states in India, also witnessed a decrease and was recorded at 472,986, a decline of 10,218 cases from the 483,204 reported a day earlier on Saturday. Meanwhile, recoveries on the day exceeded the new cases after 35,573 patients were discharged. With this, total recoveries rose to 1,926,615 and the recovery rate stands at 79.45 per cent.Also read | Maharashtra records 26,672 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours; 594 deaths take toll to 88,620As many as 125,117 tests were conducted in the state on Sunday comprising 17,848 Rapid Antigen Detection tests and 107,269 RT PCR and other methods. Cumulative samples tested stood at 28,707,320, according to the data from the bulletin. The case positivity rate for the day was recorded at 20.76 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 2.40 per cent.Among the districts, Bengaluru Urban with 7,494 new cases contributed the most to the state’s tally. The district also has 255,842 active cases, which is 54 per cent of the overall active cases in Karnataka and the highest among all districts in the state.The bulletin also showed that 12,049,483 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to the beneficiaries in the state. The vaccination drive for people between 18 and 44 years of age was halted earlier in the day due to the non-availability of vaccine stock, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-a-dip-in-daily-new-cases-active-caseload-falls-below-480000mark-101621782501113.html
23-05-2021||Other||“No-exam” option for HSC students on the table for state education minister||PUNE Maharashtra’s education minister Varsha Gaikwad, on Sunday, hinted that a “no –examination” route will be explored for the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC), Class 12 students. This exam was earlier postponed due to the surge in Covid cases. It is now likely that the education minister is considering the no-exam option for the 1.3 million students who were to appear for the exam this year. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) had cancelled the Class 10, Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination, giving relief to 1.6 million students across Maharashtra. However, no decision has been taken on the Class 12 students yet.On Sunday, during a national-level online meeting with Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, regarding the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Class 12 examination, Gaikwad emphasised that the Central Government should actively examine the “no examination” option for Class 12 CBSE students. She said that keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic situation and the projection that children are vulnerable to new strains of coronavirus, this option should be examined. “Health and mental well-being of children, their families must be our priority. Students and parents have been sharing their concerns regarding sitting for exams amid the pandemic,” said Gaikwad.During a press interaction on Sunday, Gaikwad further added that since most professional courses hold entrance exams for admissions, many experts are of the view that it is possible to evaluate the performance of a Class 12 student based on a retroactive assessment model.“Students have been studying in Class 12 for over 14 months. Personally, I believe that we should remove the uncertainty regarding exams and take a decision that is in the student’s interest. Our focus should now be on evolving a uniform assessment policy, vaccination of all teachers and eligible students, and safe resumption of schools and colleges in the next academic year,” said Gaikwad.Sampada Waghmare, a student of Class 12, said that it will be a welcome decision if the examinations are cancelled. “Students have been under immense stress due to the uncertainty around the Class 12 exams. If the decision to cancel the exam is taken it will be a relief. The final decision should be taken soon without any delay,” said Waghmare.Education expert and former chairman of the state education board, Vasant Kalpande, said that offline examinations should be taken for Class 12 students.“We understand that this is an unprecedented situation. And so the board has to postpone the examination. There will come a time when cases will reduce. During that time, the offline examination should be taken. This evaluation is important for students and their careers,” Kalpande said.He further added that students this year faced a big challenge. “Students have studied online and various internal assessments have been taken through assignments and project work. All these are a part of the complete assessment. At many online examinations, we have seen that students used unfair means and passed. In order to keep the assessment fair and unbiased in the state, offline examinations are the only solution,” said Kalpande.Gaikwad said that a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be held in the next few days.“A decision about the Class 12 examinations will be taken soon. We are arranging a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the decision will be taken,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noexam-option-for-hsc-students-on-the-table-for-state-education-minister-101621782423177.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Pune rainfall at 131% above normal since March: IMD||Until May 23, the city has received 131 per cent more rain in comparison to the normal rainfall received between March and May, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). As a result, there was more rainfall and comparatively a pleasant summer season in the city. According to the IMD, Central India which includes Maharashtra has reported 129 per cent more rainfall than normal from March 1 to May 20. As per IMD, Shivajinagar on Sunday reported 0.1mm rainfall whereas Lohegaon reported 1mm rainfall. Pune city reported 35.3 degrees Celsius during the day and 23.4 degrees Celsius during the night. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD, Pune said that the city has witnessed rainfall due to various systems active over Maharashtra. “Wind discontinuity and incursion of moisture from Arabian Sea has caused rainfall on many occasions. Also, at some instances the day temperature was high due to which there was local instability, and this has resulted in rainfall in Pune along with thunderstorm and lightning,” said Kashyapi. He further added that the pre-monsoon rainfall is likely to continue until May 25. Pune, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli are expected to witness very light to light rain along with thunderstorms and lightning during this time. As on Sunday, there was no advancement of Southwest Monsoon over Bay of Bengal. The northern limit of Southwest Monsoon continues to pass through the Bay of Bengal and near Andaman and Nicobar islands. The low-pressure area which became well marked over east central Bay of Bengal in the same evening has concentrated into a depression over east-central Bay of Bengal on Friday. As per weather department, it is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 morning and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 morning, according to meteorologists. Box Rainfall in Pune since March 1 Month: March 2021 Actual rainfall: 4.8mm Normal rainfall: 3.2mm Departure: 1.6mm Month: April 2021 Actual rainfall: 28.3mm Normal rainfall: 13.6mm Departure: 14.7mm Month: May 2021 Actual rainfall: 63.3mm Normal rainfall: 24.9mm Departure: 38.4mm Total rainfall since March: 96.4mm Normal rainfall: 41.7mm Departure: 54.7mm Source: IMD, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rainfall-at-131-above-normal-since-march-imd-101621782303117.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Water resources department directs MahaMetro to remove debris from riverbed||The Maharashtra water resources department’s Pune irrigation circle has issued an order to the Maharashtra Metro railway Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) to remove the dumpings made in the Mutha riverbed immediately. The department has also warned the metro that it shall be entirely responsible for flood situation in rainy season due to the debris. Pune irrigation circle superintendent engineer Sanijiv Chopade has sent a letter to MahaMetro to remove the debris immediately before monsoon begins. Chopde stated in a letter that we were assured from time to time through letters against dumping in the river. In spite of this, the dumping made near Deccan to construct the pillars and the huge filling at Mula Mutha confluence behind CID office has not been removed. The letter pointed out that a visit and inspection of the Mutha river was conducted in the first week of January and it was noted that the aforementioned dumplings were not removed. “On the contrary, in the Deccan area an additional debris filling of more than two meters height on the riverbed was noticed. We had informed MahaMetro and requested to direct the concerned to immediately remove the new as well as the old dumping,” the letter said. “In spite of all this, till date, the dumping/platforms made on the riverbed have not been removed and this office is receiving complaints from NGOs. If the debris isn’t removed from the riverbed, it can create impediment in the flood carrying section of the river leading to floods. Therefore, you are requested again that the debris/platform should be removed immediately before the rainy season. If any case is filed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), in case of flood situation in the rainy season due to the debris, the Metro Corporation shall be held entirely responsible,” Chopade warned MahaMetro. Hemant Sonwane, general manager of MahaMetro said, “We build cofferdam, it is a temporary structure designed to keep water or soil out of the excavation in which a bridge pier or other structure is built. We built it at Sangam bridge, Bundgarden area. We have started removing it and around 80 per cent work has been done. The remaining will be removed soon. In the Deccan area, we also put soil for movement of trucks in the riverbed. It will be removed before monsoon. Every year, we remove cofferdam and debris from the riverbed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-resources-department-directs-mahametro-to-remove-debris-from-riverbed-101621782123051.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 26,672 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours; 594 deaths take toll to 88,620||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 26,672 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 594 deaths in the last 24 hours, which pushed the state’s cases tally to 5,579,897 and the death toll to 88,620.As many as 29,177 patients recovered from the disease on the day and the overall recoveries so far reached 5,140,272 with a recovery rate of 92.12 per cent.The active caseload currently stands at 348,395, a decrease of 3,852 cases from the 352,247 reported previously on Saturday.Meanwhile, the capital city of Mumbai reported 1,427 new Covid-19 infections which took the cases tally to 696,910. Also, 1,427 patients succumbed to their infections in the city as the death toll climbed to 14,565, the latest data showed.Also read | 'Maha to begin 24-hr vaccination once production increases in June’: UddhavThe state has been witnessing a decreasing trend in the number of new cases detected after being battered by the second wave. Previously, the state detected 26,133 new cases on Saturday (May 22), 29,644 new cases on Friday (May 21) and 29,911 new cases on Thursday (May 20). However, the daily new fatalities have shown no signs of receding and have remained above 500 in the week. The worst was reported on Thursday (May 20) when 738 patients lost their lives to the disease.Medical workers in the state conducted 290,155 tests on the day. So far, 33,013,516 samples have been tested for the disease in Maharashtra.Pune with 51,182 active cases, followed by Mumbai (28,284 cases), Thane (24,894 cases), Sangli (19,211 cases) and Solapur (18,487 cases) remain the five districts that contributed the most to the state’s active caseload on Sunday, according to a bulletin from the state government.Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive for beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 years age group has been halted due to issues with the supply of vaccines. “Covid-19 inoculation drive for people under 18-44 years age group is suspended as supply of vaccines isn't smooth. I am hopeful that from June production capacity of vaccines will increase following which we can run 24-hour vaccination drives in the state,” news agency ANI quoted the chief minister as saying on Sunday.On the vaccination front, 20,710,911 people have been inoculated in the state as of 7am on the day, of whom, 16,324,914 people have received their first shot and 4,385,997 have received their second dose, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-26-672-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-594-deaths-take-toll-to-88620-101621781120449.html
23-05-2021||Other||91 hospitals on “severe risk” list in district fire audit||PUNE The district administration, on Sunday, issued directives for immediate compliance with fire safety norms to 91 hospitals that figured in the “severe risk” list of a fire audit recently conducted. A total of 737 hospitals were scrutinised for fire safety norms in the aftermath of the hospital fire tragedy in Nashik recently.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have conducted a fire audit of 737 hospitals where 91 hospitals in the district were found wanting in adhering to fire safety norms, like not having enough hospital space where a fire brigade vehicle can enter, and a lack of fire extinguishers inside the hospitals. At the same time we have ordered an electric audit of all the hospitals to ward off short-circuit-driven fire incidents.” Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had formed a seven-member committee to conduct fire audits of hospitals in Pune Zilla Parishad, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations and the Cantonment areas. The committee was headed by Suhas Divase, chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of PMRDA. Earlier, the Bombay High Court had directed the Maharashtra government to ensure municipal authorities conducted an immediate fire audit of all hospitals, nursing homes and Covid-19 care centres across Maharashtra.In April, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had issued notices to 61 hospitals for lacunas in the fire-fighting systems, after it carried out a fire audit of the said medical establishments.The central fire brigade department inspected over 240 hospitals with the help of private auditors and submitted the report to the civic administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/91-hospitals-on-severe-risk-list-in-district-fire-audit-101621781763099.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar sent to 6-day police custody||Two-time Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar was sent to 6-day police custody on Sunday in the Sagar Rana murder case, his advocate BS Jakhar said. The wrestler was remanded due to his alleged involvement in the death of a young wrestler, Sagar Rana, in Delhi's Chhatrasal Stadium. The wrestler along with co-accused Ajay was arrested from outer Delhi's Mundka area earlier on Sunday. The wrestler along with his associates was evading arrest and was on the run for three weeks. He and associates allegedly assaulted fellow wrestler Sagar Rana and four others. Sagar succumbed to his injuries later. The Olympian was on the run for nearly three weeks. The additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastav demanded that the Delhi Police should interrogate the accused regarding the motive of the crime. It highlighted that the deceased were assaulted in a gruesome manner and asked the police to recover the weapon used in the murder. Shrivastav also demanded that the chain of incidents should be established for recreation of the scene of crime and alleged that 12 people were involved. He highlighted that the police needs to recover the mobile and SIM card of the accused. "The stadium camera was dismantled and he took away the DDR of the place. This has to be recovered," he further added. A team of Delhi Police's Special Cell consisting 60-70 police personnel arrested Sushil Kumar and Ajay Bakkarwala. Police also announced a reward for both of their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/olympic-medallist-sushil-kumar-sent-to-6-day-police-custody-101621778873067.html
23-05-2021||Other||Vaccine on wheels: Requests flow in from retirement homes||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) “Vaccination on Wheels” service aims to vaccinate residents of retirement homes, and the initiative kicked off recently at the Niwara home, in Sadashiv peth. The civic body is now receiving many applications from other retirement homes for the Vaccination on Wheels Covid-19 service. Retirement homes like Pitashree in Kondhwa, Matoshree near Rajaram Bridge and Janaseva Foundation in Khadakwasla have requested for the service. On Saturday, PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal tweeted: “For decades *Niwara, is the home for senior citizens* in the heart of Pune city - 180 senior citizens were vaccinated at their doorstep through PMC’s initiative Vaccination on wheels”. Agarwal said, “We started this initiative from Niwara and we plan to extend it to others based on the availability of the vaccines.” As of Saturday, Pune city had vaccinated 34% or 1,29,902 of its senior-citizen population with the second dose, while 72%, or 2,74,601 have got the first dose. Ravindra Marathe, a trustee at Niwara, said, “We are grateful to the PMC that they could ease the vaccination process for our members. We have 120 residents and we had to take 20 each day using a bus to the centre. “However, after that, it was very difficult for us to get the second dose and so we requested the PMC to arrange for a special provision. Over 180 of our residents and staff got the second dose. We have 120 senior citizens and 60 employees,” he added. Marathe added that not all could get the vaccine due to the requirement of the Aadhar card. He said, “Usually when these senior citizens come to us they do not have any identity cards so we prepare an Aadhaar card based on the address of our home. However, since the past one year, due to the pandemic, we avoided going out. In the past one year six more residents joined the home, but they could not get their Aadhaar cards. Due to this they have not been vaccinated.” Vaccine on wheels To formally request the service, forward an application to the PMC civic body at vaccination.campus@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-on-wheels-requests-flow-in-from-retirement-homes-101621778763079.html
23-05-2021||Other||Baner hsg society raises ₹5 lakh for family for security staffer who died due to Covid||PUNE Residents of the Nandan Prospera housing society in Baner have collected funds for security personnel of the society who died due to Covid.Lalubhau Dongre (54), a security guard working at the society, passed away on May 3. His wife and daughter were also admitted to the Yeshwantrao Chavan Hospital with Covid.Thanks to the intervention of 216 flat owners of Nandan Prospera, the Dongre family will survive the loss of the main bread-earner.The society members collected ₹5.5 lakh and handed it over to Vandana Lalubhau Dongre, the wife.“Lalubhau was working with us for the past three years as security and was always very helpful, diligent, and cheerful person. When we had undertaken RTPCR tests of 110 housemaids, security personnel, and gardening staff Dongre had tested negative,” said chairman Dattatray Deshmukh. “He tested positive later. With one message, everyone volunteered to help the family, and people donated, with which we created a fixed deposit of Rs5 lakh and the remaining amount was given for hospital charges,” Deshmukh adds.The society has consistently been at the forefront in the battle against Covid, arranged for tiffins, PPE kits, oxygen cylinders, and wheelchairs, as and when needed.When Dinesh Patange’s family, residents of Nandan Prospera, tested positive for Covid, he and his wife were hospitalised. “My condition was very bad, and the society helped search for a hospital and admitted both of us. My little daughter and my mother were positive, but my father, and grandmother tested negative. The society members gave us complete mental and physical support, and also provided food for 20 days for the entire family,” said Patange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/baner-hsg-society-raises-rs-5-lakh-for-family-for-security-staffer-who-died-due-to-covid-101621777862931.html
23-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31||Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown-like measures introduced to curb the spread of coronavirus disease cases in the state. The government said that lockdown-like measures introduced under Surakshit Haryana have been extended till May 31 till 5am in the morning.Haryana imposed a lockdown in the state starting from May 3 and has been extending it every week due to the rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. The state recorded 5,021 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday which took the toll to 733,628. Haryana’s death toll also touched 7,415 as the state reported 98 deaths due to Covid-19. The positivity rate in Haryana stood at 8.53% and the recovery rate reported on Saturday was 92.45%."Now, after duly considering the fact that although the Covid positivity has come down, however, Mahamari Alert/Surakshit Haryana needs to continue so as to bring it and the fatality rate down even further," the order released by Haryana government said. The government allowed some relaxations this time as it allowed standalone shops to remain open during the day. Other shops will be allowed to remain open between 7am to 12pm on an odd-even basis, news agency PTI reported. Malls are barred from reopening amid the lockdown. The government has seen the results of the lockdown as active cases stand above 40,000 which was nearly 1.15 lakh two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-31-101621773646401.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru gets help to breathe better: Passing on Oxygen amid second wave of Covid||When a city is gasping for breath, what do you do? Collect oxygen cylinders! That’s exactly what a group of Bangaloreans have started doing. “The situation in the city is very grim. In the second wave of Covid, it has been an uphill task to arrange for medicines, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Many people have bought cylinders and kept it at home, taking them out of circulation for others. With Bengaluru gasping for air, we decided to start the campaign to tell people to donate oxygen cylinders for others in need,” says Freeda Lazar, one of the minds behind Pass The Oxygen initiative, which aims to make oxygen accessible and affordable. Some Bangaloreans are trying to provide respite to people who are in need of sourcing oxygen by creating a database of acquired cylinders and circulating them after verification. “There are multiple ways people can contribute towards the initiative. Firstly, they can donate the cylinder to us, and we will refill it and pass it on. Or they can just loan it to us for a specific time period and we’ll make sure it reaches back to them. If contributors don’t have cylinders, they can also simply make a donation which we can use to buy more oxygen cylinders,” says Arshiya Sayed, a volunteer with CoV-aid Bengaluru, a citizen volunteer group.Sayed, with a group of 11 other volunteers from CoV-aid Bengaluru, manages the groundwork with help of 10 autorickshaw drivers, who are helping refill and transport the essentials to those in need. “We understood early on that transportation was a problem for those cases where the entire families are down with coronavirus. So the auto drivers helped us out. Our work turns immensely meaningful when we are able to help out people in need. We recently provided an oxygen concentrator to a 7-year-old in Bengaluru, after transporting it across the city, and to see him recover was amazing,” recalls Sayed. The team is renaming the cylinders after the person they choose. “We are grateful for the life-saving step people are choosing to take, and in return we are renaming the cylinder after the person that means the world to them. We will always refer to a cylinder by that name, as a way to remember them every time a particular cylinder goes around helping save lives,” adds Lazar. And one such contributor is Mayura P Kadur, whose donated cylinder is named Prabhakar, in memory of her father who passed away in 2017. She shares, “I saw the initiative on a friend’s Instagram story, and thought of the cylinder we had in storage from my dad’s clinic. I spoke to my mother about the initiative and she said that we should give it away so that they can help someone in need in the present times, as opposed to just keeping it for ourselves. I hope more people come forward to donate cylinders.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-gets-help-to-breathe-better-passing-on-oxygen-amid-second-wave-of-covid-101621772286242.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moderna refused to send vaccines as it only deals with Centre, says Punjab govt||Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer Moderna Inc declined the Punjab government’s request to procure vaccines saying that it only deals with the central government, state nodal officer Vikas Garg said in a statement on Saturday. “One of the Covid vaccine manufacturer ‘Moderna’ has refused to send direct vaccination to the Punjab government as according to their policy, they only deal with the Government of India and not with any state government or private parties,” the statement said.The Punjab government approached Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson after being directed by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the statement said adding that the state government was forced to stop vaccinations due to unavailability of vaccines for the last three days.“All efforts are being made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state, which had received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from the Government of India,” it said.Garg’s statement pointed out that Punjab has been able to buy only 4.2 lakh vaccine doses, including 66,000 doses which were received on Saturday. Garg said that 3.5 lakh doses have already been used and the state is left with 64,000 doses currently.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on May 20 directed the health department to look out for possibilities if a global tender can be floated to meet the vaccination requirements of the state. He also said that the government has the capacity to store at least 35 lakh doses of Sputnik-V vaccine.Garg said out of all the vaccine manufacturers, it was only Moderna which replied to the Punjab government’s query.Punjab reported 5,421 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the tally to 533,973. The state also registered 201 Covid-19 fatalities pushing the death toll to 13,089. Punjab currently has 61,203 active cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moderna-refuses-to-send-vaccines-to-punjab-says-it-only-deals-with-centre-101621770937177.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||DU amps up fight against Covid: College students huddle to help the masses||Verifying authentic leads from a sea of information floating online, organising oxygen and medicines for critical patients, raising funds for those in financial crisis and supporting the Covid positive individuals emotionally and physically, students from Delhi University (DU) have been doing it all. But now, the individual efforts of these youngsters have found a more concentrated way as various groups mushroom in different colleges to help amplify the efforts in the ongoing battle against Covid-19. Read on to know how students at three DU colleges are pulling out all the stops to aid the Capital in its fight against the second wave of coronavirus.Help desk to aid the needy, beyond college premisesMore than 100 student volunteers of Miranda House have been verifying every possible lead, and update the information regularly in one single in a document. “It was during April end that we started collating information for the college faculty and staff, on the suggestion of our principal, Bijayalaxmi Nanda. But when the second wave of coronavirus hit Delhi, we realised that we needed to do more for everyone and not just our college,” says Tavissi Jain, a final year student of Philosophy (Hons), while handling her college helpdesk. The excel sheet created by Miranda students has information on oxygen providers, beds, medicines, blood plasma, tiffin services, ambulance services, etc, available in Delhi-NCR. It has been circulated in various WhatsApp groups, and helped numerous people find essentials in the time of crisis. Gauri Kumar, another final year Philosophy (Hons) student, works as the medical support coordinator for this team. She shares, “People who we were able to help, often call us offering essentials like oxygen cylinders, which enables us to help more people. We also connect those in need to the plasma donors. It’s crucial to understand that directing people to credible sources is the need of the hour.” Looking at future, setting up Oxygen plant nowThe plight of denizens searching frantically for oxygen cylinders or concentrators, during the second wave of Covid, has inspired students of Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) to raise funds for Covid relief. Jayani Shah, a second year student of BA Economics (Hons), says, “We’ve joined hands with an NGO, Doctors For You, which is working for Covid relief in Delhi, to set up an oxygen plant. This plant will produce 150 litres of oxygen per minute, which would be able to save around 20 to 30 lives at a time!” The plant will be set up at the Commonwealth Games Village Covid Healthcare Facility, which has been converted into a 500 bed, free of cost centre. “Many are still searching for oxygen, and we have realised that the Capital needs a long-term sustainable solution for such a crisis. We’ve a group of over 500 students from the college, who are trying to raise ₹35 lakhs for this project. Also, volunteering for this initiative doesn’t require the students to step out amid the pandemic, and thus ensures their safety as well,” says Arushi Mahajan, a second year B Com (Hons) student.Unused medicines for some, useful for some othersBurning the midnight oil are more that 150 students of St. Stephen’s College, who are volunteering for different endeavours towards Covid relief. “We’ve partnered with a mother-daughter duo — Supriya Malik and Sahria — who run Covid Medicine Recycle, an initiative that collects unused medicines and provides it to others in need. While Supriya and Sahria handle the pick up and drop-off of the medicines, we are creating a database of donors and beneficiaries for them,” informs Anushca Thomas, a second year History (Hons) student. Alongside medicines, Stephanians are also helping put together important resources. Susan Maria Mathew, a second year student of the college, says, “We’re working on clearing doubts of people who wish to help kids who have lost both the parents to Covid. We’re also helping the non teaching staff on premises, by providing them information on vaccination. And we are even circulating a fundraiser among our alumni, to help those who are in need. This is the least we can do to help others.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-amps-up-fight-against-covid-college-students-huddle-to-help-the-masses-101621770910900.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||2 more arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders in Bengaluru||Two more persons in Bengaluru were arrested on Sunday for allegedly trying to sell oxygen cylinders in the black market at a time when the shortage of the life-saving gas to treat severe Covid-19 cases remains a major concern, said a senior police officer.“2 accused arrested by CCB (city crime branch) in Sheshadripuram & Byatarayanpura involved in black marketing of oxygen cylinders. 5 cylinders seized..Plz share info on any such activities,” Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner (Crime) said in a post on Twitter.Despite the number of daily Covid-19 infections witnessing a decline in Bengaluru, the demand for oxygenated beds remains high with people struggling to find beds. Karnataka requires at least 1200 MT (metric tonne) of oxygen to cater to its ailing population and is dependent on the centre to fulfil this requirement.However, according to the data shared by Munish Moudgil, the officer in charge of Oxygen supplies in Karnataka, all 30 districts including Bengaluru saw a consumption of 834.84 MT (731.29 kilo litres) of oxygen on May 19 which increased to 858.02 MT (751.59 kilo litre) on May 20.Karnataka is among the seven states that cumulatively account for 66.88 % of India's total active cases and it reported 31,183 fresh cases and 451 deaths on Saturday. The explosion of the second wave of the pandemic has created a shortage of oxygen cylinders, oxygenated and ICU beds apart from life saving medicines such as Remdesivir. The state government has now put in place a SMS-based Remdesivir allocation and information system, aimed at curbing its black marketing and misuse.According to the South Western Railway authorities, the ninth oxygen express reached Bengaluru on Sunday morning carrying six cryogenic containers of liquid medical oxygen measuring 20 MT each. The Union railways minister said the railways had supplied around 1,000 MT of oxygen to the state so far.“#OxygenExpress continues to provide relief to Covid-19 patients, delivered more than 15,000 MT of medical oxygen across Flag of India. Around 1,000 MT oxygen relief supplied to Karnataka to continue helping the people in the State,” Piyush Goyal tweeted on Sunday.A statement by South Western Railway authorities said Karnataka has received 1062.14 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen by rail. “Indian Railways has so far run 224 Oxygen Expresses and transported nearly 14,500 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in 884 tankers to all over the country to assist state governments in their fight against Covid -19,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/2-more-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-in-bengaluru-101621769219937.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Your Space: Make vacation fun for kids during Covid||The Covid lockdowns confining school kids to home and online study may have had an impact on their educational levels and learning abilities. Now, spending summer school holidays cooped up at home with their parents, who maybe working professionals, will add to the already unprecedented situation. What steps should schools and authorities take to keep kids busy in a productive way? Spend more time with kidsEveryone was at home throughout the academic year 2020-21 busy with online lectures. Teachers tried well to keep every student attentive in class and conducted exams. Now, kids are not interested in online studies. They want something new. Parents are busy with jobs, online meetings and task completion radar. So, some school students are getting bored or getting angry as they pass their time during the day. My son is also getting irritated sitting at home. I tried to find what may be the solution on this? For that I have to at least think like a kid and what the child finds interesting. So, I tried including a new habit for a few minutes every day. Enjoyed every childish emotion like sprinkling water on his face and allowing him to do so, enjoying his favourite indoor games, and allowing him to enjoy his time his way. I found it refreshing to become a child myself with my kid. The stress just vanishes. One more luck was waiting there to enjoy summer vacations at home. Online summer camp offered by his school is also an activity which is fun. Nice summer camp was planned by his teachers and the principal under the guidance of management. They offered four modules of 30 minutes each. These were different types of music play, different forms of dances, different enjoyable sports activities, ball bottle games, small projects which should be completed in just 30 minutes like making biscuit sandwiches, story creations on pictures, interesting movie show, and drawing but in a new way. There were also basic scientific concepts through small practical things like static energy with comb, composting wet waste material at home, planting seeds and growing. Many more interesting activities were taken and planned by the team of teachers to make time memorable and keep students busy with different emotions like tasks to complete to gain certificates. There were also winners in these activities. Kids spoke enthusiastically on different tasks. Initially they refused to follow the schedule for online activities, but later enjoyed them. Children have gone through a plethora of emotions during the pandemic. Kids are observing their parents in all roles like friend, teacher, brother, sister, aunt, uncle. We, as parents, should try every role to make our kids happy. It’s difficult, but if we decide we can do anything. Everything is possible for us. So, let us start new roles every day or just for a few hours in a day, as we in our childhood enjoyed every relation, everything like happiness, sorrow, fighting, arguing and loving. We used to meet everyone, neighbours and relatives. Now it’s not possible, not for our children for the last one year. So, organise video calls with neighbours, relatives to keep the spirit up and stay in touch.Vidya PatilSchools should hold fun activitiesAs we all know that due to Covid students are confined to online studies which end up resulting in a lot of screen time for them. This may have a good as well as bad impact on them. Instead of conducting classes online, full-time schools can conduct fun activities like watering plants, origami, dance, making best out of waste, vermi compost, fireless cooking and much more with the help of parents. All of such activities will help boost their physical activity which was restricted due to online classes. Schools can also conduct yoga and meditation which will help in boosting their mental health.Deepali SatputeDraw a daily schedule for childThis lockdown and pandemic has been a great challenge to everyone, from students to teachers to parents. In these times, one should not forget that the children need some new activity every now and then. So, keeping them occupied is one of the most important things. Earlier every summer holiday, there was a trip mandatory for the family. If not a trip, then at least we would visit grandparents and extended families. Now even that cannot be done. During this pandemic time, it is important to form a proper schedule for the child. And keep him occupied. For example, we have made it compulsory that the morning tea and coffee will be made by my 10-year-old son. He is also assigned the responsibility of cleaning his own room. Such activities give children a sense of responsibility and also a target to achieve in a day. With this, there is also a physical activity that the child does in the evening like skipping. This keeps him occupied throughout the day.Sandeep ThiteEngage child in activities There are various activities that schools can arrange through online classes. I encourage my child to get involved in gardening and try new recipes at home as she likes it. I think staying indoors during summer vacation does impact the child a lot as this is the only time when they are not bombarded with studies like the whole year. I suggest every parent should decide what their child likes and engage them in it. We have to introduce variety in the activities. But in case a parent is not able to give their whole time to the child because of work, they must plan ahead as it can definitely work. My wife and I are both working professionals, so I totally understand how difficult it is to keep a child busy. Both my kids have their share of work. We also give them group activities so that they learn to share and work together. I love to see my children do, “Do it yourself” projects. They have made so many amasing things under DIY. This has given them a sense of accomplishment and pride. Shashank KimbhauneGrandparents play vital role in upbringing kidsI don’t think all the role of keeping children busy in productive ways can be taken up by schools and authorities. It all eventually falls on the parents to keep the child busy. In engaging the child, grandparents can play a very active role. Since the senior citizens at our homes are a treasure who know so many easy and simple activities, they can certainly help. My younger daughter has learned so many skills from her grandmother about gardening. She now spends most of her time with plants. She has grown coriander, spinach and even a rose plant in our limited space. When the rose first bloomed the smile on the face of my daughter was priceless. Such activities that can help children be closer to nature can help them handle the stress of being at home 24/7. My mother-in-law has also taught my young daughter other crafts that she finds very occupying. Parents should focus on such small activities that the child may like and learn from.Asmita Kulkarni||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-make-vacation-fun-for-kids-during-covid-101621767365088.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||'Maha to begin 24-hr vaccination once production increases in June’: Uddhav||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the vaccination for people aged between 18-45 years is temporarily suspended due to lack of smooth supply of vaccines. The chief minister said that Maharashtra will soon begin 24-hour vaccination in the state as production capacity is likely to ramp up starting June.“Covid-19 inoculation drive for people under 18-44 years age group is suspended as supply of vaccines isn't smooth. I am hopeful that from June production capacity of vaccines will increase following which we can run 24-hour vaccination drives in the state,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Thackeray was interacting with paediatricians from across the state.The chief minister also said that he is ready to make a one-time payment for 12 crore doses for beneficiaries of that particular age group. People aged between 18-45 years account for six crore of the state's total population, according to a report by news agency PTI.The chief minister also highlighted that the state was well-equipped for tackling a possible third wave. Uddhav Thackeray said that the state government has ramped up its infrastructure to ensure that Maharashtra is self-sufficient in terms of medical oxygen production and availability. He also said that the state’s success in controlling cases in the recent weeks has come due to everyone’s united efforts. He said that children should be saved from the effects of the third wave.“Even though we were not successful in defeating the virus, we have been able tokeep the number of Covid-19 cases in control. It is the success of our state as a united force comprising all stakeholders. We have to be alert to protect children from the possible third wave. The first wave hit senior citizens, the second one targeted youth and now children are under threat,” Uddhav Thackeray further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-begin-24-hr-vaccination-once-production-increases-in-june-uddhav-101621765599614.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka implements 'tech-driven' system for Remdesivir allocation, information to check misuse||Karnataka which is battling the second wave of Covid-19, has put in place a SMS-based Remdesivir allocation and information system, aimed at curbing its blackmarketing and misuse."In order to bring transparency in the allocation of Remdesivir a tech-driven system has been developed and now the patient will get a SMS informing which hospital is provided the medicine against the SRF ID," Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday."In case if the #Remdesivir is allocated against the SRF ID & the hospital has not provided it to the patient, a facility is provided in the same link to report it to the government. This will help govt in curbing blackmarketing & misuse of Remdesivir," he said in a tweet.Citizens can also check information on Remdesivir using the link https://covidwar.karnataka.gov.in/service2.Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan too in a tweet said, "In case if Remdesivir is allocated against the SRF ID and hospital has not provided it to patients, you can report it to the Govt. This is largely to reduce misuse of the drug."Remdesivir is in great demand for the treatment of Covid-19 infected patients at hospitals.Aimed at ensuring optimal use of Remdesivir, the state government had recently even issued guidelines directing all healthcare facilities in the state to follow it in letter and spirit.It had also called for each healthcare facility to form a Remdesivir Audit Committee and submit a report on the use to the expert committees constituted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-implements-tech-driven-system-for-remdesivir-allocation-information-to-check-misuse-101621762201011.html
23-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19: About 7,000 prisoners may get bail or parole in Jharkhand to decongest overcrowded prisons||About 7,000 prisoners may be granted interim bail or parole to decongest overcrowded prisons in Jharkhand state, that is battling a second surge of Covid-19 pandemic in the wake of a recent Supreme Court order, a top official said. An order has been issued to jail superintendents by the High- Powered Committee to shortlist prisoners on the basis of a directive by the Supreme Court to release on parole or interim bail, prisoners and the under-trials for offences entailing up to 7-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, Inspector General Prisons, Jharkhand, Birendra Bhushan told PTI. "If the courts approve, in all there are about 7,000 prisoners who may get interim bail. If this happens our jails will run as per capacity," Bhushan said.There are 21,046 prisoners including 15,900 undertrials lodged in the state's thirty prisons that have a capacity to house 16,700 inmates. A high-powered committee that comprises Justice AK Singh of Jharkhand High Court, Principal Secretary Home Rajiv Arun Ekka and IG Prisons Birendra Bhushan had met on May 17 to review the situation and had asked Jail Superintendent to identify eligible prisoners under the criteria. "Once the jail superintendents will provide the list of shortlisted prisoners, their names will be given to the District Legal Service Authority ... granting bail will be the role of judges and courts ... There may be about 7,000 such prisoners and in case their bails are approved, the jails will be less crowded," Bhushan said. Ninety days parole can be sanctioned to eligible prisoners while the period for those already on parole can be extended. He said the exact number of such prisoners will be known in a day or two. Jharkhand has 30 jails out of which 7 are Central jails, 15 district jails, one open jail and remaining are small sub- jails. Apart from shortlisting the eligible inmates, an exercise is also underway to rationalise the number of prisoners in view of the pandemic by shifting prisoners from overcrowded jails to less crowded jails, he said. Taking note of the "unprecedented surge" in Covid-19 cases, the Supreme Court on May 8 had moved to decongest prisons and ordered the immediate release of prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year. Observing that the decongestion of prisons housing around 4 lakh inmates across the country is a matter concerning "health and right to life of" prisoners and police personnel, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said all those who were allowed to go out on bail in March last year by the high- powered committees of states and Union Territories (UTs) be granted the same relief without any reconsideration to avoid delay. "Further we direct that, those inmates who were granted parole, pursuant to our earlier orders, should be again granted parole for a period of 90 days in order to tide over the pandemic," the bench, also having Justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant had said in its order. The top court had taken note of its March 23, 2020, order by which it had directed all states and UTs to constitute high- powered committee (HPC) to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and the under trials for offences entailing up to 7-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-about-7-000-prisoners-may-get-bail-or-parole-in-jharkhand-to-decongest-overcrowded-prisons-101621760629001.html
23-05-2021||Other||2014 Chennai central station blast case: Police arrest suspect, one other||A suspect wanted in connection with the May 2014 bomb blast at the Central railway station here that left one dead, has been arrested, police said on Saturday. Police arrested two persons including the suspect, identified as Rafi, while probing a robbery case and are on the lookout for three more persons in connection with the May 5 incident where they waylaid a jeweller. The duo, according to police, robbed the jewellery shop owner in "a planned" incident. "The two had keenly watched the jewellery shop owner and struck at an opportune time, relieving him of gold," a senior police officer told PTI. Acting on the complaint of the shop owner, the Periamet police launched a hunt to trace the culprits. "We watched the CCTV footage and traced one of them with the help of the number plate of the vehicle used by them. Of the two, Yashin was arrested on May 10 from Allikulam here and based on his confession, the police team zeroed in on the hideout of his accomplice who was later identified as Rafi, on Friday," the official said. Investigation revealed that Rafi was a suspect in the Central railway station blast case in 2014 and had a non- bailable warrant (NBW) pending against him for a year. About 75 grams of gold, a car and a two-wheeler were seized from Rafi who was later produced before a local court at Chengalpattu and remanded. He had several cases, including a counterfeit currency racket, pending against him. Police said a hunt is on to trace and nab three more persons who were said to be involved in the robbery. A woman was killed and 14 others injured when two low-intensity bombs exploded in a span of five minutes in two coaches of the Bangalore-Guwahati train at the busy Central Railway station here on May 1, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2014-chennai-central-station-blast-case-police-arrest-suspect-one-other-101621760565142.html
23-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada case: Sovan Chatterjee in house arrest after release from hospital||Former Trinamool Congress leader Sovan Chatterjee, who has been arrested by the CBI in connection with the Narada sting tape case, was discharged from the state-run SSKM Hospital late on Saturday evening on personal risk bond, sources in the hospital said.Chatterjee, a former mayor of Kolkata, then went to the Presidency Correctional Home, where he was lodged before being admitted to the hospital, signed the necessary documents and left for his residence where he will be under house arrest as per the order of the Calcutta High Court.The former TMC leader who had quit the party to join the BJP only to leave it before the recently concluded assembly election, suffers from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disorder (COPD) and is highly diabetic, hospital sources said adding that he has developed cirrhosis of the liver.Also Read | Narada case: Calcutta high court orders house arrest for all 4 politiciansHe, ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, besides TMC MLA Madan Mitra were arrested in the case on Monday morning and they were taken to Presidency Correctional Home at night after the Calcutta High Court stayed their bail granted by a CBI court on the same day.Chatterjee, Mukherjee and Mitra were later admitted to the hospital after their health condition deteriorated. Hakim had been shifted to a healthcare facility in the correctional home after he developed fever.The Calcutta High Court on Friday ordered their shifting to house arrest from jail incarceration. However, they will continue to remain in judicial custody.Only Hakim was sent home on Friday while others remained in the hospital.Chatterjee, earlier on Saturday, spoke to the media from a window of the Woodburn Block of the hospital alleging that the authorities at the medical establishment were not discharging him though he had recvered.Late in the evening, he was released on personal risk bond while Mukherjee and Mitra are still at the SSKM Hospital, sources said.The sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours.At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government.The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-case-sovan-chatterjee-in-house-arrest-after-release-from-hospital-101621756051559.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Ninth 'Oxygen Express' carrying 120 tonnes LMO reaches Bengaluru||The ninth "Oxygen Express" carrying 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), in 6 containers has reached the city this morning, South Western Railway said on Sunday.So far, Karnataka has received 1,062.14 tonnes of LMO by Rail."The ninth Oxygen Express reached ICD Whitefield at 07:30 am today (May 23). It had started from Tatanagar, Jharkhand at 23:35 hrs on May 21," South Western Railway said in a release.A signal free 'Green Corridor' was created by the Railways to enable swift transport of this Oxygen Express, i.e. this train has run stoppage free, and has not had to wait for crossing/passage of another train, it said, adding that this train has carried 6 Cryogenic Containers and each cryogenic container carried 20 tonnes LMO (total tonnage: 120 tonnes).Indian Railways has so far run 224 Oxygen Expresses and transported nearly 14,500 tonnes of LMO in 884 tankers to all over the country to assist state governments in their fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ninth-oxygen-express-carrying-120-tonnes-lmo-reaches-bengaluru-101621756656542.html
23-05-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata gurudwara runs free 'oxygen langar' for Covid-19 patients||Setting an example during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Behala gurudwara in Kolkata and the IHA Foundation are conducting an Oxygen Langar where any patient can come with their Aadhaar card, get their oxygen level tested and receive an oxygen cylinder.This facility is available on the premises of Behala Gurdwara where at a time 25 people can avail of the service. Anyone can avail of the services no matter which religion they belong to. If patients feel they are having low Oxygen level, they can come to the premises with their Adhaar card and doctors present will check their measuring oxygen level and if required, give an Oxygen cylinder for free.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSpeaking to ANI, A National Coordinator of the IHA foundation, Dashmesh Bir Singh said, "People can also refill their empty oxygen cylinder free of cost. We have also started mobile oxygen services and even the Portable Oxygen Concentrator is also available so that patients can take oxygen even sitting outside the premises in their car.""We are simply calling it an Oxygen Langar because in this time of pandemic we really need to come forward to help people said," he added.Speaking to ANI, Shramna Chakrabarty, a member of the medical staff said, "These services are turning out to be useful for the patients. On a daily basis, we are providing service to many of them."The locals who are getting the help amid an acute shortage of oxygen, Behala Gurdwara has offered a ray of hope.Afridi Hasan, a resident of South Kolkata who had come to refill an oxygen cylinder for his uncle who is a Covid patient said," We can not afford to buy oxygen. Because of shortage it is not easily available. This free cost services of Behala Gurdwara offer hope to people like us."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-gurudwara-runs-free-oxygen-langar-for-covid-19-patients-101621755013559.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||1,600 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate below 2.5%: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that the national capital recorded 1,600 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, as he announced that the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown in the city is being extended by one more week till May 31.Also Read | Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown by 1 week“There was a day in April, when more than 28,000 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Delhi. In the last 24 hours, however, 1,600 people were found positive,” Kejriwal said. On April 20, the national capital’s infection tally increased by 28,395 fresh cases, according to that day’s health department bulletin. The bulletin also reported 277 additional fatalities related to the viral disease.In fact, the 28,395 cases on April 20 is the highest Delhi has seen in a single-day since the beginning of the pandemic.The chief minister further said, “In April, the positivity rate was recorded at 36%, that is, out of 100 people tested for Covid-19, 36 were returning a positive result. If I talk about the positivity rate from the last 24 hours, it is now below even 2.5%."On April 23, Delhi saw its positivity rate peak at 36.24%, as 26,169 samples tested positive out of 72,208 tested for the coronavirus disease.Over the last few days, the city has seen a continuous decline in its daily cases, as well as in its positivity rate. The number of fresh infections has been below 10,000 for several days; on May 13, there were 10,489 new cases, with a positivity rate of 14.24%.In a bid to break the chain of transmission, CM Kejriwal announced on April 19 that a complete lockdown will come into force at 10pm on the day, and will end at 5am on April 26. Since then, the lockdown has been extended five times, including on Sunday. Kejriwal also said that if cases continue to decrease, Delhi would begin “unlocking” from May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1600-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-below-2-5-cm-kejriwal-101621755034181.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown relaxation to begin from May 31: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown in the Capital by another week but said that a phased relaxation will begin from May 31 if the Covid-19 case trajectory and positivity rate continue to decline.He also expressed concerns over vaccine shortage in the light of a potential third wave of Covid-19 in the country, while stressing on the need to prepare against it.“In the last 24 hours, we asked several sections of people what to do and the larger opinion is that the lockdown should be extended by another week. If we open everything now, there is a risk that we may lose all gains on the Covid-19 front we have made over the last one month. The lockdown was supposed to last till 5 am tomorrow. Now, we have decided to extend it till 5 am next Monday (May 31),” said Kejriwal in a live streamed video press briefing.He further said, “However, if the curve continues to decline like this for a week, we will start a phased un-lockdown process from May 31. We cannot open everything at one go. There is an immense risk in it. So, the relaxations have to be implemented in a phased way. I hope people will cooperate in this.”Delhi has had four distinct waves of Covid-19. The last one which started in late-March – coinciding with the second wave in the country – was the most severe and left the healthcare system in the capital overwhelmed. Further, a shortage of medical oxygen and medicines contributed to more deaths. At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22.In his Sunday briefing, the chief minister said that the number of new cases recorded in the last 24 hours has dropped to around 1,600 and the positivity rate was less than 2.5%. With that, Delhi recorded a positivity rate of less than 5% -- World Health Organisation’s (WHO) benchmark for Covid-19 cases being under control– for three consecutive days.On April 17-18, a weekend curfew was imposed in Delhi, which was turned into a full lockdown from April 20. This is the fifth time the ongoing lockdown has been extended.Dr Puneet Misra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, said: “The city cannot remain under a complete lockdown forever. That is understandable. Before relaxing the lockdown, Delhi should ideally have a positivity rate of less than 5% for at least one week. Cases are declining and they are likely to further decline by May 31. A phased re-opening of important economic activities can be considered at that point. Also, people must remember that they cannot let their guards down like they did before the second wave of the pandemic hit India. For governments, this is also the time to scale up vaccination.”The move was welcomed by traders and resident welfare associations too.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of Confederation of All India Traders, said the strategy of phased opening of lockdown depending on the Covid-19 situation was sound. "Relaxing the lockdown at this point and at one go could have led to a surge in cases again. The government, however, should consider giving some compensation to traders whose income have been affected by the lockdown but they still have to pay salaries, rent, taxes, etc,” he said.Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi, which is a collective of around 1,800 resident welfare associations (RWA) in the city, said: “It was evident that the situation in Delhi would not come sufficiently under control till the end of this month. The government could have announced a month-long lockdown at one go in the beginning of May instead of going for several week-long restrictions. Now they should focus on increasing vaccine coverage.”Chief minister Kejriwal said that the Covid-19 wave was not over but it had significantly come under control and lauded the people for their support. "We overcame a shortage of hospital beds and medical oxygen in this phase with the help of people, the Central government, Supreme Court and the (Delhi) high court. Now, we are concerned about vaccine shortage. But I am sure that too will be resolved soon,” Kejriwal said.Delhi has a population of 20 million -- of which 15 million are adults, as per electoral rolls. The number translates to a requirement of 30 million vaccine doses. So far, around 26% of the adult population in the Capital has received at least one dose of the vaccine, government records showed.Kejriwal further said, “Right now, our priority is to vaccinate the entire population of Delhi at the earliest. There is speculation of a third wave. We have to prepare for that aggressively in terms of scaling up hospital beds, ICUs, oxygen, tankers, oxygen storage facilities, etc. But high vaccine coverage can totally reduce the possibility of a third wave. We have had talks with several domestic as well as international manufacturers on how vaccine coverage can be increased in Delhi. We are ready to buy vaccines for our entire population no matter how much it costs.”In the 2021-22 budget of Delhi, the city government allocated ₹50 crore for vaccination. However, a recent vaccine shortage forced the government to suspend around 250 vaccine centres meant for the 18-44 age group over the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-relaxation-to-begin-from-may-31-arvind-kejriwal-101621755087120.html
23-05-2021||Jaipur||3 dead as car rams into stationary truck in Rajasthan’s Barmer||Three people died and three other passengers were injured in a road accident in Rajasthan’s Barmer late on Saturday night when a car rammed into a stationary truck on Dhorimanna road.Harchand Dewasi, station house officer at Dhorimanna police station said the car was coming from Gujarat to Barmer and it crashed into the truck’s back side, leading to three deaths on the spot. The injured were taken to a nearby hospital. Dewasi said the car was crushed due to the impact of the accident.The dead were identified as Kistura Ram (65), a resident of Barmer and Mitesh Kumar (30), a resident of Deesa in Gujarat. The third deceased could not be identified till now. The injured, identified as Rekha (30), Devraj (6) and Jeta Ram were under treatment at a hospital, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-dead-as-car-rams-into-stationary-truck-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-101621752158737.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown by 1 week; unlocking to start from May 31 if cases continue to fall, says CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the ongoing lockdown by one more week - a decision he said has been taken after consulting with citizens and other stakeholders. Kejriwal said that the process of unlocking will start from May 31 if cases decrease and people continue to follow all norms."Delhi is reporting more than 1,000 cases everyday, I asked people in the last 24 hours so we can take a decision together. A common opinion was the lockdown should be extended by one week more, till next Monday 5am," the chief minister said while addressing a press conference.Kejriwal praised the discipline exhibited by citizens in following the lockdown norms crediting their effort and resilience for the declining number of cases in the national capital."We imposed a lockdown from April 20 and within a month due to your discipline and efforts the most deadly wave of Covid-19 till date is weakening," said Kejriwal."I won't say we have won this battle but we have a brought it under control" he added.The chief minister announced during the press briefing that the positivity rate in the national capital has decline further and now stands at 2.5%, much below the rate of 5% mandated by World Health Organization. Delhi also recorded 1,600 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, its lowest daily tally since March 1."If we test 100 individuals only 2.5 test positive and 97.5 people test negative," said the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief.The chief minister also talked about the harrowing shortage of oxygen Delhi had experienced during the peak of the second wave, stating that all stakeholders came together to solve the crisis."Delhi went through a shortage of oxygen but the people of Delhi, the central government, Supreme Court, Delhi high court came together to solve it," Kejriwal said.The Delhi government had imposed an initial lockdown on April 20, which was last extended on May 16 for one week.Kejriwal outlined a two-pronged approach to dealing with a third wave of Covid-19, either by vaccinating the 2 crore population of Delhi at the earliest so that a third wave does not materialise, or by ramping up facilities to help the city weather another wave. He emphasised that vaccination remains the government's priority and added that the government is ready to spend as much money as needed for vaccinating its people of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elhi-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-1-week-will-start-unlocking-city-from-may-31-if-cases-continue-to-fall-says-cm-kejriwal-101621750223688.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||New research records 8 more species of snakes in Delhi, number rises to 23||Eight more species have been added to the national capital's list of snakes after an extensive five-year study conducted by researchers from the Delhi University.This has taken the number of snake species recorded in the capital to 23, updating the 1997 list mentioned in the book 'Fauna of Delhi' that is widely used to track Delhi's native species, according to Gaurav Barhadiya, a researcher from the Department of Environmental Studies, Delhi University, who conducted the study.The study recorded a total of 329 snakes in 23 species and nine families. The new additions are -- common bronzeback tree snake, common trinket snake, common cat snake, barred wolf snake, common kukri, streaked kukri, common sandboa and saw-scaled viper.The research, published in the American Journal “Reptiles and Amphibians”, covered all eleven districts of Delhi, between January 2016 and October 2020, through 376 field surveys in various urban forests, parks, private gardens, farms, vacant plots, lakes, and water bodies.The findings were revealed last month. Data collection techniques included pitfall traps, opportunistic encounters, nocturnal road cruising, and road kills encounters. Secondary information on snake rescue has also been taken from NGOs like the Wildlife Trust of India and Fauna Foundation of India. Professor Dr Chirashree Ghosh from the Department of Environmental Studies, who supervised the research, said documentation of urban biodiversity is an urgent requirement as latest statistics and generated data on urban floral and faunal biodiversity has not been compiled and documented properly.“Rapid urbanization is heavily impacting the animal and reptilian population, including snakes. The future planning should be inclusive of preservation of its green spaces and wildlife,” she said. Delhi is an important site for conservation, as it comprises the last spurs of ancient Aravalli mountains in the form of a ridge, which is now in fragments either in the form of urban forests or urban parks and experiences regular snake occurrences in and around houses, gardens, and industrial areas, Ghosh said.This means it still holds good potential and provides an opportunity to conserve the native flora, fauna, and biodiversity amidst a densely populated urban area, she said.Unfortunately, snakes in Delhi have never received priority as compared to the other groups like mammals and avian diversity. Therefore, no significant studies have been published on the occurrence of snakes in the capital, Barhadiya said. “Most snakes we encountered were non-venomous and are harmless and thus, people should not be afraid and kill them on the spot. Persecution of snakes, road mortality, lack of knowledge, habitat modification, and habitat fragmentation are the major threats to snake species in urban Delhi," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-research-records-8-more-species-of-snakes-in-delhi-number-rises-to-23-101621750155903.html
23-05-2021||Ranchi||At least 22 suspected Covid-19 deaths in Jharkhand's Palamu, probe ordered||After at least 22 people died of suspected Covid-19 over the last 20 days in a tribal-dominated Sua Kaudia village in Jharkhand's Palamu district, the district administration has ordered an investigation and constituted teams to screen those infected with the virus.Also Read | PM Narendra Modi’s direct review with DMs against federalism: Hemant SorenAccording to Shashi Ranjan, Deputy Commissioner, Palamu, a team has been constituted to test people suspected to be COVID-19 infected and shift those found positive into isolation wards to be treated."District administration and ground-level medical teams conducted detailed investigation here. The situation being observed. Self-help Group workers are conducting surveys in Palamu to record COVID data. Workers will be given Oximeters for COVID patients. COVID testing committee has been formed to test the suspects, they are isolating the infected and giving them medicines," he said.Also Read | Jharkhand: Nearly 50% drop in Covid cases, deaths last weekHowever, locals point out a lack of proper healthcare infrastructure in the area and said that villagers are forced to depend on "Jhola Chaap" (quacks) for treatment."The reason behind a large number of deaths in the area is lack of proper healthcare facilities. There is a healthcare centre but no one from there goes to the villages to educate people about vaccination and COVID norms. There is also vaccine hesitancy here, but if there were awareness campaigns more people would have taken the vaccinations."When somebody falls ill here, they to the local 'jhola chhap' doctors and when their situation deteriorates they go to district hospitals. That's why people are dying," said Bachchan Thakur, a resident of Sua Kaudia village.Another local of the village, Mukesh told ANI that about 25 people with Covid-19 like symptoms had died in the area recently."The situation was bad in the village about 10 days ago, but people are staying indoors because of fear and that's why the death toll has not increased more," said Mukesh.Jharkhand reported 2037 new coronavirus cases, and 41 deaths, The COVID tally in the state has climbed to 3,27,035, including 22,566 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/at-least-22-suspected-covid-19-deaths-in-jharkhand-s-palamu-probe-ordered-101621745373778.html
23-05-2021||Ranchi||PM Narendra Modi’s direct review with DMs against federalism: Hemant Soren||While Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand have shown a declining trend in the last few days, chief minister Hemant Soren says the state can’t let the guard down as uncertainty about the nature of the pandemic remains. In a telephonic interview with Vishal Kant, the chief minister spoke over a host of issues including rural spread of the pandemic, hiccups in the vaccination drive besides the Centre-state relations. Here are some excerpts.Q) We are in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. The numbers of positive Covid cables in Jharkhand have started falling. What is the government’s assessment? Have we crossed the peak?A) Our experience shows a lot of uncertainty related to this disease. It keeps going up and down. Now, there are more associated issues coming up like the black fungus. I think the numbers going down could also be a result of the restrictions we have put in place. So we cannot lower our guard. Overall social distancing and use of masks are the best practice to save oneself from the disease besides vaccination.Q) Besides the high positivity rate, the second wave is more worrying due to its spread in the rural areas, which have very poor health infrastructure?A) Yes, our challenge has increased. In the first wave the spread was largely in the densely populated urban areas. But this time, it has penetrated the rural part. Initially, the situation was getting chaotic. However, we have things under control now. We have now also started a special door-to-door drive in rural areas to scan people, be it those who are unwell or even those who have died. We don’t want to hide data, even of death. In fact having exact data of death also gives us an idea of the direction in which the spread might be going.Q) This pandemic has also brought back the focus to an inadequate public healthcare system. Jharkhand traditionally has had a very poor public healthcare with shortage of doctors, paramedics and technicians. Has this pandemic forced policy makers and your government to change the approach towards public health and make improvements accordingly?A) I totally agree with it. The role of public healthcare has come to fore like never before. In fact despite all the limitations, it is the public healthcare infrastructure that has led the fight against the crisis. The private sector’s role has been exposed that ultimately they are business entities. There is no denying the fact that lots need to be done. Traditionally we have been a poor and anaemic state, be it on economic, social or educational parameters. We are doing an assessment and working on plans to improve healthcare. However, I would also underline that we handled the pandemic in a much better way despite the limitations than some of our neighbouring states.Q) Vaccination is the key to fight this disease. But it’s very slow in the state, especially in the 18-44 age group. What’s the plan ahead?A) There is no denying the fact that there is shortage of vaccines due to supply constraints. Initially, the Centre was doing the procurement and distribution. Then they suddenly left it to the states to procure it for the 18-44 age group. That has led to a chaotic situation. States are now going for global tenders. And then there is no parity in pricing [of vaccines] for the states and the Centre. But we are still making the best effort because the same people will turn around and blame the states if there is a delay in vaccination.Q) Will Jharkhand also go for a global tender?A) Yes, it’s in the process. We will issue it within the next few days.Q) But do you think that will help?A) I am not very hopeful. ...it is going to be a huge burden on the states, especially poor states like us. There is no price parity. Spending hundreds of crores would be a huge burden. But we have no choice.Q) Some other states have said the Centre should be taking over the entire vaccination programme. What’s your position?A) Absolutely. I made a similar demand from the UPA (united progressive alliance) platform. And I still think so. It’s not too late. They made a budget of ₹35,000 crores. The Centre should be doing all procurement and distribution. They are allocating oxygen, medicines and equipment. Similarly, vaccination needs to be done at the national level in a transparent manner.Q) In Jharkhand, there is another challenge in the vaccination programme--- hesitancy, largely due to rumours surrounding the after effect of vaccines especially in rural areas.A) Yes, we have also got feedback about this problem in the rural areas. This is mostly related to lack of awareness. And the confusion and certain events related to vaccines and other drugs being used in the fight against Covid has also contributed to it. People hear about some side effects of the vaccine and duplicate drugs being administered. These things add to the rumours, making it a bigger challenge in a state like ours due to the illiteracy levels. However, we have chalked out a detailed awareness programme with the help of all elected representatives across the political spectrum. The campaign will run up to the level of gram panchayats in order to dispel rumours and encourage people to get vaccinated.Q) Centre-state relations often become a talking point. We have seen conflict situations even during the pandemic. Your tweet about the PM went viral, with the BJP hitting back. What really did you mean by that tweet? Was it to say that such meetings/discussions are not fruitful?A) The basic thing is that there needs to be transparency. I tweeted about the phone call only after news started flashing on TV that he spoke to CMs. We saw the incident of Delhi CM Kejriwal. He was reminded about the protocol of the meeting. But how come what the PM speaks comes in the media? So, how do we (the states) share our concerns and demands? My view was that the state governments need to be taken into confidence before taking any decision. Or else, there would be a problem in implementation. We have an example of what’s happening with the ventilators supplied to states.Q) West Bengal CM Mamta Banerjee raised the issue of PM-DM conference? You were part of it. Do you share similar views?A) I want to clarify that I have no ego hassles to sit there with DMs. However, such meetings are against the principles of federalism. Have we ever seen any other PM in the past hold a review meeting directly with DMs. I totally agree that such meetings are done to humiliate us where we have nothing to speak or contribute. Will the Centre be comfortable if I start doing review meetings with the Union health secretary? He (PM) also needs to think that he is sitting at a very high-level.Q) In the first wave, it was the Centre that imposed the lockdown. This time it has left the states to decide on that. Such restrictions have huge economic fallout? How will the state fight that? There are already reports of economic stress. Two days back a driver sought food in Ranchi for his starving family?A) In that specific case, as soon as we got to know, we extended help to the family at 1 am in the night. As far as imposing a lockdown is concerned, there are double standards there as well. In the first wave, for the Centre lockdown was the first option but the states have been advised that it should be the last option. As far economic stress is concerned, we have an eye on it. We didn’t let anyone starve in the first wave, it won’t happen this time as well.Q) Will the lockdown be extended?Q) The restrictions have clearly helped in containing the spread. We still have 2-3 days left (restrictions end on May 27 morning). We are assessing the situation. The survey we are doing will give us more clarity about the spread in rural areas by around 25th May. We will take a decision as per the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-direct-review-with-dms-against-federalism-hemant-soren-101621745162237.html
23-05-2021||Lucknow||5 of a family including 3 kids hacked to death in Ayodhya village||Five of a family including a couple and their three children (all below 10 years) were brutally hacked to death over a property issue in an Ayodhya village on Saturday midnight, senior police officials said on Sunday morning. They said the couple’s nephew, who stayed with them, was the key suspect as he was found missing from the house after the incident.Ayodhya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey said the incident took place at Baria Nisaru village under Inayatnagar police station limits at around 12.30 am on Sunday. He said it seemed all the victims were attacked with a heavy and blunt object while they were sleeping.He said the victims included Rakesh Kumar, his wife and their three kids including two sons and a daughter. He said the key suspect Pawan, who is Rakesh’s elder sister’s son, also stayed with the family for the past few years and had an eye on his maternal uncle’s property.Pandey said the local villagers reported that Pawan used to argue with Rakesh’s wife demanding his alleged share in the property.He said the police suspect that Pawan had help from some people in executing the crime. He said five teams were constituted and raids were being carried out for Pawan’s arrest while a forensic team had collected samples from the crime scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/5-of-a-family-including-3-kids-hacked-to-death-in-ayodhya-village-101621738921598.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 vaccine centres being run by BMC to remain shut today||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation Municipal Corporation (BMC) will remain shut on Sunday, the civic body said in a tweet on Saturday. The vaccination centre details for Monday will be shared by the BMC on their Twitter handle on Sunday, the tweet added."Dear Mumbaikars. There will be no vaccination at any of the centres tomorrow. Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday. The details for Monday will be shared tomorrow by this handle & the respective wards too," the civic body tweeted.Dear Mumbaikars. There will be no vaccination at any of the centres tomorrow. Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday. The details for Monday will be shared tomorrow by this handle & the respective wards too. #MyBMCVaccinationUpdateEven as the vaccination drive has slowed down across the state due to vaccine shortage, the shutting down of BMC centres for the day is on account of being Sunday. The state has complained of inadequate vaccine supply from the Centre and vaccination centres in some parts, including Pune, were shut on Saturday due to shortage of doses. "Vaccination will not be done on May 22 at all vaccination centers in Pune Municipal corporation area due to shortage of vaccine stock," Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol posted on Twitter in Marathi.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn an attempt to meet the high demand of vaccines, the state floated a global tender to import 50 million vaccine doses approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, but it did not elicit a response from any vaccine manufacturer or supplier till May 20, which was the closing date of the tender. “As we have not got any response, the state government has decided to extend its deadline to May 25,” health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday.Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 26,133 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection tally in state to 5,553,225. As many as 682 people died of the virus in 24 hours, pushing the total toll to 87,300. The case fatality rate in the state increased to 1.57%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-19-vaccine-centres-being-run-by-bmc-to-remain-shut-today-101621729885230.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Shops to display Covid meds stock||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Saturday ordered authorised dealers and pharmacies selling Covid-19 medicines to display available stock and cost of the drugs prominently at their shops.The DDMA order, seen by HT, says it was found that patients are facing difficulties in procuring essential Covid-19 drugs on time and at the prescribed rates, “causing hindrance in timely and effective treatment”.Some of the drugs mentioned in the order are: Ivermectin tablets, Doxycyclin tablets/capsule, Methyl Prednisolone tablets and injections, Dexamethasone tablets and injections, Budosenide Inhalers and Respules Favipiravir tablets, Apixaban tablets and Enoxaparin Sodium/ Clexane.“... all authorized dealers/retailers/sellers of essential Covid -19 management drugs in the NCT shall display the information of stock position and MRP of all these drugs at conspicuous places at their business premises for information of the general public,” read the order. It also directed medicine sellers to “update the stock position of these drugs four times a day -- at 10am, 2pm, 6pm and 9pm respectively,” the order read.The order was issued on the directions of Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal.“He had said that it should also be ensured that hoarding, over charging or black marketing of such drugs/medicines does not happen by prominently displaying stocks and rates of such drugs by dealers/retailers/sellers for information of people at large. Accordingly, the government on Saturday issued an order under the aegis of DDMA which will be strictly enforced in letter and spirit by the Drug Controller, DMs and DCPs,” a senior official from the L-G office said.The district magistrates and DCPs have been directed to ensure strict compliance of the order. “In case any person is found violating the aforesaid directions , the defaulting person shall be proceeded against as per Section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC, the Epidemic Act, 1897 Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Rules 1945 and other applicable laws,” the order said.The L-G has further instructed that a similar order be issued for oximeters, oxygen cylinders/concentrators etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shops-to-display-covid-meds-stock-101621720395258.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||At least 1,000 duped on fake Covid jab websites||KSoon after India launched the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive in mid-January, more than 1,000 people across the country were duped of over ₹40 lakh by an international syndicate that allegedly created a fake website, after cloning the official website of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, and offered inoculation to individuals at a cost of ₹4,000- ₹6,000 per shot, the Delhi Police said on Friday.Although that particular fake website was blocked around the first week of February and two separate cases were registered by the Delhi Police – one in February by the CyPAD (cyber crime unit) and another in the last week of April by South Avenue police station – at least eight more fake websites, which offered vaccination slots on payment, have been blocked in the past fortnight, after links to these websites were found circulating as text messages and social media posts, police said.“These links directed people to fake websites or prompted them to download mobile applications for registering themselves for the vaccination. The objective of these websites was to either dupe people of money or to steal their personal and banking data,” said Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police, CyPAD.As far as the two cases registered over the fake website of the ministry of health were concerned, there has been no progress in the South Avenue police’s investigation, the officer said. The investigation done by CyPAD has led to the arrest of two people of Nepal origin,--one from Siliguri in West Bengal and another from Uttarakhand--between March and April. The investigating team also seized their two bank accounts in which more than ₹40 lakh was deposited by at least 1,000 people for getting the Covid-19 vaccine, a senior CyPAD officer, who did not want to be named, said.The two were identified as Shekhar Pariyarwas (caught from Siliguri) and Ashok Singh, who was nabbed in Uttarakhand. Their interrogation revealed that their common link, a man based in Nepal, had approached them for opening bank accounts into which the vaccine aspirants were made to deposit the money, which was further routed to various international bank accounts, the officer quoted above said.Investigators said the fake website was created by copying the original ministry site’s metadata. The fake website is an exact clone of the official website, down to the India state emblem. The only difference in the two websites was the “Appointment for Vaccination” section -- this is not there on the original ministry site.“Upon clicking on the ‘Appointment for Vaccination’ button, the website takes to a URL where the person could select a vaccine for purchase. Upon selecting the vaccine and number of doses, the person needed to share her name and phone number. The payment sought was ₹4,000 to ₹6,000, depending on the vaccine chosen,” the officer said.Apart from taking down such websites, the city police and other agencies have also been issuing advisories on various media platforms to caution people against falling victim to such frauds, said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-1-000-duped-on-fake-covid-jab-websites-101621719904108.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Meet on Class 12 exams may discuss proposal for tests in major subjects||The Union government has proposed to the states to conduct Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams for major subjects only, according to the proposal document seen by HT.Nearly 20 of the 174 subjects offered to Class 12 students are considered major subjects by CBSE. Board students take a minimum of five and a maximum of six subjects out of which four are considered major subjects.On April 14, the education ministry cancelled Class 10 board examination and delayed the Class 12 board examination amid rising Covid-19 cases in India, saying that the situation will be reviewed on June 1.This comes ahead of a high-level meeting to be held on Sunday which will discuss whether Class 12 exams should be cancelled or conducted as per different proposals, officials privy to the matter said. The meeting to be attended by state education ministers and secretaries will be chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced in a series of tweets on Saturday.“The Hon’ble Prime Minister has desired that any decision affecting the careers of his beloved students has to be taken in wide consultations with all State Governments & Stakeholders. I recently held a meeting with the State Education Secretaries in this regards,” Nishank tweeted.“The consultative process will be further strengthened through a high level meeting to be chaired by Hon’ble Defence Minister Shri rajnathsinghJi, also to be attended by my cabinet colleagues Smt. smritiiraniJi and Shri PrakashJavdekarJi,” he said in another tweet.According to the proposal documents, examination for the major subjects can be conducted in two ways. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years and for the minor subjects “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects.”Conducting examination in this mode will only be possible if the board has three months which would include “one month of pre-exam activities and 2 months for the conduct of exams and declaration of results and another 45 days for compartment exams”, according to the document.The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination from three hours to 90 minutes, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer type questions. The process, as per the second proposal, can be completed in 45 days and results can be declared within 15 days of completion of the exams.The second proposal also includes that the examination can be conducted twice depending on the pandemic situation in various parts of the country. “The Class XII Examinations could be conducted two times by the Board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations, the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase,” the document states.CBSE officials declined to comment on the proposals.Meanwhile, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia hosted an Instagram live session with the stakeholders including teachers, principals and students of Delhi schools and sought their suggestions on the matter.Delhi government officials said majority of the school teachers and principals who attended the session said that final grades should be awarded on the basis of unit tests, practical examinations, general tests and pre-board exams already conducted in February-March 2021.“The consensus that emerged from all the meetings with these key stakeholders was that in the absence of vaccines to children, conducting any kind of examinations will only make our students and teachers more vulnerable to the virus. With the surge of Covid-19 cases, teachers and principals stated that the most appropriate decision with regard to Class 12 board exams would be to completely cancel them,” the Delhi government said in a statement.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, who was present at the meeting said, “Many school administrators said that online examination cannot be conducted due to the digital divide. The discussion focussed on either cancelling the examination or tests for major papers only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/meet-on-class-12-exams-may-discuss-proposal-for-tests-in-major-subjects-101621719078774.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Second plea for Navneet Kalra’s custody rejected||A Delhi court on Saturday rejected for the second time a plea by Delhi Police seeking custody of businessman Navneet Kalra who has been charged with allegedly hoarding and black marketing oxygen concentrators.“In my considered opinion, police custody remand is not warranted. Application is dismissed,” metropolitan magistrate Vasundhra Azad said. The police, on Saturday, had moved a fresh remand application of five days for Kalra.During the proceedings, Kalra, appearing on video conferencing from Mandoli jail, said he was being framed because he is famous. “I run a famous optical shop known as Dayal opticals. I had taken machines from my friend’s company, Matrix Cellular, for friends and family. Police also bought machines for Covid centres from me. People have texted me saying timely help saved lives.”On May 20, another city court junked police’s plea seeking five days custody and sent Kalra to judicial custody for 14 days. The court said that whatever substantial information required has been already procured and no fruitful purpose will be served by extending the police custody.Kalra was arrested from a farmhouse in Gurugram on Sunday evening. The Delhi Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – owned by Kalra and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7.Before Kalra, five people, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were arrested after the recovery of the concentrators. However, all five were later released on bail with the court observing that it was unable to understand the offence they had committed as the government did not regulate the prices of the devicesOn Saturday, additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court that Kalra’s custody is essential so that he could be confronted with mobile data, bank details and certain persons to unearth the alleged “nexus”.He said that one of the co-accused has recovered from Covid-19 on Friday, and he has to be confronted with Kalra.“The transactions were made through various banks. We had sent notices to various branches and have received some replies also. When he was asked details about the same, he stated that without seeing mobile phones and without consulting his CA, he cannot answer,” Shrivastava said.Kalra contested the claim. “They are saying 23 accounts. I have only one account in HDFC where money was received through RTGS. There is only one account. Because I am famous, they are just trying to put it on me. I am not the manufacturer. When machines were not functioning, I exchanged them,” he said.Kalra’s counsel, advocate Vineet Malhotra, said there is no question of concentrators being of spurious quality.After hearing the arguments, the court rejected the police’s application for five days remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/second-plea-for-navneet-kalra-s-custody-rejected-101621718578249.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Doesn’t feel like May: Rain ensures no heatwave so far||Last year, this week, Delhi was facing a severe heat wave with the maximum temperature hovering between 43 and 46 degrees Celsius. This year, the month of May has so far been kind to the city residents thanks to the cyclonic storm Tauktae and multiple episodes of western disturbance that brought moderate to heavy rain to the Capital.This May, Delhi recorded the lowest maximum temperatures for the month in at least the last 70 years, with the mercury on May 19 dropping to 23.8 degrees Celsius. This was 16 degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. This also broke the previous record of 24.8 degrees Celsius, which was recorded on May 13, 1982.Last year, Delhi experienced a severe heat wave spell from May 22 to May 29, with the mercury levels breaching the 47 degrees Celsius mark in some parts.IMD records show that this month, the highest maximum temperature was recorded on May 1, when the mercury touched 41.5 degrees Celsius. The forecast by IMD shows that temperature is expected to rise in the coming days and by May 27, it is likely to touch 39 degrees Celsius.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said unlike the last few years, Delhi has not recorded any heat wave days this May. This month, the Capital also witnessed five western disturbances already, as against the usual two to three, Met officials said.Meteorologists declare a heat wave when the maximum temperature for a location in the plains crosses 40 degrees Celsius. In the hills, the threshold temperature is 30 degrees Celsius. When departure in the day temperature is 4.5 degrees to 6.5 degrees above the normal maximum temperature of a location, it is declared as a heat wave.“This time we have not recorded any heat wave in the national capital, and the temperatures are lower than normal. The primary reason behind the lower than usual temperatures is the higher count of western disturbance in the entire northern India region. The exact picture of whether this has broken any past record will have to be analysed once we calculate the mean maximum temperature in the end of the month,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Srivastava said that May of 2014 and 2011 also did not record any heat wave days.Even after cyclonic storm Tauktae-induced rainfall, Delhi has received fresh western disturbance, which has resulted in episodes of early morning showers, which kept the temperatures from rising. On Saturday, the maximum temperature was 35.1 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 18.3 degrees Celsius, nine degrees below normal.“We are not expecting heat wave conditions to set now in the coming days, even though there is a possibility of maximum temperatures rising. It has rained almost continuously in many parts of the country in April. The entire north India has been experiencing cloudy skies and strong winds, which also has not allowed the maximum temperatures to rise,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Delhi and NCR received moderate rainfall throughout Wednesday, which resulted in a drop of 16 degrees Celsius (°C), IMD said. IMD recordings showed that till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory had recorded 60mm rainfall.IMD officials said that till now, the all-time record of rainfall for May for Safdarjung is 60.0 mm, recorded on May 24, 1976, and since the rain continued through the night in most parts of the city, this record has been broken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doesnt-feel-like-may-rain-ensures-no-heatwave-so-far-101621718105563.html
23-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt sets up panel to probe demolition of 100-year structure||The Uttar Pradesh government has set up a three-member committee to probe the demolition of a decades-old structure in Barabanki town, which recently triggered a controversy, with Muslim groups calling it the illegal razing of a mosque and the local administration claiming it was residential encroachment on government land. The structure was razed in Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil area of Barabanki on May 17 amid police deployment.According to senior government officials, the committee will also probe into alleged forging of documents to get the structure registered with the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board as a mosque in June 2019.A senior government official said the panel will be chaired by Shiva Kant Dwivedi, the special secretary of minority welfare and waqf, and will comprise deputy director of minority welfare (Lucknow) and deputy director of minority welfare (Ayodhya) as its members.Waqf Board chairman Zufar Ahmad Faruqi had termed the demolition “the high handedness of the local administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-sets-up-panel-to-probe-demolition-of-100-year-structure-101621717505830.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||IMA Panchkula offers free telephonic doctor consultations||Due to non-availability of OPD services in the government sector, the Indian Medical Association, Panchkula, has decided to offer free telephonic consultations.A total of 12 private doctors have been roped in to provide consultations during different time slots for various specialities. “To avail this service, any person desiring to consult any doctor can call at these numbers on the provided contact numbers during that time slot,” the official statement of IMA said.As many as five internal medicine specialists are available from 9am to 7pm – Dr Prakash Chand Gupta (9am to 11am, 94172-56129), Dr DK Oberoi (10am to noon, 94177-94335), Dr Tejinder Mohan Aggarwal (2pm to 3pm, 76960-10707), Dr Sunita Singla (4pm to 6pm, 98160-53715) and Dr Jyotika Kapoor (6pm to 7pm, 9888205130). Four child specialists are available from 9am to 8pm – Dr Rajiv Arya (9am to 10am, 95925-53137), Dr Arun Dua (11am to 1pm, 98760-29885), Dr Shakuntala Lavasa (3pm to 5pm, 94172-62239) and Vijay Singla (7pm to 8pm, 99888-97570).For dermatology issues, Dr Nitika Arya can be contacted from 1pm to 2pm at 98550-08581 and for gynaecology concerns Dr Mamta Singla from 2pm to 3pm at 93162-82935. Intensivist Dr Deepak Khanduja is available from 6pm to 7pm at 99881-99907. All consultations will be free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ima-panchkula-offers-free-telephonic-doctor-consultations-101621716359530.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy recovers 6 more bodies of barge’s crew, 20 missing||The Indian Navy on Saturday recovered six more bodies of crew members of the ill-fated barge Papaa305 (P305) that capsized in the Arabian sea hours after Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast last Sunday, taking the overall toll in the tragedy to 66.Search is still on for 20 missing personnel -- nine crew members of P305 and 11 who were on board tugboat Varaprada, which also sank during the cyclone. The Navy dispatched two specialised diving teams from Mumbai on Saturday morning to augment the search.“The teams on board INS Makar, which is also equipped with a side-scan sonar, and INS Tarasa sailed out early morning,” said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command.He added that the actual work of the diving teams will, however, start only after the exact locations of the sunken barge and tugboat are ascertained and preparatory work completed.The barge was located at the seabed after systematic search by INS Makar late on Saturday.Barge P305 was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. As Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast, the barge got de-anchored on Sunday night, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. It sank around 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea amid rough weather, which made search and rescue one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades.Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that chartered the barge and hired its crew, said there were 261 members on board. The barge sank about 40 nautical miles west off Mumbai. The Navy and the Coastguard have so far rescued 186 barge crew members and recovered 66 bodies.Search efforts for remaining crews of P305 and Tug Varaprada continue.On Monday afternoon, INS Kolkata rescued two crew members of the tugboat, Varaprada. Meanwhile, police said nine unidentified bodies were found along the coast in Raigad (4), Daman (1) and Valsad (4) over the past two days.“We are co-ordinating with the local authorities in Raigad, Daman and Valsad to check if those bodies are of any crew members of the cyclone-hit barges or boats,” said Suhas Hemade, senior inspector, Yellow Gate police station.Mumbai Police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu said police have so far received 61 bodies of P305 crew and 31 of those have been identified and 28 handed over to their respective families.The DCP added that police are also securing DNA samples of the unidentified bodies for ascertaining their identity in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-recovers-6-more-bodies-of-barge-s-crew-20-missing-101621712119921.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Pakistan teens held near Khemkaran border, repatriated||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday apprehended two Pakistani teenaged boys from Mianwala village near the Khemkaran border in Tarn Taran district. The boys, aged 15 and 17, belong to Pakistan’s border district of Kasur. Later, the two were repatriated on “humanitarian ground”. “The personnel of the 14 battalion detected some suspicious movement along the international border. When the area was closely monitored, the two were noticed crossing the zero line. When they were moving towards the barbed wire fence in the Indian territory, our troops challenged and apprehended them,” said a BSF official.Another BSF official said their preliminary investigation suggested that the two inadvertently crossed over to the Indian territory. “Our investigation is still on into the matter,” he said. No police case was registered against the teenagers till filing of the report. The BSF said first they lodged a protest on the issue with the Pakistan Rangers and later handed over the boys to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-pakistan-teens-held-near-khemkaran-border-repatriated-101621715040015.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with illegal foreign-made pistols in Faridkot||Police on Saturday arrested a man allegedly with four illegal sophisticated foreign-made pistols in Faridkot district. The recovered firearms include two Austria-made Glock pistols (.9mm) and a Brazil-made Taurus pistol (.45 bore) and a Smith and Wesson (.45 mm) pistol made in USA that fetch lakhs of rupees in the black market as they are not available in India. Cartridges were also seized. The accused was identified as Karamjit Singh of Kohar Singh Wala village in Ferozepur district. The police have secured his three-day police custody. Superintendent of police (SP) Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said Karamjit was nabbed on a tip-off. “During preliminary investigation, it was found that he was working at the behest of Harbans Lal of Mukstar district, a murder accused lodged in jail. Now, we will bring Harbans on production warrant to cross-question the two,” he said.The police are trying to trace the source of the seized weapons. “According to our information, the weapons were handed over to him at Bhucho Mandi in Bathinda district. We will question more people in this connection,” said Sidhu.The police suspect the arms could have been smuggled into India from the eastern border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-with-illegal-foreign-made-pistols-in-faridkot-101621714981399.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Validity of marriage no ground for denial of protection to couple: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said the question over validity of a marriage cannot be a ground for denial of protection sought by a couple who have married against the wishes of their parents. The high court bench of justice JS Puri said this while dealing with a plea in which a coordinate bench on protection plea of a Jalandhar woman, who converted from Islam to Hinduism to marry a Hindu man, had asked whether the execution of an affidavit is sufficient for her conversion. The query was posed to their lawyer on May 12 and he was asked to address arguments on the issue on May 17. The plea said she executed an affidavit on April 28 declaring that she has converted to the Hindu religion. She married the boy the same day. The court had asked whether, execution of an affidavit is sufficient to convert to Hindu religion. On May 17, before Justice Puri, the petitioners’ counsel had submitted that their prayer was confined only to granting protection of life and liberty and the validity of the marriage was not the subject matter. The lawyer had also referred to a 2014 judgment in which a division bench had held that even in the absence of such validation, the state was obligated to protect their life and liberty. “The scope of the present petition is only regarding the protection of life and liberty of the petitioners and, therefore, the validity of the marriage cannot be a ground for denial of such protection,” the bench of justice JS Puri said while disposing of the Jalandhar couple plea and asking authorities to take steps to protect their lives and liberty. In past two weeks conflicting judgments have been reported on protection to runaway couples. On May 11 one of the benches observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if the plea for protection from a live-in couple is accepted, the other bench termed live in relationships “morally and socially not acceptable” and dismissed the plea. These judgments were followed by two other benches ruling the opposite, while a bench on May 18 held that live-in relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence. Another bench had come out with observations that live-in relationships may not be acceptable to all, but could not be termed illegal. Hence, the denial of protection to a live-in couple would be a mockery of justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/validity-of-marriage-no-ground-for-denial-of-protection-to-couple-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101621714980463.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||79 cases in 3 days, Patiala’s Dhablan village turns Covid hotspot||With 79 cases of infection reported in the past three days, Dhablan village in Patiala district has turned into a Covid-19 hotspot The village with a population of nearly 2,400 has recorded a positivity rate as high as 10% and was declared a containment zone by the district health department to contain the virus spread. It recorded five deaths in the past one month. Nearly 800 people were tested in the village in the past one week. Sarpanch Manpreet Kaur said it all started a month ago. “The virus spread in the village since the villagers did not take any precautions. People continued to sit together in the village common area and did not get tested, which deteriorated the situation,” she said.Now, the movement in the village has been restricted and those found positive for the virus and their family members are not allowed to step out of their homes.Dr Aslam Parvez, a medical officer, said of the 42 cases were reported two days ago while 37 tested positive on Saturday.“The villagers’ reluctance to get tested is the main reason behind the spread. But now, they have started coming forward for testing,” Dr Parvez said.“We are continuously maintaining communication with the patients so that they can be provided immediate help in case of emergency,” he said.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the department is conducting testing in a phased manner and will test the remaining population at the earliest.“Since the main road passes through the village, the department has declared both sides of the roads as containment zone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/79-cases-in-3-days-patiala-s-dhablan-village-turns-covid-hotspot-101621714920003.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||52-year-old man shot dead over land dispute in Mohali||A man was killed while another was injured after shots were fired during a clash between two groups over a land dispute in Ranimajra in Mullanpur on Saturday. Balbir Singh, 52, who was killed, and Parminder Singh, 32, who was injured, were both property dealers. The accused Pindi and Jassi, are business owners. They have yet to be arrested. Police said Balbir had purchased 1.5 kanal land in Mullanpur and was building an office for his property consultancy business. “The accused men had claimed a share in Balbir’s land. On Saturday, too, the accused had an argument with Balbir, after which they shot him,” said Yogesh Kumar, station house officer, Mullanpur. A bullet hit Balbir’s chest while one brushed past Parminder’s head, injuring him. Balbir and Parminder were rushed to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) where Balbir was declared brought dead and Parminder is under treatment. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/52yearold-man-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-mohali-101621714859896.html
23-05-2021||Lucknow||Unnao vendor beaten to death by cops had 14 injuries, reveals autopsy||A post-mortem examination on Saturday revealed 14 injury marks on the body of the teenage vegetable vendor who was allegedly beaten to death by policemen and a home guard in Unnao’s Bangarmau town on Friday.Unnao’s additional superintendent of police (ASP) Shashi Shekhar Singh on Saturday said there were several injuries on his body.“I do not have the report at this time. The information we have received confirms that the body bore injuries,” he said.Those privy to the autopsy revealed that apart from the body, injuries were noticed on the head. The nature of the head injuries suggested they were caused by boots, they said.The vendor was assaulted on a road and then at the Bangarmau police station on Friday afternoon for alleged violation of the partial coronavirus curfew in force in the state, it was alleged.He was selling vegetables, like many others in Bhatpuri area of Bangarmau, when police arrived and began chasing away people.It was alleged that he was brutally beaten up inside the police station, where he was taken in an unconscious state. As his condition worsened, he was taken to the Bangarmau community health centre where he was declared dead on arrival.A case of murder was registered against two policemen and a home guard after the alleged incident, which sparked a series of widespread protests. Police officers struggled to pacify local people who put up a road blockade, which continued till late Friday night.The blockade ended and the body was sent for the post-mortem examination after officers on the spot gave a cheque for ₹2 lakh as compensation, agreed to request the government for a compensation of ₹50 lakh and assured early arrest of the police constables and the home guard. The two constables were suspended and the home guard sacked.Though the case was lodged with Bangarmau police in Unnao, the investigation was handed over to inspector Indrapal Singh who is currently posted at the office of the Unnao superintendent of police. Officials said the decision was taken to maintain transparency in the investigation so that it could not be influenced at the local level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unnao-vendor-beaten-to-death-by-cops-had-14-injuries-reveals-autopsy-101621712132891.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Volunteers lead Covid-19 fight in Bengaluru while braving personal losses||At a time when Bengaluru, like rest of the country, is battling the surging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, volunteers from across the city have come forward to help residents while braving personal losses. From providing meals, supplying oxygen cylinders, arranging hospitals beds to burying the dead, the Good Samaritans have made relentless efforts in coming to the aid of scared and scarred city residents.They did all this while battling their own adversities, including losing loved ones to the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 in the past two months.One such volunteer is Anne Morris, who helped in performing the last rites of 16 victims of Covid-19 on May 14, one of whom was her own uncle. She felt anguish that day like never before while volunteering, something that she has been doing since the first wave of the pandemic. “I have been helping to give decent burial to several victims of Covid-19, but when it came to my uncle, there was no one to help me,” Morris said, recalling her uncle’s ordeal.Morris, who is also the curator of the Indian Christian Cemetery, began volunteering with food distribution to migrant workers during the nationwide lockdown when the pandemic hit the country in March last year, before moving to help people with burials when Covid-19 deaths spiked in the second wave.“My uncle needed dialysis and we took him to a private hospital, which charged us more than ₹30,000. It was a daylight robbery and it made me question why I was doing the volunteer work in the first place,” Morris recalled. Besides her uncle, Morris also lost her brother-in-law, another uncle and her godfather to the viral infections, all in the month of May.While undergoing dialysis, her uncle tested positive for Covid-19 and died in a private hospital. Her 52-year-old brother-in-law succumbed to the infection after he was unable to get a hospital bed. “On May 9, after his saturation levels dropped, we approached multiple hospitals. We asked all volunteer groups we knew of, but we couldn’t find him a bed. It was only after five days, we got an ICU bed, but he died soon after he was admitted. By then, his condition had worsened,” she said.Morris said she was upset and anguished after suffering losses. “We helped so many and there was no one to help us. I wondered if I should continue to do volunteer work. But now, I’m back to work. A lot of people need help,” she said.Shahulla Khan, 45, was a third-generation funeral service worker at the Muslim Burial Ground on Mysore Road. According to his family, since the beginning of the pandemic, he had buried more than 300 bodies and even lived in the burial compound itself. He knew several Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials, who reached out to him for help in burying bodies, but when he fell ill, there was no one to help, his family said.Khaleel Khan, a relative of Shahulla, said they started looking for a bed when he first complaint of difficulties in breathing. As his saturation level began dropping drastically, the family began making frantic calls, even to the BBMP officials he knew.“We started looking for beds in the last week for April. We couldn’t find any oxygen beds. With help of some volunteers, we were able arrange an oxygen cylinder. We kept him at home on oxygen supply. But we were not able to find more cylinders,” Khaleel said.He added that whenever they called the BBMP officials they knew, they said there were no government beds available. Once his condition deteriorated, the family decided to take a gamble. “We tried several hospitals, but no beds were available. We then took him to a government hospital and told the security guard that we had reserved a bed. Once we were allowed to go in, we pleaded to the doctor, who allowed him to be on the floor with oxygen support,” Khaleel added.Hours later, Shahulla passed away. “Despite helping several families during the pandemic, when the virus caught up with him, he got no help,” Khaleel said.Another volunteer Sagay Raj Ambrose, who has been helping people to find food and oxygen during the pandemic, said he could do little when his younger brother fell sick. “I started volunteering during the first wave of Covid-19. Some told me about a family, where the son was hospitalised and an elderly couple were not able to get food, because they couldn’t get out. With the help of a friend, I delivered ration at their home. It all started there,” said Ambrose, who worked at the Bengaluru international airport.During the second wave, he helped several families in home isolation with ration kits and oxygen cylinders. It was during this time that he got a distressing call. “On May 6, my 45-year-old younger brother Vijay started facing breathing difficulties and his saturation levels were dropping. As soon as I got the call, I tried to get to the hospital, but nothing was working out,” he said.Ambrose said besides the non-availability of beds, hospitals were also demanding Covid-19 test reports before admitting patients. “Since his situation was critical, we didn’t have the time for a test, but with the help of a friend, we got a CT scan done. The scan said his condition was really bad,” said Ambrose.Unable to find an ICU, even with the help of other volunteers, he took his brother to a private hospital, where he was kept in the emergency room. “They gave him oxygen and an injection as well. We kept trying to move him to an ICU, but before we could get it, he passed away,” Ambrose said, wearing a brave face while recalling his brother’s story.Ambrose continues to be a volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/volunteers-lead-covid-19-fight-in-bengaluru-while-braving-personal-losses-101621712153944.html
23-05-2021||Other||Barge tragedy: MVA wants Union min to go, BJP calls for action against pvt firm||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were locked in a war of words on Saturday over the P305 barge tragedy off Mumbai coast during Cyclone Tauktae, which has so far claimed 66 lives.MVA has held the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and the Union petroleum ministry responsible for the tragedy, and the three ruling partners – Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – have demanded petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s resignation.Meanwhile, BJP has alleged that the Maharashtra government is “shielding” the contractor firm against whom a criminal case should be registered. BJP leader Ashish Shelar has demanded that Afcons Infrastructure, whose chartered barge P305 sank in the Arabian Sea, be charged with culpable homicide and a criminal case be registered against its officials. “Leaders from MVA government are shielding Afcons Infrastructure and its owners Shapoorji Pallonji and its directors. A case has been registered against the captain who is still missing. How can the captain alone be held guilty for the tragedy? The contractor company is solely responsible for the incident , despite which it’s being shielded by the people in the government,” he said.Shelar has also raised questions over the offshore operation by the contractors even after the cyclone warnings were issued. “Afcons was expected to begin the winding up process by May 12, but sought an extension till June 15. It did not bring its employees back despite the cyclone warning on May 11. Other companies, including ONGC, called their personnel back, but Afcons continued the operations. I have met Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale and demanded a thorough inquiry into it by registering a case against the contractor firm,” he said.An Afcons spokesperson said that the company has no comment to offer on the statements by political leaders. In its statement issued on Friday, the company had said, “It’s our moral duty to support not only the families of the deceased persons involved in direct rolls, but also the families of all the deceased who were employed with sub-contractors. The calamity arising from the fury of Cyclone Tauktae was unprecedented, and we share the anguish of the affected families. We will ensure that the families of the deceased receive total compensation.” Meanwhile Shiv Sena, which heads MVA, has demanded a criminal action against ONGC, which comes under the Centre. In an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana on Saturday, the party said that the deaths were “culpable homicide” as ONGC did not take the cyclone warnings seriously. “The cyclone warning was given well in advance, but ONGC ignored it and didn’t recall the personnel working on the barge. Forty-nine bodies have been found and 26 are still missing [the toll later surged to 66 and nine are said to be missing]. Had the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard not launched the search and rescue operations, around 700 people would have drowned. They were conducting oil rigging for ONGC, and hence, it was the government-owned firm’s duty to protect their lives,” it stated.Sena’s Member of Parliament (MP) and Saamana’s executive editor Sanjay Raut, said, “A culpable homicide case must be filed against the CMD (chairman and managing director) and directors of ONGC for whom the personnel of the private contractor were working. Why did ONGC not take any action to bring them to the shore? Their negligence has led to the deaths of 60 people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barge-tragedy-mva-wants-union-min-to-go-bjp-calls-for-action-against-pvt-firm-101621713240411.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh’s private hospitals can procure oxygen as needed||The UT administration has done away with the quota system for oxygen supply to private hospitals, allowing them to procure the gas as per their requirement. Earlier, the quota for daily distribution of oxygen was fixed due to its acute shortage. Officials said now sufficient oxygen cylinders were available to cater to the hospitals’ requirement, so the quota system had been suspended.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supply, said hospitals must ensure judicious and optimum utilisation of the oxygen procured, and also submit details of its usage every day.High rates by refiller to be probed A Punjab Civil Services officer, Jagjit Singh, has been tasked with probing the allegedly high rates charged by the authorised oxygen supplier catering to private hospitals.“Though the re-filling charges for D-type cylinders are fixed at ₹295 with 12% GST, M/S Super Agencies took between ₹600 and ₹800. Despite repeated calls, the agency’s representative did not attend the meeting, citing illness,” said an order by Garg, following complaints by Mukut Hospital, Healing Hospital, Kare Partners Hospital and City/Apollo Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-chandigarh-s-private-hospitals-can-procure-oxygen-as-needed-101621713239829.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||5,000 turn up for two-day drive-through vax camp in Panchkula||With vaccination slots hard to come by, around 5,000 people from the tricity area and neighbouring states, availed of the two-day drive-through vaccination at the Parade Ground in Sector 5, Panchkula.All those above the age of 18 could avail of the facility, pre-registeration being the only requirement. On Saturday, the final day of the drive-through vaccination, four teams vaccinated at least 2,900 people between 9am and 7:30pm. So far, 1,98,453 persons have been vaccinated in the district. Earlier, the drive-through vaccination was only to take place for two hours each in the morning and evening. However, when a large number of people turned up the drive continued until late in the evening without a break. Sanjay Sagar, a Sector 11 resident, who had brought his 19-year-old daughter to get the jab, said, “Their infrastructure was good and the staff was excellent. It hardly took a couple of minutes to get the jab and enter the details. A long queue of vehicles had formed to get the jab,” he said.Priya Kapoor Malik, a teacher from Pinjore said, “The staff as well as the police were very polite and efficient. They were working without break. Even the Red Cross was serving packed food to those waiting on the roads.”However, those on two-wheelers or on foot were not allowed to get the jab. Dr Meenu Sasan, immunisation officer said: “We could not give vaccines to those on two-wheelers, because they would have had to wait for the vaccine. Where would they have waited? The drive was in an open area.”  “People even from far-off places such as Shimla and Baddi had come for inoculation, while many were from Chandigarh and Mohali,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5000-turn-up-for-two-day-drive-through-vax-camp-in-panchkula-101621713120762.html
23-05-2021||Other||Trial in 13/7 Mumbai blasts likely to be delayed further||Almost 10 years after three coordinated bomb explosions in Mumbai left 27 dead and 127 injured, the trial in the 13/7 blasts case is less likely to start in the near future. The framing of charges is being delayed as some of the accused are insisting for their physical presence before the trial court to respond to the allegations to be framed against them. However, the Maharashtra government has issued an order prohibiting the physical production of those on death row in other terror-related cases. On July 13, 2011, a series of blasts took place at Zaveri Bazaar, Opera House and Dadar between 6.52pm and 7.05pm. Mumbai Police had arrested 11 accused and said they belonged to an outfit named Indian Mujahideen. In 2017, special public prosecutor Ujwal Nikam had moved a plea for issuance of production warrant against the accused for a speedy trial in the case. Most of the accused had been lodged in Taloja jail, Tihar jail and Hyderabad jail for various offences. Hence, the prosecution sought for their production. Two years later on March 29, 2019, the special MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) court passed an order to frame the charges against the 11 arrested accused, a crucial step to pave a way to begin the trial. However, till date, the court has been able to frame charges against only a few accused as the rest have been insisting on physical appearance before the court. The prosecution has expressed its inability to produce all the accused before the court as few of them are facing capital punishment in the Hyderabad blasts case. One of the accused, Ajaz Shaikh, who is facing a death sentence in connection with the Hyderabad twin blasts case, had approached the court for his physical production for framing of charges and also to meet his lawyer for further aid. The prosecution as well as the prison authorities informed the court that the state government passed a general order for the non-removal of present applicant from prison as he has been facing a death sentence passed in another case. Considering this, the court rejected Shaikh’s application, observing, “Frequent directions have been issued earlier for proceeding expeditiously into the matter. The various other accused persons are however, not cooperating for framing of the charge on the similar ground as that of the present applicant raised, for insisting their physical presence before the court.” The court in its order has hence said, “The accused persons concerned must cooperate to proceed further expeditiously, otherwise the appropriate procedure will be adopted in furthering the proceeding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trial-in-13-7-mumbai-blasts-likely-to-be-delayed-further-101621713059292.html
23-05-2021||Other||Mohali’s Mayo Hospital issued show-cause notice over remdesivir misuse||Taking a strict note of misappropriation of state supply of remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients by Mayo Hospital, Mohali, the district administration has issued a show-cause notice to the former.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said they have issued a show-cause notice to the hospital and sought a reply within 48 hours.The district administration received a complaint regarding the drug misuse by the private hospital on Saturday. Dayalan said it was alleged that remdesivir injections, which are being provided to private hospitals at controlled rates by the state government for treatment of Covid patients, were taken wrongfully by the hospital with no corresponding record of the patients concerned.Police too verifying allegations As the three directors of the hospital and chief finance officer have lodged counter complaints against each other over illegal procurement of the drug, police are investigating the allegations.In their complaint, hospital directors Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad and Dr Manoj Sharma have stated that chief finance officer Mukesh Sharma was found illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to the patients outside the hospital with the help of his son.While contrary to these claims, Mukesh alleged in his a counter police complaint that the directors fabricated documents pertaining to the drug.The police are verifying the complaints and have recorded the statements of employees of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohalis-mayo-hospital-issued-show-cause-notice-over-remdesivir-misuse-101621712999739.html
23-05-2021||Other||Don’t let down guard despite decline in Covid-19 cases, say Maharashtra’s doctors||Though Maharashtra has shown a decline in the number of new Covid-19 infections by recording 26,133 cases on Saturday against Friday’s 29,644 cases, experts have warned citizens against being causal and asked to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 norms.The warning was issued in the backdrop of a study conducted by the Union health ministry, which pointed that 50% of people still do not wear masks, while 64 % who wear them do not cover their nose. The study conducted in 25 cities across India has concluded that only 14% of people wear masks correctly.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said citizens need to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour at least till the end of the year. “Maharashtra has shown a remarkable progress in bringing down the cases. Even in the 15 districts currently showing high number of cases, we should remember that the surge started late and will soon decline in the coming days. However, we cannot afford to let our guard down,” said Dr Lahane.He has credited the lockdown for the decrease in cases and said that the lockdown was imposed as a last resort on April 22 as 67,013 cases were detected on that day and citizens were not adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. “There will be no need for any lockdown if people follow simple rules such as wearing masks properly, sanitising their hands regularly and maintaining social distance,” said Dr Lahane.This view was endorsed by Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, who emphasised on the need for self-discipline among people. “Citizens should not repeat the mistakes that they had made last year after the restrictions were eased, like indulging in social gathering, holding mammoth religious and wedding functions and roaming unnecessarily,” said Dr Mandot. “If people don’t wear masks and indulge in casual behaviour, all the gains achieved till now will be lost, and we will face a more severe third wave,” warned Dr Mandot.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally has reached 5,553,225 and the toll is at 87,300 after 682 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Saturday. The highest deaths – 14,516 – were reported in Mumbai, followed by Pune (11,068).Currently, there are 352,247 active cases in the state, of which the highest –54,198 – are in Pune, followed by Mumbai with 28,232 patients.The state also conducted 281,585 tests. Amravati and Nashik have eased the lockdown restrictions owing to a decline in cases. In Washim, traffic police personnel Manisha Chouke, who is seven-months pregnant, was seen managing the traffic and urging citizens to adhere to Covid-19 restrictions. In Dhule, Washim and Nanded, the police nabbed those roaming or driving without a valid reason and conducted their Covid-19 antigen tests. At Dombivli, a 100-year-old senior citizen was discharged from hospital after he successfully triumphed over the virus.To prevent the Covid-19 outbreak among infants and children, Maharashtra’s paediatric taskforce will guide the doctors in an online meeting scheduled on Sunday between 12pm and 2pm in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Meanwhile, despite the decline in the Covid-19 cases, the state is facing a new challenge as the number of patients suffering from mucormycosis (black fungus) is increasing rapidly.The state seems to be reeling under a shortage of Amphotericin B injections, used in the treatment of mucormycosis, as relatives of patients have been frantically searching for the drug. State energy minister Nitin Raut has blamed the Central government for lack of adequate supply of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-let-down-guard-despite-decline-in-covid-19-cases-say-maharashtra-s-doctors-101621712939240.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Contagion snuffs out 32 more lives in Chandigarh tricity area||The Covid-19 deaths in the tricity crossed the 30 mark for the third time this week on Saturday, while the infections also saw a slight rise after slumping below the 1,000 level after over a month on Friday.Mohali led the daily toll with 16 people succumbing to the virus, followed by 12 in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula, where no death was reported on Friday after nearly a month.At 555, Mohali also had the maximum cases on Saturday and was the only one to record a spike, taking tricity’s total up from 941 on Friday to 1,102.On the other hand, Chandigarh and Panchkula, with 392 and 155 cases, respectively, saw their figures sliding further.After hitting the peak on May 11 (2,612), tricity’s Covid cases have remained below the 2,000 mark for eight days straight since May 14, but the deaths’ graph has to yet to show a significant downturn.In some respite, Mohali recorded more recoveries (732) than positive cases on Saturday, bringing the active cases down to 6,210.Of the total 64,167 patients so far, 57,107 (88%) have been cured and 850 have died. Chandigarh’s recoveries reached 52,172 (90%) with 790 patients getting discharged on Saturday. The city’s caseload stands at 58,129, of which 5,265 patients are still recuperating and 692 have succumbed to the virus.In Panchkula, 27,007 patients (93%) have been cured out of the 29,021 infected till date. As many as 1,703 cases are still active and the virus has claimed 311 lives in the district. The latest fatalities included a 72-year-old man from Sector 7, a 56-year-old man from Surajpur, a 53-year-old woman from Pinjore and a 45-year-old man from Sector 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contagion-snuffs-out-32-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101621712879894.html
23-05-2021||Lucknow||Jabs for 18+ in all UP districts from June 1, says chief minister||The Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age group will be extended to all districts of the state from June 1, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Saturday.Currently, it was going on in 23 districts, he said at a Covid-19 review meeting in Lucknow.He directed the officials concerned to “also launch the vaccination drive in villages in such districts where the infection rate is high.”A state government official said that the government would soon issue an order with guidelines for the 18-44 age group vaccination in all districts.A state government spokesperson said despite being the most populous state, UP was going about aggressively vaccinating the 18+ age category to counter the pandemic surge. Since May 1, Uttar Pradesh gave the first dose of the vaccine to 10 lakh people in the 18-plus category, the highest number of vaccinations in this age group in the entire country, the spokesperson said.The youths were also enthusiastic about vaccination and on Friday the turnout against the total number of persons registered for the day was nearly 100%, the spokesperson added.The government statement said UP had so far administered as many as 1.62 crore (16.2 million) doses in all categories, including 33.4 lakh (3.34 million) second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jabs-for-18-in-all-up-districts-from-june-1-says-chief-minister-101621712195736.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shortage of drug to treat black fungus adds to Chandigarh hospitals’ pains||Battling the rise in the number of black fungus cases, city hospitals are grappling with the shortage of Amphotericin-B, a key drug to treat the deadly fungal infection.On Saturday, Union minister of chemicals and fertilisers DV Sadananda Gowda announced allocation of 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to various states and union territories, but only 50 were for Chandigarh.This, when 35 patients from across the region are being treated at PGIMER and another 20 at GMCH, Sector 32.At GMCH, with the cases rising, efforts are underway to procure the drug from any available source, but there is no positive response yet, according to director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur.“We have stock for only around two days, as the drug is not easily available,” she said.“For the time being, we have sourced 50 vials from PGIMER and are not denying treatment to any patient,” said Dr Sudhir Kumar Garg, medical superintendent at the hospital.Vinay Jain, general secretary of the Chandigarh Chemists’ Association, said previously the demand for the drug was low, so few chemists stocked it, which had suddenly resulted in its shortage in the face of high demand.The situation is better in Panchkula, where adequate stock is available for the nine patients under treatment at various hospitals. “Among them two are from Panchkula and the rest from other states,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, adding that Amphotericin was being sourced through the health department headquarters and was sufficiently available.Mohali, too, has not reported any scarcity. Civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said the headquarters had been able to provide the doses required for the three patients still recuperating here.‘Will get 2,000 vials from pvt supplier’UT health secretary Arun Gupta said the administration was trying to procure the drug on the lines of Punjab and will be placing an order for 2,000 vials from a private supplier as the supply from the Centre will not be enough.“As soon as we have the stocks, we will set up a centralised distribution system for hospitals,” he added.“Liposomal Amphotericin-B is administered daily as per the patient’s weight. For instance, the daily dose will be 350mg for a patient weighing 70kg, which can be roughly fulfilled with five vials for three weeks,” said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, professor and head of department of medical microbiology, PGIMER.According to hospital director Dr Jagat Ram, among the 35 black fungus patients at the institute, 24 were Covid positive and 11 were non-Covid.“A lot of these patients are Covid positive and diabetic, with compromised immunity. Such patients are victims of indiscriminate use of steroids and hence, develop mucormycosis even after discharge. There is a need to monitor the sugar level of patients receiving steroids during Covid treatment, which will help stem the formation of fungus,” Dr Ram added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shortage-of-drug-to-treat-black-fungus-adds-to-chandigarh-hospitals-pains-101621712339786.html
23-05-2021||Other||New village pradhans in UP to be sworn in virtually on May 25 and 26||The state’s newly elected village pradhans and ward members will be sworn in through a video conference to be organised on May 25 and 26 after district magistrates issue a notification reconstituting all the village panchayats where pradhans and not less than two-thirds of the members have been elected. Also, the reconstituted village panchayats will necessarily hold their first meeting throughout the state on May 27 and discuss the agenda.The government on Saturday issued two notifications, asking districts magistrates to make necessary arrangements for the virtual swearing-in of village heads and members as well as holding of the new panchayats’ first meeting.The oath-related notification issued by additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Manoj Kumar Singh, says that considering the situation arising from Covid-19 it would not be desirable to call 58,176 newly elected pradhans and 7,31,813 ward members to the blocks to administer oath to them.“Therefore, it has been decided after due consideration that officials nominated by DMs will administer oath virtually to pradhans and members who will be connected to the blocks through laptops etc that panchayat secretaries will arrange in villages’ panchayat bhawans, community centres etc on May 25 and May 26,” the circular says.Another notification issued by Singh asks DMs to ensure that all newly constituted village panchayats necessarily convene their first meeting on May 27 after pradhans and members take oath. DMs will also see to it that constitution of six village committees was put on the first meeting’s agenda.The three-tier panchayat polls in UP were held in four phases between April 15 and April 29. Counting of votes was held on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-village-pradhans-in-up-to-be-sworn-in-virtually-on-may-2526-101621712279166.html
23-05-2021||Lucknow||FIR against 3 for raping 12-year-old in UP: Police||Three people have been booked for allegedly gang-raping a 12-year-old in Agra on May 20, police said on Saturday.“A case has been registered under section 376 D (gang-rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 5/6 of POCSO Act at Shamshabad police station against three accused on Friday. Police rounded up a few persons for interrogation on Saturday. Raids are on to nab the accused,” said Pradeep Kumar, Shamshabad police station in-charge in Agra district.The incident took place when the victim was alone in her house as her parents had gone to attend a wedding ceremony, a police official said.“One of the accused lured the girl and took her to a secluded building on the outskirts of the village, where his friends were already present. All three committed the crime and escaped. They also threatened the victim of dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fir-against-3-for-raping-12-year-old-in-up-police-101621711779728.html
23-05-2021||Other||Dy CM ensures just 21 people attend his son’s wedding||LUCKNOW: Days after the state government decided to restrict the number of guests in marriage functions to 25, UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya ensured that lesser than the prescribed number of guests were present in his elder son’s marriage in Rae Bareli on Friday. Visuals shared by Maurya showed a handful of guests at the wedding, all wearing face masks even as BJP leaders vied to congratulate Maurya for following the Covid protocol in letter and spirit. BJP leaders said though up to 25 people were permitted in weddings by the state government, Maurya’s son’s marriage was attended by only 21 close relatives. “Following the Covid protocol, marriage of my son Yogesh Kumar Maurya with Anjali Maurya was solemnised. I expect your wishes and blessings as I could not receive them directly,” Maurya said tweeting photos of his son’s marriage. Anjali hails from Rae Bareli. “A top minister led by example. Such gestures would help in conveying the message of holding marriages with limited people to break the chain of Covid-19 infection,” UP BJP spokesman Navin Srivastava said. On May 18, the UP government had restricted the number of guests in marriage functions to 25 after revising its previous order in which 50 people in closed halls and 100 people in open spaces like lawns were permitted. The latest order permits only 25 people at wedding functions, both in closed or open space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dy-cm-ensures-just-21-people-attend-his-son-s-wedding-101621711739135.html
23-05-2021||Lucknow||Employee of firm handling UP govt social media dies by suicide, colleagues held||A 28-year-old employee of a company handling social media accounts of the Uttar Pradesh government allegedly committed suicide, following which a case was registered against his colleagues, officials said Saturday.According to a senior state government official, Parth Srivastava used to work for BECIL (Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited), a Government of India enterprise under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.In a statement issued here on Saturday, the Lucknow Police commissionerate said, "Parth Srivastava, a resident of Vaishali Enclave under Indiranagar police station, on May 19 ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan. On that day, the father of the deceased had informed the police about the unnatural death of his son."Subsequently, the post-mortem examination of the deceased was conducted."On Saturday (May 22), based on the complaint lodged by the father of Parth that some of his (Parth’s) colleagues forced him to commit suicide, a case was registered against them under section 306 of the IPC (abetment of suicide," the statement said.A senior official quoted above said BECIL handles social media work for the state government, but it was up to the firm to decide on Srivastava’s postings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/employee-of-firm-handling-up-govt-social-media-dies-by-suicide-colleagues-held-101621710826065.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid warriors: The real superheroes sans capes||Relentlessly attending to a steady stream of patients, running from bed to bed, going without food and water for over six hours at a stretch while sweating profusely under a heavy PPE kit such is the punishing daily routine of our medics in these drastic Covid times.Sadly, only a few privileged hospitals that can afford to give their staff PPE kits, which has exacted a toll on our heroic medical professionals, many of whom have succumbed to the deadly disease. I am the proud mother of a Covid warrior, a budding doctor, whom I have not hugged in weeks. Every day she is in close proximity with death, trying to save the lives of Covid patients. We only speak on the phone when she returns home after strenuous hours. She has isolated herself from the entire family so that we do not contract the deadly virus.No, not all heroes wear capes, some wear scrubs, PPE kits, surgical gloves, stethoscopes and still don’t live to see another week! Despite all precautions, the sanitisers, the triple masks, and the PPE kits many medical professionals have themselves succumbed to the infection while treating their patients. Ironically, sometimes the patients survive but their medics do not. But, they just don’t give up, you know! The deep sense of morality, responsibility and duty takes over. There is nothing like ‘social distancing’ between a doctor and a patient in a Covid ward. They simply keep trying their best to save the hapless patient lying there gasping for breath, whose vitals are fluctuating, who is unable to reach out to his family, who fears death and who is dying to be given a second chance to live life just once more. The angels in white coats — nurse or doctor —are their only hope.Coming from a family of army veterans where her grandfather and father have fought for India, my daughter was not one to sit at home, though many told her to make up some excuse to skip the call of duty and protect her family. For her, nation and duty came first!Like most of her colleagues and seniors, she has to keep her emotions aside while dealing with Covid patients and their families. If they know a patient is at the threshold of death, doctors begin preparing the family, which is already devastated trying to arrange for funds for their loved one’s treatment. Further, the aggrieved family cannot give the departed soul the funeral they deserve as they cannot see or touch the infected body. Often the doctor is brutally blamed for the death but once again our medics are trained to understand the emotions of the common man amid grief. But do you understand a doctor’s life during Covid times ?The deadly virus has not only gripped the body and mind of each patient in the ICU ward, but it also takes its toll on the emotional health of each medical personnel. Yet, they have to keep sane and return home to their families and behave ‘normal’. Not to forget, they are almost treated as ‘untouchables’ even though they are not Covid positive ! Though the PPE kit drops off at the hospital premises, the sense of duty does not, as they wash their clothes separately, sweep their rooms on their own and food is served in different utensils at a safe distance. Just like prisoners served food separately in jail! The support of an entire worried family is behind each Covid warrior who is trying to save your life, please don’t forget that! So, please be responsible citizens and get yourself vaccinated at the earliest and do not land up in Covid wards, so our doctors and their families can take a breather!No, they don’t feel scared for themselves, as they know they may have already acquired the virus being in the hospital 24x7, but they are scared for their families’ safety! Can you imagine the inner conflict these doctors undergo? To save helpless patients they don’t know in an ICU ward and then return home, tired, in an isolated room and unable to meet their own family just to protect them? Who do they choose? Or should they choose anyone at all? They just continue doing their duties with empathy and compassion.As a mother who is worried all the time but proud all the same, I stood by my daughter when duty called, turning a deaf ear to hearsay! Because I read a line somewhere which said, “Virus is everywhere, but so is Waheguru”. Ultimately, she and each Covid warrior fighting out there are in His hands too.(The writer is a Panchkula-based author)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-warriors-the-real-superheroes-sans-capes-101621711679607.html
23-05-2021||Other||Pvt hospitals keen to treat Covid patients may apply for permission||LUCKNOW: Private hospitals (in addition to the ones already treating Covid patients) which plan to treat Covid cases may apply online for permission/enrolment from Monday.Nodal officer for Covid in Lucknow Roshan Jacob said it had been observed that some hospitals that had been notified by the district administration did not admit patients while those not notified had a few Covid patients under treatment. Hence the process was being simplified to allow all hospitals willing to treat Covid patients to do so. She said such hospitals would not be notified but only their list would be made. At present, 59 hospitals in the private sector are listed for Covid treatment, while the total number of hospitals in the city is 691. In view of a possible third wave, it appeared significant to allow all interested hospitals to treat Covid patients, Jacob said in a press statement. Hospitals can apply via http://dgmhup-gov-in with documents such as registration certificate, Fire NoC and bio-medical waste management certificate.Hospitals which are not enrolled/notified as Covid hospitals have to apply while those already treating Covid patients do not need to follow any further process.A three-member pandemic public grievance committee has also been constituted. The members are Dr Samir Misra, senior faculty of trauma surgery department at the King George’s Medical University, Covid command centre in charge Prabhas Kumar and a special chief judicial magistrate. The committee can be approached by people who are not satisfied with treatment at any hospital or have been overcharged, as well as for any other Covid-related complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-hospitals-keen-to-treat-covid-patients-may-apply-for-permission-101621711499742.html
23-05-2021||Other||Allahabad University to hold convocation on September 23||Allahabad University (AU) will hold its convocation function on September 23, the foundation day of the central varsity. A decision in this regard was taken in a virtual meeting chaired by the vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava on Saturday.The all-important meeting was attended by all the deans, heads of the departments, directors of institutes and coordinators of centres of the university.After discussion, it was decided that the next convocation of AU would be held on September 23. It was on September 23, 1887, that AU was established as the fourth university in the country.“The decision as to whether the event will be in online or an offline mode will depend on the then prevailing Covid situation,” informed the public relation officer (PRO) of AU Jaya Kapoor while confirming the decision.Earlier, AU had held its convocation ceremony after a gap of 15 long years on September 5, 2019. Noble laureate Kailash Satyarthi was the chief guest at the event who delivered the presidential address. This was the first convocation after AU became a central university in 2005.Before this, AU had organised the last convocation in 2003-04. The convocation was also held in the year 1993-94 when Prof SC Srivastava was the VC. The university had invited Samajwadi Party patriarch and the then defence minister Mulayam Singh Yadav as the chief guest. Former President APJ Abdul Kalam and former chief election commissioner TN Sheshan were awarded honorary DSc and LLD degrees respectively.“A call for the institution of medals and scholarships has been made and those interested in sponsoring them can do so. A three-member committee has been set up to scrutinise the proposals and the details will be available on the AU website soon,” said the PRO.In another important decision, the AU administration has announced that the tenure of the guest faculty, presently engaged in different departments, has been extended till July 15, 2021. The decision has been taken to facilitate the completion of the course of the classes whose exams are scheduled in July.The heads of the departments were also informed that from May 27, the offices will start reopening for administrative work with 50 per cent of staff coming for three days a week, on a rotation basis. “The process of cleaning and sanitisation of the offices and departments is being carried out. The VC has directed the HoD’s to proceed with removing the scrap items and ensure repairs in their department,” informed the PRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-to-hold-convocation-on-september-23-101621711499083.html
23-05-2021||Other||Of 690 gram panchayats of Agra, Covid cases found in 169: Admn||A survey by the Agra district administration in rural areas has found that of the 690 gram panchayats falling within its limits, 169 were affected while 521 stayed safe from the Covid pandemic.The survey was launched recently under the state government’s test-trace-treat campaign to break the Covid infection chain in rural areas.“On basis of this survey, new strategy is being made for tracing, testing and treating the villagers. The required steps are being taken and those villagers found suspected or symptomatic are being tested,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh.He said 67 gram panchayats spread in three blocks of Achhnera, Saiyyan and Fatehpur Sikri were found to be the most affected by the virus. Giving the breakup, Singh said in Acchnera block having 52 gram panchayats most number of infections were found in 25 gram panchayats.Similarly in Fatehpur Sikri block, infections were reported from 21 gram panchayats while 35 remained safe from Covid-19 spread, he said. In Saiyyan block, of the 44 gram panchayats, infections were reported from 21 while 23 were free from the virus.Standing out in the survey was Bah block where no positive cases were found in any of the 50 gram panchayats.The DM further said only a few cases were reported in Jagner, Pinahat and Kheragarh blocks.However, the administration hasn’t released the exact number of positive cases reported in these gram panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-690-gram-panchayats-of-agra-covid-cases-found-in-169-admn-101621711079019.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Ten ways to beat the blues||The monstrous reign of the pandemic continues for now, but hopefully not for much longer. At last, there appears to be waning of the curve, and this is thankfully also reflected in decreased numbers of SOS calls that one has been receiving. Yet, and heartbreakingly so, three good friends have succumbed to the disease in recent days.However, a motivational writer must gear up and buckle up at all times, so here goes. In a not-so-subtle departure from recent writings about philosophy and deep inspiration, it is time to list out a few concrete ways in which we can combat this contagion with superior solidity. These suggestions are primarily for those who are hale and hearty, but are struggling to cope with the barrage of sad news floating around. 1.Pray more: If you’re spending five minutes per day in prayer, please multiply that by at least six. Families that pray together will find powerful vibrations of peace, joy, strength and calmness, emanating from and into their environs. Let us not underestimate the power of collective prayer, a vibratory force which science has not yet understood, but which will definitely benefit humanity forever.2.Volunteering: A truly laudable way to keep yourself gainfully engaged is to volunteer with an NGO which is out to provide care and succour to the ill and needy. Even if you have to volunteer from home, there are numerous options to choose from. You can also lessen the impact of negative news by assuaging the feelings of the elderly and having long conversations with them.3.Sing together:Group singing, and even solo humming in the shower, will elevate the mood as well as increase happy hormones within you. Singing has a demonstrated and proven effect on improving mental as well as physical health. I’m no expert on this, but am sure that singing is good for your lungs too.4.Outdoor exercise: Even if there is little or no space available outdoors, due to the lockdown, breathe in some fresh air whenever you can. Indulge in some brisk walking or even jogging on the spot if necessary. Get those lungs exercised and your bodily cells jumping about boisterously. 5.Play games: With the family in the living room, with friends online, with yourself (quizzes, puzzles et al) and be competitive. Antakshari or dumb charades are terrific family games. Online apps like Psyche and word games are also sure shot entertainers and build knowledge as well.6.Counsel younger people: The young are often left feeling anxious about their future and this pandemic has worsened their worries. There are many youngsters who might really benefit by a call from a well-meaning senior. Maybe someone who was your junior in college or a subordinate in a former office. 7.Read a lot: Pick up all those books which you had meant to read but could never get down to. Books are also stress busters and provide a soothing old-world balm to the hassled modern human being who spends a humongous amount of time with his smartphone.8.Get creative: Pick up a new hobby or skill. There are plenty of online classes to choose from. From culinary skills to belly dancing, from French classes to origami, you can learn a lot during the lockdown. Also start writing those articles, which you always wanted to write. Try out your photography skills with still life or portraits. Creativity is a proven stress buster.9.Start your own YouTube channel: Everyone loves speaking, or most people do. Get over that camera shyness and record yourself a few times. Ask your friends if your speech or singing was up to the mark. Once they give the go ahead, take the plunge and launch yourself on YouTube. You’ll be surprised to find that you’re much better than most people out there!10. Meditation and the search within: Those who’d always been meaning to start meditating ‘one day’ will do well to make a serious attempt during these uncertain times. The peace that comes from meditation has a calming effect upon us all day long. Learn some techniques and just go ahead!It is the inner conquests which matter, after all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-ten-ways-to-beat-the-blues-101621710900379.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 jabs for 18-44 age group to be shut from today: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to the central government to increase the Capital’s allocation of vaccines against the coronavirus disease, saying that the city was running out of stocks and that inoculations of younger adults in the 18-44 age group were to grind to a halt at government-run centres by Sunday.Delhi received 1.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines this month, and its allocation for June has been halved to around 800,000, the chief minister said, adding that at this rate, it will take the city 30 months – or two-and-a-half years – to inoculate its entire adult population of around 15 million adults.Kejriwal reiterated that Delhi needs around 8 million doses per month to vaccinate all adults in the next three months.“Delhi needs 80 lakh vaccine doses every month. In comparison to this, the central government allocated 16 lakh doses to Delhi in May. The same has been slashed to 8 lakh doses for next month (June). At this pace, it will take 30 months to vaccinate all adults in Delhi. Till then, no one knows how many waves and deaths due to Covid-19 will we have to see. We need 2.5 crore (25 million) more doses to vaccinate the rest of the adults in Delhi,” he said at an online press briefing.Kejriwal also said that on Saturday, most government-run vaccination centres will run out of doses to administer to those below the age of 45.Only 31 government-run vaccination centres for younger adults were functional on Saturday, compared to the around 200 that were open earlier this week. According to the government’s records, no fresh stocks are expected for the rest of this month.“Vaccines for the 18-44 age group have finished because of which centres for the youth are being closed from today. Few doses of the vaccine are left in some centres, but these also will get over by today evening. From tomorrow (Sunday), all centres for the youth will shut down. We have also written to the central government asking for more vaccines,” Kejriwal said.To be sure, centres by private hospitals are still open for inoculating younger adults through doses they acquired directly from vaccine makers. Senior officials of private hospitals -- Indraprastha Apollo, Max group and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital -- told HT on Saturday that they have sufficient stock for the below-45 category as of now. They did not give further details. Additionally, the Capital also has doses for people aged 45 and above.Hours after Kejriwal’s statement, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party leader for “indulging in politics” over the issue of vaccination and said the chief minister should stop making “excuses”.Union minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said the Centre has provided millions of doses to Delhi so far and will continue to do so. “Delhi chief minister constantly does politics in the name of Delhi... Even during the time of oxygen (crisis), he kept saying ‘oxygen, oxygen’ and then later said Delhi has surplus oxygen. Kejriwal should stop making excuses,” Javadekar said in a statement.The minister was referring to the nearly three-week-long crisis starting April 22 that saw hospitals across the city make several distress calls as they ran low on medical oxygen needed to treat Covid-19 patients. Both the Centre and the Delhi government were criticised by courts on reacting late to the emergency, which claimed the lives of dozens of Covid-19 patients on oxygen support.Earlier this month, the central government said state governments are allowed to altogether procure 20 million doses directly from manufacturers this month to vaccinate younger adults in the 18-44 age group. Of this figure, the Centre has finalised a fixed quota for each state based on the population of younger adults, a move it says is meant to ensure equity in supplies.So far, about 26% (3,885,425) of the city’s adult population has received at least one dose, although the recipients are likely to include people from the neighbouring NCR towns of Noida, Ghaziabad, and Gurugram. Only 7.5% (1,132,154) is fully vaccinated with both the doses.Kejriwal on Saturday also said he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and suggested four ways for the Centre to increase vaccine supply at a time when the country’s inoculation drive is struggling to pick up pace despite the urgency necessitated by the deadly second wave of infections.Underscoring the need to inoculate entire populations to wrest control from the virus, Kejriwal said the Centre should direct companies in India within 24 hours to start manufacturing Covaxin, the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. The firm said earlier in May it is prepared to share details of its technology and production process with other manufacturers to boost supply.The Centre should also approve foreign-made vaccines within 24 hours, and negotiate with international vaccine makers instead of leaving it to the state governments to individually procure doses, he said.“The 36 states and union territories of India are fighting among themselves in front of the (foreign) companies. What image is this projecting of India? The government of India should buy vaccines from them and distribute it among the states,” he stressed.Under the existing norms, the Centre procures 50% of the vaccines produced, while the remaining 50% is to be purchased by the states and private hospitals. Several states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have said they are reaching out to foreign companies to get additional stocks.The CM’s remaining suggestions included requesting countries that have additional vaccine doses to give them away, and permitting international vaccine makers to manufacture shots in India.“We are arranging beds, oxygen and medicines, but vaccine is the most effective weapon of protection against the fatal virus,” Kejriwal said.“This period (when the Covid-19 outbreak is receding) has to be utilised to give at least the first dose of the vaccine to as many people as possible. It looks like the number of doses available will go up from July... after that there is a need for aggressive vaccination. That is the only hope for preventing another surge,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor at Indian Institute of Science-Bengaluru.The Union government has said it is trying to help manufacturers increase production and that India will have obtained around 2 billion doses -- which will be sufficient to vaccinate most adults -- by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-jabs-for-18-44-age-group-to-be-shut-from-today-cm-kejriwal-101621710228806.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Muktsar reports second black fungus death||A 57-year-old man died in Muktsar late Friday night after developing complications caused by black fungus infection.Spokesperson of the Muktsar district health department said the man died at his residence in Bhaliana village. He was a suspected Covid patient and lost his vision due to the fungal infection.“After falling sick a few days ago, he visited a private medical institute in Ludhiana where doctors advised him to undergo an eye surgery. He returned home and died last night,” said the spokesperson.It is the second death in Muktsar district as another patient succumbed to fungal infection at a Bathinda hospital on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/muktsar-reports-second-black-fungus-death-101621710720255.html
23-05-2021||Lucknow||Helping others during pandemic gives immense satisfaction to this BBAU student||Amid the ongoing second wave of pandemic when help comes in rare, a post graduate student of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow, has been working tirelessly to assist others by being a bridge between the needy and corona relief workers. 22-year-old Lakshmi Yadav, a student of M Sc second semester of chemistry department, shares verified leads on social media platforms with those people who are in distress. Besides this, she also helps in arranging oxygen, beds, plasma, ventilators, Remedesvir and blood. The thought of helping others stemmed from her personal experience when some members of her family were down with Covid in this second wave of the pandemic. “At that time I had sought help through various social media sites and people came forward to help. I got inspiration from the kind gesture and decided to do the same,” said Yadav, a native of Rae Bareli district. In the beginning she started by sharing information on social media platforms, said Rachana Gangwar, PRO of the varsity adding that “Then she also made contact with those people who were providing medical supplies and assistance. By working as a bridge between the needy and corona relief workers she did a splendid job. She provided verified helpline numbers of these people through different social media apps.” Later, she joined an NGO where she worked with a larger group of people. Speaking about it Lakshmi said: “I joined the Corona support group where I worked with a team of about 150 people and helped hundreds of people.” She added, “It is not a work of few hours but a 24-hour responsibility. I only get 3 to 4 hours of sleep a day. But today the society needs us and helping people provides me immense satisfaction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/helping-others-during-pandemic-gives-immense-satisfaction-to-this-bbau-student-101621710659019.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||15 illegal mining spots in Tarn Taran to be under CCTV surveillance||Tarn Taran police have identified 15 spots, which were being used for illegal sand mining for the past five years in the district, for installing closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras to curb the practice.For keeping 24x7 surveillance, the CCTV cameras will be installed from the funds of the Saanjh Kendra, set up by the Punjab government to provide police-related services to the people. Besides, the police have also identified nearly two dozen routes near Beas and Sutlej rivers, which were being used for transportation of illegally excavated sand, to install special barricading.On Saturday, Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale along with other senior police officials visited the vulnerable pockets for finalising the mapping for the project. He also held meetings with the panchayats of those villages from which the illegal business had been going on for the past few years.“We have asked the panchayats to identify the suspected vehicles passing through their villages, so the accused involved in the illegal trade could be identified and arrested,” said the SSP. He said the station house officers concerned will remain in touch with the panchayats and the work for installing the CCTV cameras will begin soon.“From May last year to date, we have registered 59 cases, besides arresting 70 accused. We have also confiscated 39 trailers laden with sand, three earth-moving machines, five motorised carts, 15 tippers and a Mahindra Bolero. The amount of the impounded vehicles is pegged at ₹5.34 crore,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-illegal-mining-spots-in-tarn-taran-to-be-under-cctv-surveillance-101621710542907.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Dating death with a drizzle of poems||Amritsar boy Gul Chauhan, who chose to make Chandigarh his home, is one of a kind in the world of Punjabi littérateurs. He has carried the evergreen tree of his salad days through life, penning around 10 books of verse and prose in his own easy and unhurried manner. An old friend, he shares none of the ambitions and anxieties of writing with the purpose of winning first the languages department award, then the coveted Sahitya Akademi Award and with a little bit of luck the international Dhahan Prize for Punjabi Literature. Such minor concerns have never bothered him, for his has been a tryst with his own words and thoughts aiming to translate the noise around him into the music of an innocent song sung by a village schoolgirl in Government School, Khizrabad, off the Siswan Road: Tikka pawan sair nu janwa tedha cheer kadh ke, jeharhian moh-mohabbatan laayian o’ na jayio chhad ke (I’ll wear a gold ornament in the side-parting of my hair out on a walk, do not ever leave me forgetting the tender ties of love).Poet and the pandemicThere is much that one can share about the experience of knowing this character who goes about with a confused expression, living the literary vagrancy, awargi would be a better word, in the tradition of famed writers of yore such as Sarat Chandra of Bangla, Majaz and Manto of Urdu and our own poet of the city, Kumar Vikal, who wrote in Hindi. An outdoorsy person he would go chasing dreams in Sector 17 around 20 years ago without fail and post himself in one of the corridors and watch eagerly through the glasses perched on his snub nose beautiful women come and go. But what has been most noticeable in these times are his poems addressed to the harrowing experience of the second wave of Covid-19 written in his very free and conversational style, which has been his contribution to Punjabi poetry over the years. “When the first wave of the pandemic was announced with the banging of thalis and lighting of lamps preceding the lockdown, I dismissed it all like many other Punjabis as some new demon created by the State to puzzle the people and take away their attention from more pressing issues. But it was in the cruel second wave while the body politic was indulging in kumbh melas or trying to capture Bengal, the horror struck with friends, relatives, co-writers just withering away as the strange infection travelled up their nostrils.” Thus, these poems were penned, says Gul, with lurking fear that the virus could be climbing the stairs of his home any moment. “Well, the fear was genuine for in my journey of starting from poetry and then moving to prose for a long time, I had returned to poetry in the last five years and now this nuisance was here to put an end to the enchanting time I was having,” he adds, in all seriousness. Ode of loss and longingThe first anthology of Gul’s poems Hare Rang Di Kavita (The Book of Green Poems) came out in the first lockdown. An artist as well, he first posted the poems on Facebook accompanied with his own sketches. The book was still lying in the sanitised parcel as one read them sometimes one a day and sometimes six a day on the social networking site. It is beautiful poetry that was born out of everyday experiences and thoughts from cleaning his room to eating a watermelon. Then the recent change of mood made one tear the parcel and pull out the book just to remember that life was filled with green words not too long ago.And onto the recent ones, while one is still mourning the death of poet friend Mangalesh Dabral and then more names start adding up on the page of loss. Gul describes this despair in the face of deathy his own credulous way: ‘Kyon aini chheti chetti mar rahe ne log/ Hore gal hai akhbar de page te marna kise da/ Facebook di abhasi bheerh te dam torhda door da dooja koi…(Why are people passing away in such a hurry/It is another thing when someone dies on a newspaper page/Some some stranger calling it a day in the virtual crowd of the Facebook...). “It is quite another thing when a friend calls in a scared voice to briefly inform that so and so has died as what does one have to do with so and so. One takes a deep breath saying that let the whole country die with shortage of oxygen but let your one friend who is struggling to breathe live another day,” he says, in a sardonic monologue capturing the bitter truths of a time when death is a way of life. But there are moments when the poet looks away from the darkness to cheer his friends and readers saying: ‘Nahi darna nahi dost/Guzar jayega eh daur/ Beet jaayegi eh kaali raat barkha di/Kal charhega phir suraj apna/Agge ton vi chamakda damakda nawan!’ (Don’t be afraid my friend/This time too shall pass/The dark rainy night will end/The sun will come out again/Bright, shinier than before, anew).Talking to oneselfThe poet goes on talking to himself in the isolation of his room, sometimes wary of peeping out of the window lest some sad news travels in. All of us have done so in the lonely masked times over and again. These spontaneous outpourings by Gul catalogue the melancholy and ruthlessness of the times no bars held. And one weaves one’s way through the words trying to put some order in the disorderly mess. Yes, one would like to ask the poet: “Gul, what colour will you give to this book of poems?” And then one adds, “When all this ends will I find you in Sector 17 once more in the evenings humming the lines of your naive village girl student?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-dating-death-with-a-drizzle-of-poems-101621710541499.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||I jumped holding hands of my cousins but lost them to the sea, recalls P305 tragedy survivor||Udaram Meghawal was visibly upset and infuriated when he started arguing with a guard at Sir JJ Hospital mortuary on Friday evening. “Show me the mark of cut on the shoulder and the lost finger,” he insisted when the guard and a policeman asked him to check if a body of a matching height and built was that of his elder son, Amararam, 40.The 65-year-old from a remote village in Pali district of Rajasthan was unable to cope with the news that he had lost both his sons — Amararam and Pappuram, 32 — in barge Papaa305 or P305 tragedy.However, the guard informed him that such marks will not be visible, as the body was swollen due to drowning. Meghawal reluctantly took three rounds of the mortuary and examined the body again and again, but did not identify the body as that of his elder son.“My world is devastated and I am feeling as if all my cognitive functions are dead,” said Meghawal. He said he was “afraid of facing his two daughters-in-law and their four children aged between three and 11 years”. What bothered him the most was this: “Now, who will provide for them, who will take care of them?”He left the hospital mortuary late on Friday evening with the body of Pappuram and performed last rites on Saturday afternoon at his hometown. Now, one of his nephews will visit the mortuary on Sunday to ascertain if any of new the bodies at the mortuary is that of Amararam.Both Amararam and Pappuram were working on P305 along with their cousin Mahendra Ranawat, 19. All three of them had jumped in the sea around 4pm on Monday (May 17) when water had entered the ill-fated accommodation barge and it was about to sink.Ranawat was rescued by INS Kochi, 16 hours later at 8am on Tuesday, while Pappuram’s body was recovered during search and rescue operation and Amararam is still missing.“Amararam and Pappuram were doing piping work on the barge when they took me on the ship as a helper, said Mahendra. The 19-year-old comes from a farming family and is one of the five siblings — two elder sisters and two younger brothers. After completing Class 12, he decided to work to help his father financially for his sister’s marriage. Pappuram brought him to Mumbai and after completing paperwork, they went on to the barge on November 4. His salary was being deposited in his father’s bank account to ensure maximum savings.Ranawat said that on May 15 all of them were informed about the incoming cyclone. On Sunday evening, wind speed started increasing and the gusty sound gave an indication of what lied ahead. The crew members were, however, not mentally prepared for what happened next. All eight anchor cables of the barge gave way by Monday morning, leaving the barge at the mercy of the stormy weather. The barge drifted and hit a platform; soon water started entering the barge from the damaged side and the vessel began tilting, said Ranawat, adding that by 2pm on Monday water level reached the deck and crew members started jumping in the choppy sea.Following suit, he and his two cousins jumped in the sea together so as to avoid drifting at 4pm, about an hour before the barge capsized. “However, as we jumped from the barge, water gushed in the wind pipe of Pappuram and he started gasping for breath,” said the 19-year-old. “We tried to help him stay above water level, but the high waves made it difficult and eventually Pappuram breathed his last around 6.30pm.”Ranawat and Amararam, however, continued to hold hands. “Both of us were crying and pleading for help,” said Ranawat who, around three hours later, realised that Amararam’s movement stopped. As wind speed increased further and waves roared higher, he got separated from his cousins and drifted away.Exhausted and famished due to the rough seas and lack of food since Sunday afternoon, he again saw Pappuram floating a few metres away from him. He tried to reach Pappuram, but couldn’t because of the high waves. Completely helpless and alone, the 19-year-old let the sea take him wherever it wished and floated with the help of the life-jacket.Around 8am on Tuesday, May 18, the naval ships engaged in search and rescue operation noticed Ranawat and rescued him. He was one of the 125 survivors brought to Mumbai by INS Kochi on May 19.“I had lost all my belongings. I remembered the mobile number of a cousin who lives in Pune. I called and informed him about the incident,” he said, with tears rolling down his eyes. The cousin then informed their family about the tragedy.Meghawal said he came to Mumbai by train after hearing about the incident and reached the city on May 21. He directly went to the Sir JJ Hospital with one of his nephews, Kishor Ranawat, and shortly identified the body of his younger son, Pappuram.“Nothing can be more burdensome and agonizing than the bereavement of one’s own children,” said Kishor, adding, “Now we have to bear the grief and sorrow of the death my brothers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/i-jumped-holding-hands-of-my-cousins-but-lost-them-to-the-sea-recalls-p305-tragedy-survivor-101621708935714.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor unit busted at Muktsar’s Badal village||The Punjab excise department has busted an illicit liquor racket at Badal village in Muktsar district with the arrest of its kingpin Manoj Sharma.It was the first major raid by the excise department in southern Punjab since April last year, when the authorities had launched Operation Red Rose against illicit manufacturing and trading of liquor.According to officials privy to the matter, the role of a politically influential person from the village — which is the native place of Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal and state finance minister Manpreet Badal — is under scrutiny.Joint excise commissioner Naresh Dubey, who oversaw the raid at the manufacturing unit on Friday, said the gang was supplying illicit liquor in southern Punjab.“The unit was operating from an orchard and it was under surveillance for over 10 days. Besides recovering more than 2,200 liters of extra neutral alcohol, our team also found a huge cache of holograms, packaging material of various premium liquor brands and packed cases ready for delivery,” he said.Two men, Pargat Singh and Jashan Singh, who were working at the unit were also held besides the kingpin. “Land records have been summoned. More arrests are likely,” said Dubey. Muktsar senior superintendent of police D Sudarvizhi said a case is being registered at the Lambi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-unit-busted-at-muktsar-s-badal-village-101621708320712.html
23-05-2021||Patna||AIIMS-Patna doctor bats for increased surveillance, testing, vaccination||Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani, head of the expert committee formed by the Patna High Court order and dean at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna on Saturday said that there was a growing need for increased surveillance, testing, vaccination and more treatment, but the most important factor remained Covid-appropriate behaviour.“There is expected third wave 6-8 months after the end of the second wave, which may end in July 2021. It may be in pockets or localised areas, depending on the vaccinated population. The virus mutates and vulnerable people are likely to get infected. Therefore, it is important to reach out to maximum people, as infected persons without symptoms are more dangerous,” he said, while speaking at a meeting on Covid-19, organised and moderated by senior advocate and former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay.Bhadani said that during the first wave, all were equally vulnerable, but aged people got sicker and so they were vaccinated first. “In the second wave, the virus has mutated, but those vaccinated are less vulnerable. The young people move more for livelihood and so got more infected. The third wave is anticipated to affect the younger population more, which are not vaccinated and move more. As per data, when 86% of people develop immunity, it is called the stage of herd immunity,” he added.The AIIMS doctor said that there was a need for massive information and awareness campaign for basic hygiene and social protection, as also preventing large gatherings. “Vaccination has to be in. creased, but it takes time. The Gram Panchayats should play an active role and empowered with proper awareness and action plan. The resources should now be directed to the grassroots level and there should be mobile vans for testing and vaccination. There should be centralized and state-level experts group,” he added.Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said that the state government and the Centre were working together to control the pandemic and the results were showing, with the positivity rate dropping from 16% around 25 days ago to just 4% today, resulting in a large number of beds in Covid care centres and dedicated Covid hospitals unoccupied. He said the pace of vaccination would also pick up in June and improve further in mid-July.“With less than 50,000 active cases, Bihar is ranked 16th in the country. Although Bihar received just 16 mt of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) per day before the pandemic, it reached up to 210 mt to meet the growing demand. There was no shortage of oxygen or important drugs. Around 50,000 vials of Remdesivir are still stocked in districts. There is ample stock of Amphotericin,” he added.Pandey said that it was unfortunate that some ventilators, which were not functional in some districts due to shortage of anaesthetists and technical staff, were being highlighted in media, but the fact that over 1500 ventilators are functional saving lives. “We did appoint anaesthetists, but we did not get as many as we required,” he said, taking a dig at the leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for offering to open a Covid care centre in his government home without understanding that some basic standards have to meet for opening any such facility.BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said it was quite disappointing that, as per a recent survey, barely 60% of people use masks in towns, out of which 20% wear it on the chin. “One can well imagine the situation in rural areas,” he said, adding that when the states were getting 42% of the divisible tax pool of the centre, they should also come forward to take the responsibility of vaccinating people below 45 years.He said that over 50-lakh vaccines had been damaged by the states when every vaccine was important. The Centre is doing everything to augment supply. Covaxin license has been given to five companies. When Centre will complete free vaccination of above 45 years, it will also take the load off states,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aiimspatna-doc-bats-for-increased-surveillance-testing-vaccination-101621703218940.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: How songs saved “blackouts” of a play||Last week, I wrote about my experience and approach towards adapting the short story “Cycle”, written by eminent Marathi writer Vyankatesh Madgulkar. The takeaway from that experience was that it was important to create the world in which the characters from the story would be set it. And while the original story definitely sets up a world for the reader, it does need more visual elements while making it into a play. I guess that is why this process is termed as “adapting”. This experience helped when I adapted another story into a play. The next story that a friend and I adapted into a play was titled “Dalan” (The Grind) written by another well-known writer DM Mirasdar. Mirasdar is famous for creating characters with funny traits and throwing them in hilarious situations. “Dalan” is no exception! The protagonist in the story – a schoolteacher – has this unique ability to guess correctly whether the mother of a student will be a looker or not. Based on this, he makes up some excuse regarding the academics of a particularly sweet-looking kid so that his mother will come and meet him. When she does and he realises that he is right (yet again!) he tries his best to get invited to her house when her husband is out of town. After many days of playing the waiting game, he gets an invitation, and his happiness knows no bounds! At night, when the village has gone to sleep, he visits her. After a few awkward moments when he is about to make a move, someone knocks on the door! Not knowing what to do and where to hide, the woman urges the schoolteacher to quickly drape a saree and to start grinding wheat in the hand mill stone. The visitor is an old woman staying next door and has come to have a chat to pass her time. The chat goes on till dawn and the teacher is successful in only one thing – grinding one whole gunny bag of wheat into fine flour! Like “Cycle”, the structure of the play fell in place very quickly (or so I thought). We concentrated on dialogues more. There were some really funny lines in the original story and they helped set the tone to come up with more dialogues. The challenge was to make it seamless. Improvising with actors helped a lot too in this exercise. We were cruising along smoothly and were ready with it nearly a week before our actual performance. It was the day of our first grand rehearsal and everybody was very excited. We had also invited a few of our friends over to receive some quality feedback. One thing that I noticed was that they were laughing during the scene and once the next scene started, it took some time for them to start laughing again. We had four scenes in the play of nearly eight to nine minutes each. Once the run-through was over, the friends gave the exact feedback that I had noticed. They were enjoying the individual scenes, but the overall play lacked pace. After a “big” team meeting, in which we discussed various solutions to address this issue, I decided to go back to the drawing board – the script and the original story. I read the story and I enjoyed it yet again. Then I read the script and I found that I was enjoying reading that too. So, where was the problem? The next day at rehearsal, I watched the play again and then it dawned on me. There was a blackout between every two scenes, of nearly half a minute each. And I felt that after those thirty seconds of inactivity, getting back into the groove was taking time. We were playing some interesting recorded tracks during the blackout, but somehow those four blackouts were dragging the pace. It was my good fortune that one of the team-members was a good poet and another a good musician. I asked them if they could come up with original songs for the situations. They were more than happy to take up the challenge. Our actors weren’t trained singers, but they were excited to sing too! The new songs were fun and very easy to sing! It just changed the fabric of the play. Because of these songs we were able to do away with the blackouts! All our set changes took place in full stage light, in front of the audience. What’s more, our actors changed the set while singing so it didn’t even feel like a set change. It just fit in organically! There was just one costume change for the lead actor, when he finally visits the woman. But even that became a fun visual with him singing and changing on stage. It successfully showed his happiness and excitement without explicitly saying so! The play opened and received a lot of love. It has been nearly 14 years to the first show, but we still perform it whenever we get a chance to get the dates of the 27 team members! Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/how-songs-saved-blackouts-of-a-play-101621701058224.html
