24-05-2021||Chandigarh||New 8pm deadline for home delivery brings Ludhiana restaurants back in business||Now allowed to deliver food till 8pm instead of the earlier 12pm deadline, the city’s restaurant sector has finally heaved a sigh of relief.Already facing mounting losses due to low footfall amid the Covid pandemic, restaurant businesses have been struggling to stay afloat since the 17-hour curfew was imposed in the district on May 10, limiting their hours of operation to 5am to 12pm.From Monday onwards, the district administration pushed their home delivery deadline to 8pm and also extended the curfew relaxation hours to 5am to 1pm, allowing take-away service for eight hours. The relaxation also came as a boon for delivery boys, whose daily earnings had depleted with customers unable to place home delivery orders after noon. Restaurateurs are now also seeking permission to open dine-in services at 50% capacity to help them cover their fixed expenses. “Restaurants were unable to even meet the fixed costs to keep their businesses running with the 17-hour curfew in place. Now that the administration has allowed home delivery till 8pm, around 50% business may return in the coming days. Yet, as dinner hours are usually till 10pm, further relaxation is needed,” said Bhupinder Basant, owner of Basant Restaurants, and senior vice-chairman, Punjab State Traders Board.Meanwhile, representatives of the city’s restaurant and hotel industries also said that the administration’s decision will only benefit certain outlets that offered home delivery, while those depending on dine-in customers were still out of business.“Those offering only dine-in will continue to suffer. We will take up the matter with the government to allow restaurants to host customers at 50% capacity, else the restaurant and hotel sector will collapse,” said Amarvir Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana.Proprietor of Club 69ML, Bhanu Ahuja said,”We cannot open our premises, as our business mostly depends on customers wishing to dine in during dinner hours. With negligible footfall before noon, it has become almost impossible to cover our expenses and salaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-8pm-deadline-for-home-delivery-brings-ludhiana-restaurants-back-in-business-101621880587576.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily Covid deaths drop to 15, lowest in 26 days||The Covid-19 pandemic wiped out 15 more lives in Ludhiana on Monday, though the number was the lowest in almost a month.It was only on April 28 last that an equal number of fatalities was recorded, following which the daily deaths had been rising, even touching the all-time high of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11.So far in May, 514 Ludhiana residents have lost their lives to the deadly virus – an over two-fold increase as compared to April’s 231 fatalities.On the bright side, the daily coronavirus cases continued to recede on Monday, as 507 people tested positive, 15% lesser than Sunday’s 597 cases.This took Ludhiana’s caseload to 81,525. More recoveries on Monday brought the active cases further down to 7,804, lowest since April 30. Since reporting the highest single-day surge of 1,729 on May 9, Ludhiana has recorded a 70% drop in cases in the two subsequent weeks during which the district has remained under a 17-hour daily lockdown.For nine straight days, the daily case count has remained below the 1,000 mark, with the positivity rate also coming down to 4.59%, indicating around five in every 100 people being sampled were testing positive. A total of 71,832 people have been cured till date, a recovery rate of 88.11%, tad lower than the national average of 88.69%. As many as 60 patients are on ventilator support at various health facilities in the district.The latest deaths, which comprised 12 men and three women, pushed the district’s toll to 1,889. The youngest patient was a 32-year-old resident of Narinder Nagar, while the oldest was a 70-year-old resident of Mundian Khurd. Nine out of the 15 deceased were aged between 60 and 70. Three were in their 50s, while one was in his 40s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-covid-deaths-drop-to-15-lowest-in-26-days-101621880408288.html
24-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya stable, wife discharged from hospital||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, 77, and his wife Mira Mira Bhattacharya, 71, both of whom tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18, were stable, CPI(M) leaders said on Monday night. While Bhattacharya was being treated at home, his wife was discharged from a private hospital in south Kolkata on Monday. She was admitted on May 18. The hospital authorities said in a statement that she was advised to stay in home isolation for a week. Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI(M), has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. His movements are restricted. CPI(M) members said the medical attendant who used to look after the ailing former chief minister at the latter’s two-room government quarter in south Kolkata also tested positive for the virus but his condition is not serious. In October last year, Bhattacharya was admitted to the hospital for six days. He was admitted in critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in the blood. He was put on a ventilator. However, his condition improved quickly. A 13-member medical board was formed for his treatment. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-stable-wife-discharged-from-hospital-101621879749772.html
24-05-2021||Noida||Fake cops extorting money nabbed in Noida||Noida: Noida Police arrested two men for allegedly extorting money from motorists by impersonating as Delhi Police personnel.Police identified the suspects as Neeraj Chaube and Mohammad Afsar, who were from Varanasi and Delhi, respectively, and in their 20s. Police said that they have recovered two fake Delhi Police identity cards, a set of vehicle documents and two cellphones, among other things, from them. Senior police officers said that the duo would stop motorists on pretext of violations like not wearing a helmet or mask.“The suspects would ask for the vehicle’s papers which they would then seize claiming them to be a part of an investigation. Sometimes, if the papers were not in order, they would use that to their advantage as well,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.They would then threaten legal action against the person unless they paid up, Verma said. On May 20, the suspects allegedly stopped a Noida resident near the Mahamaya flyover and took ₹4,500 from him.“The suspects took his papers and threatened to send him to jail. They told him to meet at Labour Chowk with another ₹20,000 for them,” said the ACP. Instead, the victim approached the police. “We intercepted them during the meet and nabbed them.From their phones, we have recovered evidence of at least 10 other people being duped in this manner. Some of them are now coming forward with their complaints. We are working on identifying other victims as well.”The duo had been active for over six months and mostly worked in desolate areas in Delhi and Noida, said police.The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 58 police station, police said. They added that the men had been produced before a magistrate who sent them to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fake-cops-extorting-money-nabbed-in-noida-101621879568120.html
24-05-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, black fungus burns a hole: Up to ₹1 lakh a day||After having spent a fortune on Covid-19 treatment, many families thought their troubles had breathed a sigh of relief. But now, cases of mucromycosis, also called black fungus, are inflicting more damage.Covid treatment is free in government hospitals, but at private hospitals, even after the Uttar Pradesh government’s cap, is expensive for many. Similarly, treatment costs for black fungus can go up to ₹1 lakh a day at a private facility as the only drug used to treat it -- amphotericin injection -- and surgeries are expensive.Sihani resident Pushpendra Kumar is a contractual worker and earns ₹13,000 a month. His father, 57-year-old Raja Ram, tested positive for Covid-19 and was discharged on May 7. That costed him ₹4.5 lakh.“On May 14, my father developed headache and his eyes seemed dilated. On May 18, his complications increased, and we took him to another hospital where he was diagnosed with black fungus. My family started running around to Delhi, Meerut and Ghaziabad to arrange for amphotericin, but we could not find any,” said Kumar. “He died on May 20. Treating the fungal infection costed me ₹80,000 per day.”Raja Ram’s doctor, Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT surgeon at Harsh ENT Hospital at Raj Nagar District Centre, confirmed the death due to black fungus.“The infection had spread to his nose, eyes and brain and despite all efforts he could not be saved,” said Dr Tyagi. “We have 27 such cases and all had recovered from Covid and uncontrolled diabetes.” The cost of an amphotericin injection is around ₹5,000 and patients are administered multiple doses depending on severity. “Patients with mild infection are administered 2-3 injections per day while moderate patients require about five. Those with severe infection require about 10 per day. So, this increases the cost considerably, besides the staff involved during the treatment are hired at high salaries due to the risk involved,” said Dr Tyagi.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.Officially, there are 41 black fungus cases in Ghaziabad.Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad), said that the government supply of amphotericin, which is restricted to only hospitals via the UP Medical Supplies Corporation, should be increased.“In April when remdesivir was required to treat Covid-19, its black-marketing started. Now, we again have short supply of amphotericin,” said Dr Agarwal. “It is up to the health department to ensure that patients do not have to run around getting the drug. ENT (ear-nose-throat) surgeons say that they cannot operate on patients without amphotericin.”Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the district health department had two ENT surgeons and hired a general surgeon recently.“At present, we do not have availability of super specialists, but they are available with private hospitals. All black fungus patients are getting treated at private hospitals,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-black-fungus-burns-a-hole-up-to-1-lakh-a-day-101621879447555.html
24-05-2021||Noida||Seek help on mental health from experts as Greater Noida starts teleconsultation service||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority on Monday said that it has started teleconsultation services through which people can seek help from experts on mental health issues amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. According to authority officials, the initiative is helping the people who have recovered from Covid but are scared of having black fungus now; or those who have lost a family member and are unable to come to terms with stress or dealing with financial crisis, among other issues.The authority has designated one expert daily from 4pm to 5pm on all days of the week, the officials said, adding that people can call at 7982121411 to talk to an expert. There are three experts on the panel that includes Dr Vikas Kumar Sharma, Dr Pragya Sharma and Dr Neerja Agarwal, the officials said. “We want to assist people through these sessions as many need counselling to handle the challenges thrown by the pandemic. These sessions will continue until the situation gets normal,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.According to the experts, they are attending to around 20 calls daily. “We are attending to a variety of calls. Most of the callers are recovered Covid patients who now fear that they can be victim of black fungus. Besides, there are callers who were attending to a patient in family, or those facing financial crisis. We are counselling them as to how they should handle or react to this situation with positive attitude and keep their mental being healthy,” said Dr Vikas Kumar Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seek-help-on-mental-health-from-experts-as-greater-noida-starts-teleconsultation-service-101621879327523.html
24-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Over 5 lakh vaccines administered in Noida||Over five lakh doses of anti-coronavirus vaccines, including the second dose, have been administered to people in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar as on Monday, according to official figures.Of the total 5,05,592 vaccines administered so far in Noida and Greater Noida, 4,08,324 people got their first shot and 97,268 got the second dose, showed the figures provided by the district administration.While vaccination for people aged 45 and above and those in front line of work during the pandemic had started earlier this year, inoculation for the 18-44 year age group started on May 11 in Gautam Buddh Nagar.According to the official figures, a total of 9,042 people were administered vaccines at 57 government facilities on Monday, of which 7,103 were in the 18-44 age group, while 1,557 in the 45-59 age group and 378 were 60 or above.The total number of vaccination reached 5,05,592 so far -- 4,08,324 first dose and 97,268 second dose, it showed.Vaccination at government facilities is being done free of cost, officials said.The district also has five drive-through vaccination centres that are functional now and people can book an appointment at these centres through the Cowin portal and reach for inoculation at the allotted time, the officials added.These drive-through centres are at DLF Mall of India and GIP Mall in Noida, Shahid Pathik Stadium, Omaxe CP Mall in Greater Noida and Gaur City Mall in Greater Noida West, they said.Except for GIP Mall in Noida, pre-registration for slots is mandatory at all four drive-through facilities, the officials said.Meanwhile, the district administration also appealed to the people to reach vaccination centres at the appointed time slot only for vaccination and not from the morning to avoid crowding.Gautam Buddh Nagar has so far recorded over 61,000 Covid-19 cases, 420 deaths and has a recovery rate of over 93 per cent with 3,732 active cases, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-over-5-lakh-vaccines-administered-in-noida-101621877693084.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Jaijeet Singh who probed Antilia bomb scare case as ATS head appointed Thane police chief||Additional director general of police (ADG) Jaijeet Singh, who headed Maharashtra’s Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) while it probed the Antilia bomb scare case, has been appointed Thane police chief, HT has learnt. Singh’s appointment was made as part of a minor Indian Police Service (IPS) reshuffle three weeks after Vivek Phansalkar was transferred as Thane police commissioner following his promotion.Vineet Agarwal, ADG and principal secretary (home), a 1994-batch IPS, will replace Singh as the ATS chief. Sanjay Saxena, ADG, will take over from Agarwal.ATS, under 1990-batch IPS officer Jaijeet Singh, probed the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran case before they were handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The state home department issued the transfer order on Monday according to the Maharashtra Police Act 1951.After Phansalkar’s appointment as the managing director of Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Limited earlier this month, Suresh Kumar Mekhla, joint commissioner of police, Thane, was given an additional charge of CP, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jaijeet-singh-who-probed-antilia-bomb-scare-case-as-ats-head-appointed-thane-police-chief-101621877529394.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt will never discriminate between voters and non-voters: CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asserted that his government is committed to the well-being of every citizen and will never discriminate between voters and non-voters."Our government is committed to the well-being of every citizen. For us, every life matters and will continue to save people like we have. The officials must ensure that adequate medical aid and food is provided to every person in need. Neither we have nor will we ever discriminate between voters and nonvoters.“Unlike others, we do not believe in serving people selectively," he said in Azamgarh.The chief minister visited the Covid Care Centre set up at Government Girls' Inter College (GGIC) in Azamgarh. He also paid a surprise visit at Bijuara village and reviewed the healthcare facilities available for COVID-19 patients, the government said in a statement.He also interacted with the newly-elected village pradhans and advised them to work with the cooperation of the citizens, public representatives, administrators and district officials in order to achieve the desired results for a harmonious and progressive society.Earlier in the day, Adityanath had visited Gonda, where he exhorted the public representatives to adopt PHCs and CHCs and use their funds to improve the health services there.He also reiterated his idea to set up 'special vaccination booths' for the guardians of children up to 12 years of age.The CM said vaccination against the novel coronavirus infection will be taken up in rural areas in a huge manner.He said the mantra for “Test, Trace and Treat” has helped in curbing the second wave in the state."Today, we have only about 74,000 active cases in the state, down by about 2.36 lakh since April 30, during the peak. As many as over 3 lakh Covid tests are being conducted daily, while a total of over 4.67 crore tests have already taken place in the state," Adityanath said.He said the positivity rate has now come down to 2 per cent, and added that oxygen availability is sufficient with oxygen plants being set up in PHC and CHC in every district.Pointing out that the state government has already started preparations for the third wave of coronavirus in UP, the CM said PICU wards for children are being set up in every district."We have already made free vaccination for the age group of 18-44 and the process will be further intensified. I have appealed to all the public representatives to adopt hospitals. The training for nursing, paramedical staff, pediatric, among others, is progressing simultaneously," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-will-never-discriminate-between-voters-and-non-voters-cm-adityanath-101621876100044.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana prison dept’s proposal to educate inmates remains a pipe dream||The Haryana prison department’s 20-month-old proposal to educate the inmates, especially women prisoners and their kids, is yet to take off despite eight letters being sent to the elementary education department to depute one teacher in every jail on temporary basis, according to official documents.There are about 21,600 prisoners lodged in 19 jails of Haryana against the authorised capacity of 20,041. While 5,168 prisoners are convicts and over 16,400 are undertrials. Lodged in these jails are about 684 women prisoners, including 171 convicted women inmates, who have been serving their sentence along with their children. A section of the prisoners are uneducated.Stressing on the urgency of educating the prisoners in order to help their seamless rehabilitation into the society after they serve their sentences, the director general (DG) prisons had first mooted this proposal in September 2019, asking the director elementary education to post one JBT guest teacher in every jail.As per the first letter of the DG prisons, “among the inmates are mothers and their children, illiterate convicted prisoners and youth.” In every letter/reminder the DG prisons said “educating these inmates is important to help them become good citizens.”According to DG (prisons) Shatrujeet Kapur, whose predecessor had mooted the proposal and kept pursuing it, “About 75% of the inmates in Haryana prisons are undertrials and reforming them is crucial.”He said the jail department is seeking just one teacher for each prison on temporary basis. “We have only 19 prisons in Haryana,” he added.After the first letter to the director elementary education on September 10, 2019, the DG (prisons) sent five reminders in 2020 (January 15, March 6, October 9, November 3, December 14) followed by another reminder on February 11, 2021.He sent the final reminder so far on March 16 this year to know the fate of the proposal.In the latest reminder to the director elementary education, the DG (prisons) said the jail department, through many letters, has been requesting to direct the district elementary education officers to appoint a teacher on temporary basis in all district prisons except central jail Hisar and district jails of Palwal and Rewari.“However, we have not received any intimation from your office in this regard. Thus, we again request you to issue the necessary directions,” the letter reads.When contacted, neither the director elementary education nor the joint directors dealing with the matter, were available for comments.Sources said on May 21, office of director elementary education sent a letter (HT has a copy of which) to all district elementary education officers informing them about the proposal of the jail department and asking them to reply so that JBT teachers can be posted on temporary basis in district jails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-prison-dept-s-proposal-to-educate-inmates-remains-a-pipe-dream-101621876507855.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Maha BJP ready to agitate for Marathas under any leader: Chandrakant Patil||BJP workers are ready to take part in any agitation for Maratha quota without holding the party banner or flag in the larger interest of the community, Maharashtra unit BJP president Chandrakant Patil said on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Patil said though the Centre has filed a review petition against the Supreme Court’s verdict striking down the Maratha reservation law, “it is the responsibility of the state government to prove that the community is backward and there is an exceptional situation where the ceiling of 50 per cent reservation needs to be breached”.“The BJP’s stand on the Maratha reservation issue is clear. In the interest of the Maratha community, we will take part in any agitation for Maratha quota like common citizens irrespective of which party or leader is leading it, be it Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, Vinayak Mete, Rajendra Kondhare, or Vinod Patil,” he said. Queried about Sambhajiraje not getting the appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue, Patil said, “PM feels the issue (Maratha reservation ) is more of state than the Centre. What is the use of meeting the PM when the issue falls under the purview of the state government?” He said the Centre had told the apex court that even after the 102nd Constitutional amendment, states have the right to extend quota to any backward community. The Supreme Court on May 5 struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming it as “unconstitutional”, and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-bjp-ready-to-agitate-for-marathas-under-any-leader-chandrakant-patil-101621876329182.html
24-05-2021||Other||Khattar launches ‘Sanjeevani Pariyojana’ for home-isolated Covid patients in Karnal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar virtually launched ‘Sanjeevani Pariyojana’ to provide medical care to people in district in home isolation and having mild and moderate Covid-19 symptoms.As per officials, pilot project ‘Swasth Karnal-Banega Misal’ will ensure medical assistance, including tele-consultation, homecare kit, field hospitals, etc to help patients fight Covid from home.The project will be implemented in other districts of Haryana, subsequently.In his brief address during the launch, the CM said formalities of the project were completed within a period of two weeks and ₹5 crore will be spent on the project.The project was launched in collaboration with Deloitte India and the initiative will be extended to all districts in state.Khattar said the second wave has reached its peak faster than the first one as active cases have reached 1.16 lakh against the 22,000 of the first wave, but now cases are coming down.The CM said that door-to-door survey in rural areas has helped break the chain of infection and around 3,000 Covid patients have been detected during the survey so far.He expressed concerns over surge in cases of black-fungus. He said around 400 cases have been reported so far.The CM said the third wave of Covid could target children and asked the authorities concerned to make proactive arrangements for the same.Briefing about the project, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said ‘Sanjeevani Pariyojana’ will provide six services to home-isolated patients including tele-consultation, homecare kit, field hospitals, ALS ambulances, integrated command, and control centre.He said that 200 MBBS students have been appointed to provide assistance over tele-consultation services to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-launches-sanjeevani-pariyojana-for-home-isolated-covid-patients-in-karnal-101621876328683.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Minimal Covid cases in rural areas belie claims of massive spread||Even as the decline in Covid-19 cases continued in Haryana for the second successive week, the minimal number of cases detected from villages have belied the claims of massive spread of the virus in rural areas.The state-wide dip in number of cases is significant. Health department data showed that the state registered 34,929 lesser cases last week (May 17-23) than the week before (May 10-16). A total of 43,601 cases were reported last week as compared to 78,530 the week before.RURAL SCREENING SHOWS UNEXPECTED RESULTSAmid the continuous drop in cases, a drive launched by the state government to screen rural population for the virus has thrown up unexpected results.The screening drive has not only shown a lower rate of infection in villages, but the outcome also puts a question mark on the claims over role of agitating farmers in acting as super spreaders.The Haryana Villagers General Health Check-up Scheme (HVGHCS) was started by the state government to screen villagers for influenza-like illness (ILI) in view of reports of pandemic making inroads in rural areas.As per statistics, only 2,823 infections have been detected from 5,156 villages in the past nine days of screening by 3,370 field teams.As per the health department data, 97.72 lakh persons from 20.89 lakh rural households have been screened for ILI since May 15 when the check-up drive was commenced. This meant that about 59% of the village population has been screened so far.Data showed that 75,501 persons suspected of ILI were tested using rapid antigen testing (RAT) kits and 13,190 were tested using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. The cumulative positivity rate was 3.74%.‘RURAL SCREENING DATA IS MISLEADING’While politicians across spectrum are expressing concerns over the “outbreak in villages”, statistics of by the screening drive are quite contrary.“The number of cases is more than what the screening is showing. The data is misleading as a large section of the population is still reluctant to get tested. There is stigma attached to Covid and it is more prevalent in villages,” said a top BJP leader, not wishing to be named.State BJP chief OP Dhankar said villagers should go for testing without hesitation, get vaccinated, and refrain from smoking community hookahs and playing cards to protect themselves and their families from the contagion.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the data is inaccurate. “The number of positive cases in villages is way more then what the data shows. There have also been more fatalities than what the government data shows,” he said.Hooda said villagers are in denial and not ready to go for testing due to stigma. “Even when someone is sick in a village, there is reluctance to go for testing as people fear that they will not make it back home,” he added.A BJP MLA said cases in rural areas have started to dip in the last 10-15 days and so screening of rural populace is showing a lower number of cases.FATALITIES IN RURAL AREAS RISINGData showed that the percentage of fatalities in villages have gradually increased over the past few months.As per the latest data, 2,737 people from rural areas have succumbed to Covid since March 2020 which is about 36% of the total fatalities reported.The gradual increase is evident as the percentage of deaths reported from rural areas in late February, when the second surge had just started, was about 29.36% of the total deaths, 29.63% on March 21, 31.83% by April 25, and 33.52% of the total deaths by May 9.OUTBREAK IN VILLAGESTotal villages: 6,841Total rural population: 1.64 crore (approx)Villages screened: 5,156Villagers screened: 97.72 lakhHouseholds covered: 20.89 lakhVillagers found infected: 2,823Villagers in isolation centres: 251Villagers referred to higher centre: 146||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minimal-covid-cases-in-rural-areas-belie-claims-of-massive-spread-101621876208074.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Patients in Haryana to get 1 lakh Coronil kits free of cost: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Monday said one lakh Coronil kits of Patanjali will be distributed free of cost for speedy recovery of patients battling Covid-19 which claimed 95 more lives and infected 3,757 people in the last 24 hours in state.Vij, in a tweet, said half the cost of the Coronil kits will be borne by Patanjali and the remaining through Haryana government’s Covid relief fund.“The state government is committed towards ensuring good health and proper treatment for people in Haryana. The state doesn’t want to leave any stone unturned with regard to treatment of Covid patients,” Vij said in a statement even as the efficacy of Patanjali’s Coronil medicine to cure Covid-19 has not been ascertained by any independent medical body.Vij’s announcement coincides with Haryana registering 93.84% recovery rate on Monday and the recovery rate of the most affected Gurugram reaching 97.37% and recording 212 new cases, which is lesser than six other districts.In the last 24 hours, 45,100 samples were taken in state. Of the 3,757 fresh cases on Monday, Gurugram recorded 212 new cases, Faridabad 186, Sonepat 213, Hisar 245, Ambala 110, Karnal 164, Panipat 77, Rohtak 224, Rewari 281, Panchkula 148, Kurukshetra 70, Yamunanagar 186, Sirsa 199, Mahendergarh 121, Bhiwani 500, Jhajjar 258, Palwal 115, Fatehabad 172, Kaithal 67, Jind 154, Nuh 25, and Charkhi Dadri 30.Every district recorded fatalities. Eleven people succumbed to the contagion in Hisar, Gurugram recorded nine deaths, six each died in Ambala, Bhiwani and Jind, and five each in Nuh, Sirsa and Yamunanagar.Active cases came down to 38,119 and 8,359 people recovered on Monday.On Monday, 91,578 people were vaccinated in state, increasing the cumulative tally to 53.72 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patients-in-haryana-to-get-1-lakh-coronil-kits-free-of-cost-vij-101621876097896.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh says Yogi wasting govt's resources by visiting districts||Days after alleging that various UP ministers deputed to monitor the Covid situation in various UP districts have gone missing, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday questioned Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s ongoing visits there for the purpose. It is a complete “wastage of the government’s resources and time” when there is no respite to the people from COVID-19, besides the black and white fungus infections. "There is a shortage of medicines, injections and vaccines,” said Yadav, while again questioning the alleged absence of ministers deputed to monitor the pandemic situation in various districts. “No one knows where is the Team-9 or Team-11 constituted by the CM,” said the former chief minister. Questioning Adityanath’s ongoing visits to monitor the situation district-wise, Yadav added.“Instead of taking stock of the situation and giving time for the improvement, the CM has embarked on tours.” “Except for the wastage of the government resources and time, what is the significance of the CM's marathon tours?" he asked in a statement here. After visiting several western UP districts including Gautam Budh Nagar and Muzaffarnagar last week, Adityanath on Monday undertook tours to Gonda, Azamgarh and Varanasi in eastern Uttar Pradesh. "He (CM) is touring the state not for improving things but for achieving his own political goals,” Yadav added. Amid the reports of a persistent shortage of anti-Covid vaccines, Yadav said, “The CM should also tell when only 35 lakh people have been given the second dose of vaccine, how does he claim that all people in will be inoculated by Diwali?” “A large number of youths and elderly visit hospital but return without vaccination," he said. The pandemic situation in villages is very bad and people are dying without treatment, claimed Yadav while listing several villages facing a grim Covid situation.He also asked what Adityanath was doing to meet the shortage of resources in anti-Covid centres to tackle its next wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-says-yogi-wasting-govt-s-resources-by-visiting-districts-101621875484472.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati says govt's announcements regarding Covid-19 akin to poll promises||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Monday said India has made global headlines as COVID-19 spread to villages, as she likened the governments' announcements regarding providing relief to the people from the pandemic to electoral promises."India has made global headlines due to the extensive spread of coronavirus in rural areas which lack basic amenities, but governments are making announcements regarding proper preparedness and providing relief to the people from the pandemic in the same way promises are made during election," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.In another tweet, she said primary healthcare centres and other such facilities are lying unused in Uttar Pradesh and other states due to the absence of doctors and other government employees. The BSP chief said there is a dire need to immediately activate such facilities so that a majority of the poor and destitute people in rural areas of the country can be benefitted soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-says-govt-s-announcements-regarding-covid-19-akin-to-poll-promises-101621875009150.html
24-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka village sealed, villagers to be tested for Covid-19 after hundreds gather to attend a horse’s funeral||The administration at Maradimath village in the Belagavi district of Karnataka decided to test the villagers for Covid-19 after hundreds of people gathered for the funeral of a horse that belonged to a local temple. The village was sealed to prevent further transmission of the coronavirus disease to other places because of the movement of the people.People were seen without face masks and physical distancing norms were violated as many villagers gathered for the funeral of the horse. A police complaint was filed in connection with the incident that occurred on Saturday evening.A video of the event garnered wide attention on social media earlier on Sunday which showed that many people, mostly without face masks, gathered at a procession during which the last rites were performed for the horse. No social distancing norms were followed by the attendees of the procession, who were seen walking in close contact with each other, the video showed.“Hundreds of people were seen at the funeral of a horse in the Maradimath area of Belagavi, yesterday, in violation of current COVID-19 restrictions in force in Karnataka,” news agency ANI tweeted earlier on Monday and shared the video clip.Karnataka, which has been battered by the unabated spread of Covid-19 infections in the second wave of the pandemic, is currently under a lockdown and large gatherings such as this have been prohibited. The state has been reporting a high number of daily new infections and has seen less than 30,000 new cases for only three times in May so far. Also, it currently has the highest number of active cases of the coronavirus disease among all states in India, with 440,435 cases.Responding to the incident state home minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that action will be taken regarding the gathering of the crowd for the funeral. “The district administration will look into this incident, and action will be taken,” news agency ANI quoted the home minister as saying earlier on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-village-sealed-villagers-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-after-hundreds-gather-to-attend-a-horse-s-funeral-101621874280516.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Custody extension of man selling damaged cement to contractors||The police custody of a 41-year-old man was extended in a copyright infringement of a major cement producer brand on Monday by a court in Pune. The man arrested on May 22 was identified as Ghanshyam Vitthal Deshmukh (41) a resident of Kolwadi in Haveli area of Pune. He was remanded to police custody till Wednesday, according to public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More. “We had first registered a case only for cheating. However, the officials of the company that owns the brand under which he was selling the cement came to us and based on their statement we added the copyright and trademark laws,” said senior police inspector Pratap Mankar of Lonikand police station. After his arrest, he was remanded to two days in custody for cheating. However, after increase in laws, his remand was extended. “He bought the cement from a tender floated by a cement company for selling damaged cement. Then he filled the cement in bags with branding of another brand. He then sold 250 bags of this to government contractors for building internal roads,” said police sub inspector Srikant Temgire of Lonikand police station who is investigating the case. The man made ₹2, 78,750 from the sale of misbranded cement, according to the police. The man had procured the sacks of damaged cement from Miraj, Sangli and had begun the operation 15-20 days ago, according to the police. The police have seized 1,150 more bags of cement procured from Miraj. The police also seized 350 bags of misbranded cement bags in a godown in Kolewadi area of Malwadi Vasti in Haveli. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 51 and 63 of Copyright Act 1977 and Sections 103 and 104 of Trademarks Act, 1999 was registered at Lonikand police station in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/custody-extension-of-man-selling-damaged-cement-to-contractors-101621873027299.html
24-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada case: ‘If leaders weren’t arrested in 7 years, why now?’ Calcutta HC questions CBI||The five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that if the four leaders, accused in the Narada sting operation case, were not arrested in the last seven years then why were they being arrested now when the charge sheet of the case has been submitted, HT has learnt. “The bench, while hearing the case on Monday, said that one of the issues was that if the accused persons were not arrested in the last seven years, then what was the need of arrest now when the charge sheet of the case has been filed?” said Anindya Raut, advocate and TMC leader.The court would again take up the matter on May 26 until when the accused, including two cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor, would stay under house arrest. The Solicitor General who was appearing for the CBI, however, told the court that the issue was not just of bail but whether the bail hearing of the special CBI court on May 17 was non-est in law.On May 17, the CBI arrested two cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Even though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the Calcutta High Court stayed the bail and sent them to judicial custody.On May 21, however, the HC put them under house arrest and constituted a larger five bench to hear the bail plea. Meanwhile, the CBI moved the Supreme Court seeking adjournment from the hearing of the Calcutta High Court. The Solicitor General who was appearing for the CBI prayed before the five-judge bench that the hearing be adjourned as the agency has filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the apex court. The High Court, however, refused the prayer and went ahead with the hearing as the Supreme Court hasn’t heard the matter yet.“The court would again hear the matter on May 26. Till then, the accused would remain in house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee’s advocate.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing several high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. The TMC has linked the arrests to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s loss in the recently concluded assembly polls. It has questioned why the CBI didn’t arrest Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy who were also seen in the sting videos but have since switched from the TMC to the BJP. The CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the High Court. The agency has named West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the trial of the case from the lower court. It claimed violent protests orchestrated by the TMC against the arrests hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-case-if-leaders-weren-t-arrested-in-7-years-why-now-calcutta-hc-questions-cbi-101621871772584.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 22,122 new Covid cases; Mumbai's daily tally continues to fall||Maharashtra on Monday reported 22,122 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 361 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,602,019 and 89,212 respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. This is the fifth successive day that the daily cases in Maharashtra remained below the 30,000-mark.Over 42,000 (42,320 to be exact) people recovered on Monday and the cumulative recoveries in the state have climbed to 5,182,592 , the bulletin showed.Monday’s case count in Maharashtra is less 4,550 than that of Sunday’s when 26,672 people were detected Covid positive.Also Read| Bharat Biotech to provide documentation for Covaxin’s emergency use listing by JuneThe capital city of Mumbai also continued to witness a downward trend in its daily tally as 1,049 new cases and 48 more deaths were logged. Mumbai now has 697,959 cases of the Covid-19 disease which includes 14,613 deaths.The coronavirus situation in Maharashtra is improving with each passing day. The major credit for this improvement can be given to the lockdown-like restrictions-- which have been extended till June 1-- and the people’s adherence to them.The Maha-Vikas Aghadi led government has indicated these restrictions will not be further extended and will be eased in a staggered manner, according to Hindustan Times on Sunday.Even though the number of Covid-19 infections are falling in Maharashtra, the state is staring at a huge spike in the cases of Mucormycosis or black fungus. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Monday that Maharashtra has 1,188 cases of the black fungus, the highest in India till now.On May 20, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope requested the Centre to approve allocation of Amphotericin B injections-- used for treating black fungus patients-- as 300-400 people were getting infected on a weekly basis.Over 20.7 million beneficiaries have been administered vaccine doses against Covid-19 in the state till now of which 16,370,365 have been given the first dose and nearly 4.4 million have been given both doses.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Sunday that vaccination for the 18-44 age group has been suspended due to a shortage in supply of doses. However, Thackeray said that from June the vaccine production will speed up and therefore, the state government can operate a round-the-clock vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-22-122-new-covid-cases-mumbai-s-daily-tally-continues-to-fall-101621866190459.html
24-05-2021||Other||Doc who threatened to thrash minister arrested, Saryu Roy warns govt||JamshedpurA doctor, who owns a private hospital and had allegedly threatened to thrash Jharkhand’s health minister Banna Gupta, was arrested late Sunday evening from his residence in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and was sent to jail early Monday morning, police said.A team of state drug controller’s office also raided the residence of the doctor, O P Anand, inside Gayatri Siksha Niketan School premises in Adityapur-2 Monday afternoon and seized an ambulance loaded with medicines. The arrest came after a series of actions and a fresh FIR for filed against Dr Anand at RIT police station on Saturday evening by relative of a patient who died of Covid-19 during treatment at his 111 Save Life Hospital in Adityapur. The FIR was filed under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, which relates to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “Dr Anand was arrested late last evening and he was sent to judicial custody after production in the CJM court this morning,” Srinivas Singh, RIT police station officer-in-charge, said.Earlier, Seraikela-Kharsawan civil surgeon in-charge Dr Bariyal Mardi had filed an FIR against Dr Anand at RIT PS on Sunday for obstructing government work, threatening and abusing health department probe team and health minister on May 16.Meanwhile, Jamshedpur (East) MLA Saryu Roy slammed the action as “excesses against a doctor whom police and administration were treating as a criminal”.“New FIR, series of fast-changing developments ... this now looks much beyond ego class. It’s something more deep and police and administration are working as agents. Government has power and force, they have done whatever maximum they could. Let’s see if this stands the trial in court or not... this type of actions damage the credibility of a government. I had written to the CM to ensue that the hospital remain functional when government is trying to increase beds and treatment facilities for Covid-19,” Roy said after visiting Dr Anand’s residence Monday afternoon.Dr Anand, on the other hand, said the state government stood exposed and defeated and he would share his victory message after coming out of jail. He said he treated the father of two girls as his own brother but he was now going to jail on their complaint. “Truth will come out. People in power have spared no tricks,” he said in a video message before being taken to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doc-who-threatened-to-thrash-minister-arrested-saryu-roy-warns-govt-101621870387163.html
24-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas: Red alert issued for parts of Jharkhand||Strap: Weather department predicts extreme rainfall in southern and central parts of Jharkhand on Wednesday and Thursday with wind-speed up to 130kmph at few places; NDRF teams to be deputed in East Singhbhum and Ranchi  The meteorological department has sounded an alert for parts of Jharkhand with prediction of extreme rainfall and high-velocity winds at speed up to 130kmph on May 26 and 27 in the backdrop of cyclone Yaas. The department on Monday also appealed the state administration to be alert for at least southern and central parts of Jharkhand for the two days, as there is prediction of heavy to very heavy rainfall. Deputy director at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Abhishek Anand said, “Cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall around noon on Wednesday and it will take around three to four hours to complete. Jharkhand’s southern and central parts are expected to be most affected.” Even though Jharkhand was yet to constitute its own state disaster response force (SDRF), three teams of national disaster response force (NDRF) have been moved for East Singhbhum and adjoining districts, while two teams have been deputed in Ranchi to deal with any crisis. Cyclone Yaas was likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and make landfall on West Bengal and Odisha coasts on Wednesday, weather officials said. Anand said, “Extreme rainfall is expected in some places of southern parts of Jharkhand, which include East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Simdega districts, on May 26. There is also possibility of thunderstorm and high speed wind at speed between 40 and 60kmph in the morning hours, while the speed may go upto 130kmph by evening.” He said central part of Jharkhand, that comprises Ranchi, Bokaro, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Khunti and Ramgarh, was likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. The districts might also experience wind speed up to 80kmph. On Thursday, almost the entire state will witness light to moderate rainfall, but some places at northwest, centre and south-east parts may experience heavy rainfall. “Extreme rainfall is likely in few places of south-east parts of Jharkhand on Thursday,” Anand said. He said the impact of the cyclone will be visible from Tuesday where some places will experience light to moderate rainfall along with lightning. Ranchi might see moderate rainfall on Tuesday, and heavy rains on Wednesday and Thursday. “The state administration should be alert, as the cyclone may cause heavy damage. People should avoid going out on Wednesday and Thursday,” Anand said. The state disaster management department seemed to be missing from the approaching cyclonic event, as it was yet to issue any directive to districts in this regard. However, East Singhbhum and Ranchi districts have deployed five NDRF teams. Inspector Saroj Kumar, NDRF Ranchi team commander, said, “Three teams have moved to Jamshedpur, while two teams will deployed in Ranchi to deal with any crisis.” East Singhbhum district also arranged shelter homes for people living in low-lying areas. The administration has also directed to make arrangement of emergency lights, generator sets, shelter houses and issue a control room number at the block level. A state disaster management authority was constituted in Jharkhand in June last year. But, the state was yet to constitute an SDRF. More than 100 personnel were selected for SDRF, but they neither have been trained nor they deputed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-red-alert-issued-for-parts-of-jharkhand-101621869667227.html
24-05-2021||Ranchi||Ministers demand extension of lockdown||Stating that the month-long restrictions helped in containing the spread of coronavirus infection, Jharkhand ministers on Monday urged the chief minister to extend the lockdown further atleast by a week even as they suggested to reopen few services.“The lockdown has helped in bringing down the infection numbers substantially. I think we need to extend the lockdown atleast for a week,” said health minister Banna Gupta.Barring few exceptions, the state was currently under lockdown since April 22 with varied degree of restrictions. Stricter measures, including ban on interdistrict and interstate movement since May 16, are in place till 6am on May 27. Like the health minister, similar demands were made by other leaders. However, they also suggested to relax restrictions for some groups and business activities. While Gupta advocated to relax rules in getting mandatory e-passes for professionals such as journalists, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said there was a need to give relief to businesses related to agriculture and officials of the agriculture department. Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon raised the issue of problems being faced while cremation of Covid-19 patients, as shops were closed due to the lockdown.Responding to the suggestions of his Cabinet colleagues, the chief minister said the government will assess all aspects before deciding on lockdown extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ministers-demand-extension-of-lockdown-101621869607213.html
24-05-2021||Patna||Woman found hanging in police station, three cops suspended||Three police officials were suspended and a probe ordered after a 28-year-old woman was found hanging at Rahui police station of Nalanda district past Sunday midnight, hours after she was “rescued” by the police from Patna Junction railway station on a complaint filed by her husband who alleged she was abducted on May 21, police said.Following the incident, Nalanda SP Hariprasath S suspended the officer on duty, the investigating officer and a policewoman over dereliction of duty. “The chief judicial magistrate has been informed about the incident and proceedings are being carried out as per the law,” he said. On May 21, after the woman reportedly eloped with one Luv Yadav, her husband Rudal Yadav lodged a police complaint for abduction. Countering the allegation, Luv’s parents also filed an FIR against Rudal and his brother for “kidnapping Luv,” police said. On Sunday evening, the police found the woman and Luv together at Patna Junction and handed them over to Rahui police in Nalanda. The woman, who has three children, was held overnight at the police station, to be produced before a magistrate on Monday to record her statement.Around midnight, the woman allegedly hanged herself using her saree. She was rushed to Biharsharif Sadar Hospital where she was declared brought dead by the doctors, a police officer said. The autopsy report was awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-found-hanging-in-police-station-three-cops-suspended-101621869487180.html
24-05-2021||Patna||Cyclone Yaas to hit Bihar, MeT issues orange alert for May 27-28||Bihar is bracing up for intense rain activities under the influence of Cyclone Yaas, which is likely to trigger heavy to extremely heavy rain in the parts of the state in the next two to three days, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre (PMC) on Monday.In this regard, PMC issued an advisory to the state government and disaster management department to take suitable precautions in wake of enhanced rain activities between May 25 to May 31.Weathermen said moderate to heavy rain is likely to persist over southern and central parts of the state on May 25, subsequently resulting in intensified rain and lightning activities. PMC has also issued an orange-colour warning predicting widespread rain accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning activities across all 38 districts on May 27 and May 28. Vivek Sinha, director of PMC, said, “A deep depression formed over Bay of Bengal has intensified into a cyclonic storm named Yaas, which is lying over the east-central Bay of Bengal. As per the numerical weather model output, Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts on May 26. Under the influence, Bihar is expected to receive heavy to extremely heavy spell of rain along with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty wind between May 27 to May 30.”Sinha said the weather system may result in the uprooting of trees, disruption of power supply line, flooding or waterlogging at low laying areas. Poor visibility coupled with a low cloud ceiling may also cause temporary disruption of flights in the state.“The impact of the cyclone would be visible from Tuesday evening. Temperature is expected to fall by 5°C in the state due to rain”, said weatherman SK Patel.Meanwhile, East Central Railway has decided to suspend the operation of four trains plying via Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur and Patna route from May 25 and 26 till further notice as a precautionary measure considering the cyclone’s impact..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cyclone-yaas-to-hit-bihar-met-issues-orange-alert-for-may-2728-101621869428407.html
24-05-2021||Other||SHO suspended days after killing, arson in Purnia village||PURNIAThe station house officer (SHO) of Baisi police station in Purnia district was suspended on Monday, five days after an old man was beaten to death and a dozen houses set ablaze in Masjhuwa village falling under his jurisdiction, an incident that sparked widespread outrage and prompted a visit by National Commission for Scheduled Castes. Purnia’s superintendent of police Daya Shankar confirmed the suspension of SHO Amit Kumar, who has been replaced with Sunil Kumar Suman.“Five persons, including prime accused Md Yakub, have been arrested so far,” the SP said.Three FIRs have been lodged at Baisi police station in connection with the incident.Police forces have been deployed in adequate numbers and police have carried out raids to nab the rest accused.On May 19, about 150 people, equipped with arms, attacked the people belonging to the mahadalit community at Masjhuwa village. A former village chowkidar Mewa Lal Roy (70) was allegedly beaten to death and several persons, including women and children, were injured. Later, they set their houses on fire.A police official said an old dispute was the reason behind the incident, adding that clashes had taken plave between them on April 24 this year and in 2015 too.Meanwhile, on Sunday, a team of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, led by vice-president Krishna Kumar Rishi, visited the village on Sunday. BJP leader Dilip Jaiswal also visited the village. “We want safety and security of the mahadalit community at any cost,” BJP he said. Congress MP from Kishanganj, Mohammad Javed condemned the attack and demanded stern action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-suspended-days-after-killing-arson-in-purnia-village-101621869427811.html
24-05-2021||Other||BJP upset with curbs on movement of ministers||PATNAThe Bihar government’s decision to restrain ministers from moving in their respective constituencies or the districts they have been assigned as the ministers in-charge during the lockdown period has not gone down well with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. Several BJP ministers, who recently visited their respective constituencies and inspected medical facilities for treatment of Covid infected persons, have questioned the rationale behind banning movement of elected representatives during the crisis period. On Monday, the cabinet secretariat department issued letters to the private secretaries of all the ministers, asking them to not visit their constituencies to inspect medical facilities or any scheme during the lockdown phase to check the spread of pandemic. West Champaran MP and state BJP chief Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, who is currently in his home town to supervise the drive to check spread of Covid and arrange proper medical facilities, said, “Ask the ministers and JD(U) national chief RCP Singh why such an order has been issued.”“Just because the CM and JD(U) ministers are not moving does not mean BJP leaders should also not go out and help people tide over the crisis. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has toured over 50 districts during the lockdown to monitor medical facilities and relief operations,” said another BJP minister, wishing not to be quoted. Another BJP minister said they would lodge a complaint regarding the curbs at an appropriate party platform. “Since we are in the ruling alliance, the coalition dharma does not allow us to make our grievances public,” said the minister. Congress MLC and All India Congress Committee (AICC) media panellist Prem Chandra Mishra said everything was not well in the ruling coalition. “How could the ministers be the cause for spread of pandemic? Are officers immune to the pandemic? Why the ruling party leaders asking about physical presence of opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav if the government has banned activities of its ministers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-upset-with-curbs-on-movement-of-ministers-101621869427179.html
24-05-2021||Pune||13 minors fined for playing cricket during lockdown||The Hinjewadi police have fined 13 minor boys, ₹500 each, for playing cricket at the Navale Cricket Academy, Hinjewadi Phase 1, despite lockdown restrictions being in place. On Sunday morning the police raided the academy ground. The youngsters tried to run away but were apprehended by the police. “We explained to them and fined them ₹500 each, so they learn from their mistake. We also fined the owner of the academy ₹5,000 for allowing the youngsters to play cricket,” said Balkrishna Sawant, senior police inspector, Hinjewadi police station. The district administration has banned outdoor sports amid the ongoing lockdown since April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/13-minors-fined-for-playing-cricket-during-lockdown-101621869367918.html
24-05-2021||Other||After getting 2nd shot, Manjhi aims a jab at NDA: Why PM pic on vaccine certificates||PATNAIn an apparent embarrassment to the ruling alliance in Bihar, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose party Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) is a constituent of the ruling NDA in the state, has objected to putting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s picture on Covid-19 vaccination certificates and either his picture should be dropped or they be put on death certificates too.Manhi’s party had won four out of the seven seats it contested during assembly elections held in 2020 and his son Santosh Manjhi is a minister for minor irrigation and SC/ST welfare in the Nitish Kumar-led government. “If you are so fond of putting (the PM’s) photograph on the vaccine certificate, his photo should be put on the death certificates too. Only this will be fair,” Manjhi tweeted on Monday. Earlier on Sunday, soon after taking the second dose of vaccination and after receiving the vaccination certificate, the former CM had questioned the logic behind putting picture of the PM on the certificate. “President Ram Nath Kovind’s photo would be more appropriate on the certificate as he is the highest constitutional functionary in India,” Manjhi said. As an alternative, the former CM suggested, the certificates can have the photos of the President, the Prime Minister as well as the chief minister of the respective states. The Jharkhand government has already started using CM Hemant Soren’s photograph on vaccination certificates, so has the Chhattisgarh government.The main Opposition RJD was quick to back Manjhi. “What he raised today, we have already been demanding. If you (Manjhi) are against the autocratic system, come out of the NDA. Otherwise, people will think you are issuing statements to stay in news,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary.BJP and JD(U), both part of the ruling NDA in Bihar, were guarded in their reaction. “I can say for sure that the certificate is an authentic letter for one and all anywhere in world,” said BJP Bihar president Sanjay Jaiswal.JD(U) state president Umesh Kushwaha said, “Manjhiji is a mature leader and part of the NDA. In democracy, everybody has the right to put forward his views and at times people come out with personal views as well, which is always welcome. This is the beauty of democracy.” HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan, while justifying Manjhi’s demand, alleged that vaccination percentage among Dalits and Adivasis had been abysmally low in the state. “Not 1% of the population of Dalit and Advisasis have been vaccinated yet, because they fear vaccination. Putting President’s picture, who is also a Dalit, will inspire them,” Rizwan said. Political analyst D M Diwakar said Manjhi, by issuing such statements, was sending “confusing” signal. “This means all is not well for him in the ruling alliance and he is testing waters. Problem with him is that he cannot adjust anywhere, but, he along with VIP and AIMIM can be helpful in forming a government in such fluid conditions in Bihar,” said Diwakar, former director of A N Sinha Institute for Social Studies. Headline: Why Manjhi mattersIntro: His party HAM(S) has four MLAs and support is crucial for NDA govt which has slim majority Total number of assembly seats: 243Half-way mark: 122NDA tally: 128BJP: 74JD(U): 45HAM(S): 4VIP: 4Independent: 1Opposition alliance: 110RJD: 75Congress: 19CPI-ML: 12CPI: 2CPM: 2 The outlierAIMIM: 5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-getting-2nd-shot-manjhi-aims-a-jab-at-nda-why-pm-pic-on-vaccine-certificates-101621869367234.html
24-05-2021||Other||Bihar extends lockdown till June 1, CM says it’s working||PATNAThe Bihar government on Monday extended the Covid-19 lockdown by a week till June 1 following a review meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar. This is the second time the state has extended the lockdown first announced from May 5 till May 15.“Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. The lockdown is showing good results and positive cases are coming down. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for seven days, from May 26 till June 1, 2021,” Kumar tweeted in Hindi.On Monday, Bihar reported 2,844 positive cases, down from the 14,836 positive cases reported in the state on May 5, the day lockdown came into force. The state reported 93 deaths in the last 24 hours, which takes the total toll to 4,642 deaths since the outbreak of Covid-19 last year. “The impact of the lockdown has been very encouraging and the crisis management group has decided to continue with restrictions and relaxations announced on May 16,” said additional chief secretary (home), Chaitanya Prasad. Bihar had been struggling to curb the spread of Covid-19 and the continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds when it announced the lockdown decision on May 4.Curbs on movement of ministersThe state government has advised its ministers not to make rounds of their constituencies in violation of the restrictions clamped earlier this month to contain the Covid-19 spread.A notification issued by additional chief secretary (cabinet) Sanjay Kumar to all personal secretaries of the ministers noted with concern “reported instances of ministers touring their constituencies or districts under their charge” for reviewing the progress of development works etc.“Such acts by honourable ministers will send a wrong message to the common people who might become disinclined to scrupulously adhere to the restrictions in place during the lockdown. These restrictions have been in place to control the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic which has gripped the state,” the notification said.The letter advised the ministers to avoid tours of their areas for reviews and inspections. If required, they may opt for video conferencing, it suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-extends-lockdown-till-june-1-cm-says-it-s-working-101621869308072.html
24-05-2021||Pune||23-year-old in police custody for sexual assault of minor||A 23-year-old man was remanded to police custody on Monday for sexually assaulting a minor girl in Alandi area. The arrested man was identified as Mannu Dhirendra Mali, a native of Jaganshipur region of Odisha, according to the police. He is in police custody till May 28 while the girl is undergoing tests at a government hospital, according to the police. The 15-year-old survivor was also threatened by the arrested man with dire consequences for her family if she told anyone about what he had done, according to her complaint. “The man is a painter and the child’s father is a labour contractor who got painting jobs for him. The girl was scared but after waiting for a couple of days, she revealed to her mother what had happened. The parents came to the police on the same day,” said police sub inspector Surekha Sagar of Alandi police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the minor survivor on Sunday. A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 8, 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Alandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/23yearold-in-police-custody-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101621869307173.html
24-05-2021||Pune||PMC removes unauthorised optical fibre cables in Wanowrie||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has removed unauthorised optical fibres in the Wanowrie area while filing a police complaint against unknown persons for laying the cables underground. The PMC road department had in the past given permission to lay underground optical fibres to telecom companies including government and private. In Wanowrie, the PMC road department found that one of the private telecom companies laid down 700 metres of optical fibre near Shivarkar garden area. The local residents registered a complaint to PMC officials. Sunil Kadam, executive engineer of road department said, “We had given permission for 300 metres of cables to the VPPN firm. The company paid for 200 metres; however, we came to know from local residents that the company placed a total of 700 metres underground cables.” “When we contacted the company officials, they denied it. So, we filed a complaint against an unknown person and have removed the unauthorised cables with the help of machinery on Monday,” Kadam said. As per the demand of telecom companies, the civic body’s road department officials scrutinise applications from private firms and charge ₹10,155 per metre for laying the cable. “As per normal procedure, PMC officials check maps and drawings submitted by agencies and visit the site to crosscheck the permitted cables and actual laid cables. There is no third-party checking,” he said. According to PMC road officials, for the last two years no permission was given to any company. Right now, the PMC road department has given around 150 kilometres of permission to telecom companies to lay underground cables. Agency to identify unauthorised cables The PMC has sanctioned a trenching policy in the city to streamline the process of laying underground pipelines or cables and avoid occurrence of faults, requiring excavation for carrying out repairs and bringing the excavated surface back to its original status. Besides this, PMC wanted to stop unauthorised or illegal installation of cables or digging in the city. The officials found that private telecom companies are not following the norms mentioned in the trenching policy. Citizens are complaining about illegal digging and laying optical fibres in the areas, said a civic official. Taking cognisance of citizen complaints and in an attempt to boost the revenue of the corporation, the PMC has taken a decision to appoint an agency to find out illegal cables in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-removes-unauthorised-optical-fibre-cables-in-wanowrie-101621869247179.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Students missing experience of offline learning, college life due to Covid restrictions||With the second year of online education underway, students who were promoted from Class 11 to Class 12 share that due to online classes they have lost the opportunity to experience college campus life. Students from the city share that they miss making new friends and college activities like fests and compensations. Siddhi Disale, a student of Class 12 at Sushilatai Bahudhani junior college said that she misses learning in offline mode. “I started my Class 11 with Science stream last year when the college started online. Since then, I have interacted with a lot of classmates but could not make friends. We could not meet and bond at all. We spoke only for sharing notes. I miss a lot of things about offline classes. Especially the interaction we used to have with teachers. Except for asking doubts we don’t interact with them on other topics,” said Disale. She also said that she has no idea about what offline practicals are because she has not attended any so far. “I have opted for Science, but I haven’t attended any practical and the experience of learning is not there. This is what I miss the most about college,” said Disale. Another student of Class 12 with Shree Haribhau Balwantrao Girme junior college, Prerana Kadam said until class 10, she was very excited about college. “But due to the lockdown, all this excitement was gone. More than that due to online education, there were no college fests, no competition and we couldn’t meet any students as well. This was a little disheartening. When we say college we imagine a lot of fun things, but these two years have been just opening a laptop and studying power point presentations,” said Kadam. Sarthak Kulkarni, a class 12 student from Garware College who is also a theatre enthusiast said that he was excited about junior college. “I wanted to participate in theatre groups and be on the stage, but all the activities have stopped. I follow college contests like Purshottam drama competition. I was hoping to participate in them but due to the lockdown and Covid I have missed this opportunity as well,” said Kulkarni. “Earlier college was an experience but now it is just endless online lectures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-missing-experience-of-offline-learning-college-life-due-to-covid-restrictions-101621869187144.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Land measurement of Eastern part of ring road set to begin next week||After the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) received a formal nod for the land acquisition process of the Eastern side of the ring road on May 19th, a meeting was conducted by district collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Monday regarding the planning of joint measurement survey in the eastern part of the project. According to the MSRDC officials, the actual land measurement and survey process will begin next week. The joint measurement survey has been undergoing in the Western side and the survey process in 12 villages of 160 hectares has been completed so far.“The first step now is to present the proposal to the collector’s office after that collector’s office will issue a notice formalising the process. So, the actual process is expected to begin next week,” said Sandeep Patil sub-divisional engineer Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).The Eastern ring road will pass through 46 villages in five tehsils namely Maval, Khed, Purandar, Bhor, Haveli in Pune district. Officials are expecting more resistance from the villagers and farmers in the Eastern part because of the higher rates of the land. Meetings have been planned with locals to resolve the doubts.“We are going to conduct more meetings with the farmers. Their apprehensions will be resolved through dialogue. From next week we have planned meetings with the locals. We are planning to complete the land acquisition before Diwali,” said Patil.“I have instructed the officials to resolve the doubts of landowners and complete the land acquisition process,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector.The Eastern Route Urse (Mumbai-Pune Expressway)Talegaon MIDCIndoriBhandara hillKhalumbreChimbaliAlandiSoluLonikandWadebolaiSortapwadi (Pune Solapur road) TaradeDiveChambhaliSomurdiKelwade (NH 48 Pune Satara road)Total affected villages: 46(Maval: 11 villagesKhed:12 villagesHaveli: 15 villagesPurandar: 5 villagesBhor: 3 villages)Land required- 859.88 hectares||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/land-measurement-of-eastern-part-of-ring-road-set-to-begin-next-week-101621869127360.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Pune woman kills mother-in-law, tries to dispose of body with husband’s help||A 22-year woman allegedly killed her mother-in-law by strangling her with a blouse and later tried to dispose of her body in a gunny sack with the help of her husband, police officials said on Monday. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested both Pooja Milind Shinde and her husband Milind Gautum Shinde (30), who were remanded to four days in police custody by a local court on Monday. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station. The deceased woman was identified as Baby Gautam Shinde (50) a resident of Talegaon Dabhade area of Pune. The incident happened in Daulat society in Telco Colony of Talegaon Dabhade area around 10 am on May 21, officials said, adding that the incident came to light three days later after some neighbours saw the accused couple trying to get rid of the sack. While the arrested woman is a housewife, the husband works as a driver. The victim and the arrested lived in the same house with the arrested man’s younger brother Amit Shinde (22). Amit Shinde was at work when the incident happened. Police officials said the woman used a blouse to strangle her mother-in-law to death following a domestic fight between them. The husband then helped the woman dump the body on the terrace of the building they lived in. The body was wrapped in a gunny bag and dragged by Pooja with husband’s help, the police said based on the CCTV of the act recovered. However, when the other family members started enquiring about the woman’s whereabouts, the couple panicked and shifted the body close to a nearby bungalow’s garden. “We found the CCTV of them dragging the gunny bag from the terrace to the nearby garden. The husband was not involved in the murder, but he was clearly involved in the destruction of evidence. We are investigating what led to the murder, but it seems like a domestic fight turned violent,” said assistant police inspector Narayan Patil of Talegaon Dabhade police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the younger son of the deceased woman who also lived with the assailants and the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-woman-kills-mother-in-law-tries-to-dispose-of-body-with-husband-s-help-101621869067173.html
24-05-2021||Other||New garden in Balewadi will be city’s 204th||PUNE The city is to get new garden, taking its tally of public gardens to 204. The new addition is a garden on survey number 35 in Balewadi, proposed in 2018. The garden is spread over seven acres (1.5 hectares), opposite Moze college in Balewadi.Work officially began on May 21, with Sanjay Kolate, CEO, Pune Smart city development corporation limited (PSCDCL) and corporator Amol Balwadkar inaugurating the event. The plan, as per PSCDCL, who are developing the space, is to have a lawn area of 1.25 acres encircled by a 320-metre walkway.“There is a provision of an underground water tank with 78,000 litres of storage. We have segregated a fruit garden on the south-west, while flowering trees will be on the north side of the garden. The new garden will also have a seating area with a water body,” said Kolate.According to Sarang Wable, a resident of Balewadi, “Balewadi has developed as a good residential area, but it lacks gardens and open spaces. With the proposal finally coming into reality, this will be much needed green cover for the area.”Balewadi public gardenTotal area - 2.25 acresLawn - 1.25 acresWalkway- 320 metres 78,000 litres - underground water storage867 sq metres - Fruit trees on south-western side200 sq metres - sitting area||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-garden-in-balewadi-will-be-city-s-204th-101621867687192.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Searches carried out at Twitter’s offices in Delhi, Gurugram over 'toolkit' row||A team of the Delhi Police’s special cell carried out a series of searches at Twitter's offices in Delhi and Gurugram, visuals shared by news agency ANI showed. The search operations were in connection to the ‘Congress toolkit’ controversy, news agency PTI reported, quoting Delhi Police officials familiar with the developments.The Delhi police team went to Twitter office to serve a notice to Twitter, as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as it was to ascertain who the right person was to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD had been very ambiguous: SourcesDelhi Police special cell has also sent notice to Twitter in connection with the inquiry after a complaint regarding the alleged toolkit. It sought clarification from Twitter regarding a related tweet by BJP leader Sambit Patra which was deemed "manipulative" by the site."The Delhi police team went to Twitter office to serve a notice to Twitter, as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous," an official of the Delhi Police said.Last week, Twitter flagged as manipulated media Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Samit Patra’s tweet on a toolkit that the ruling party claimed the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The BJP alleged the toolkit was aimed at building a “biased narrative” over the manner in which the Centre handled the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the government’s aggressive push for the Central Vista project in the national capital.Soon after Twitter’s action on Patra, the ministry of electronics and information technology sent a strongly worded notice to Twitter and stated that its decision to use the manipulated media tag appears “prejudged and prejudiced.”"It appears that Twitter has some information that is not known to the police. This information is relevant to the inquiry," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/searches-carried-out-at-twitter-s-offices-in-delhi-gurugram-over-toolkit-row-101621867395129.html
24-05-2021||Other||Audit old structures, clear riverbeds of illegal structures: Collector||PUNE The district administration, on Monday, issued notices to all local self-governing institutions to carry out a structural audit of all structures under their jurisdiction, especially those that may be construed to be “old and/or dilapidated”. Collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “Taking into account the large number of old and dilapidated structures located in Pune district, it is imperative that a structural audit is conducted so that during the monsoon, there is no loss to life or property.”Deshmukh, in a separate notice, also issued on Monday, ordered the demolition of illegal structures on riverbeds or along riverbeds, citing these as existing in the danger zone of the earmarked floodline. According to him, most structures are under the jurisdiction of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), and Deshmukh ordered that they be demolished. “During recent years, the number of incidents of flooding and loss to human life and property has gone up, which makes planning important to face future climate-induced challenges,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/audit-old-structures-clear-riverbeds-of-illegal-structures-collector-101621865166986.html
24-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Centre discriminating with funds for Yaas cyclone, depriving Bengal’: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that the Centre was depriving the state by allocating insufficient funds to fight cyclone Yaas compared to what was being allocated to Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.“They have announced an advance fund of ₹600 crore each to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and a little more than ₹400 for West Bengal. I have questioned why Bengal was being deprived despite being a larger state with a dense population. I asked Shah why this discrimination. He said that he would talk later and that that allocation was based on scientific views,” said Banerjee. She said that at least 20 districts in West Bengal, including Kalimpong and Darjeeling in the north, could be affected even though the three coastal districts – South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore - along with Kolkata would bear the direct brunt. “Evacuation has already started and we plan to evacuate at least 10 lakh people. Around 4,000 cyclone and relief shelters have been set up. At least 51 rescue teams have been deployed. A 24X7 control room has been set up at the state secretariat which would coordinate up to block level,” the chief minister said, adding that the army has been alerted. The chief minister urged people to wear masks even at relief centres as Covid-19 was taking a heavy toll in the state. On Sunday the state recorded more than 18,000 new cases. At least 156 people had died on Sunday.“This time we have set up safe homes and quarantine centres where suspected and patients detected with Covid after RAT could be shifted,” said a senior official of North 24 Parganas who is associated with the evacuation process ahead of the cyclone. Very severe cyclone ‘Yaas’ is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast, close to Balasore in Odisha, around Wednesday noon, Union home minister Amit Shah held a virtual meeting on Monday morning with the three states to assess the preparedness. In May 2020, Bengal was hit by another very severe cyclone Amphan with similar intensity killing 98 people and damaging property worth a few thousand crores.“Very severe cyclone Yaas is expected to cross the Odisha-Wes Bengal coast between Paradip and Sagar close to Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday noon. It would move towards Jharkhand,” said Sanjib Bandopadhyay, deputy director of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional office in Kolkata. During the time of landfall, the cyclone would trigger wind with speed up to 155 – 165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph in the district of East Midnapore, located along the West Bengal – Odisha border. In Kolkata, the wind speed may reach up to 70 – 80 kmph gusting up to 90 kmph, Light to moderate rainfall has already begun in the coastal districts of West Bengal. The spread and intensity of the rain would increase from Tuesday with some districts likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain. On May 27 even Sikkim may receive heavy rain.“Hospitals have been asked to keep power backup and oxygen storage at least for two days,” said a senior health official. Around 1,000 power-restoration teams and 450 telecom restoration teams have been readied. Boat movements have been suspended and railway authorities have been asked to cancel some trains. Officials said that that it would be hard to reach some of the islands on Tuesday as the sea and river conditions would turn rough when the cyclone comes nearer to the coast, evacuation has been launched on Monday. “While around 1200 – 1500 people living along the banks of Ghoramara Island were being shifted to relief shelters on the mainland, others were shifted to cyclone shelters built on higher and safer grounds within the island itself,” said a senior official of South 24 Parganas. In some blocks in the Sunderban, pregnant women, particularly those who have their estimated date of delivery in the next one or two weeks, have also been evacuated and shifted to hospitals and ‘mother hubs’. “As the cyclone would be hitting when the water level is already high because of the Spring Tide phase, we are expecting a storm surge of 2 – 4 meres in East Midnapore and 1 – 2 metres in North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas,” said a weather department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-discriminating-with-funds-for-yaas-cyclone-depriving-bengal-mamata-banerjee-101621864147712.html
24-05-2021||Ranchi||J'khand facing vaccine shortage, 2-3 days stock left for 18- 44 group: CM Soren||Hitting out at the Centre, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday that the state was facing a severe shortage of Covid vaccines and has barely two-three days of shots left in its stock.Chairing a cabinet meeting, Soren said the Centre failed to alert states and take necessary measures even as it had prior knowledge of the second wave of the pandemic."Government of India knew about the (second wave of the) infection but there was much delay in directions to the states and ultimately the entire country was impacted by it," he said."We were suggested that there should not be any lockdown in the country but given the rate of infections, the state governments started taking their own decisions. Today there are partial or complete lockdowns (in every state)," he added.The chief minister said that Jharkhand got barely 40 lakh doses of vaccines against a requirement of 4 crore doses, leading to the shortage.However, the state government would make serious efforts to procure vaccines, including through imports, he said.Soren said the state government would soon make a decision on extending the lockdown as 23 of its 24 districts share borders with either Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh or Chattisgarh, which are severely affected.Every day about 20,000 people are coming to the state through the railways and to combat the spread, Jharkhand has decided to intensify testing in rural areas on a war footing, Soren said.In urban areas, he said, the chain of the virus has been broken and fresh cases have reduced drastically to around 2,000 from earlier 15,000-20,000 a day."As far as death rates are concerned, we are the top in the country. UP and Bihar are reporting fewer deaths but you can assess if it is true. Many states are manipulating data but it is the priority of our government that we will ensure full transparency and take all possible steps to contain the virus," Soren said."Till the time a single death takes place in the state, we will consider it as peak," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-facing-vaccine-shortage-2-3-days-stock-left-for-18-44-group-cm-soren-101621862612531.html
24-05-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh Police records statement of former CM Raman Singh in toolkit case||Chhattisgarh Police on Monday recorded the statement of senior BJP leader and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh in connection with the FIR lodged related to the alleged fake toolkit case, officials said. “A team of Raipur police recorded Singh’s statement. Singh gave written replies to the questions mentioned in the notice sent to him last week and said everything he has posted or shared on social media are in the public domain,” said Superintendent of Police, Raipur, Ajay Yadav, adding that the police are examining the written answers submitted by Singh Meanwhile, Singh later told reporters that the FIR was a Congress conspiracy, adding that, the “police in Chhattisgarh was being governed by the Congress and not the law”. “The notice issued to me by the police was tweeted by the Congress even before I got it. The document, which should have been with the police, was with the Congress. It clearly indicates from where the police are getting directions and working under pressure,” the former CM alleged. The complaint against Singh and others was lodged by Congress’s student wing leader Akash Sharma. “They forged, falsely fabricated and manufactured the said documents on the letterhead of AICC research department and spread such material in social media which has the potential of creating communal disharmony, unrest in the country and the said document is being utilised by the BJP to spread fake news which has the potential of evoking violence and fueling hatred,” the complaint said. On May 19, an FIR was registered at Civil Lines station of the state capital against Raman Singh, BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra and others for allegedly spreading fake news and “promoting enmity between classes”, in the toolkit row. The Civil Lines Police Station of Raipur on the complaint filed by National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) Chhattisgarh chief Akash Sharma had registered a case under sections 504, 505 (1) b, c, 469 and 188 of Indian Penal Code. A notice was served by Raipur Police last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-police-records-statement-of-former-cm-raman-singh-in-toolkit-case-101621862287589.html
24-05-2021||Other||Mask it right to keep Covid away||The central government’s advisory on double masking to beat the highly virulent, contagious and unpredictable coronavirus variants is in keeping with the more stringent masking moves made in several other countries to deal with the rapidly mutating viruses.However, in order to implement it and break the cycle of transmission, the government needs to quickly distribute the masks free of costs to all those who cannot afford them and also educate all consumers on the importance of wearing the mask and donning it right. This becomes extremely important in view of several scientific studies confirming the effectiveness of universal masking to curb the spread of the disease.The quality of the mask is as important. In fact increasing scientific data on the comparative efficacy of different kinds of masks, the way the virus is transmitted as well as its mutations into more deadly variants –the virus is said to mutate almost every 11-15 minutes- are all forcing many countries around the world to re-visit their masking guidelines. France, for example, has banned wearing of home-made cotton masks and industrially made fabric masks with lesser filtering qualities in public, on the ground that they do not offer sufficient protection to the wearer from more contagious variants. Germany has made medical masks mandatory in stores and on public transit.In India too, the government had last year recommended a simple home-made mask, but obviously, that is not adequate to protect the wearer any more. The principal scientific adviser to the government, while recommending double masking to prevent the spread of the virus, made three important points: (a) N-95 masks offer maximum protection against the virus (b) double masking should be done with an inner layer of surgical mask and a tight fitting outer layer of cotton mask and (c) if a surgical mask is not available, you can use two cotton masks. ‘ A double layer of home-made cotton masks is better than none’, said the advisory to prevent transmission of the virus.The problem with home-made single layered masks is that there is no quality standard, they do not have a nose pin nor proper ear loops to ensure a tight fit as required and their filtration efficiency is poor when compared to three-layered non-woven surgical masks or N-95 masks or even multi-layered hybrid fabrics. Several studies have also shown the poor protection offered to the wearer by loose fitting masks with gaps between the skin and the mask.So effective masking to prevent community spread of the virus requires protection through either double masking with a surgical mask and a cotton mask or an N-95 mask. However, this obviously costs more than wearing a single layered home made mask and puts an additional burden on families already reeling under poverty and unemployment. Besides, all citizens should get equal protection from the virus. In the absence of free mask supplies, the poor will be placed at a very big disadvantage. In fact a large percentage of the economically disadvantaged do not wear the mask at all or wear the same surgical mask, probably given free , repeatedly, thereby giving them no protection from the virus. Another problem is with fake and sub-standard masks flooding the markets since the beginning of the pandemic. Whether surgical, N-95 or even cotton masks, poor quality masks will become an even major problem in rural areas, as the virus stalks villages in the second wave, taking a heavy toll.We are already worried about a third wave and experts are also warning us that the virus is not going to disappear for quite some time and we need to be wearing masks even after full vaccination. So all these factors make it imperative that good quality masks be distributed by the government free of cost to the economically vulnerable sections through fare price shops, anganwadis, primary health centres, vaccination centres and such other facilities. Of course, it is equally important to educate people about the correct way to wear the mask. Quoting a sample survey, the union health ministry recently said only seven per cent of the population wore the mask right, covering their nose, mouth and chin with a mask fitted with a nose pin and drawn tightly over the face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mask-it-right-to-keep-covid-away-101621861986982.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports under 2,000 new Covid-19 cases for second consecutive day, positivity rate at 2.5%||Delhi reported 1550 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as daily infections remained below 2000 for the second straight day, a bulletin from the health department showed on Monday. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.52 per cent and so far, the national capital has detected 1,418,418 new Covid-19 cases, the bulletin showed. The bulletin also showed that 207 patients succumbed to the infection on the day and the death toll in the Capital rose to 23,409.The active caseload in Delhi currently stands at 24,578, a decline of 3032 cases from the 27,610 reported previously on Sunday. Also, new recoveries continued to outnumber new infections as 4375 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, the bulletin also showed. So far, 1,370,431 patients have recovered and the recovery rate currently stands above 96 per cent, according to data.However, the number of samples tested for the coronavirus disease also dipped since it was a weekend. While 61,506 tests were conducted on the day, 68,043 samples on Sunday and 63,155 samples on Saturday were tested earlier.Also read | Moderna, Pfizer said they’ll deal only with Centre, not states: Delhi govtAs many as 44,342 RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and 17,164 Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) were done on Monday. With this, 18,788,697 tests have been completed and the tests per million count stand at 988,878. The cumulative positivity rate remained at 7.55 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 1.65 per cent, the bulletin showed. The city also has 45,483 containment zones within its limits and as many as 13,806 patients are currently under home isolation.Covid-19 vaccinations proceeded in Delhi at a slow pace and only 4717 people received a shot in the last 24 hours as government centres remained closed on Sunday. So far, 5,086,615 people have been vaccinated in the national capital, according to the bulletin.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday expressed confidence that the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the national capital is under control and that his government has started preparations for tackling the third wave. He also said that 6000 oxygen cylinders have been imported with which, 3000 oxygen beds could be set up.The CM tweeted “Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi” and said that other preparations are also underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-under-2-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-consecutive-day-positivity-rate-at-25-101621859517100.html
24-05-2021||Patna||BJP ally Jitan Ram Manjhi embarrasses NDA over PM’s pic on Covid-19 vaccine certificate||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) partner in Bihar, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM-S), embarrassed the ruling coalition in the state Bihar once again when party’s president and former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi made a demand. In a tweet, Manjhi said that if Covid-19 vaccination certificates bear the photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi then death certificates issued to all those who died of the virus must also have the PM’s photograph. “If you are so fond of putting (the PM’s) photograph on the vaccine certificate, then his photo should be put on the death certificate of death too. Only this will be fair”, said Manjhi in a tweet on Monday. This is the second time in two days that Manjhi had embarrassed the BJP and the NDA. Earlier on Sunday, soon after taking the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination and after receiving the vaccination certificate, the former CM questioned the logic behind putting the PM’s picture on the vaccination certificates. “President Ram Nath Kovind’s photo would be more appropriate on the certificate as he is the highest constitutional functionary in India,” said Manjhi. As an alternative, the former Bihar CM suggested that the certificates can have the photos of the President, the Prime Minister as well as the chief minister of the respective states.Manjhi is not the lone politician to have objected to the PM’s photo on the certificates. The Jharkhand government started issuing certificates with CM Hemant Soren’s photograph instead. In a similar move, the Chhattisgarh government started rolling out its own vaccination certificate for the 18-44 age group with CM Bhupesh Baghel’s photo.Manjhi’s tweet has given the opposition a ray of hope of a possible defection amid the pandemic. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), while backing Manjhi’s demands, provoked him to come out of the alliance. “What he raised today, the opposition has been demanding the same. If you are against the autocratic system, come out of it otherwise people will think that you are issuing statements to be in news,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. “I can say for sure that the certificate is an authentic letter for one and all anywhere in the world,” said BJP Bihar president Sanjay Jaiswal while the Janata Dal (United) state president Umesh Kushwaha said, “Manjhiji is a mature leader and part of the NDA. In a democracy, everybody has the right to put forward his views and at times people come out with personal views as well, which is always welcome. This is the beauty of democracy.”HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan justified Manjhi’s demand and alleged that vaccination percentage among Dalits and Adivasis has been abysmally low in the state. “Not 1% of the population of Dalit and the adivasis (the tribals) have been vaccinated yet because they are afraid and fear vaccination. Putting the President’s picture, who is also a Dalit, will inspire them,” said Rizwan. The HAM-S spokesperson said that “One wants to get laurels for vaccination. Then he should also get the pictures on death certificates,” indicating a large number of Covid-19 deaths in the state. Political analyst DM Diwakar said that Manjhi, by issuing such statements, is sending out a “confusing signal.” “This means that all is not good for him in the ruling alliance and he’s probably judging waters elsewhere. The problem with him is that he cannot adjust anywhere but he, along with VIP, Owaisi’s party, can be helpful in forming government in such fluid conditions in Bihar,” said Diwakar who is also a former director at AN Singa Institute for Social Studies. Manjhi’s party, the HAM-S, is part of the NDA in Bihar and his son Santosh Manjhi is the minister for minor irrigation and SC/ST welfare department in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government. The HAM-S won four seats out of seven it contested during assembly elections held in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-ally-jitan-ram-manjhi-embarrasses-nda-over-pm-s-pic-on-covid-19-vaccine-certificate-101621859767419.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows medical termination of triplets as 2 foetuses develop anomalies||The Bombay high court last week permitted the medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) of a woman after it was informed that two of the three foetuses she was carrying had abnormalities.The court was informed that the parents were not economically well-off, the mother’s mental health was not sound, and the birth of the infants would result in their mortality. A panel of doctors from Sir JJ hospital recommended the termination to the court, which was informed that the mother who had been undergoing psychiatric treatment realised she was pregnant only in the 19-20th week and the pregnancy was in its 25th week. The pregnancy had crossed the 24-week mark for termination, which was approved by the Parliament in March, so the couple had approached the court for permission. Also Read | ‘Will permit door-to-door vaccination if Centre doesn’t’: Bombay HC tells MaharashtraAfter the court passed the order on Friday, the woman underwent MTP in Parel on Saturday. On Friday, the vacation bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade was informed by advocate Aditi Saxena that after the pregnancy came to light when the woman underwent an ultrasonography. The report showed that the first foetus had anencephaly, which meant that its brain or skull had not developed. The second foetus had a soft chromosomal marker which would result in a genetic disorder due to the condition of the first foetus, while the third foetus did not have any anomaly. In its report, the panel of doctors from Sir JJ hospital confirmed the findings of the ultrasonography report and, as the chances of the two foetuses surviving or leading a normal life after birth was grim, considering the mental condition of the mother, recommended the termination of the pregnancy. After hearing the submissions and perusing the report of the panel, the court passed the order permitting MTP and directed the state government to take responsibility of the infants if they were alive after termination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-medical-termination-of-triplets-as-2-foetuses-develop-anomalies-101621858927839.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC takes suo-motu cognisance of increasing mosquito infestation in city||The Delhi high court on Monday took suo motu cognisance of the mosquito menace in the national capital and said that it has the potential to cause problems amid the pandemic. The court highlighted that due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the Capital the steps taken to contain the mosquitoes has taken a back seat.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh took suo motu cognisance of the mosquito infestatioin the city and asked the civic authorities to pull up their socks. The high court itself initiated a PIL and listed the hearing on May 28 before a bench headed by the Chief Justice.The court instructed three municipal corporations, Delhi government and local bodies New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board to intimate it regarding the steps these authorities have taken to mitigate the situation and its plans for containing the mosquito infestation in the future. The authorities have been asked to file a status report by Thursday.Delhi high court highlighted that the national capital sees a rise in vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya among others during and after the monsoon season. It pointed out that this has the potential to add to the problem as the city battles the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.“Every year during and after the monsoon months, there is a rise in vector borne diseases like dengue and chikungunya. If this is not contained, with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the rise of such diseases would add to the existing problems and complexities,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-increasing-mosquito-infestation-in-city-101621858014982.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP board to hold Class 12 exams in third week of June||The Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBoSE) is planning to conduct the Class 12 exams in the third week of June if the Covid-19 situation improves in the state. Earlier, the exams were scheduled from April 13 to May 10 but were deferred after the English paper due to a sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases. Also read: Punjab School Education Board to hold Class 12 exams in JuneThe Class 10 exams were cancelled, and it was decided to promote students to the next class. HPBoSE chairman Suresh Kumar Soni said: “If the Covid-19 situation improves further, we intend to issue a fresh datesheet by June 10 and exams may be started anywhere between June 15 and 20.” He said there were a total 1,14,926 students of Class 12 who would appear in the exam, comprising 1,00,982 in regular mode and 13,944 through the state open school. J&K board exams already held Javaid Ahmad Shagoo, the additional secretary of the school education department of J&K, said on Monday that there are a few schools in the UT that are affiliated to the CBSE, while a majority of the schools are under the Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education whose exam has already been conducted. The Class 12 JKBOSE exams were held in November and results announced in March. “We will be deciding soon and sharing our feedback with the Centre. We have no objection (to conducting exams) or whatever the Centre decides. Schools will adhere to the protocol,” Shagoo said. “There was a meeting (called by the Centre) on Sunday in which all participated. Overall, there will be exams with reduced syllabus. The merit will be calculated on the basis of the score in internal tests conducted online already,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-board-to-hold-class-12-exams-in-third-week-of-june-101621854787353.html
24-05-2021||Patna||28-yr-old woman ‘rescued’ on husband’s abduction complaint, dies by sucide: Cop||A 28-year-old woman was found hanging in a Bihar police station past Sunday midnight, hours after she was “rescued” by the police from Patna Junction railway station on a complaint filed by her husband who alleged she was abducted on May 21, police said.The woman, who was found at the railway station 100 km from her house in Nalanda district, told the police team that she left on her own with a 34-year-old auto-driver, Luv Yadav, the man accused by her husband of abducting her.S Hariprasath S, the Nalanda district police chief, said the woman was handed over to the district’s Rahui police after her rescue at the Patna Junction station. The woman, who has three children, was held overnight in a room at the police station so that she could be produced before a magistrate on Monday to record her statement. Luv Yadav, the man accused of abducting her, was in the lockup.Police believe that she died by suicide around midnight. When the police personnel found her hanging by her sari, she was taken to the Biharsharif Sadar Hospital. Doctors told the police that she was dead.Hariprasath said he suspended the officer on duty, the investigating officer and a woman cop on grounds of dereliction of duty. A medical board was also constituted to conduct the autopsy since this is a case of death in police custody.An inquiry has been ordered to investigate lapses in the police’s handling of the case.“The CCTV footage has also been preserved to facilitate the inquiry,” the Nalanda superintendent of police said.Traffic was disrupted in the area around the police station after scores of people gathered outside the station, accusing the police of torture. They demanded that an FIR be registered against the police personnel as well.This is the fifth reported case of death in police custody in Bihar.January 10: Dharmendra Manjhi, 34, who was arrested on charges of liquor smuggling, died when he was being taken to the police station from the court in Patna. Police had cited Manjhi’s ill health for his death. February 23: A 32-year-old Shailesh Pandey arrested for allegedly killing his three-month-old daughter in Bihar’s Saran district was found hanging at Avtar Nagar police station lock-up. February 28: Thirty-four-year-old Mohammad Imran alias Ekka, who was arrested on the charges of murder of a woman was found dead in Baunsi police station lockup under mysterious circumstances.March 9: A 35-year-old man, Amarjit Choudhary, who was detained for questioning on the charges of torture of his family members, died in the custody of the Kathara police outpost of Patepur of Vaishali district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/28yrold-woman-rescued-on-husband-s-abduction-complaint-dies-by-sucide-cop-101621854307238.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Girls do better than boys as PSEB declares Class 5 results||The Punjab School Education Board on Monday declared results of Class 5. The results will be uploaded on the PSEB’s official website www.pseb.ac.in and on www.indiaresults.com after 9am on Tuesday. In March, out of the total six exams, four exams were held, while two exams, including math, were not held due to a surge in Covid cases. The marks in the two subjects have been calculated on the average of four subjects. Also read: Full-scale production of Sputnik V in India this summer: Russian developersThe pass percentage in Class 5 was 99.76% as of the 3,14,472 students, 3,13,712 passed the exam. This year too, girls did a shade better than boys. The pass percentage of girls is 99.80% and that of boys is 99.73%. Rural school students do better Board chairperson Yograj said this year too students of rural schools performed well in comparison to urban schools. Even girls outshone boys this year too. The pass percentage of urban students is 99.74 %, while in rural schools the pass percentage is 99.77 %, he said. In Class 5 for government schools, the pass the percentage is 99.74, while for affiliated schools, it is 99.87% and for associated schools, the pass percentage is 99.85 %. In the merit list, Tarn Taran district topped the state by securing 99.95%, followed by Pathankot at 99.94 %. Hoshiarpur district remained at the last by securing 99.57%. If not satisfied with result , write to us: PSEB chairman Board chairman Yograj said: “If a child is not satisfied with the result, he/she can write to us and we will take their theory exam, once the Covid condition becomes normal. The email id is primarymiddle.pseb@punjab.gov.in Results at a glance Pass percentage: 99.76% Total students: 3,14,472 Students who passed: 3,13,712 Pass percentage of regular students: 99.76% Pass percentage of girls: 99.8% Pass percentage of boys: 99.73% Pass percentage of urban areas: 99.74% Pass percentage of rural areas: 99.77 % Pass percentage of affiliated schools: 99.87% Pass percentage of associated schools: 99.85% Pass percentage of government schools: 99.74 % Pass percentage of aided schools: 99.03%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/girls-do-better-than-boys-as-pseb-declares-class-5-results-101621853347274.html
24-05-2021||Other||Monday Musings: A sellers’ market as pvt hospitals begin to ease vaccination burden on state||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Sunday, said that the state would soon begin a 24-hour vaccination drive, as production capacity is likely to ramp up in June. Presently, vaccination for people aged between 18-45 years at public hospitals in Maharashtra has been put on hold due to lack of a smooth supply of vaccines. The Maharashtra government has, instead, decided to continue vaccinating those above 45 years of age, for whom doses are being purchased by the Centre and then distributed among the states. The state government, in view of the non-availability of vaccines, has completely withdrawn from the responsibility of vaccinating those in the age group of 18-44 years over the last few days; this age group has been most vulnerable to the virus during the second wave. On an insistence from various states, the Centre had, mid-April, allowed them to purchase vaccine doses directly from manufacturers to inoculate those above the age of 18 years. The shortage of vaccines made it difficult for states to continue with the vaccination programme. With only two firms supplying vaccines in India and different states and local bodies, including the Brihan Mumbai and Pune municipal corporations awaiting a response to proposed global tenders, it is increasingly proving to be a suppliers’ market. As the state is unwilling to immediately restart immunisation for all adults, the responsibility of inoculating this class is now partially being shared by private hospitals in cities like Pune. After starting vaccinations on Friday, as reported by Hindustan Times Pune in its May 21 edition, more private hospitals have received Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India, the city- based Covid vaccine manufacturer. In two days, at least 12 private hospitals procured doses and begun the inoculation programme across the city. These hospitals from Pune are charging ₹900 for each dose of Covishield, almost four times higher than the ₹250 price determined by the Union government at “non-public” hospitals, when the drive had started for those above the age of 45 years. The private hospitals are getting each dose from the manufacturer at slightly more than ₹600, including transportation and GST. They will also have to take into account wastage of some doses. For employees of corporate houses, the hospitals have priced each dose at ₹1,200 given that jabs are likely to be given on campus. There are scores of corporate houses, IT firms and manufacturing units in Pune who have lined up with these private hospitals and the on-campus drive is likely to start within two days. (See Page 3). Initially, the Cowin portal showed that almost all slots with most private hospitals are booked. With demand far higher than supply as the virus is unsparing in taking lives, most hospitals are witnessing long queues. The involvement of private hospitals in vaccination programme is a welcome step, given that the state government has shunned its responsibility. The need of the hour is to vaccinate as many, and as quickly as possible, as it will help the city drive towards herd immunity to withstand a possible third wave. The chief minister has repeatedly said the state is willing to buy 120 million doses to inoculate the entire 60 million population of Maharashtra, but it may take time for Maharashtra to start the drive for everyone, given that the shortage of doses from manufacturers is likely to continue. Pune has so far vaccinated close to 2.6 million people from various categories. It still has millions to be inoculated. Compared to the economic cost that city has been paying due to lockdown in the past two months of the second wave, the benefit of vaccinating the maximum number of citizens, even through private hospitals where the price is higher, clearly outweighs the cons. Those who can afford the price and are opting for private hospitals are actually reducing the burden on the government, which may at a later point resume vaccination for the larger population free of cost. For suppliers, it makes sense to sell doses to private hospitals rather than to the government, which is procuring the doses at a cheaper rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-a-sellers-market-as-pvt-hospitals-begin-to-ease-vaccination-burden-on-state-101621853227407.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Antibiotic pollution in Sirsa river flowing through Baddi pharma hub||Due to industrial waste being dumped into the Sirsa river that flows through Himachal Pradesh’s pharma hub of Baddi and Barotiwala, its water has a high content of ciprofloxacin class of drugs called quinolone antibiotics. Ciprofloxacin is an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections, including bone and joint infections, intra-abdominal infections, respiratory tract infections, skin infections, typhoid fever, and urinary tract infections. Also read: Now, on-site registration for 18 and above at govt vaccination centresThe India Veterans Forum for Transparency in Public Life, an NGO that is a constituent of the Consortium for Common Cause (CCC), has conducted a first-of-its-kind study to find out the level of pollutants in the form of discharge of antibiotics in the river in Baddi. To begin with, the discharge of ciprofloxacin was studied. The study, pioneered by wing commander BNP Singh (retd), showed that the level of ciprofloxacin downstream was extremely high and, in some instances, bordering on 1,500 times the basic safe limits meant for such discharge. NGT directed state to study pollution in riverArmed with the findings, the forum filed a petition before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on June 24, 2020. Hearing the matter, the NGT last year directed the authorities to constitute a task force and study the matter. As a result, the Himachal Pradesh Pollution Control Board (HPPCB) conducted followup tests and submitted its test reports to the NGT recently. “The tests confirmed ciprofloxacin pollution in the river,” major Kunwar Suresh Rana, the forum organising secretary, said. The board submitted its report to the state government besides the NGT. Studies found contents of ciprofloxacin and directions have been sought from the Central Pollution Control Board on the permissible limits. Impact of toxic discharge on human life The HPPCB test reports also conclude that though there are no standards available for this kind of pollution, there are draft recommendations and by going through them, it can be easily inferred that pollution found in the river is 1,500 times the acceptable norms. In the absence of any standards for evaluating the impact of the highly toxic discharge on human life, it is difficult to ascertain the health problems being faced by the population using the river water downstream and the natural seepage of the toxins into the groundwater table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/antibiotic-pollution-in-sirsa-river-flowing-through-baddi-pharma-hub-101621851789448.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Moderna, Pfizer said they’ll deal only with Centre, not states: Delhi govt||US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna have informed the Delhi government that “they will deal with the Central government” only and not sell Covid-19 vaccines individually to any state, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday. This comes at a time when government vaccination centres in Delhi have been closed for those below 45 years due to non-availability of doses and the government is trying to place orders with Indian and foreign manufacturers to replenish their stocks and reopen all centres.“We have spoken to Pfizer and Moderna for vaccines, and both the manufacturers have refused to sell directly to us. They have said they will deal with the Central government. We appeal to the Centre to import vaccines and distribute to the states,” Kejriwal told reporters on Monday. His statement also comes a day after Punjab said Moderna has refused to sell vaccines directly to the state.Kejriwal added: “We need vaccines. The Centre talked to Moderna, and Pfizer, and completed negotiations within 2-3 days. Why can’t it talk again to [vaccine] companies and complete negotiations in 3-4 days? Why is it not being done urgently? Bharat Biotech, which is manufacturing Covaxin, is willing to share its formula with everyone. A national newspaper reported that 16 companies here can produce Covaxin. Out of them, Bharat Biotech has struck a deal with only two companies. The Centre should order, not request, these 16 companies to start production within the next few days.”He added, “According to that report, if the 16 companies start production, they can produce 250 million vaccines every month. Then why are we not making these? Take the example of UK and USA. There are less than 18,000 cases in the USA. That shows that vaccine is the only solution to this [crisis]. Covaxin [stock in Delhi] is over but Covishield is left for a few days.”Also Read | Hoarding case: Drug controller to probe Gautam Gambhir, others, says Delhi HCIn the afternoon, in a press briefing, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government has reached out to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson&Johnson for vaccines, of which the former two have refused.“We asked the Centre for vaccines for the younger people, to which it replied that Delhi will only get 400,000 and the rest must be procured through a global tender. So, we reached out to foreign manufacturers and they have said they will only give to the Centre. The Central government has made vaccines a joke in India,” Sisodia said.“The Centre is solely responsible for vaccine shortage in the country. It failed to manage and sustain its vaccination drive. It was the Centre’s responsibility to make vaccines available to the entire country, but it chose to sell doses to others first merely for image management across the globe,” he said.The deputy chief minister urged the Central government to expedite approvals to foreign vaccines, and procure, and distribute them among states. He said foreign-made vaccines which the states have been asked to procure through global tenders have not even been given full approvals by the Central government till now.“Russia gave approval to its Sputnik vaccine in August last year and it started mass vaccination in December. In 2020, India had refused to give approval to Sputnik and did so only last month. We are only playing approval-approval here, whereas 68 countries bought Sputnik vaccines way before and started using them. Britain gave approval to US-made Pfizer in December. We were sleeping back then and are still sleeping. At least 85 countries approved Pfizer vaccine and started procuring and vaccinating, but in India, we have not yet given approval,” he said.“Moderna has been approved by 46 counties but India has not given its approval. At least 41 countries have approved the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, we have not yet given approval to sell it. What is this joke? The vaccines which the Centre has asked us to buy from outside have not even been approved in the country yet,” he said.Watch | ‘Pfizer & Moderna refused to sell Covid jabs to Delhi because..’: KejriwalSisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19, said all other countries closely monitored vaccine development across the globe and placed orders well in advance. “By November, 2020, nearly seven months ago, the USA and the European Union had procured 700 million vaccine doses. The US had started procuring vaccines right from their trial stages and today, it has enough doses for each of its citizens. Britain started its vaccination programme in January this year, and in that month itself, it had enough vaccines to cover 75% of its population,” he said.“In November 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the vaccine manufacturing plant of Serum Institute of India. The Indian government pumped in money to increase production only last month whereas the US started investing in production of vaccines in March, 2020,” Sisodia said.The minister said he hopes the Centre expedites procurement of vaccines to avoid a situation where even those who have got their first dose are made to take the vaccines all over again due to excessive delay in getting the second jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moderna-pfizer-said-they-ll-deal-only-with-centre-not-states-delhi-govt-101621849507080.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm labourer stabs teen to death, injures four others in HP’s Una||An 18-year-old boy was stabbed to death and four people were injured when a migrant labourer went on the rampage at Lower Badhera village in Haroli sub division of Una district early on Monday. Una superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur said the accused, Shankar Nishad, 63, a native of Bihar, was arrested and booked for murder. Also read: China accuses US of hyping theory Coronavirus escaped from lab in WuhanThakur said the incident occurred at 1.30am after four migrant labourers living in a rented accommodation had an argument. The accused attacked the other three with a sharp-edged weapon. One of them escaped and tried to hide in a neighbour’s house but Nishad chased and attacked him on the terrace of the house. He attacked Seema Devi, the wife of Naresh Kumar, and their 13-year-old daughter as they were sleeping on the terrace. He fled when people gathered on hearing their cries for help but was later arrested. The deceased youngster was identified as Ranveer Shah, the son of Vinod Shah. Besides Seema Devi, the two others injured, Manoj Kumar and Rajesh Kumar, were admitted to the Regional Hospital at Una, while the teenaged girl was rushed to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, where her condition is stated to be stable. The interrogation of the accused is on to ascertain the motive of the crime. According to panchayat members, Nishad had come to the village on May 20 and worked as a farm labourer like the rest of the victims. This is the second such crime involving migrant labourers in Una. Two days ago, two migrant labourers had beaten their friend to death at Dehlan village near the industrial town of Mehatpur. Nurse posted at Covid care centre in Chamba ends life A staff nurse deputed to the Covid care centre at Tissa in Churah sub division of Chamba district committed suicide by hanging. Block medical officer Rishi Puri said the 35-year-old nurse returned to her rented room after her shift at 6pm on Sunday. Her family members called her up from their native village in Himachal Pradesh but didn’t get a response after which they sent a relative to check on her. The relative and her neighbours broke open the door only to find her hanging. Chamba superintendent of police S Arul Kumar said a case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC. No suicide note was found, and the body was handed over to her family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-labourer-stabs-teen-to-death-injures-four-others-in-hp-s-una-101621848847249.html
24-05-2021||Patna||Covid cases on decline, says Nitish Kumar, extends Bihar lockdown by 7 days||The Bihar government on Monday extended Covid-19 lockdown by a week till June 1 after a review led by chief minister Nitish Kumar. This is the second time the state has extended the lockdown first announced from May 5 till May 15.“Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. The lockdown is showing good results and positive cases are coming down. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for seven days, from May 26 till June 1, 2021,” Nitish Kumar said in a tweet, posted in Hindi.The lockdown has slowed down the spread of the infection.On Sunday, Bihar reported 4,002 positive cases, down from the 14,794 positive cases reported in the state on May 4, the day before the lockdown.“The positivity rate which stood at 15.7% on May 2 has come down to 3% on May 12 and the recovery rate has increased to 93.44%,” said a senior Bihar government official, requesting anonymity.According to the Union health ministry data, there were 33 districts in Bihar which had a positivity rate of more than 10% a fortnight back. On Monday, there was only one district in this list: state capital Patna.Bihar’s crisis management group decided on May 4 to impose a state-wide lockdown from the following day in a desperate attempt to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases and the continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds across the state.The state government had been reluctant to go for a hard lockdown when the second wave of Covid infections hit many parts of the country and had tried to control the spread of the infection in early April with restrictions on trade and business activities. Schools and other educational institutions and religious places were told to close. Private and government offices were told that not more than 33% of the staffers can report to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-ve-cases-on-decline-says-nitish-kumar-extends-bihar-lockdown-by-7-days-101621848308582.html
24-05-2021||Patna||Bihar ministers asked not to flout lockdown by touring constituencies||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar has advised its ministers not to make rounds of their constituencies in violation of the restrictions in place during the lockdown, clamped earlier this month to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.A notification to this effect was passed by the cabinet secretariat department on Sunday which noted with concern "reported instances of ministers touring their constituencies or districts under their charge (prabhaar)" for reviewing the progress of development works etc."Such acts by honourable ministers will send a wrong message to the common people who might become disinclined to scrupulously adhere to the restrictions in place during the lockdown. These restrictions have been in place to control the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic which has gripped the state," the notification said."It is therefore requested that the honourable ministers avoid tours of their areas for reviews and inspections. If required, they may opt for video conferencing," the communication added.Lockdown was imposed in the state on May 5 for 11 days and, buoyed by the "positive outcome", the government extended it till May 25. During the period, a marked decline has been observed in the active caseload and positivity rate while the recovery rate has improved.The state had been relatively less severely affected by the viral outbreak when it first struck last year. However, the second wave has wrought devastation, infecting more than four lakh people in the last couple of months and claiming over 2,000 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ministers-asked-not-to-flout-lockdown-by-touring-constituencies-101621846516129.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Navy locates sunken tugboat, sends divers in search of crew||The Indian Navy on Monday located tugboat Varaprada at the seabed about 20 nautical miles away from Mumbai, using advanced side sonar of INS Makar and also sent their special diving team in search of any trapped crew members.“Tug Varaprada has been located during underwater search by INS Makar, which commenced early this morning,” said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command. He added that divers were looking for trapped crew members.Also Read | Barge P305 tragedy: Four more bodies recovered; toll touches 70The tugboat sank after Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai coast on May 17 morning, when it was returning to Mumbai harbour. The fact that it had capsized came to light after INS Kolkata rescued two of its crew members while on way to join an search and rescue operation for barge Papaa305 (P305). Barge P305 was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. It was anchored about 200 meters away from the platform when Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast. As stormy weather hit the coast, the barge got de-anchored in the night of May 16, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. Water started entering from a side, as it got damaged and eventually sank around 7pm on May 17, with 261 members on-board.The Navy succeeded in rescuing 186 crew members of P305 and has so far recovered bodies of 70 others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-navy-locates-sunken-tugboat-sends-divers-in-search-of-crew-101621845906916.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||‘Not the way’: Delhi HC orders probe by drug controller against Gautam Gambhir, others in hoarding case||Delhi High Court on Monday said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gautam Gambhir may have essential medicines to treat patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital in his possession but it was “no way” of going about it and that he has done "disservice" by stocking the drugs which were in short supply. “We are not doubting his intentions. But what has happened… The way he has gone about it, he has done a disservice. Ten other people would stand up and say we will also adopt this modus operandi. This was not the way,” the bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Jasmeet Singh said. "..With the best of the intentions they remain malpractice and in our society we cannot permit this," the court said. The court directed Delhi's drug controller to conduct a probe in the allegations and submit a report within one week. It was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) seeking lodging of a first information report (FIR) over the allegations that politicians could procure in huge quantities and distribute Covid-19 medicines even as families of patients were running from pillar to post to get the drugs.The bench said Gambhir, who represents East Delhi in the Lok Sabha, must have done it with best of intention but he knew that the medicine was in short supply. “Is that responsible behaviour? Should he not have realised that medicines are in shortage for others. He even has some stocks now. This means that when people were running helter-skelter, he was having it in excess. When people were not getting medicines, should he not have thought about this? Many people would have suffered because of this. This was no way,” it said.The court on May 7 directed Delhi Police to carry out an investigation in the alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders even as it refused to direct the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the case acting on a plea by a person, Deepak Singh. Delhi Police cleared nine politicians, including Gambhir, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president BV Srinivas, as well Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), in its preliminary investigation report for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders, as well as other essential medicines during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.“We would like you to tell us what inquiry you have done. We are not going in other things because the material is not clear. Here a clear case is made out. We want you to tell us what action can be taken against such people, everyone in the chain,” the bench said on Monday. Also read | Hoarding case: Delhi HC dissatisfied with clean chit to BV Srinivas, others“We want to pursue this only with respect to Fabiflu. Otherwise, it will be a witch hunt. We want to see the prescription of the doctor and the offences that are made out and to take actions accordingly,” it added.The bench said three instances of Gambhir, the AAP’s Preeti Tomar and AAP MLA Praveen Kumar deserve to be inquired by the drug controller of Delhi. It is also disclosed that said 2862 strips were purchased from authorised vendor. "The aspect which needs to be examined is that how such a large quantity of medicine was issued by the authorised vendor against one prescription dated April 18 particularly when the said medicine was in grave short supply at the relevant point of time," it said.“We can take judicial note of this aspect as we have been hearing these matters for some time. It would also need examination as to how these medicines which were purchased from retail were given to the patients by Manish Garg or the Garg Hospital.”Also read | Row over Gautam Gambhir’s offer of free FabiFlu from his office“Since the actions are in violation of the Drug Controller Act, let all the material collected by Delhi Police be given to them. The Drug Controller shall take necessary query/investigation and file a status report,” it said.“Status Report should indicate the provisions violated and the persons liable thereof. Similarly, in relation to Praveen Kumar and Preeti Tomar, we have perused the report for their alleged conduct of medical oxygen, similar exercise for them as well and include its finding in the SR to be filed within a week,” it added.It also ordered Delhi Police to share relevant material with the drug controller. “We direct the law department of the Delhi government to ensure that necessary expertise is provided to the drug controller to carry out their duties,” it said.Gambhir, on his part, has denied the allegations. He said the Gautam Gambhir Foundation had organised a free medical camp between April 22 and May 7 to provide assistance to people suffering from Covid-19. The cricketer-turned-politician said that the camp was organised by a doctor, who had volunteered his services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hoarding-case-drug-controller-to-probe-gautam-gambhir-others-says-delhi-hc-101621841581609.html
24-05-2021||Other||Helplines, mobiliser teams to fight vaccine resistance in Haryana’s Nuh||Already grappling with the second wave of Covid-19, the Nuh district administration in Haryana is also facing challenges in encouraging people to get themselves tested or inoculated, and has had to come up with innovative ideas to educate the people about the pandemic. This Sunday, the Nuh administration launched dedicated, round-the-clock Covid-19 helplines -- 1950,1800 180 1256, 01267 282 002, +91 70826 26686 -- to provide citizens critical information related to Covid-19 resources.Officials said that chatbot number +91-8059312201 has also been activated on WhatsApp on queries regarding sampling, bed availability, vaccination, home isolation, RT-PCR reports and medical team consultations.Dr Basant Dubey, district immunisation officer of Nuh, said they are facing challenges getting people to come forward for vaccination and testing. “We have involved mobiliser mitras to spread awareness among the villagers to get tested and vaccinated. Villagers are facing issues with online registration and for that, we have tied up with 317 computer operators in different villages who are running customer service centres to help in the registration,” he said. Vaccination for 45+ age group is done through on-the-spot registration at all 17 primary health centres, four community health centres, the government medical college in Nalhar and village routine immunisation session sites . Those in the 18-44 age group need to register online on the CoWin portal.Dr Dubey said they have written to the state government to allow them to start offline vaccinations across the district. “The vaccination number will increase once the offline process starts and people can walk into these centres,” he said.Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said the WhatsApp chatbot sources information directly from district administration officers. “The helpline will connect villagers to official sources of information and medical services, thus enabling quick access and helping the administration streamline its relief efforts,” he said. The chatbot has processed over 5,000 conversations on WhatsApp from users across the district, including over 1,000 messages sent on Sunday,” he said.Khadgata said the district has seen vaccine hesitancy to a large degree. “To motivate more people to go for Covid vaccination, we have roped in 100 mobiliser mitras, one at each subcentre, for supporting AAAs (ASHA, anganwadi worker and auxiliary nurse midwife) with activities. The teams are regularly doing activities among the community though there have been instances of aggressive behaviour against even our female field workers in the villages. There are 38 villages where despite our regular mobilisation activities, we could not vaccinate a single individual,” he said.The district administration has also roped in maulanas and other social figures to create awareness and get more villagers to come forward for vaccination, said officials.They said since April, they have conducted several meetings at public places, like dhabas, grocery stores, barbershops, and community centres, where villagers were counselled. Nuh total population is nearly 1.4million and 65% of its population belongs to the15-60 age group. Of the adult population, 237,451 people have been vaccinated with the first dose and 22,847 have been vaccinated with the second dose until May 23.The district sees around 1,700 Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and RT-PCR tests on average each day, but officials are planning to increase it to 2,000 soon . Till May 23, 4,746 people have tested positive. Two mobile RT-PCR and RAT sampling vans have been deployed at 22 fixed sites -- primary, and community health centres-- to improve testing. “In containment zones, we are doing sampling every day and trying to reach each house. Currently, our positivity rate is 6.1%( May 22), last week’s average was 7.94% . In the past week, the cumulative report was 1.74% , the lowest in the 22 districts of Haryana,” said Khadgata, adding that the recovery rate of the district is more than 92% and contact tracing is 20%, which is the highest in 22 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/helplines-mobiliser-teams-to-fight-vaccine-resistance-in-haryana-s-nuh-101621843031670.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||NSUI seeks refund of ‘extra’ fee charged by Mumbai university colleges last year||National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Sunday requested the vice chancellor of University of Mumbai to direct all affiliated colleges to either refund or adjust resources fee collected for the 2020-21 academic year citing financial constraints faced by students due to Covid-19 pandemic. This category includes charges for library, laboratory, gymkhana, sports and cultural activities, among others.“The pandemic has left an undesirable impact on every earning sector, thus creating a financial crisis in many families. Higher education institutes need to offer fee concession to students in such times,” stated the letter. NSUI also shared copies of fee receipts to highlight that students were charged for unused resources/facilities by several colleges in and around Mumbai despite classes and examinations being held online.Earlier in March, another student group had approached the vice chancellor’s office with a similar demand, but it got no official response from the varsity.“In several cases, despite warnings from higher authorities, several higher education institutes have demanded full fees from students, increasing the financial burden on their families,” said Faisal Shaikh, a member of NSUI in Mumbai. He added that the union will also try to meet the vice chancellor in furtherance of the demand.Not just students, many affiliated colleges, too, had approached the Mumbai university for refunds. Last year in November, the Association of Non-Government Colleges (ANGC) sought a refund of 60% examination fees paid by them to the varsity, citing “increased expenses” due to teaching and examinations having shifted online. “Students think just because they didn’t use the college campus the fee should be reduced, but they fail to understand how colleges are incurring larger expenses by investing in digital platforms and ensuring all exams are conducted online. We are only charging the fees needed for proper functioning of the institute,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nsui-seeks-refund-of-extra-fee-charged-by-mumbai-university-colleges-last-year-101621841107216.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to hold Class 12 exams in core subjects, curtailed format||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) will conduct the Class 12 final exams only for main core subjects in a curtailed format. As many as 2.7 lakh students are to take the exams that have been held up due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.“We will conduct board exams for Class 12 students in a curtailed format. Each exam will be of one-and-a-half hours instead of three hours and students’ own schools will be the exam centres. The paper will have only objective and short-answer questions,” board secretary Rajiv Prasad said on Monday.He said a review meeting of the board is scheduled on June 1.Also read: B.1.617 variant found in 65% of samples sequenced, says health minister15-day notice to students before exams “The board will give a 15-day notice to students for the exams. Our focus is on conducting the exams in a safe and secure environment. All exams will be conducted by following the Covid-19 guidelines,” he said.The Haryana government will conduct board exams of main subjects, including mathematics, biology, physics, chemistry, political science, English, Hindi, history, geography and accountancy. The marks of the fifth subject will be decided based on the performance in the main subjects.On the Class 10 results, Prasad said that the state board will declare its results on the pattern of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).Prasad said that Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal and he had taken part in the meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday on holding the CBSE Class 12 exams. The meeting was attended by education ministers and board secretaries of all states in which Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and women and child welfare minister Smriti Irani were present.Vaccination before exams, say parents Parents and students gave a mixed response to the state board’s decision. Many want the inoculation drive to be done before the children take the exams.“We want the board to conduct the Class 12 exams only once the situation improves and children are vaccinated. Why did the board not conduct exams with a curtailed format in March when the situation was better?” said Krishan Kumar, a parent from Bhiwani.To this, Prasad said that most of the students are aged below 18 years and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has not included this age group for vaccination yet.“We need to check with the government if vaccines can be given to students below 18 years. As of now, we have not taken any decision of vaccinating students and teachers before the exams,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-hold-class-12-exams-in-core-subjects-curtailed-format-101621839606593.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||3-day special walk-in Covid vaccination drive begins in Mumbai||People aged above 45-years can walk into 213 centres in Mumbai between 10am to 3pm for three days beginning Monday and receive the first dose of Covishield vaccine in a special drive by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Those above 60 years of age can also walk in at these centres to receive Covishield vaccine but those seeking the second dose will need to have completed 84 days after the first dose to be eligible. Corporation officials added that between Thursday and Saturday, vaccination will only be done on appointment basis, and on Sunday, it will remain suspended.The special drive will also provide the second dose of Covaxin to all age groups. BMC officials said the number of centres and timing will differ during the three day special drive to vaccinate people in the 45 years+ age group.The corporation had suspended walk-in vaccination about two weeks ago citing overcrowding at vaccination centres. The BMC last week resumed walk-in vaccination for those above 60 years. Vaccination for 18-44 years age group remains suspended in civic and government run vaccination centres.As per BMC data, there are 1.1 million senior citizens in the city, out of which, 882,000 have been administered the first dose. The civic body is now focusing on covering the remaining 300,000 senior citizens.On Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,427 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 49 related fatalities, raising the overall count of infections to 696,910 and the toll to 14,565. The Mumbai division, comprising Mumbai and its satellite towns, reported 3,678 new cases and 87 deaths, which increased the overall caseload to 1508,663 and the number of fatalities to 26,855, the state’s health department said.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 26,672 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 594 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 5,579,897 and the toll to 88,620, the health department bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3day-special-walk-in-covid-vaccination-drive-begins-in-mumbai-101621833486329.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Windy day ahead; Delhi AQI remains in poor category today||Delhi is likely to see a windy day on Monday with strong surface winds during daytime as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 21 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 22.4°C – four degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 33.5°C– six degrees below normal. Also Read | Delhi govt sanctions ₹5k aid for over 150k taxi, autorickshaw driversMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 255. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 237, also in the poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Last week, Delhi recorded the highest ever rainfall of 119.3 mm since 1951 for the month of May after weather conditions in the city changed under the impact of Cyclone Tauktae.“Delhi has received highest ever Rainfall of 119.3 mm since 1951 for the month of May,” the IMD said in a tweet on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/windy-day-ahead-delhi-aqi-remains-in-poor-category-today-101621824905926.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers to protest in Hisar today, admin steps up security||Farmers in Haryana’s Hisar will on Monday protest registration of First Information Report (FIR) against more than 300 farmers for clashing with the police earlier this month. The protest comes at a time when the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- an umbrella body of more than 40 farm organisations leading protests against the three contentious central agricultural laws -- has given a call to intensify the movement from May 26, when it completes six months.In view of Monday's protest, the district administration has stepped up security in Hisar, especially fortifying the police commissionerate which, the farmers, declared, they would “gherao” to protest against the police’s decision to book 350 unidentified farmers for the May 16 clash, as well as to demand action against the police personnel who allegedly lathi-charged them.Also Read | 350 farmers booked for Hisar incidentViolence broke out on May 16 after a section of farmers, protesting against the farm laws, tried to march towards a venue where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to inaugurate a Covid-19 hospital. The police, which was accused of “high-handedness” as it lobbed tear gas shells and used force to disperse the agitators, in turn accused the protesters of pelting stones at police personnel.While Khattar was able to inaugurate the hospital, the farmers, angered by police action, blocked several key highways in Haryana, and also gheraoed the residence of Hisar’s Inspector General of Police (IGP) against the arrest of some protesting farmers. They dispersed after those arrested were released.Also Read | Protest over Khattar’s visit: Farmers block major highways after clashing with cops in HisarHaryana, and its neighbouring state of Punjab, have emerged as the epicentre of the ongoing protests against the three farm laws. Farmers, most of them belonging to the two northern states, have been camping at three borders in Delhi, demanding a complete repeal of the laws. The legislations were passed in September last year, triggering a face-off between the farmers and the central government. 11 rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock; the two sides last sat across the table on January 22.Also Read | Khattar meets Amit Shah to update him on Hisar clashRecently, the SKM wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a resumption of the dialogue.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-to-protest-in-hisar-today-admin-steps-up-security-101621820616057.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sanctions ₹5k aid for over 150k taxi, autorickshaw drivers||The Delhi government has sanctioned one-time financial assistance of ₹5,000 to over 150,000 drivers of auto-rickshaws, taxis, e-rickshaws and other such modes of public transport, as a relief measure in the light of the Covid-19 lockdown, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted on Sunday.“...Under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s guidance, the transport department has sanctioned financial assistance of ₹5,000 per month for 155,301 drivers and owners of para-transit vehicles. The amount will be credited to their bank accounts from Monday,” Gahlot tweeted.The beneficiary drivers received similar aid during the nation-wide lockdown last year and didn’t have to apply for assistance this year. A senior Delhi government official said more drivers are being registered, and several others are likely to be paid in the coming days.On May 14, the Delhi cabinet approved ₹5,000 assistance to drivers of para-transit vehicles and Public Service Vehicle (PSV) badge and permit holders, in view of the limited economic activity during the lockdown and the consequent financial hardships they may face.Among the beneficiaries, an official said, are drivers of auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, ‘Phat Phat Sewa’, eco-friendly Sewa, ‘Gramin Sewa’ and drivers of maxi cabs with Public Service badges.Delhi has over 280,000 lakh PSV badge holders and 190,000 permit holders eligible for aid, the government said.Chief minister announced a similar programme on April 2 last year.However, the Delhi high court pulled up the state government on May 30, 2020, and ordered it to disburse the promised amount at the earliest, while hearing a plea by an NGO that cited complaints by several para-transit vehicle drivers who said they hadn’t got any financial assistance.Records showed that the state government eventually disbursed ₹78 crore as financial assistance for over 156,000 auto and taxi drivers in 2020..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sanctions-5k-aid-for-over-150k-taxi-autorickshaw-drivers-101621813792444.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds fewer than 2,000 Covid-19 cases since end-March, positivity rate below 2.5%||The national capital on Sunday added fewer than 2,000 new coronavirus disease cases for the first time since end-March, while the test positivity dropped below the 3% mark, as Delhi continued to make its way out of a brutal tsunami of infections that battered the city for a month.With 1,649 infections recorded in the state government’s daily health bulletin on Sunday, daily cases were at their lowest since the city logged 992 cases on March 30, around the time Delhi’s fourth wave of Covid-19 began to expand its footprint.Consequently, the seven-day average of cases, known as case trajectory, continued to fall in the city, with Delhi recording an average of 3,286 new infections each day over the past week, down to less than one-third from the previous week. In the week ending May 16, Delhi logged an average of 10,043 new cases a day. The week before that, the city saw an average of 18,374 cases every day.Sunday’s case trajectory was also the lowest in the Capital since the week ending April 5, when Delhi added 2,906 new infections to its tally per day.At its peak of the April-May surge, Delhi added 28,395 cases of the infection in a single day on April 20 — the most ever in the city since the pandemic broke out in March last year.Promisingly, the Covid-19 test positivity rate — the proportion of tested samples that return positive for Covid-19 – fell to 2.4% on Sunday, the lowest since March 28, and down from 3.58% the previous day. Delhi’s positivity rate, regarded as a crucial metric to understand the spread of an infection, has now dropped for 17 days consecutively and has stayed below 5% for three straight days. Experts across the world, including the World Health Organization (WHO), consider an infection to be under control in a region if the test positivity rate stays below 5% for at least two weeks.The number of deaths of the infection as per the health bulletin, however, went up slightly from the previous day. On Sunday, 189 people died of Covid-19, as against 182 people a day before. Covid-19 fatalities in Delhi have not dropped as precipitously as infections, though it must be noted that any drop in cases takes at least two weeks to have an impact on the number of consequent deaths.Sunday’s death toll was lower than the number of fatalities a week ago, when Delhi saw 262 deaths of the infection. However, more people died of the infection on Sunday than during the peak of the Covid-19 surge on November 18, when 131 people died — the most in a single day at that time.To be sure, the seven-day average of deaths has dropped for six days straight, from 300 on May 18 to 242 on Sunday, and any drop in case trajectory generally takes 14 days to reflect on daily deaths as studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days.Meanwhile, the number of active cases also continued to fall as new infections eased, giving health care infrastructure, medical workers and funeral infrastructure a crucial breather. The fall in active cases, which dropped below the 30,000 mark on Sunday for the first time in 43 days, has allowed the state government to renew its focus on contact tracing, and revive the Capital’s home isolation system.As on Sunday, 27,610 people in the Capital were battling Covid-19, less than half of the 62,783 active cases just a week ago.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday, while announcing a week-long extension of the lockdown, said curbs in the city will be lifted in phases from May 31 if cases continue to decline.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said the state government’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19 cases after curbs are lifted is crucial.“It is important to ask if our health systems are ready to take on a rise in cases after the curbs are lifted,” he said. “Do we have more hospital beds, more remdesivir, more antifungal medicines, and enough oxygen? This is what we need to ensure.”He added that three steps are vital to stem the rise of further surges: Awareness of appropriate behaviour and available health infrastructure and treatments among citizens, contact tracing, and proper screening of passengers who arrive in the city from other states or countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-fewer-than-2-000-cases-for-the-first-since-end-march-positivity-rate-below-25-101621813157876.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccinate students, teachers, before conducting CBSE class 12 exams: Sisodia||Conducting the CBSE Class 12 board exams without vaccinating students and teachers may prove to be a big mistake, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday at a high-level meeting called by the Union education ministry to discuss the fate of the pending board and entrance exams, which were postponed in view of the ongoing second Covid-19 wave across the country.The virtual meeting was chaired by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, minister of women and child development Smriti Irani, and information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar. State education ministers and secretaries, CBSE officials, and chairpersons of state examination boards were also present during the meeting.Though the meeting remained inconclusive, officials in attendance said that there was a “broad consensus” that the exams must be held, for a limited number of subjects and with a shorter duration, when the situation is under control.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said the state government was not in favour of conducting exams in the current scenario.“Families across the nation have suffered immense pain and trauma due to Covid-19. It’s time for the Union government to take a decision with respect to board exams, considering it has caused enough tension among our student and teacher community,” Sisodia said in a statement.“Conducting board exams in these unprecedented times will be a big mistake on behalf of the central government. Administering board exams when the world is preparing for the third Covid-19 wave is irresponsible, and at a time when there 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases a day in our country, our students, parents, and teachers will not be in a good mental state to sit for any kind of exams,” he added.Sisodia said students of Class 12 should be evaluated using alternative methods such as those CBSE used for Class 10 students this year after their exams were cancelled last month.“The central government should cancel the board exams if vaccinations are not possible, and initiate the ‘no-exam policy’ for students, awarding grades on the basis of their (students’) unit tests, pre-board exams, practical exams, similar to the Class 10 promotion policy. Students should also be given a choice to retake exams to improve, in case they are not satisfied with their results,” he said.Sisodia said the Delhi government demanded that both students and teachers must be vaccinated before conducting examinations. “In such a time of crisis, the central government should speak to Pfizer, as it has already developed vaccines for children aged above 12, and acquire these vaccines for the 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are in Class 12. Only after procuring vaccines and vaccinating all students should the central government think about conducting any kind of examinations,” the Delhi education minister said.He said 95% of the students in Class 12th are above the age of 17.5, and suggested the Centre consult health experts whether the vaccine given to those above 18 can be given to students of Class 12 as well. “If the vaccine can be given to 17.5-years-olds on the advice of health experts, then the indigenously made Covishield and Covaxin should be given to all Class 12 students on priority,” he said.“Once the vaccine is available, all state governments should ensure that all Class 12 students and school teachers are vaccinated within a week. In Delhi, we can vaccinate these two groups within two days,” Sisodia said.The Centre has asked state governments to send their suggestions on the cancellation/conduct of board and competitive exams by Tuesday. “As envisioned by the Hon’ble PM, the meeting was extremely fruitful as we received immensely valuable suggestions. I have requested the State Governments to send me their detailed suggestions by 25th May,” Nishank tweeted after the meeting.Emphasising that both students’ and teachers’ safety, security, and future are “supremely important to us”, Nishank, in another tweet, said: “I’m confident we will be able to arrive at an informed, collaborative decision regarding the Class 12th board exams and remove the uncertainty among student’s and parent’s minds by informing them of our final decision at the earliest.”The Union government has proposed that the states conduct Class 12 exams only for major subjects, according to the proposal document seen by HT. Nearly 20 of the 174 subjects offered to Class 12 students are considered major subjects by CBSE. Board students take a minimum of five and a maximum of six subjects, of which four are considered major subjects.According to the proposal documents, examinations for the major subjects can be conducted in two ways. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years and for the minor subjects “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects.”Conducting exams in this mode is possible only if the board has three months, which will include “one month of pre-exam activities and two months for the conduct of exams and declaration of results and another 45 days for compartment exams”, according to the document.The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination from three hours to 90 minutes, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer-type questions. The process, as per the second proposal, can be completed in 45 days and results can be declared within 15 days of exams ending.The second proposal also said the examination may be conducted twice depending on the state of the pandemic in parts of the country. “The Class 12 examinations could be conducted two times by the Board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations, the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase,” the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccinate-students-teachers-before-conducting-cbse-class-12-exams-sisodia-101621812242135.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Family of five murdered over property dispute||A couple and their three minor children were allegedly hacked to death over a property dispute at a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya late on Saturday night, police said on Sunday.The couple’s nephew has been arrested in connection with the murder, along with his parents and wife, they said.The incident took place at Baria Nisaru village under Inayatnagar police station limits after midnight on Saturday.According to preliminary investigation, the victims were attacked with a heavy and blunt object while they were sleeping, Ayodhya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey said. The bodies have been sent for post mortem examinations, he said.The victims were identified as Rakesh Kumar, 35, his wife Jyoti, 30, and their three children — two sons and a daughter, aged 2, 5 and 8 years, respectively.Rakesh’s nephew, Pawan Kumar, who had been living with the family for a few years, went missing soon after the incident, Pandey said. Locals in the area alleged that Pawan was demanding a share in Rakesh’s property, he said.The police were able to nab Pawan’s parents and wife on Sunday morning, who confessed to being involved in the crime, the official said, without giving details. The three also lived in Rakesh’s house. Later in the day, Pawan was arrested, Pandey said. It is suspected that some others might also be involved in the murders, the SSP said, adding that a forensic team has collected samples from the scene of the crime.The four accused have been booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), he said. Further investigation was underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/family-of-five-murdered-over-property-dispute-101621810540807.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown extended, to be eased in phases||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended the month-long lockdown in the Capital by another week, but said that the government will consider a phased withdrawal of restrictions from May 31 if the daily cases of the coronavirus disease continue to decline.Taking a cautionary stand, the chief minister said that the larger public opinion supported the extension of the lockdown for another week – till 5am on May 31.“In the last 24 hours, we asked several sections of people what to do and the larger opinion is that the lockdown should be extended by another week. If we open everything now, there is a risk that we may lose all gains on the Covid-19 front we have made over the last one month,” Kejriwal said at a virtual press briefing.“However, if the curve (of Covid-19 cases) continues to decline like this for a week, we will start a phased un-lockdown process from May 31. We cannot open everything at one go. There is immense risk in it. So the relaxations have to be implemented in a phased way. I hope people will cooperate in this,” he added.There is no word yet on the relaxations that may be announced by the government. Under the existing lockdown, general movement of people and economic activities are prohibited, with exemptions only for those engaged in essential services. Metro services, too, have been suspended for the last two weeks and will remain closed for now.On April 19, the weekend curfew in Delhi was turned into a full lockdown for six days.This is the fifth extension of the lockdown that was necessitated by the fourth and the deadliest wave of infections in the city; at the time, Delhi was adding an average of 20,065cases per day with every one in fiveperson tested being diagnosed as Covid-positive.This runaway spread of the outbreak unraveled the city’s public health infrastructure, particularly from April 22 to the first week of May, when hospitals faced an acute shortage of oxygen and other drugs as patients and their families scrambled to find hospital beds.Since then, the city has scaled up medical facilities and services while the transmission of the outbreak has slowed down -- a trend experts attributed to the effect of the lockdown, adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and a natural ebbing of the wave that is likely to have infected those vulnerable.Delhi has added an average of 3,286 new cases daily in the last seven days. On Sunday, the Capital city recorded 1,649 new cases, its lowest single-day tally since March 30 and 189 deaths, according to the government’s health bulletin.The positivity rate, which soared to a peak of 36% on April 22, dipped to 2.42% on Sunday. Epidemiologists say a positivity rate – the proportion of samples testing positive for the viral illness – below 5% indicates that the outbreak is under control.Health experts said the government’s move to wait for another week before taking a call on lifting restrictions to allow some resumption of economic activities appeared to be well thought-out.“The city cannot remain under a complete lockdown forever. That is understandable. Before relaxing the lockdown, Delhi should ideally have a positivity rate of less than 5% for at least one week. Cases are declining and they are likely to further decline by May 31. A phased re-opening of important economic activities can be considered at that point. Also, people must remember that they cannot let their guards down like they did before the second wave of the pandemic hit India. For governments, this is also the time to scale up vaccination,” said Dr Puneet Misra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.Traders associations, too, said they welcome the decision to consider lifting curbs. “Relaxing the lockdown at this point and at one go could have led to a surge in cases again. The government, however, should consider giving some compensation to traders whose income has been affected by the lockdown,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of the Confederation of All India Traders.Several residents said they were in favour of keeping the lockdown for another week as well. Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi, a collective of around 1,800 resident welfare associations (RWA) in the city, said: “It was evident that the situation in Delhi would not come sufficiently under control till the end of this month… Now they should focus on increasing vaccine coverage.”Kejriwal on Sunday echoed a similar stand and said that the threat is not over even though Delhi is in a “much better shape”. “In one month, with the cooperation of Delhi’s residents, we are in a much better shape. I will not say that the Covid-19 wave is over but it has significantly come under control. We overcame the shortage of hospital beds and medical oxygen in this phase with the help of people, central government, Supreme Court and the (Delhi) high court,” he said, referring to the clutch of orders given by the courts to ease the public health crisis in recent weeks.The chief minister added that the government’s priority is to vaccinate the city’s population at the earliest to avoid another outbreak. “There is speculation of a (national) third wave. We have to prepare for that aggressively in terms of scaling up hospital beds, ICUs, oxygen, tankers, oxygen storage facilities, etc. But high vaccine coverage can totally reduce the possibility of a third wave. We have had talks with several manufacturers on how vaccine coverage can be increased in Delhi. We are ready to buy vaccines for our entire population, no matter how much it costs,” he said.Delhi is among the states and Union territories that have raised concerns over the supply and procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. Around 250 government-run centres in the city stopped administering the jabs to people in the 18-44 age group this weekend due to a shortage of vaccines. Other states, including Maharashtra and Punjab, have said their situation is similar.The Aam Aadmi Party government has repeatedly said it needs 8 million doses per month to inoculate its adult population of 15 million by August. So far, around 26% of the adult population in the Capital has received at least one dose of the vaccine, latest government records showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-extended-to-be-eased-in-phases-101621810296931.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Sharing meds and pain during pandemic||Last week, Anita Prajapati, a resident of Sixth Avenue, a multi-storey housing society of over 1,100 apartments in Gaur City, Greater Noida West, sent out a request on the society’s WhatApp group, appealing to the residents to donate their unused Covid-19 medicines. A week later, she put up a long list of the medicines she had collected and the message that anyone could pick any medicine – steroids, vitamin supplements, antibiotics—as long as they had a doctor’s prescription. “The idea was to create a medicine bank to tackle medicine shortage in the market and stop wastage,” she said.The Sixth Avenue is part of a network of 30 housing societies that have come together to pool in their unused medicines, with 50 volunteers like Prajapati, known as ‘medicine warriors’ coordinating the effort. “We have placed boxes with the guards in all the societies, where people drop the unused medicines. There is a central database of all the medicines collected,” says Manjul Yadav, a software engineer and co-founder of the initiative called Helping Hands Medicine Bank.Last month, as the Covid cases recorded a sharp spike, most medical shops across Delhi/ NCR ran out of essential Covid medicines, putting many patients in a precarious situation. That prompted many housing societies to form WhatsApp Covid- SOS groups and ‘medicine banks’—where people can donate their unused medicine and those who require them can receive them free of cost.What started with a few RWAs is now fast becoming a movement across the country, with many NGOs, individuals, including doctors, starting unused medicine donation drives. Some of these initiatives are Covid Medicine Recycle, MedsForMore, Mission Medicine, and Resources Saanjh, among others.These community initiatives, experts say, are significant because factors such as fear of exposure to the coronavirus while visiting a hospital or pharmacy, high cost, scarcity, hoarding and irrational use of medicines create barriers to access to medicines.Many of these initiatives are born out of people’s personal experiences.“I lost my uncle to Covid, we had a lot of his unused medicines. There were reports of a shortage of medicines in the market and I thought if Delhiites could donate their unused medicines, we could easily overcome the problem. So on our organization’s social media platforms, I requested people to donate,” says Rahul Verma, founder, Uday Foundation, an NGO.The response, he says, was overwhelming.In three weeks, his organization has received over 1,000 Kg of medicines, both Covid and non-Covid, new and unused. Donors, he points out, includes RWAs, individuals, companies; while many of them, he says, sent them by courier, others personally delivered hundreds of cartons and packets at the organization’s collection centre. “We are sending these medicines to slums, charity hospitals, and rural areas across the country,” says Verma.Omkar Nath Sharma, 84, better known as Medicine Baba, who runs perhaps the city’s first and oldest medicine bank in west Delhi, says Covid has given a new push to the idea of medicine bank. In the last one month, he says, more people have visited his bank than ever before. “I have collected and donated medicines worth ₹12 lakh in one month. Besides, I sent packets to all parts of the country, including villages,” says the octogenarian, who has been going door-to-door across Delhi even during the lockdown with a loudspeaker in hand, asking people to donate unused medicines.He has also placed several collection boxes at temples, gurdwaras and crematoriums. Sharma, who has hired two people to help him run the medicine bank, says, his associates run two more medicine banks in Faridabad and Chandigarh. “A lot of people called to know if I could get them remdesivir injection, but unfortunately, I did not have them.”Jatin Dhingra, who travels to Sharma’s medicine bank all the way from Jahangirpuri to take medicines for his mother cannot appreciate his idea enough. “My father is no more and my mother has diabetes and high blood pressure. Her medicines cost ₹1,500 per month, an amount which I cannot afford,” says Dhingra.According to a 2020 Brookings Institution report titled, ‘Medicines in India: Accessibility, Affordability, and Quality,’ the share of medicines in Out of Pocket Expenditure (OOPE ) was around 51% in 2013-14, which reduced to 43% in 2015-16, but still remained the biggest contributor to the OOPE incurred by households.It was the plight of daily wage earners during the lockdown that prompted Shakeel Qureshi, an exporter, to start a Medicine Bank in Bareilly. The message on its walls says that all medicines are given free to poor people only on the prescription of a doctor. “During lockdown last year, I realised daily wagers had lost all income and could not afford to buy essential medicines. We have qualified pharmacists and are presently catering to 250 people every day, compared to 100 last year,” says Qureshi . “We purchase medicines from distributors and also collect unused medicines as donations. We intend to continue it even after the pandemic.”Not just Qureshi’s medicine bank, the popularity of many of these unused medicine donation initiatives are rising fast.For example, on May 1, Mumbai-based doctor couple, Marcus Ranney and Raina Ranney started MedsForMore, an initiative which connects people who have unused medicines with those who need it in their apartment building. Three weeks on, it has a presence in many cities, including Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore, Ahmadabad, Gurugram, Noida. So far, the initiative being led by teams of local residents across cities has collected over 150 Kg of Covid medicines.“Society has experimented with similar ideas for books, food and, clothing, so why not do the same with medicines and health products. Our mission is to utilise the existing medical resources, both medicines and devices, as efficiently as possible,” says Dr Marcus Ranney, adding that it also has huge environmental benefit as unused medicines will not end up as biomedical waste in dumping grounds, rivers and the water supply.Experts concur. “Medicine bank by RWAs is a great idea that can really help people when there is a shortage of medicines in the market. It can particularly benefit senior citizens who live alone and might find it difficult to go out and buy medicines in the market,” says Dr Arun Kumar Sharma , former professor, community medicine, University College Of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“But RWAs must ensure that collected unused medicines are genuine, are given away to people only on a doctor’s prescription and only in required quantities,” Kumar said.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health, JNU, New Delhi, says that it is the duty of the healthcare institutions—both private as well as public—to ensure an uninterrupted supply of medicines for patients during the pandemic.“There are several barriers to accessing medicines during the pandemic. This issue becomes more important as Covid cases in rural India continue to remain high and may rise for some more time,” says Dr Dasgupta. “States should make uninterrupted supply of medicines a mandated and assured service to be provided by both public and private institutions. Covid medicines should be provided free to the poor. Citizens’ initiatives, I feel, can only have a limited impact.”But Omkar Nath Sharma, aka the Medicine Baba, has a different take. “Medicine banks can play a big role in making medicines accessible to the poor during and after the pandemic. My mission is to open a medicine bank in every state,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharing-meds-and-pain-during-pandemic-101621809851395.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||20-yr-old beaten to death on theft suspicion in outer Delhi||A 20-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of people in outer Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar on the suspicion of theft, police said on Sunday.Two men, identified as Amit and Videsh, were arrested on Sunday in connection with the incident that took place late on Saturday night. Raids are on to arrest two others involved in the incident, the police added.The victim, Sarfaraz, was caught hold of by some residents of Swaroop Nagar while in the area on Saturday night. They took him to a nearby factory where they allegedly tied him to a heavy machine and thrashed him with sticks, the police said.Sarfaraz was found unconscious on Sunday morning, and was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival, a senior police officer said.The victim’s brother told the police during an inquiry that he was beaten on the suspicion of theft.Sarfaraz was unemployed. The police claimed that he was addicted to substances and was admitted to a rehabilitation centre two months ago.A case of murder has been registered at Swaroop Nagar police station, senior police officers said, and said they were on the hunt for the other two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20yrold-beaten-to-death-on-theft-suspicion-in-outer-delhi-101621809419750.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Cops go easy on violators, offer roses to spread awareness on lockdown rules||Instead of prosecuting people for violating the lockdown and issuing challans, the Delhi Police switched to a non-coercive method by offering roses to the violators and sensitizing them about the need to stay indoors on Sunday.While roses were given to all violators across Delhi, in some parts of the city, the police made the violators pledge that they would not violate the lockdown rules and be more involved in creating awareness. At other places, they urged a group of violators to educate another group about the need to stay safe and follow necessary precautions.At some places, the violators were asked to hold placards bearing messages related to the lockdown. Even policemen were spotted with placards in some places.“For a change, a non-coercive mode has been adopted today (Sunday). The emphasis is on educating violators and utilising them too in furthering awareness among the residents. Policemen are encouraged to adopt effective alternative means instead of issuing challans,” Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said in a tweet.According to Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, challans were not issued only for this Sunday. “Since the lockdown is a prolonged one, we decided to focus a day on sensitizing the lockdown violators,” said Biswal.The police denied that the day-long drive was in response to the criticism faced by a Chhatisgarh IAS officer, who was purportedly caught in camera slapping a boy who was allegedly violating the lockdown.However, a police officer said that the change in police’s attitude was also because of the feedback that the police were “harsh” on lockdown violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cops-offer-roses-to-sensitise-violators-about-lockdown-norms-101621808613582.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s revenues hit by curbs, lockdowns||Months of closures due to the two Covid-19 lockdowns and multiple restrictions have left the Delhi Metro’s finances in bad shape, with revenue streams running dry and losses mounting, showed documents seen by HT.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) incurred losses of ₹1,784.87 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal, with operations either curbed or stopped because of Covid-19, documents show.The Delhi Metro was shut for over five months last year during the nationwide lockdown, and has been closed again for the past two weeks, as part of the state government’s measures to arrest the rapid spread of the infection. The lockdown, which came into effect on April 20, initially exempted some groups and allowed them to use the Delhi Metro. But this changed May 10 onwards, as the state tightened restrictions.“There has already been a significant impact on DMRC’s revenues, and as long as the pandemic and associated travel norms are in place, losses are likely to remain or even increase with the passage of time. However, as a public service system, we are also committed to the cause of stopping the spread of the disease and will always extend all possible cooperation in this regard,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC.Senior Metro officials said even though operations resumed after five-and-a-half months of complete shutdown — from March 22 to September 7 — last year, services were restricted to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. After the Metro restarted, the passenger capacity of each coach was reduced from 300-350 to just 50. To ensure that the trains are sanitised after each trip, the waiting time on each route also increased from an average of three to six minutes earlier to 15 minutes.Revenue records show that in the 2020-2021 fiscal, DMRC’s revenue from traffic operations, which includes income from tickets, feeder bus services and rentals, and other services, fell sharply to ₹895.88 crore, from ₹3,897.29 crore in 2019-2020. Similarly, in 2018-19, their income from operational and non-operational sources was ₹3,582.80 crore.The Metro body’s books also show that in 2020-21, the agency ran into deficits of ₹1,784.87 crore, as against a surplus of ₹758.01 crore in 2019-20. In 2018-19, DMRC recorded a surplus of ₹1,027 crore.Apart from these pandemic-induced losses, the Delhi Metro has also been repaying ₹808.70 crore of loans and ₹433.85 as interest to the Japan International Cooperation Agency, which helped the Metro fund expansion projects. Officials said the DMRC is in talks with the central government to find ways to ensure payments towards this loan does not suffer.Senior Metro officials said the transport body’s incomes have not been near pre-pandemic levels for nearly 14 months. “Prior to the lockdown in March last year, nearly ₹10 crore used to be the average revenue per day both from ticketing and non-ticketing avenues. The Delhi Metro was operational from September last year till early May this year. However, even during this period, pre-pandemic levels of revenues could not be generated because of the protocols in place to restrict the spread of the disease,” Dayal said.When the Metro resumed operations in September last year, the number of passenger journeys went down to 619,242, as opposed to 5,452,367 in the same period in 2019. By March this year, the number of passenger journeys finally started picking up and reached 2,680,358, but this was still nearly half of the 4,392,823 journeys the Delhi Metro made in March 2019.Metro officials said while letters were written early this year to the central and Delhi governments asking for financial assistance, the revenue collected by operations are pumped back into the system for operations and maintenance of the system and of fixed assets such as office buildings, stations etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-revenues-hit-by-curbs-lockdowns-101621808013955.html
24-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan may move Supreme Court for uniform vaccine policy||The Rajasthan government is planning to approach the Supreme Court to ask for a new policy that ensures uniform distribution and pricing of Covid-19 vaccines, said a senior official familiar with the development. It will be the second state to do so after West Bengal, which had on May 7 moved the apex court for the exact same reason and demanded that the states be given the vaccines free of cost.Rajasthan’s vaccination programme has been slowed down by a shortage of jabs. So far, only 1.26 crore of its total population of 8 crore has been administered the first dose, and just 31.2 lakh have received the second. Of those vaccinated fully, 16.34 lakh are over the age of 60 and 7.48 lakh are in the 45-59 age-group.The state government is also spending ₹3,000 crore to inoculate people in the age group of 18-44 years. For this, it has ordered 3.75 crore vaccine shots from the Serum Institute of India (SII), which has been struggling to meet the huge demands raised by all states. So far, over 12.59 lakh people in this age-group have been vaccinated.The state has also floated a global tender to procure 1 crore doses but says that this should have been done by the Centre. “The state can bear the expenditure, but the tender should be floated by the government of India. The Centre can negotiate for a uniform rate, and check the credentials and credibility of the vendors,” said the aforementioned official on the condition of anonymity, adding that so far six to eight vendors have participated in the tender and some of them have been asked to provide more additional documents.The differential pricing, the official said, will result in competition among states, as the vendors participating in the global tender are quoting more than twice the price of vaccine — ₹300 per dose plus GST.Vaccine manufacturers SII and Bharat Biotech have been charging ₹150 per dose from the Centre, and ₹300-400 per dose from the states. The price should be capped at a uniform rate of ₹150, the official said.Centre’s announcement of differential pricing for vaccines was opposed by many states, and had led the Supreme Court to observe, in a suo motu case, that the policy was violative of a citizen’s constitutional rights and the Centre should revisit it. The Centre had asked the court not to interfere with an executive decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-may-move-supreme-court-for-uniform-vaccine-policy-101621803494845.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moderna refuses to sell vaccines directly to Punjab||US pharmaceutical company Moderna has refused to supply its Covid vaccine directly to Punjab, saying that its policy allows it to entertain such requests only from the government of India, a senior state official said on Sunday.The development came after the Amarinder Singh government reached out to several manufacturers, including Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, and Gamaleya (maker of Sputnik-V), for direct purchase, said state nodal officer for vaccination Vikas Garg.The state government said last week that it has storage space for 3.5 million Sputnik-V vaccines, which requires temperature of -18 degrees Celsius. But so far, only Moderna has replied to the request, Garg said. The company’s vaccine has so far inoculated over 90 million people. Moderna could not be reached for comments.Earlier, the Punjab government approached Covax, the global vaccine sharing programme, but was told that it would not directly deal with the state, Garg said.The Punjab government has said that it has so far received 4.4 million vaccine doses from the Centre, and the first dose has been administered to 3.66 million people while 730,000 have received the second shot. But due to the non-availability of jabs, the state has had to stop phases 1 (above 60 years) and 2 (above 45 years) of its vaccination programme in the last three days.“We are seeking more vaccines from the Centre. They will also advise how to deal with such manufacturers who directly deal with the Centre,” said Garg.Punjab had a tepid response to the programme as not many people turned up for vaccination in the early days. But the brutality of the second wave triggered panic, leading to rush at vaccination centres, especially in rural areas. Punjab registered nearly 5,300 fresh Covid cases and 201 deaths on Saturday, taking the death toll in the state to over 13,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moderna-refuses-to-sell-vaccines-directly-to-punjab-101621801199674.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s cotton crop area claim last season holds no water||As cotton sowing is in full swing in Punjab, questions have been raised on the state agriculture department’s previous claim that in 2020 more than one-lakh hectare area was diversified into cotton from water-guzzling paddy.Sources admit that the official claim that last year’s area under cotton was enhanced from 3.9 lakh hectares in 2019 to 5.01 lakh hectares across the semi-arid region of southern Punjab does not hold water.Officials said it is surprising that no clarification has been issued by the agriculture department, the portfolio held by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on an overstretched claim of record cultivation of cotton last year.“It appeared to be a case of an exaggeration to claim drastic success in crop diversification. Cotton production data belies any such claim,” says an official privy to the cotton production. Agriculture director Dr Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said last season, only 2.51 lakh hectare was covered under cotton.“I cannot comment about the statements made before my joining the office in February this year. But as per official record, for this year, we have set the target to bring 3.25 lakh hectares under crop, an increase of 20% area than 2020. As per the weekly report till May 17, sowing was completed on a 1.80-lakh hectare area. It will be over in another one week,” he said.In the 2020-21 season, an estimated 45-50 lakh quintal cotton was purchased by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and private players.Agriculture experts say one hectare produces an average of 20 quintals of raw cotton and Punjab should have produced close to one-crore quintals if the cash crop was actually sown on 5 lakh hectares.“Last season was good, and the cotton-growing area did not witness any major pest attack. An average farmer produced between 8-12 quintals from one acre is on par with the past trend of a good yield. No protest by farmer unions, who are most active in Malwa districts, is an indicator that overall yield was good,” say sources in agriculture and cotton industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-cotton-crop-area-claim-last-season-holds-no-water-101621801024850.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||15,000 candidates take nursing exam in Punjab||Amid ongoing second Covid-19 wave, 15,708 candidates appeared for the nursing staff recruitment exam in 15 districts of the state on Sunday.The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) conducted the written test for 473 posts of staff nurses under the state health department and 30 under the BFUHS. The selected candidates will be posted in government colleges and hospitals.A total of 103 exam centres were set up at Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Hosiarpur, Jalandhar, Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka, Moga, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Mohali, Patiala and Sangrur. While 17,327 candidates registered themselves for the exam, 1,619 didn’t appear. The candidates were allowed to enter the examination centre after producing a negative Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) report. As many as 67 covid positive candidates also took the test from isolation wards of medical colleges and civil hospitals. Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, BFUHS inspected three examination centres in Mohali. He said social distancing norms were strictly followed during the examination process. “It was very important process due to Covid-19 outbreak, but we were able to conduct examination successfully,” he said. Caption: A Covid-19 positive candidate taking the exam at an isolation centre at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15000-candidates-take-nursing-exam-in-punjab-101621800784972.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Ardas’ row: BJP leaders’ support to ‘pathi’ enrages Sikh bodies||Various Sikh bodies are enraged over some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders’ support to the ‘pathi’ arrested for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by doing ardas at Bathinda’s Bir Talab village gurdwara for controversial Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, saying that “this is deep-rooted conspiracy to vitiate atmosphere in the state”. The ‘pathi’ was booked under section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the IPC.Members of some Sikh bodies discussed the issue at a gurdwara in Sangrur on Saturday. Prominent BJP leaders who opposed the action against the ‘pathi’ were Vijay Sampla and Rajesh Bagha. Being chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, Sampla also sought a report from the Bathinda police. During his visit to Amritsar on Friday, Sampla had said he found no ground for charging the ‘pathi’ with Section 295-A, adding that police acted against him because he was Dalit and prayed for ‘Dalit chief minister in Punjab’.Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “This ardas was against Sikh maryada as it was performed for a person who is guilty of heinous crimes such as rape and against whom hukamnama was issued by Takht Sahib for committing blasphemy. Anyone supporting this kind of ardas is wrong”.“Days after Punjab Police arrested six Dera followers in the sacrilege case, this so-called ardas was organised in which release of the dera chief was also desired. Entire Sikh Panth is enraged over this act, but BJP leaders support it. Why? A Dalit was chosen for this act so that Sikhs are divided over caste lines ahead of the 2022 elections,” Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member Sukhdev Singh Bhaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ardas-row-bjp-leaders-support-to-pathi-enrages-sikh-bodies-101621800604927.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation improving in J&K: L-G Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday said the Covid situation was improving with “63% of the targeted population” getting vaccinated.In a video message, he sought active participation from various stakeholders to complement government’s efforts in the fight against the pandemic.A government spokesman said that Sinha urged the elected PRI representatives, teachers, ASHAs, anganwadi and ANM workers besides voluntary organisations to play an active role in the effective implementation of Covid preventive measures in rural areas.The administration has initiated the setting up of five-bed Covid centres in every panchayat.“Situation is improving gradually. We are intensifying the vaccination drive across the UT,” Sinha said. The L-G said that testing and vaccination was the mantra to fight the pandemic. “I request all of you to participate actively in both testing and vaccination campaigns so that the spread of the deadly virus can be effectively contained,” he added. He also urged the public to follow the Covid protocols in letter and spirit and get themselves vaccinated.“With collaborative efforts, I do believe we shall overcome this health crisis and take Jammu & Kashmir to the new height of progress and prosperity,” the Lt-Governor said.51 die of contagion in J&KAs many as 51 people lost their lives to Covid on Sunday in Jammu and Kashmir, taking May’s fatalities to 1,282 and overall death toll to 3,564.The region also recorded 3,308 fresh infections in the past 24 hours taking the overall cases to 2,70,621. The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Sunday was highest this month so far at 4,956, including 3,073 from Kashmir and 1,883 from Jammu.The total number of people who recovered reached 2,19,620, improving the recovery rate to 81.15% after remaining below 80% since May 4. Of the 48 deaths in the UT, 34 were reported in Jammu division and 17 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,187 are from Kashmir while 1,121 are from Jammu, besides 37 travellers.The people of the UT have witnessed the worst effects of the pandemic in May since the outbreak as the monthly infections have reached 94,538 and fatalities to 1,282 on Sunday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 74,179.Officials said with 512 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 447 in Jammu district, 401 in Budgam, 265 in Kupwara and 239 in Baramulla. The number of active cases has gone down to 47,437. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.09 lakh cases and 1,688 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has taken over as the one with the highest number of 957 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 731 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-situation-improving-in-j-k-l-g-manoj-sinha-101621800244714.html
24-05-2021||Other||Vaccinate students, teachers, before conducting CBSE class 12 exams: Sisodia to Centre||New Delhi: Conducting the CBSE Class 12 board exams without vaccinating students and teachers may prove to be a big mistake, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday at a high-level meeting called by the Union education ministry to discuss the fate of the pending board and entrance exams, which were postponed in view of the ongoing second Covid-19 wave across the country. The virtual meeting was chaired by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, minister of women and child development Smriti Irani, and information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar. State education ministers and secretaries, CBSE officials, and chairpersons of state examination boards were also present during the meeting. Though the meeting remained inconclusive, officials in attendance said that there was a “broad consensus” that the exams must be held, for a limited number of subjects and with a shorter duration, when the situation is under control. Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said the state government was not in favour of conducting exams in the current scenario. “Families across the nation have suffered immense pain and trauma due to Covid-19. It’s time for the Union government to take a decision with respect to board exams, considering it has caused enough tension among our student and teacher community,” Sisodia said in a statement. “Conducting board exams in these unprecedented times will be a big mistake on behalf of the central government. Administering board exams when the world is preparing for the third Covid-19 wave is irresponsible, and at a time when there 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases a day in our country, our students, parents, and teachers will not be in a good mental state to sit for any kind of exams,” he added. Sisodia said students of Class 12 should be evaluated using alternative methods such as those CBSE used for Class 10 students this year after their exams were cancelled last month. “The central government should cancel the board exams if vaccinations are not possible, and initiate the ‘no-exam policy’ for students, awarding grades on the basis of their (students’) unit tests, pre-board exams, practical exams, similar to the Class 10 promotion policy. Students should also be given a choice to retake exams to improve, in case they are not satisfied with their results,” he said. Sisodia said the Delhi government demanded that both students and teachers must be vaccinated before conducting examinations. “In such a time of crisis, the central government should speak to Pfizer, as it has already developed vaccines for children aged above 12, and acquire these vaccines for the 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are in Class 12. Only after procuring vaccines and vaccinating all students should the central government think about conducting any kind of examinations,” the Delhi education minister said. He said 95% of the students in Class 12th are above the age of 17.5, and suggested the Centre consult health experts whether the vaccine given to those above 18 can be given to students of Class 12 as well. “If the vaccine can be given to 17.5-years-olds on the advice of health experts, then the indigenously made Covishield and Covaxin should be given to all Class 12 students on priority,” he said. “Once the vaccine is available, all state governments should ensure that all Class 12 students and school teachers are vaccinated within a week. In Delhi, we can vaccinate these two groups within two days,” Sisodia said. The Centre has asked state governments to send their suggestions on the cancellation/conduct of board and competitive exams by Tuesday. “As envisioned by the Hon’ble PM, the meeting was extremely fruitful as we received immensely valuable suggestions. I have requested the State Governments to send me their detailed suggestions by 25th May,” Nishank tweeted after the meeting. Emphasising that both students’ and teachers’ safety, security, and future are “supremely important to us”, Nishank, in another tweet, said: “I’m confident we will be able to arrive at an informed, collaborative decision regarding the Class 12th board exams and remove the uncertainty among student’s and parent’s minds by informing them of our final decision at the earliest.” The Union government has proposed that the states conduct Class 12 exams only for major subjects, according to the proposal document seen by HT. Nearly 20 of the 174 subjects offered to Class 12 students are considered major subjects by CBSE. Board students take a minimum of five and a maximum of six subjects, of which four are considered major subjects. According to the proposal documents, examinations for the major subjects can be conducted in two ways. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years and for the minor subjects “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects.” Conducting exams in this mode is possible only if the board has three months, which will include “one month of pre-exam activities and two months for the conduct of exams and declaration of results and another 45 days for compartment exams”, according to the document. The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination from three hours to 90 minutes, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer-type questions. The process, as per the second proposal, can be completed in 45 days and results can be declared within 15 days of exams ending. The second proposal also said the examination may be conducted twice depending on the state of the pandemic in parts of the country. “The Class 12 examinations could be conducted two times by the Board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations, the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase,” the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinate-students-teachers-before-conducting-cbse-class-12-exams-sisodia-to-centre-101621800184020.html
24-05-2021||Other||Parents, students in Delhi against CBSE exams amid Covid-19 spike||New Delhi: With the Centre once again not able to decide on the pending Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exams during a high-level meeting on Sunday, students, parents, principals, and education experts expressed concerns over the delays, with many of them now demanding that the exams be cancelled entirely. On Sunday, while the high-level meeting, chaired by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh remained inconclusive, officials said the majority of states were in favour of conducting exams, regardless of the format. Anand Saxena (17), a Class 12 student at a private school in south Delhi said, “While we are still struggling with the second wave of the pandemic and the possibility of a third wave, how is it even possible to conduct exams in such a situation? Who can take the guarantee that the situation will be better by July and August? We have been in Class 12 for the last 15 months. The government should cancel the exams and promote students using alternative methods of evaluation.” Parents, too, said they weren’t in favour of letting students travel for exams till cases subsided completely. Sweta Singh, the mother of a Class 12 student at a Mayur Vihar private school, said, “The government itself is conducting online meetings, but expects our 16-17-year-old children to appear in exams in person. We are not in favour of sending our children for exams till the number of cases comes to zero in the city.” Several principals said the government should act promptly to stop the anxiety children have been facing for 15 months. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said, “We can’t leave students in the lurch. A clear decision needs to be taken, since children are going through a lot of mental stress... We need to come up with alternative criteria, since the pandemic continues to prevail. Students went through a lot of anxiety last year and the same is happening this year as well. We can also explore the possibility of delinking board exams from college entrance tests.” AK Jha, principal of the government co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Rohini, said conducting exams amid the ongoing surge may be extremely risky. “If the government conducts exams by August-September, cases may rise once again. Students who are sick with mild symptoms might conceal their illness and appear for the exams due to the fear of missing out on a year. Students can also carry home the virus and endanger their family members,” he said. Educationist Meeta Sengupta said the government should think about doing away from the tradition of assessing the progress of students on the basis of “exams”. “It takes a lot of courage to be safe. And educational leaders need to demonstrate this courage and move away from tradition. There are several ways to promote students, and they need to work towards that, rather than tinker with the exam as a filter,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parents-students-in-delhi-against-cbse-exams-amid-covid-19-spike-101621800124024.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Agricultural laws: Farmers’ convoy leaves Karnal to join Tikri border protest||Defying the coronavirus lockdown, thousands of farmers gathered at the Karnal and Panipat toll plazas on Sunday morning and left for Tikri on the state’s border with New Delhi, the site where farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s three agricultural laws since last November. On the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers’ unions, farmers will hold protests in New Delhi on May 26, to mark six months of the agitation. Those supporting the agitation have been asked to hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles the day to register their protest.Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni led the convey comprising SUVs, cars and bikes from Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza. “Around 2,000 vehicles will leave for the protest site from different districts every week in order to maintain the gathering there,” he said. Farmers from Karnal will lead the agitation from May 23 to May 30.“This movement of farmers will not only strengthen the agitation but will also send a message to those who predicted that the agitation is likely to fizzle out because of decline in the number of farmers on the Delhi borders,” said a farmer leader, pleading anonymity.With harvesting of wheat over and transplantation of paddy to start from June 15, farmers’ unions from Haryana have reached out to farmers and villagers asking them to ensure a sizeable gathering at the Delhi borders. Charuni also slammed the lathicharge on farmers. “ Farmers were beaten up and FIRs were registered against them but why were the cops not booked for assault and damaging our vehicles,” he said. . He also refuted reports of two farmers dying due to Covid at Singhu border.Despite restrictions on gatherings amid the pandemic, farmers, many of whom were not wearing masks, gathered at the toll plaza in the presence of police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/agricultural-laws-farmers-convoy-leaves-karnal-to-join-tikri-border-protest-101621800066105.html
24-05-2021||Other||Two constables among five who planned to rob businessman: Delhi Police||The robbery of a businessman, who was on the verge of losing ₹2 lakh while on his way home in North Delhi’s Wazirabad on May 12, whichwas thwarted by a policeman, was planned and executed by two other police constables, said Delhi Police on Sunday.According to a police officer who didn’t want to be identified, the robbery bid was made on the night of May 12 when the businessman, who owns a bread shop in Nirankari Colony, was returning home on his car. “As he drove through Hardeep Nagar, a car intercepted his vehicle from the front while a motorcycle and a scooter blocked his path from the side and rear,” said the police officer, adding that in all, there were five robbers. The businessman had ₹2 lakh cash with him at the time of the incident, said police. “Manish,a police constable who was headed to his duty, was passing by when he spotted the two-wheeler riders banging on the windows of the victim’s car,” said the officer. On realising that the suspects were trying to rob the businessman, Manish intervened. “The robbers fled the spot but left a scooter behind,” said the officer. The businessman allegedly refused to file a police complaint since the robbers failed to rob him of the money, but the police decided to go after the culprits. “The scooter was found to be a stolen one. Our probe revealed that a car that was there near the crime spot at the time of the robbery bid was registered in the name of Jatin, a constable serving at the Timarpur police station,” the officer said.Simultaneously, the police apprehended two minors, and a 38-year-old man named Naresh, who was released from jail last year. “Naresh also revealed the role of constable Jatin, as well as another constable Amit, who is posted in Shahdara district,” the officer said.“The three suspects revealed that the two constables were involved in the planning and execution of the crime. They were the ones who knew that the businessman had a lot of money,” the officer said.Jatin was subsequently arrested on Thursday while Amit is still on the run. Police were unable to give any clarity on the extent of their involvement in the crime.On Thursday, police said, they also registered a FIR about the attempted robbery after convincing the businessman to file a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-constables-among-five-who-planned-to-rob-businessman-delhi-police-101621800064665.html
24-05-2021||Other||Delhi cops offer roses to sensitise violators about lockdown norms||New Delhi: Instead of prosecuting people for violating the lockdown and issuing challans, the Delhi Police switched to a non-coercive method by offering roses to the violators and sensitizing them about the need to stay indoors on Sunday. While roses were given to all violators across Delhi, in some parts of the city, the police made the violators pledge that they would not violate the lockdown rules and be more involved in creating awareness. At other places, they urged a group of violators to educate another group about the need to stay safe and follow necessary precautions.At some places, the violators were asked to hold placards bearing messages related to the lockdown. Even policemen were spotted with placards in some places. “For a change, a non-coercive mode has been adopted today (Sunday). The emphasis is on educating violators and utilising them too in furthering awareness among the residents. Policemen are encouraged to adopt effective alternative means instead of issuing challans,” Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said in a tweet.According to Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, challans were not issued only for this Sunday. “Since the lockdown is a prolonged one, we decided to focus a day on sensitizing the lockdown violators,” said Biswal.The police denied that the day-long drive was in response to the criticism faced by a Chhatisgarh IAS officer, who was purportedly caught in camera slapping a boy who was allegedly violating the lockdown.However, a police officer said that the change in police’s attitude was also because of the feedback that the police were “harsh” on lockdown violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-cops-offer-roses-to-sensitise-violators-about-lockdown-norms-101621800063937.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds fewer than 2,000 cases for the first since end-March, positivity rate below 2.5%||The national capital on Sunday added fewer than 2,000 new coronavirus disease cases for the first time since end-March, while the test positivity dropped below the 3% mark, as Delhi continued to make its way out of a brutal tsunami of infections that battered the city for a month. With 1,649 infections recorded in the state government’s daily health bulletin on Sunday, daily cases were at their lowest since the city logged 992 cases on March 30, around the time Delhi’s fourth wave of Covid-19 began to expand its footprint. Consequently, the seven-day average of cases, known as case trajectory, continued to fall in the city, with Delhi recording an average of 3,286 new infections each day over the past week, down to less than one-third from the previous week. In the week ending May 16, Delhi logged an average of 10,043 new cases a day. The week before that, the city saw an average of 18,374 cases every day. Sunday’s case trajectory was also the lowest in the Capital since the week ending April 5, when Delhi added 2,906 new infections to its tally per day. At its peak of the April-May surge, Delhi added 28,395 cases of the infection in a single day on April 20 — the most ever in the city since the pandemic broke out in March last year. Promisingly, the Covid-19 test positivity rate — the proportion of tested samples that return positive for Covid-19 – fell to 2.4% on Sunday, the lowest since March 28, and down from 3.58% the previous day. Delhi’s positivity rate, regarded as a crucial metric to understand the spread of an infection, has now dropped for 17 days consecutively and has stayed below 5% for three straight days. Experts across the world, including the World Health Organization (WHO), consider an infection to be under control in a region if the test positivity rate stays below 5% for at least two weeks. The number of deaths of the infection as per the health bulletin, however, went up slightly from the previous day. On Sunday, 189 people died of Covid-19, as against 182 people a day before. Covid-19 fatalities in Delhi have not dropped as precipitously as infections, though it must be noted that any drop in cases takes at least two weeks to have an impact on the number of consequent deaths. Sunday’s death toll was lower than the number of fatalities a week ago, when Delhi saw 262 deaths of the infection. However, more people died of the infection on Sunday than during the peak of the Covid-19 surge on November 18, when 131 people died — the most in a single day at that time. To be sure, the seven-day average of deaths has dropped for six days straight, from 300 on May 18 to 242 on Sunday, and any drop in case trajectory generally takes 14 days to reflect on daily deaths as studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days. Meanwhile, the number of active cases also continued to fall as new infections eased, giving health care infrastructure, medical workers and funeral infrastructure a crucial breather. The fall in active cases, which dropped below the 30,000 mark on Sunday for the first time in 43 days, has allowed the state government to renew its focus on contact tracing, and revive the Capital’s home isolation system. As on Sunday, 27,610 people in the Capital were battling Covid-19, less than half of the 62,783 active cases just a week ago. Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday, while announcing a week-long extension of the lockdown, said curbs in the city will be lifted in phases from May 31 if cases continue to decline. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said the state government’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19 cases after curbs are lifted is crucial.“It is important to ask if our health systems are ready to take on a rise in cases after the curbs are lifted,” he said. “Do we have more hospital beds, more remdesivir, more antifungal medicines, and enough oxygen? This is what we need to ensure.”He added that three steps are vital to stem the rise of further surges: Awareness of appropriate behaviour and available health infrastructure and treatments among citizens, contact tracing, and proper screening of passengers who arrive in the city from other states or countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-fewer-than-2-000-cases-for-the-first-since-end-march-positivity-rate-below-25-101621800005036.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Despite Capt’s appeal, farmers to go ahead with 3-day protest||Despite chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s appeal, farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugarahan) have decided to go ahead with their call of three-day protest from May 28.The farmers will protest against state government for its alleged failure in tackling the Covid crisis and imposing curbs across the state.Farmers claimed that the ill-preparedness of state and central governments has led to spread of Covid. “Both the governments have failed to check Covid spread. People are dying due to lack of ventilators, oxygen and other medical facilities,” said BKU’s general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan.He added that the traders are already feeling the brunt of undue restrictions imposed in the state. “To hide its failures, the government has come up with curfew-like decisions, which has battered the trader class,” he said.The farmers have prepared detailed demand charter in which they demanded government to fill vacant vacancies in the health department, to make adequate arrangements for oxygen and ventilators, to bring private hospitals under its control and to stop forcible vaccination and testing.Rejecting the allegations of the state government’s failure to tackle the Covid pandemic, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday urged the BKU not to go ahead with their proposed dharna, which he said could turn into a super-spreader of the contagion.The CM said his government had fought hard to prevent Punjab going the way some other states, such as Delhi, Maharashtra and even Uttar Pradesh, where bodies floating in the Ganga.“Any event, such as the proposed three-day dharna of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) in Patiala, had the potential to negate the gains made by his government in tackling Covid in the state,” he said.Amarinder urged the farmers’ group not to act irresponsibly and jeopardise the lives of their own people with such reckless behaviour amid the pandemic, especially when there is a complete ban in the state on all gatherings and any violation of the ban would be highly detrimental to the interests of Punjab and its people.“The group’s action was also completely unwarranted considering the total support the state government had extended all these months to the agitating farmers on the issue of the centre’s black farm laws. It is time for the farmers now to reciprocate by supporting the state government in the fight against the pandemic,” he said.He added that taking note of the gravity of the situation, there was no scope for any laxity in Covid appropriate behaviour, and rallies or dharnas of any kind were totally unacceptable when the lives of the people were at stake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-capt-s-appeal-farmers-to-go-ahead-with-3-day-protest-101621800004560.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-induced lockdowns and restrictions sink DMRC into losses||Months of closures due to the two Covid-19 lockdowns and multiple restrictions have left the Delhi Metro’s finances in bad shape, with revenue streams running dry and losses mounting, showed documents seen by HT. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) revenue details show that the agency has incurred losses of ₹1,784.87 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal, with operations either curbed or stopped entirely because of Covid-19. The Delhi Metro was shut for over five months last year during the nationwide lockdown, and has been closed again for the past two weeks, as part of the state government’s measures to arrest the rapid spread of the infection. The lockdown, which came into effect on April 20, initially exempted some groups and allowed them to use the Delhi Metro. But this changed May 10 onwards, as the state government tightened restrictions. “There has already been a significant impact on DMRC’s revenues, and as long as the pandemic and associated travel norms are in place, losses are likely to remain or even increase with the passage of time. However, as a public service system, we are also committed to the cause of stopping the spread of the disease and will always extend all possible cooperation in this regard,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC. Senior Metro officials said even though operations resumed after five-and-a-half months of complete shutdown — from March 22 to September 7 — last year, services were restricted to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. After the Metro restarted, the passenger capacity of each coach was reduced from 300-350 to just 50. To ensure that the trains are sanitised after each trip, the waiting time on each route also increased from an average of three to six minutes earlier to 15 minutes. Revenue records show that in the 2020-2021 fiscal, DMRC’s revenue from traffic operations, which includes income from tickets, feeder bus services and rentals, and other services, fell sharply to ₹895.88 crore, from ₹3,897.29 crore in 2019-2020. Similarly, in 2018-19, their income from operational and non-operational sources was ₹3,582.80 crore. The Metro body’s books also show that in 2020-21, the agency ran into deficits of ₹1,784.87 crore, as against a surplus of ₹758.01 crore in 2019-20. In 2018-19, DMRC recorded a surplus of ₹1,027 crore. Apart from these pandemic-induced losses, the Delhi Metro has also been parallelly repaying ₹808.70 crore of loan and ₹433.85 as interest to the Japan International Cooperation Agency, which helped the Metro body fund their expansion projects. Officials said the DMRC is in talks with the central government to find ways to ensure payments towards this loan does not suffer. Responding to a question about the government’s strategy to mitigate the effect of losses incurred by the DMRC because of the Covid lockdown, in September last year, Union minister of housing and urban affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri in the Lok Sabha said measures to enhance revenue through various innovative means like provisioning feeder systems, property development at stations and on other land, leasing of spaces, transit oriented development and value capture finance are enumerated in the Metro Rail Policy, 2017. Senior Metro officials said the transport body’s incomes have not been near pre-pandemic levels for nearly 14 months. “Prior to the lockdown in March last year, nearly ₹10 crore used to be the average revenue per day both from ticketing and non-ticketing avenues. The Delhi Metro was operational from September last year till early May this year. However, even during this period, pre-pandemic levels of revenues could not be generated because of the protocols in place to restrict the spread of the disease. Then, services were suspended again on May 10,” Dayal said. When the Delhi Metro resumed operations for passengers with Covid restrictions in September last year, the number of passenger journeys went down to 619,242, as opposed to 5,452,367 in the same period in 2019. By March this year, the number of passenger journeys finally started picking up and reached 2,680,358, but this was still nearly half of the 4,392,823 journeys the Delhi Metro made in March 2019. Metro officials said that while letters were written early this year to the central and Delhi governments asking for financial assistance, the revenue collected by operations are pumped back into the system for operations and maintenance of the system and of fixed assets such as office buildings, stations etc. Funds are also used to pay the staff, pay off machinery costs and also operate feeder services for last-mile connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covidinduced-lockdowns-and-restrictions-sink-dmrc-into-losses-101621799943987.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||31% Covid patients who succumbed in Haryana had no comorbidity||As the second Covid wave ravages Haryana, data compiled by the state’s directorate of health services reveals that 31% of the patients claimed by the virus since the outbreak had no comorbidity.Of the 6,685 Covid-induced fatalities registered till May 16, as many as 2,274 patients (34%) had multiple comorbidities, while 2,083 (31%) were disease-free but succumbed to the virus nonetheless. Diabetes proved to be the deadliest, contributing to 12% (806) of the total fatalities. Hypertension contributed to 6% (431) and respiratory diseases to 4% (251) of the deaths. The data reveals that in almost half (3,215) the cases the patient was on ventilator support while in 35% (2,328) of the cases, the patient was on oxygen support.35% fatalities in rural areasIn a reversal in trends, the second wave has also made inroads into the countryside, which contributed to 35% (2,252) of the total deaths. The remaining 4,332 fatalities were reported from urban areas. In the NCR district of Charkhi Dadri, which has reported 70 deaths, 55 were reported from rural areas and 15 from urban areas, whereas in Gurugram, another district in the NCR, 632 were reported in urban areas and 31 in rural areas. Among the districts, Hisar topped the tally with 698 patients succumbing to Covid, while Nuh recorded the lowest deaths at 64.26% deaths in 65-74 age groupWith 1,760 deaths, the highest fatalities were reported in the 65-74 age group, while the mortality rate also remained high in the 85-94 age group where 244 patients succumbed against the 3,030 who tested positive. The mortality rate of the group was 8.1% while the overall rate remained 1%.On the other hand, 65% of the total positive cases recorded till May 16 (6,94,427) were among those below the age of 45. The highest cases were recorded in the 25-34 age group.However, the younger bracket accounted to merely 15% of the total fatalities, despite vaccination for the group beginning in the first week of May when the cases were on a record surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/31-covid-patients-who-succumbed-in-haryana-had-no-comorbidity-101621799885202.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till May 31, shops to open on odd-even basis||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown till May 31 with some relaxations to allow resumption of routine business activities in local markets.While stand-alone shops have been allowed to open when the night curfew is not in operation, other shops will be allowed to operate from 7am to noon as per the odd and even formula.As per orders of chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, shops with odd numbers will open on odd dates and shops with even numbers on even dates. The government has not allowed malls to open and authorised deputy commissioners to work out the modalities of implementing the relaxations.This is the third extension of the week-long lockdown which was first imposed in Haryana from May 3 in the face of rising infections in the state. It was then extended on May 10, with stricter restrictions such as not allowing more than 11 people in weddings and funerals.In a single page order, Vardhan said the decision to yet again extend the lockdown had been taken “after duly considering the fact that although the Covid positivity rate has come down,” the lockdown, termed mahamari alert-surakshit Haryana, needs to continue with the objective of further bringing down the positivity and the fatality rate.That the lockdown has helped contain the Covid spread becomes apparent as in past 13 days the number of new cases (from 13,548 on May 9) has been declining every day and stood at 5,021 on May 22.Till Saturday, Haryana had vaccinated 52.56 lakh people. The state government said as on Sunday, 1,554 oxygen beds in ICUs, including ventilators, were available in government and private hospitals across the state, while 8,185 oxygen beds were available in both government and private hospitals.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-may-31-shops-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-101621799644608.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nihangs attack ex-sarpanch in Gurdaspur village, 8 booked||An ex-sarpanch was assaulted with sharp-edged weapons allegedly by a group of Nihangs when he was returning home at Bhamboi village near Hargobindpur town of Gurdaspur on Sunday.Police said 50-year-old Sukhjinder Singh received a deep cut on one of his arms in the attack. Sukhjinder owes allegiance to the ruling Congress.A case has been registered against eight persons under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code at the Hargobindpur police station.Victim’s wife Manjit Kaur said: “My husband had gone to resolve a dispute between families of Ram Singh and Balbir Singh in the village. When he was returning home, a group of 8-10 Nihangs attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. My husband’s arm was severely injured in the attack.”Police said Sukhjinder was attacked at the instance of Ram Singh. Station house officer Baljit Kaur said raids were on to nab the accused. “The ex-sarpanch has been operated upon at a private hospital in Amritsar and is out of danger, the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nihangs-attack-ex-sarpanch-in-gurdaspur-village-8-booked-101621799584396.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three more detected with black fungus in Himachal||Even as Covid infections are on a decline for past one month, the rise in black fungus cases has left the health authorities in Himachal Pradesh worried.Three more patients have been diagnosed with mucormycosis in the state.A 41-year-old woman from Solan’s Arki, who lives in Shimla, has been admitted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) after complaining of loss of eyesight, said senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj.Initial test reports have confirmed presence of black fungus and culture and biopsy reports are awaited. The patient had recently recovered from Covid. He said ENT specialists removed decayed skin from the patient’s nose through surgical treatment and her condition is stable. Himachal had recorded its first case of mucormycosis on Friday when a 52-year-old woman from Hamirpur was found infected with deadly fungus. She is currently undergoing treatment at IGMC. Her surgical treatment was to be held on Saturday, but couldn’t be done due to her unstable blood pressure and high blood sugar level.Meanwhile, two cases of black fungus have been reported at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College in Tanda.Kangra chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said a 40-year-old man and a 45-year-old woman were diagnosed with mucormycosis as well.They had Covid and their samples tested after symptoms of black fungus infection emerged turned out positive.Dr Gupta said the patients are being treated as per the protocol.Mucormycosis, commonly called black fungus, is caused by a mould found in soil and in decaying organic matter like rotting leaves. People get mucormycosis, of which there are several types, by breathing in the fungal spores.Intense headache, pain in the sinus area and the right eye, blurred vision and swollen cheeks are some of the symptoms. The disease progresses rapidly and attacks blood vessels and live tissues turning them black — hence the name ‘black fungus. The infection needs to be caught early or it may turn deadly. Once spread to brain, the mortality rate is 50%. Himachal logs 1,309 infections, 59 deathsHimachal Pradesh recorded 1,309 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday taking the state’s tally to 1,79,034, while the death toll mounted to 2,752 after 59 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 245 were reported in Solan, 216 in Kangra, 204 in Shimla, 144 in Mandi, 133 in Sirmaur, 122 in Hamirpur, 80 in Chamba, 75 in Una, 51 in Bilaspur, 26 in Kullu, seven in Lahaul-Spiti and six in Kinnaur. Highest 16 fatalities were reported in Kangra, nine in Shimla, eight in Mandi, five each in Chamba and Sirmaur, four each in Hamirpur and Una, three each in Bilaspur and Solan and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu. Recoveries reached 1,50,278 after 4,059 people recuperated. The active cases have come down to 25,979. Meanwhile, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 40,447 infections and is followed by Mandi with 24,093 cases and Shimla 22,715 cases. Solan has total 20,536 cases, Sirmaur 13,799, Hamirpur 12,681, Una 11,573, Bilaspur 11,240, Chamba 8,986 , Kullu 7,859, Kinnaur 2,622 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,483.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-more-detected-with-black-fungus-in-himachal-101621799525564.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Booking a vaccination slot a Herculean task for 18+ in Himachal||If you are in the age group of 18-44 years and waiting to get vaccinated in Himachal, get ready for a long haul. Booking a vaccination slot in the state is no less than hitting a jackpot.Even those with high-speed internet and fastest fingers are at their wits’ end as there is no guarantee that they will get a spot. Slots open for a fraction of second, one blink and they are gone. “I was on two devices with high-speed internet, but still didn’t get a slot,” said Varun Chaudhary, who lives in Shimla.“The CoWIN portal always displayed slot booked on the vaccination centre in and around Shimla from 2pm to 3.30pm. The official time of slot opening was 2.30pm but it showed no vacancy,” he complained. “It seems like a big scam. The slots are already booked before they are uploaded on the portal,” he alleged.Due to shortage of vaccine, the state government has fixed two days, Monday and Thursday, in a week for vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group. Vaccination began on May 17 and till date, 40,353 people have been given the jab while the estimated population in this range is more than 31 lakh. To start with, the state government had received more than 1.7 lakh doses for the vaccination of the people in this age group.The slots are updated on the website two days before the vaccination schedule.Abhay Karki, a youth from Dharamshala, said he and his brother were trying to book a slot on two separate computers.“It opened for a while and till we submitted the details, all the slots were taken. This has happened not once but twice. If there was shortage of vaccines, the government should have started the drive later instead of creating a chaos,” he said. This is not the only problem with the process. In rural belts, people have limited access to the internet and those living in urban areas have been hogging the vaccination slots.Vinod Kumar, a resident of a rural area in Kangra district, said many people from the other states got jabbed at the vaccination centre near his village.He said village people were not tech-savvy and till they filled the form, all slots were booked.There were also reports of some tourists getting jabbed at vaccination centres in Lahaul and Spiti while a Haryana man was seen getting the shot at Dharamshala vaccination centre. Another member of his family had booked a vaccination slot near Nurpur. Prajwal Busta, a Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader, said if anyone from other state worked here or lived here for long, he/she should definitely get the vaccine.“But, if tourists are hogging the slots, then it’s wrong. If they can travel this far for getting jabbed, then they can also pay for the vaccine. Bona fide address proof should be made mandatory for booking slots,” she added. She said the state government had done a good job in vaccinating its people, but some of them were taking advantage of “flaws in the system”.Matter taken up with CentreMeanwhile, Dr Nipun Jindal, director of National Health Mission (NHM), said problems being faced by people were in notice of authorities.“We have taken up the matter with the Union health ministry and also written to them seeking a solution,” he said. “We have asked the Centre to allow us book certain percentage of slots offline like it is being done in Lahaul and Spiti where 80% slots are not being booked on web,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/booking-a-vaccination-slot-a-herculean-task-for-18-in-himachal-101621799524414.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Special wards set up as Haryana’s black fungus tally touches 421||Chandigarh: Haryana reported 24 new cases of black fungus, a disease mostly affecting recovering Covid patients, pushing the total cases in the state to 421, the health department said on Sunday. Of the new cases, five were reported in Rohtak, four in Faridabad, three each in Fatehabad, Gurugram, and Hisar, two in Sonepat and one each in Bhiwani,Panipat, Rewari, and Sirsa. Gurugram is leading with 149 cumulative cases followed by Hisar (88), Faridabad (50), Sirsa (25), Rohtak (26), Karnal (17), Panipat (15), Ambala (11), Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Panchkula and Sonepat (eight), Rewari (six), Palwal and Yamunanagar (one). Meanwhile, health minister Anil Vij said in view of the increase in black fungus cases special wards had been set up in all medical colleges. “The state government has made a requisition of 12,000 injections of Amphotericin-B (used for treating black fungus) from the central government. At present, there are 1,250 vials of the injection in the state,” he said. Black fungus was declared a notified disease in the state last week. Haryana records 97 more fatalitiesHaryana on Sunday recorded 97 more Covid fatalities, taking the death toll to 7,512, while 4,400 new cases pushed the infection count to 7,38,028.Fatalities were reported in all 22 districts, of which eight deaths each were clocked in Bhiwani and Hisar, seven in Karnal and six each from Faridabad, Ambala, Rewari and Jind districts.The districts with high caseload of infection were Bhiwani (494), Hisar (383), Jhajjar (355), Gurugram (308), Faridabad (299), Sonepat (260), Rewari (227), Yamunanagar (207), Sirsa (275), and Fatehabad (203). The active cases in the state stand at 42,816 while 6,87,700 people have recovered from the infection so far. Haryana saw 15.64% positivity rate from March 1 The Covid positivity rate — number of samples returning positive of every 100 samples tested per day — in Haryana between March 1 and May 23 during the second wave of the pandemic was 15.64%, the health department said. The positivity rate on Sunday, when 4,400 fresh cases were detected against 52,282 samples collected, was 7.94%. The recovery rate rose to 93.18% while the fatality rate rose to 1.02%. The bulleting said 11.52 lakh people were screened in villages on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-wards-set-up-as-haryana-s-black-fungus-tally-touches-421-101621799404814.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 172 deaths, 5,094 fresh Covid cases||With 172 more Covid-related fatalities, the death toll in Punjab reached 13,281, while 5,094 fresh cases took the tally to 5,38,994 on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.The active cases have declined to 57,505 from 61,203 on Saturday, it said.The number of recoveries -- 8,527 -- in a single day were more than the 5,094 daily cases, according to the bulletin.The fresh fatalities reported in the last 24 hours included 20 from Ludhiana, 19 from Patiala, 18 from Bathinda, 16 each from Sangrur and Mohali and 15 from Amritsar, it said.Continuing to register the highest daily cases in the state, the number for Ludhiana on Sunday stood at 597. It was 459 in Jalandhar, 454 in Mohali and 436 in Fazilka.The state’s positivity rate marginally dropped from 6.60 per cent on Saturday to 6.18, the bulletin stated.With 8,527 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 4,68,208, it said.There are 386 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,024 other critical patients and 7,154 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said 87,19,503 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-172-deaths-5-094-fresh-covid-cases-101621799405255.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Patiala hospital||Patiala Two Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed for mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, died at Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital on Sunday.Confirming the deaths, civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “The patients died due to Covid complexities. Black fungus cannot be dubbed as the main cause behind the deaths,” he said.Last week too, two Covid patients having black fungus died at the hospital.On Sunday, the state government has constituted an expert committee under Dr RPS Sibia, Covid care in-charge of Rajindra Hospital, to monitor fungus cases across the state.State chief secretary Vini Mahajan tweeted: “The expert committee set up under the chairmanship of Dr Sibia to guide all hospitals in the prevention and treatment of mucormycosis, and support in procuring medicines for the same.”On Saturday, a 57-year-old man died at Muktsar after developing complications caused by black fungus infection. This was the second death in Muktsar district as another patient succumbed to fungal infection at a Bathinda hospital on Friday.On May 16, a Sangrur man succumbed to the infection at PGIMER, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-patiala-hospital-101621799284597.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Artistes too have great responsibility: Surya Mohan Kulshreshtha||Theatre veteran and actor-director Surya Mohan Kulshreshtha feels that during pandemic artistes should continue polishing their skills and utilize this free time to the fullest. “We are in a mid of a pandemic and theatre is kart ki vidya (art of doing) so when the time will come it should never be that we are unable to deliver. So, actors and those in other performing art should keep their mind fresh by watching fine content, reading good literature, philosophies, and work on their craft and do web meetings with actors and mentors,” said the former director of Bhartendu Natya Academi, Lucknow. Kulshreshtha has directed over 100 plays and acted in films like Dasdev, Monsoon Shootout and recently Mira Nair’s series A Suitable Boy. “In March I staged my new play Muntazir in Prayagraj. Thereafter, my wife and I both were tested Covid positive but thankfully we recovered in home isolation.” Kulshreshtha emphasised that young artistes should use this opportunity to help people in best possible way during the ongoing pandemic and these real-life experiences and incidents will surely help them a lot in future. Recently, during a webinar ‘Antarang’ held by Sangeet Natak Academi, New Delhi, he gave example of German playwright Berthot Brecht poem: In the dark times will there be singing? Yes, there will also be singing. About the dark times! He talked about his vision of theatre. “Everyone has their own vision for theatre and with time it keeps evolving. First thing I learnt is that visuals should speak louder than word. By radio show Hawa Mahal I learnt importance of audio which can create visuals while the value of simplicity I learnt from Ram Leela. My real training happened under the influence of stalwarts and learning from BNA. My vision broadened with various theatre forms — realistic, international (western), folk and classics. My canvas widened with reading various philosophies, literature, culture and history.” Interpreting Russian theatre legend Konstantin Stanislavski theory of 4Ws, in his own way, he said, “For me ‘why’ is hunger for expression. ‘What’ stands for minimalistic theatre — focus on acting than anything else. Whether it is old, classic or new it should be relevant in today’s world! ‘Where’ is all about my wish that bring plays out of auditorium so it can reach to masses. ‘Who’ is for the actors who should be intensely trained while ‘whom’ one should know the psychology of audience and group behaviour! Then comes ‘how’ and that’s what for in my quest is.” The theatre stalwart feels that actors have a great responsibility which he sums up with few lines from Gajanan Madhav Muktibodh’s poem: O! Mere adarshwadi man, O! Mere siddhantwadi mann, ab tak kya kiya? Ab tak kya kiya? Jeewan ka jiya…zyada liya aur diya bahut-bahut kam…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/artistes-too-have-great-responsibility-surya-mohan-kulshreshtha-101621798264475.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||RLD raises issue of Covid waste being dumped in river, water bodies||: The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has drawn the attention of the chief minister Yogi Adityanath over Covid waste being dumped into the Gomti river. The RLD has also demanded that a committee be set up to ascertain the potential risk of such waste being dumped in the river or lakes and ponds or other water bodies in rural areas. RLD national spokesman Anupam Mishra said the chief minister must issue directives to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to take necessary steps to check such dumping of waste. He has also said a high-level committee be set up to study the potential risk arising out of such Covid waste being dumped in water bodies across the state. Mishra said a proper study must be conducted to check whether Covid’s “genetic material” is not growing in water bodies. “This cannot be ruled out because the water and sewage from patients’ homes and hospitals are being drained into the river, drains, ponds and lakes without further treatment. This may lead to a terrible situation post Covid as then it could lead to a drinking water crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-raises-issue-of-covid-waste-being-dumped-in-river-water-bodies-101621797123803.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana transporter, aides assault, strip two labourers on video||Police have booked a transporter and his four accomplices for kidnapping two labourers, and assaulting and stripping them on video.According to one of the victims, Vishal Kumar, 38, of New Kundanpuri, the transporter, Jagmohan Singh, suspected him and his co-worker of passing on information about his consignments to the excise and taxation department, which led to a fine of ₹1.4 crore. In his complaint, Vishal told the police that he and his friend Laxman Yadav worked at the Ludhiana Railway Station, where they loaded and unloaded material from trains. On Friday afternoon, he received a call from Jagmohan to meet him near the Clock Tower. When he reached there, Vishal said Jagmohan picked him up in his car and on reaching near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, also picked up four other men. He drove him to his office near Vishkarma Chowk, where he forced him to call Laxman to Dholewal Chowk.Soon after, Jagmohan went to bring Laxman from there, and then drove him and Laxman to Vishwakarma Chowk, where he and his accomplices thrashed him. After brutally beating them up, the accused tore their clothes and filmed it on their phones, Vishal alleged.“The victims were released later in the night with threats of being killed if they reported the incident to the police, and were also warned against any future tip-offs about their consignment to the excise department,” said sub-inspector (SI) Harjit Singh, who is investigating the case.The accused have been booked under Sections 365 (kidnapping), 342 (wrongful consignment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act at the Division Number 1 police station. Efforts are on to arrest them, the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-transporter-aides-assault-strip-two-labourers-on-video-101621796943854.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Sadar Gurudwara in Lucknow sets up 10 oxygen bed facility on its premises for Covid patients||: Sadar Gurudwara has set up a 10-bed facility for administering oxygen inside its premises for Covid patients. “Oxygen would be administered to patients under guidance of doctors,” said head of Sadar Gurudwara Harpal Singh Jaggi. A non-government organization (NGO), Anantsheel Foundation, has helped arrange oxygen cylinders at Gurudwara Sadar. Though gurudwaras in the state capital have been running oxygen langars, however, this is the first time that 10 beds with oxygen facility have been set up inside a gurudwara. The initiative has been welcomed. “Sadar Gurudwara is doing a commendable job by providing oxygen service free of cost to the masses,” president of Lucknow Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee Rajendra Singh Bagga said. Bagga said Naka Gurudwara is providing food to patients suffering from Covid. It is also providing hearse for Covid bodies. Alambagh Gurudwara that had been running oxygen langars has started yet another oxygen langar at Mahmudabad and Sitapur Gurudwara on Sunday. The supply of oxygen cylinders at Gurudwaras of Mahmudabad and Sitapur would be managed by Pankaj Varma, a local trader. A truck carrying oxygen cylinders, 200 ration kits, regulators, masks, sanitisers and PPE kits were also dispatched on the occasion. Meanwhile the head of Alambagh Gurudwara Nirmal Singh has appealed to those who have recovered to send back the oxygen cylinders to Gurudwara so that they could be provided to other needy people. “People from Rae Bareli, Mahmudabad, Sitapur and Unnao would no longer have to come to Lucknow for getting oxygen cylinders as our centres are coming up there,” Singh said. “This will save time and also help patients get quicker delivery of oxygen cylinders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sadar-gurudwara-in-lucknow-sets-up-10-oxygen-bed-facility-on-its-premises-for-covid-patients-101621796883848.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana youth stranded in Dubai reunited with family||A 25-year-old man, who was stranded in Dubai after being cheated by a travel agent with a false work visa promise, has been reunited with his family.Manjeet Kumar of Namdev Nagar arrived in Ludhiana on Sunday following the intervention of deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and philanthropist SP Singh Oberoi from Sarbat Da Bhala Trust.An AC mechanic in the city, Kumar had contacted the travel agent for a work visa in Dubai. He was charged ₹80,000 and provided a visitor’s visa with a promise that it will automatically convert into a work visa a month later.Kumar said he landed in Dubai on February 26, and soon realised he was duped, as all contacts to the travel agent for a work visa bore no fruit. His family also visited the agent’s office several times, but in vain, leaving him stranded abroad.Being able to secure the deputy commissioner’s mobile phone number through a contact gave him hope, and he sent the official a distress message on May 13.Swinging into action immediately, Sharma contacted Sarbat Da Bhala head SPS Oberoi, whose team in Dubai rescued Kumar and helped him fly back to India.The deputy commissioner thanked the trust for its untiring efforts in Kumar’s safe repatriation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-youth-stranded-in-dubai-reunited-with-family-101621796824324.html
24-05-2021||Other||Five NDRF teams airlifted from Varanasi to WB ahead of Cyclone Yaas||VARANASI: Five teams of NDRF were sent to West Bengal from Varanasi on Sunday in view of possibility of Cyclone Yaas in coastal areas of West Bengal and Odisha on May 25 and 26.A senior NDRF official said West Bengal and Odisha governments have asked for NDRF teams to reduce any sort of loss after the Met department’s warning of Cyclone Yaas in the coastal areas.Five NDRF teams under leadership of Commandant Manoj Kumar Sharma were airlifted from Lal Bahadur Shastri, Babatpur Airport Varanasi to Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport, Kolkata by an Indian Air Force cargo plane, said NDRF inspector Jagdish Rana.From there the teams would reach the coastal areas via road and would be deployed in the areas which were likely to be affected by a possible cyclone in West Bengal, he added.Recently, more than a hundred teams of NDRF were deployed to deal with the situation emerged by Tauktae. The teams effectively dealt with the situation and worked for restoring normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-ndrf-teams-airlifted-from-varanasi-to-wb-ahead-of-cyclone-yaas-101621796763790.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus: Five dead in three days in Ludhiana||As many as five Ludhiana residents have succumbed to mucormycosis or black fungus over the past three days and another 52 are still under treatment, the health department confirmed on Sunday.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill said a committee had been formed to monitor the requirement of the medicines required for the treatment of the deadly fungal disease.She said most of the patients diagnosed with it had diabetes and had previously recovered from Covid-19, indicating that use of immunosuppressant drugs during treatment may have spurred the fungal infection.Among those still recuperating, 31 patients are at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, five each at SPS Hospital, Deep Hospital and Christian Medical College, four at civil hospital and one each at Mohan Dai Oswal and Fortis Hospital.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said there was no cause of panic, as the disease was manageable and curable, and there was adequate supply of treatment drugs.Urging people to refrain from believing in any rumours and self-medication, Sharma said the disease was not new and had already been declared as an epidemic by the state government to monitor its prevalence.Under law, all government and private health facilities need to report every suspected or confirmed case of the disease, and follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis as issued by the Union health ministry and state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-five-dead-in-three-days-in-ludhiana-101621796464404.html
24-05-2021||Other||Serious crimes down amid curbs in Mumbai but lockdown violations surge||Crimes have decreased during the month-long restrictions on movement imposed in the city, similar to last year’s lockdown. According to the crime statistics compiled by Mumbai Police, barring the cases for lockdown violations, body crimes as well as property crimes have shown a decline. Officers have said that the heavy presence of police on roads, including at more than 150 checkpoints across the city, during the lockdown period has directly contributed in getting the crime rate down. On an average, the city witnessed 19 murders and 26 attempted murders during the April-May period. While the number of attempted murders has remained the same since the lockdown started in April, the number of murders declined to nine during the corresponding period this year. Last year, eight cases of murder were reported. According to the police officers, incidents of street crime have also decreased considerably owing to the movement in restrictions. Crimes such as chain snatching also fell below average. Statistics have revealed that only four cases of chain snatching were reported from April 12 to May 9 compared to an average of 20 in the previous years during the same period. Vehicle thefts also came down considerably from an average of 262 in the past years to 156 during this lockdown. Officers said that city has also seen a decline in the cases of crimes against women. Rape cases decreased from an average 84 in the pre-Covid years to 39 during the current lockdown. Last year in April 17 cases of rape were registered. The police attribute this decline to the strict lockdown measures implemented by the department and steps like ‘Operation All Out’ and other preventive measures to lower the crime rate and increase the detection of earlier crimes. “Greater presence of police personnel in the field is the reason behind the decrease in street crimes,” said deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu. However, the total number of cases recorded in the April-May period skyrocketed with 9,037 crimes being registered this lockdown against the 5,702 last year. Two years ago, 3,272 crimes were reported, while in 2018, 2,886 cases were filed. The police attribute the rise to cases registered under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for violation of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/serious-crimes-down-amid-curbs-in-mumbai-but-lockdown-violations-surge-101621796404315.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices get closer to ₹100 in Mumbai; 1 litre petrol now costs ₹99.49||Fuel prices in the city hiked on Sunday again, with one litre of petrol priced at ₹99.49, while diesel was available at ₹91.30. The petrol and diesel prices increased by 17 paise and 29 paise, respectively.On Saturday, one litre of petrol was available at ₹99.32, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹91.01.In Thane, one-litre petrol was priced at ₹99.61 and one litre of diesel was available at ₹91.42 on Sunday.With the petrol inches closer to ₹100 per litre in the city, citizens have urged the government to reduce the fuel prices.“We request the state government to lower the Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel and the Central government to reduce prices of petroleum products,” said Adi Jain, a Byculla resident.“The transport sector, while providing yeoman service during these critical times, is also at the receiving end and rising diesel cost only adds to its misery. We fail to understand why it is insensitive towards the miserable conditions of the people of our country,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress.Prices of petrol and diesel were stable from April 15 till May 3.On April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 for one litre and diesel at ₹87.81, as opposed to ₹96.98 and ₹87.96 for petrol and diesel on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-get-closer-to-100-in-mumbai-1-litre-petrol-now-costs-9949-101621796223753.html
24-05-2021||Other||Ex-dept of atomic energy chief Srikumar Banerjee dies at 75 in Navi Mumbai||Padma Shri awardee scientist Srikumar Banerjee, who was the former chairperson of the department of atomic energy (DAE), passed away early on Sunday.Banerjee, who had recently recovered from Covid-19, succumbed to a heart attack at his Navi Mumbai residence. A specialist in physical metallurgy and material science, Banerjee had turned 75 last month.Having completed his Bachelor of Technology from the Indian Institute of Technology-Kharagpur in 1967, Banerjee joined the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) in Mumbai as a scientific officer. In 2004, he became BARC’s director and held the post till 2010. He then took over the reins at DAE for the next two-and-a-half years.Banerjee was also the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Award recipient and a fellow of the Indian National Science Academy. The academic circle in Mumbai has grieved the loss of a prolific scientist.Indian nuclear physicist Anil Kakodkar, who preceded Banerjee’s terms at both BARC and DAE, said, “We are shocked by this sudden loss. He and his wife had completely recovered from Covid-19. He was not only a professional colleague but a very dear friend.”Kakodkar remembers Banerjee as an energy enthusiast, who loved sharing ideas about clean energy on a regular basis. “Even after retirement, we had continued to work on our ideas. He would call me often and share ideas about energy. We had a conversation just a week or so ago,” he added.Banerjee was a council member at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai.The institute’s director Srinivasan Ramakrishnan said, “Dr Banerjee had a deep understating of fundamental research and was an ardent supporter of research activities in TIFR for at least a quarter of a century. He played the role of a mentor for TIFR’s past directors and was continuing to do so for the present director too. His enthusiasm for research had no bounds. Many new research initiatives of TIFR (such as the Indian Neutrino Observatory) flourished due to him. As a member of the governing council, he was always supportive of new ideas and encouraged the researchers by talking to them directly.”The late scientist had agreed to deliver the Foundation Day lecture at TIFR on June 1. “He chose the title ‘Small science to big science: A journey’. We are saddened that this lecture will never happen now. To honour his long and fruitful association with TIFR, we are planning to hold a memorial service for him on the same date. However, the tribute from TIFR, which he would surely have liked the best, is to follow the path he had taken. This will certainly be our sincerest endeavour,” Ramakrishnan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exdept-of-atomic-energy-chief-srikumar-banerjee-dies-at-75-in-navi-mumbai-101621795928020.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||No respite from Covid deaths in Ludhiana, 20 more lose the battle||In no respite on the daily deaths’ front, the Covid-19 pandemic claimed 20 more lives on Sunday, pushing Ludhiana’s toll to 1,874.The district has recorded 20+ deaths as many as six times over the past week, though the fresh cases have receded continuously.But, with 597 infections on Sunday, the daily cases’ graph curved marginally with a 2.5% rise as compared to Saturday’s 582 cases.Since hitting the peak of 1,729 on May 9, the daily Covid cases have been on a steady decline, dropping by 65% in the next two weeks when the district remained under a 17-hour curfew. On the other hand, the deaths’ graph has been fluctuating, reaching the record high of 30 twice on May 10 and 11, dropping to 17 on May 22, but again rising to 20 on Sunday.A 25-year-old woman from Khanna was the youngest among the Sunday’s casualties that included 11 men and nine women. At seven, the highest number of deceased was in their 50s, followed by six in the 60s and four were aged above 70. The remaining three casualties were in their 20s, 30s and 40s.On the bright side, with more people getting discharged over the weekend, the active cases dropped to 8,617, lowest since April 30, when 7,790 patients were under treatment. As many as 52 patients are on ventilator support in the district currently, including 30 from Ludhiana and 22 from other districts and states.Of the 81,018 Covid patients in the district so far, 70,527 have successfully beaten the virus, a recovery rate of 87.05%.SEL Textiles Ltd founder dies due to Covid at 78Ram Sharan Saluja, 78, the founder of SEL Textiles Limited, was among those who died on Sunday. He was undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital for the past two days. He was on ventilator support, but died during the wee hours of Sunday.Saluja had laid the foundation of the group by setting up a garment manufacturing unit in 1969. From a humble beginning on Naulakha Street, the group emerged as a strong textile conglomerate in Ludhiana over the next five decades. People from religious, police, social and industrial organisations expressed condolences over Saluja’s demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-respite-from-covid-deaths-in-ludhiana-20-more-lose-the-battle-101621795927516.html
24-05-2021||Other||50-year-old rams into 2 pedestrians, crashes into 5 four-wheelers at Navi Mumbai||Koparkhairane police booked a 50-year-old man on Saturday night after his car allegedly hit a woman and her son and also crashed into five other four-wheelers. The woman and her son have suffered minor injuries in the accident. The police said the accused, Popat Nagargoje, was driving under the influence of alcohol and they will soon arrest him.Nagargoje, a resident of Ghansoli, was rashly driving an Innova while going back home from Koparkhairane. “Around 10.30pm, the accused was on a road at Koparkhairne when he crashed into five cars while trying to overtake them, and also hit a woman who was standing at a corner with her son. Luckily, the two did not suffer major injuries,” a Koparkhairne police officer said. The woman, identified as Nisha Gupta, 46, later filed a police complaint about the incident. “Nagarjore was in an inebriated state and was not able to answer anything on Saturday. His car has been seized,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50yearold-rams-into-2-pedestrians-crashes-into-5-four-wheelers-at-navi-mumbai-101621795863815.html
24-05-2021||Other||Param Bir Singh’s offences as Thane top cop cognisable: State to HC||The counsel for the Maharashtra government has claimed that the documents provided by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh along with his petition to seek the quashing of a case under the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against him itself shows that the cop had committed cognisable offences. During the hearing on Singh’s petition on Friday, the state pointed to the fact that as police inspector BR Ghadge, the complainant in the case, had refused to comply with the former top cop’s orders to shield corrupt developers in Kalyan-Dombivli civic body, he was charged with false cases at the behest of Singh, who was the then Thane Police commissioner. The state further submitted that Singh was aware that Ghadge belonged to the Mahar community (categorised as SC). The state also argued that as per Singh’s documents, it is also proved that Ghadge’s complaints to the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in 2017 and 2018 against the former top cop were not heeded. While arguing on behalf of the state, special public prosecutor and former advocate general, Darius Khambatta had informed the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade that the claims made by Singh’s counsel, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, were far from the truth. Singh’s counsel had argued that the first information report (FIR) against him for allegedly committing atrocities under the SC/ST Act on Ghadge were baseless and aimed at heckling the former top cop for complaining against ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore every month from establishments. Jethmalani had tried to impress upon the bench that the atrocities case was forced upon Singh by Ghadge as the former top cop refused to withdraw his letter. Jethmalani said that none of the complaints by Ghadge from 2016-18 against Singh and the false cases registered against him had mentioned that he belonged to an SC community, and hence, filing the complaint after five years of the incident clearly pointed out that it was meant to put pressure on Singh. However, Khambatta pointed to the letters and complaints which Jethmalani referred to and showed HC that Singh not only knew about his junior officer’s caste but had also asked both reserved and open category officers to probe the various allegations foisted upon Ghadge. In all, four FIRs were registered against Ghadge in 2016 and charge sheets in the cases were filed against him. He spent over a year in jail and was later acquitted in one of the trials. Khambatta said that the state had then appealed against the acquittal and Jethmalani was misleading the court. As the hearing had started late on Friday, the bench stopped it at 11.55pm and posted it for the hearing on Monday. Singh’s plea will be heard by a division bench headed by justice SS Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/param-bir-singh-s-offences-as-thane-top-cop-cognisable-state-to-hc-101621795683730.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Walk-in vaccination for 45+ between Monday and Wednesday: BMC||Starting today, those above 45 years of age will be allowed to walk in to receive their first Covishield vaccine dose for three days (between Monday and Wednesday), according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This comes two weeks after the BMC suspended the walk-in vaccination drive owing to crowding at centres.According to BMC, between Thursday and Saturday, vaccination will be only on basis of appointment, and on Sunday there will be no inoculation. However, the vaccination for the 18-44 age group remains suspended in civic and government centres. The BMC had last week allowed those above 60 years of age for walk-in vaccination.As per BMC data, there are 1.1 million senior citizens in the city. Among them, 882,000 have been administered the first dose. The civic body is now focusing on covering the remaining 300,000 senior citizens. Meanwhile, those wanting the second dose of Covaxin will be allowed on a walk-in basis. According to BMC, those requiring second dose of Covishield have to come 84 days after taking the first dose, as per instructions of the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/walkin-vaccination-for-45-between-monday-and-wednesday-bmc-101621795444943.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha aiming for 24x7 inoculation, says CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state plans to conduct the Covid-19 inoculation drive around-the-clock once they start getting a regular supply of vaccine doses as he wants to immunise the entire population at the earliest. Thackeray said manufacturing companies have informed the state that production will start augmenting from June and subsequently, supply will improve.Maharashtra is facing a shortage of doses and has suspended the drive for the 18-44 age group. It is the state most affected by the pandemic, with over 5.57 million cases. “We are hoping, from what has come from discussion with manufacturing firms, that production will start increasing from June. As soon as supply of vaccine doses becomes regular, we will vaccinate around-the-clock. I want to immunise the entire population at the earliest and have planned things accordingly,” the chief minister said.He was addressing a virtual meeting of expert doctors from the state task force, which was organised considering the expected third wave that may threaten children. He said the state is pursuing the issue of supply and was ready to make a one-time payment for 120 million doses to cover the 60 million population in the 18-44 age group.After the Central government changed the vaccination policy and put the onus on vaccinating those from the 18-44 age group on the states, Maharashtra started vaccination for the group from May 1, but was forced to suspend owing to shortage of vaccine doses.It has also floated an express of interest (EOI) on May 17 to procure 50 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. Its closing has been extended to May 25, following no response from the bidders till May 20.The chief minister said there are concerns over the third wave, but there is no need to panic. “The first wave hit senior citizens, the second one targeted youth and now children are said to be under threat in the third wave, if it comes. We need to concentrate on vaccinating those under 18 years of age, but there is not enough guidance by the Centre on which of the vaccines can be used. Clinical trials are going on at some places and when an advisory will be issued by the Centre it will also be implemented. Till then there is no need to panic even if there are concerns. Follow all the instructions from the expert doctors and share them with others as well,” Thackeray said.On Sunday, the state vaccinated 40,756 beneficiaries. It has inoculated 20,764,041 beneficiaries until May 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-aiming-for-24x7-inoculation-says-cm-101621795443798.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 26,672 new Covid cases||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 26,672 daily infections, pushing the count to 5,579,897. It was the fourth day in a row when the number of daily cases was less than 30,000. The tally of active cases continued to fall and reached 348,395, with 29,177 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The state saw 594 casualties taking the toll up to 88,620. Pune reported the highest toll with 93 deaths. The district recorded 84 deaths, while the city reported nine fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai and Ahmednagar with 49 and 47 casualties, respectively. The Covid situation in Maharashtra is improving. The number of daily cases is declining and it is down to around half of what it was in the beginning of this month. In the past one week (May 17-23), the average of new cases recorded in the state was 28,777, whereas in the first week (May 1-7), the average was 56,326. In the second week (May 7-14), it dropped to 44,212 cases a day on an average, according to the statistics provided by the state health department. Maharashtra is currently under complete lockdown, which ends on morning of June 1. The state may not extend it further and start easing restrictions in a staggered manner. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said although the cases have been brought under control, they are yet to get success as the state is gearing up for a possible third wave. He also said the decision of imposing lockdown was a tough call that has brought the situation under control. “I chose to impose lockdown by going against people’s wishes. It was the harshest decision to take as it brings restrictions on their livelihood, but I was ready to face their discontent. Today, the situation has come under control, but we are yet to get success. The success is of the people who have shown restraint, not mine,” Thackeray said. He was addressing an open virtual meeting of expert doctors from the state task force to guide other doctors and parents over dos and don’ts in case a child is found infected with the Covid-19 virus. It was organised considering the third wave, which is said to be dangerous for children of all ages. “The danger is yet to pass. We should be prepared for a possible third wave. In the second wave, we faced a shortage of oxygen and other things, considering which we have started our preparations from now on. I want to make sure the state becomes self-reliant, but it will take some time,” the chief minister pointed out. Mumbai also clocked 1,427 new cases, bringing the total to 696,910. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 290,155 samples and had a positivity rate of 9.19%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 16.9%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Sunday. Recently, state health minister Rajesh Tope had indicated that the state may not extend complete lockdown. “Lockdown will remain in force till the morning of June 1. The thumb rules for imposing lockdown are availability of beds, medicines and in case healthcare services are likely to crumble. Today, we have beds and medicines in all districts. We also have an adequate number of doctors,” he said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-26-672-new-covid-cases-101621794906459.html
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Horticulture waste being dumped in Chandigarh’s southern sectors||The residents of Chandigarh’s southern sectors have had it with the waste problem in the area which they claim has become a dump yard despite prompt complaints to the civic body authorities.As per the chief coordinator of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), Rajinder Garg, an empty patch of land in Sector 46-A has become a dumping ground for horticultural waste.“The land exists between 1-kanal kothis where garbage collectors and residents frequently chuck their waste. The municipal corporation too has failed to resolve the issue, instead the officials ask us for money to hire vehicles to pick up the garbage. Don’t we pay enough taxes already,” asked Garg.When asked, area councillor Gurpreet Singh Dhillon said he has been routinely getting the spot cleaned in the past. “The land belongs to the UT administration, but we still get it cleaned routinely. I was hospitalised for Covid treatment, so I was unavailable for the past few days. I will get this issue resolved on priority now,” he assured.Similarly, president of Sector 38 resident welfare association (RWA) Joginder Singh said, “In the park beside Vivek High School, disposal of horticultural waste has become a routine affair. We demand that the authorities concerned act on our complaints and maintain cleanliness in the area.” He added that the MC should also issue challans if any private individual is found dumping waste here.In Sector 33, this problem continues despite repeated complaints from residents. Sector 33-A RWA president Jagdish Singh Sarpal said, “The park near the Sehaj Safai Kendra is lying in a state of neglect while horticultural waste is also dumped regularly in an empty plot next to Tender Heart School.”MC officials tasked with lifting the waste here said they would look into the matter. The civic body is also in the process of buying more vehicles to lift horticultural waste from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/horticulture-waste-being-dumped-in-chandigarh-s-southern-sectors-101621794905301.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Make technology part of RTE, say experts||More than a year after schools in the state and the country moved online, there is a pressing demand from educationists and experts to cater to the technological gap in learning, with a large number of students still struggling to get access to smartphones, laptops and computers and thus remaining out of the education system.A 16-page report of the India Task Force under the Lancet Covid-19 Commission titled Reopening Schools after Covid-19 closures has recommended making Right to Technology a fundamental part of the Right to Education (RTE). One of the key recommendations of the report consists of providing digital access to students. “Bridge the divide on a priority basis through a combination of actions including but not restricted to improving access to internet connectivity and devices to poorest children,” states the report.Data on access to technology among students in the state has revealed that a large number of students did not have access to learning due to the unavailability of devices or the inability to pay for the internet. According to a survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), nearly 60,000 students in the city had no access to online learning as of February. Half of these were students who had no phones.Similarly, as per a survey conducted by the Maharashtra state education department in February 2021, nearly 16% students from the state do not have access to any medium of communication (radio, TV or mobile phone) for online education. As per the data, over 26% students in the state do not have access to even a simple mobile phone. The state of Palghar had the highest number of students without access to any medium – 37.48% followed by Gadchiroli (36.23%) and Nandurbar (29.87%). Even in Mumbai, which has the highest penetration of WhatsApp (70.33%), 3.58% students do not have access to a mobile, TV or radio.Experts said that the studies done so far should be indicators for the government agencies and for educational institutes to address the issue of poor access to technology among students. “The governments have to creatively think of leveraging education budgets for the next three-five years. The current state of education and learning is very different from before. Financial planning, student curriculum, teacher support, and parent engagement need to evolve. The technology gap has to be bridged. State governments should strongly consider repurposing the allocated budgets for textbooks, uniforms, TLMs (teaching-learning materials), school infrastructure, potentially some part of the mid-day meal scheme (if not already supported by other schemes), and other RTE accompaniments towards providing digital equipment access. If we can aspire to provide one quality device for every four students by 2025 - it will set a phenomenal learning infrastructure for the next 10-12 years,” said Madhukar Banuri, chief executive officer and co-founder of Leadership for Equity, a Pune based NGO.Ghanshyam Sonar, convenor of the All India Right to Education Forum said that students need to be provided devices along with internet connectivity on a priority basis in the new academic year that is set to begin for most state schools in June. “A realistic assessment on the requirements is already expected to be in. The government should now work on bridging the gap between the privileged and the underprivileged students because they have got enough time to do so for the last one year,” he added.Nirmala Jadhav, a parent from a civic school in Borivli said that while her son used her phone to attend online classes last year, he ended up missing a lot because she had to go out to work, hence carry the phone with her. “On paper, we have a device with us but it is of no use because the timings of classes and our work clashes. The government should come up with some solution and try and distribute free devices to students,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/make-technology-part-of-rte-say-experts-101621794843727.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Surge in spike protein antibody tests among vaccine beneficiaries||After taking Covid-19 vaccines, many beneficiaries are undergoing spike protein antibody test which detects proteins created by the immune system to fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus. Private laboratories have observed around three-fold rise in people opting for the antibody test as compared to February this year. Initially only healthcare workers (HCL) and frontline workers (FLW) were taking the tests, but over the past few months, private laboratories are seeing a number of general public opting for the test to determine the development of neutralising antibodies after vaccination. However, doctors have overruled the need for testing post-vaccination.Since May last year, Dr Vikrant Singh, 38, has been working with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in city slums. He is responsible for tracing close contacts of infected patients in slums of Govandi, Chembur and surrounding areas. Despite wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), there is always a chance of contracting the infection on the field. So, he stayed away from his family in an empty flat.A fortnight after taking the second jab of vaccine on February 12, he undertook the spike protein antibody test. “My test revealed that my antibody presence was high which gave me some assurance. Finally, after months, I could hug my 70-year-old mother who has diabetes,” he said.The spike protein antibody test has gained quite a buzz among vaccine beneficiaries. Considering the rise in demand for the test, several private labs such as SRL Diagnostic, Metropolis Healthcare, Dr B Lal Clinical Laboratory among others have started the facility. The test costs between ₹500 and ₹1,400.“The test was well-received by the medical fraternity and healthcare workers including doctors, who were among the first to be vaccinated. With the vaccination drive open to the public, there has been a growing interest among common people to go for the spike protein antibody test. Between February and April, there has been a three-fold increase in people opting for the test. They are keen to know how their bodies are reacting to the vaccine in terms of development of antibodies,” said Anand K, chief executive officer (CEO), SRL Diagnostics.Thyrocare Diagnostics has recorded almost 100% growth in the demand of testing between February and April. It has also been observed that the antibodies remain in the body for three to 12 months, though the lab has not made any study on it.“The beneficiaries are interested to know how their bodies are producing the antibodies in reaction to the jab. This provides an assurance to the public. Though the test does not help to determine the efficiency of any vaccine, it helps understand the level of immunity obtained,” said Chandrashekhar Mani, vice-president (operations), Thyrocare.Antibodies are protective proteins produced by the immune system in response to the presence of a foreign substance. These antibodies are produced in the body in two ways — when it is exposed to a virus and after getting a vaccination. The antibody produced after the vaccination neutralises the virus.“Viruses have two different types of proteins — spike protein and nucleo-capsid protein. Spike protein remains on the surface of the virus while nucleo-capsid protein is found inside the virus. The viruses generally enter the human cell through the spike protein domain. Thus, most vaccines such as Covishield have been designed to target the spike protein. This antibody test helps in the detection of the presence of antibodies specific to the Sars-CoV-2 spike protein,” said Dr Sanjay Ingle, zonal technical head (west) and consultant pathologist, Apollo Diagnostics.Spike protein antibodies are generally developed after two weeks of taking the second dose. Dr Anupa Dixit from Suburban Diagnostics said, “To get an assured report, the test needs to be done after 15days of taking the second jab.”No need to do spike protein test post-vaccinationHowever, a certain section of the medical fraternity has advised not to take the test after taking the jabs. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), on its official website, has not recommended the test post-vaccination to determine the level of immunity or protection from Covid-19.Dr Rahul Tambe, senior consultant, Internal Medicine and Infectious Disease, Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital, said, “Individuals should not use the antibody test as a tool to gauge their immunity. Antibody level alone is not a reflection of one’s immunity or protection against Covid-19. Several other physiological factors play a vital role in building an immune response.”Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has an efficacy rate of 81%, preliminary data from its phase three trial shows. Clinical trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine showed that when people were given a half dose and then a full dose, the effectiveness hit 90%.“These vaccines have undergone clinical trials and then been given approval from the Drugs Controller General of India, so there is no point in undergoing spike protein antibody tests after vaccination,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the state’s Covid task force.Rise in IgG antibody tests in second waveLast year, a large number of people underwent Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody tests to understand if they had ever been infected with the virus.As per the data shared by Thyrocare, on an average around 2,400 people undertook the test daily last year. However, with the fall in the pandemic curve, the number decreased to 1,000 tests per day in January. Since February, when the second wave started, the number rose to an average of 3,000 tests per day. In April, they conducted 4,000 tests per day.When the body comes in contact with any diseases-causing pathogens, the first antibody produced by the internal system is Immunoglobulin M (IgM) and later IgG is produced by the immune system. IgG plays a role in creating memory cells that remain in the body to help fight the virus in case of reinfection.“Last year, many Covid-recovered people increasingly opted for IgG antibody tests. The major motivation behind opting for IgG antibody test was to ascertain whether they could qualify to be plasma donors. However, as the impact of the first wave tapered and cases decreased, the demand went down. With the current wave of Covid-19, the demand for antibody testing has again gained momentum,” said Anand K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-surge-in-spike-protein-antibody-tests-among-vaccine-beneficiaries-101621794783760.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to get mobile app, vaccine dashboard for Covid vaccine||In a bid to improve the experience of Covid vaccination in the city, Mumbai civic body plans to develop a web portal-based vaccination dashboard on the lines of its Covid-19 management dashboard along with a mobile application which will help citizens get information on vaccination in the city. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also plans to develop a web portal-based chat bot where citizens can get answers to their queries about vaccines. However, citizens will not be able to book appointment for vaccination using the dashboard or the mobile application. Registration and booking of appointments for vaccination will continue to be done on the CoWIN app.According to BMC officials, this plan is similar to its Covid-19 dashboard that is available online for citizens to understand the spread of the virus in the city along with analytical data. For details on vaccination, they are going to develop a mobile application. BMC officials said the app and web portal will help citizens in getting details on vaccine availability, vaccine consumption pattern, adverse effects count etc. The information will also be made in such a way that citizens will be able to share it via social media platforms like WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook.BMC has already floated bids for the same and the system is expected to go live next month, if all goes as per the plan, civic officials said.The bid document floated by BMC reads, “In order improve citizen experience of getting inoculated, BMC is looking for an application, which will work with close integration with Government of India’s CoWIN application, for vaccination programme management in Mumbai city, primarily focusing on helping efficient logistics for the vaccination drive in the city and transparently sharing real-time vaccination-related information with various stakeholders and citizens.”According to the bid document, features of the mobile app and dashboard will include inventory tracking, centres where vaccination is out of stock, daily consumption, among others. The app will also send notifications to the administration via SMS about changing consumption patterns of vaccine in the city.Dr Managala Gomare, head of BMC’s public health department, said, “We are planning to come up with vaccine dashboard like our Covid dashboard. However, in this dashboard, the information displayed for the administration and the citizens will be divided. Few details displayed will be useful for citizens, whereas the information requirement of the administration might vary.”Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner BMC, said, “We will have the option of both web-based dashboard giving vaccination information and a mobile application. However, both of these will only be for information and not booking of appointment or registration. Citizens will have to continue using CoWIN for registration and booking vaccine appointments.”He added, “In the coming days, we plan to have more vaccine doses by importing from international bidders. The bidding process is on and once we get more vaccine doses, the vaccination drive will get scaled up and the use of these features will be useful at that time.”After receiving additional doses from the international market, BMC plans to take up the vaccination drive aggressively by starting mobile vaccination centres in the city apart from the current over 300 vaccination centres. BMC had, on May 12, floated global expression of interest for procuring 10 million vaccine doses from the international market. Around three parties have expressed their interest for supplying Russia’s Sputnik vaccine to the city. The last day for submitting proposals is Tuesday.Meanwhile, as of Saturday, 2,955,267 citizens have been vaccinated in the city, of which 80,077 are aged between 18 and 44, 1,045,005 are from the 45-59 age group, 1,172,755 are senior citizens and the remaining are healthcare and frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-mobile-app-vaccine-dashboard-for-covid-vaccine-101621794724314.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: School students raise funds for mucormycosis patients||Amid growing cases of mucormycosis during the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, two school students from Cathedral and John Connon School, Fort are raising money for the treatment of patients suffering from the black fungus infection.Mucormycosis is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes, and causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated on time, said doctors. Since the beginning of the second wave in February, more than 160 Covid-recovered patients have contracted mucormycosis in the city and 20 of them lost their lives to the infection.With the aim to help such patients financially in their treatment, two Class 10 students — Arnav Gupta and Ranai Loonkar, both aged 15 years — have started an initiative to raise ₹2 lakh. In the past one week, they have been successfully raised over ₹1.89 lakh on the crowdfunding portal Impactguru.It all started when two weeks back, Arnav went for a check-up to an ENT specialist who is associated with the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai Central. While having a general discussion, his doctor told him about the growing cases of mucormycosis among patients who have recovered from Covid-19. This motivated him to raise money to help the patients with treatment along with his friend Ranai.“The treatment is quite expensive, which many people cannot afford. The price of the life-saving antifungal injection, Liposomal Amphotericin B, ranges from ₹5,000 to ₹8,000. So, I decided to help the patients within my own limit by raising the money,” said Arnav.The two teenagers did their research and contacted Impactguru for the campaign. Along with the crowdfunding portal, they are trying to raise awareness through their social media accounts.“Through WhatsApp, we have been dispersing information to our friends and families to raise money. Since the campaign started seven days ago, 30 people have already contributed,” said Ranai.The money will be donated to BYL Nair Hospital to be used towards treatment of patients suffering from mucormycosis.“After starting the campaign, we have been receiving calls from several patients. In fact, we got a call from Jabalpur seeking help with medicines. This shows how people are struggling to get treatment and medicines. This is the least we could do for the society in this pandemic,” said Arnav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-school-students-raise-funds-for-mucormycosis-patients-101621794663707.html
24-05-2021||Other||Facilitate return to Chinese varsities, say medical students||With no response from the Chinese government so far, Indian students enrolled in medical programmes in China have written to the ministry of external affairs as well as to the Indian and Chinese governments to facilitate their return to campuses. On Thursday, students wrote open letters to both the governments, stating that the looming uncertainty over their return to campus has led to mental strain. They have requested the governments to prioritise the return of the students who need to complete their hospital shifts and clinical rotations in order to graduate by September, at the earliest. “Studying online for prolonged period of time is exacting an immense mental toll on students. An increasing number of students are suffering from anxiety and stress due to uncertainty in the tentative date of return,” read the letter. The students have demanded clarity on return dates, proposal for possible chartered flights for sending them, facilitation of visa application, recognition of vaccination certificates of immunised students and facilitating inoculation of students in China. Students of Chinese universities returned to India last year amid the pandemic as their universities imposed lockdowns. More than a year on, they have not been able to return to the campuses as China continues to impose a travel ban for international students. Last month, students pursuing their degree in Chinese universities approached the United Nations (UN) hoping for a positive development. In a letter signed by over 20,000 medical, graduate and undergraduate students studying in the universities in China, Japan and Australia have urged UN to intervene in the matter and help lift the border restrictions which has left thousands of students stranded in their home countries for the past one year. The Indian Embassy in Beijing, China, in a statement on March 22 clarified that the Chinese government’s recent decision related to visa facilitation for foreigners does not apply to students.“Chinese authorities at various levels continue to maintain their position that on account of last year’s announcement by the ministry of foreign affairs of the People’s Republic of China to suspend temporarily the entry of foreigners holding valid Chinese visa and residence permits following the outbreak Covid-19 in many countries, the visa suspension on foreigners stays until further notice,” read the official statement released by the embassy. Students are now gearing up to complete their courses online without having any practical experience. A third-year student from Jianghan University in Wuhan, said, “Our teachers are sending us videos of practical classes and assignments. Medical education without practical experience is incomplete.” According to data from Unesco (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), in 2018 and 2019, China received around 500,000 international students each, the third highest in the world after the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK). Over 23,000 Indians were enrolled in various programmes in China in 2018, shows data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/facilitate-return-to-chinese-varsities-say-medical-students-101621794603702.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Private bus tickets up 40% as passengers flock given that no e-pass needed||For Laxman Vanpat, it was a great relief to reach to Nagpur by a private bus on Sunday.“I had applied twice for the e-pass, but it got rejected. When I got to know that tourist buses do not require e-passes I immediately booked a ticket., said Vanpat, who had to go to Nagpur for a family emergency.As the lockdown continues in the state, people wanting to travel inter-district now prefer the private buses route, as no e-pass is required.In Pune, at the four main exit roads from the city, there has been rush of passengers to board these private buses. This includes Ahmednagar road towards Aurangabad and Nagpur; at the Katraj chowk towards Kolhapur and Karnataka; at Hadpsar, going towards Solapur; and at the Nashik phata going towards Nashik.Another passenger Kalyani Gunde said, “Though there is a strict lockdown in the state I wanted to go for a wedding of my cousin to Kolhapur. As our pass got rejected, we booked a tourist bus ticket at a higher rate and travelled to Kolhapur.”The ticket fares of private buses have increased in the last one month by at least 40 per cent. Earlier, a ticket for Pune to Nagpur which was around ₹1,500 to ₹1,800, is now ₹2,500.Similarly, on the Kolhapur route, earlier a ticket fare was ₹800. It has now increased to ₹1,200 to ₹1,500.Santosh Deshmukh, owner of Samarth travel agency, said, “Our buses mostly run Pune to Nashik and Pune to Aurangabad. We are getting a good response in last couple of months. Passengers prefer to travel by private bus as there is no e-pass required. Also, we are taking all necessary safety precautions inside the bus. After every trip the entire bus is sanitised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-bus-tickets-up-40-as-passengers-flock-given-that-no-e-pass-needed-101621782963183.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Only 70 per cent pre-monsoon work complete, PMC sets June 10 deadline||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is claiming to complete the pre-monsoon work before June 10, however, till date only 70 per cent work has been completed. The biggest concern for residents in the Ambil odha vicinity is that the retaining wall construction work is still underway along with cleaning and deepening nullahs of different parts of the city especially the 11 merged villages. Normally, the PMC begins pre-monsoon work in the month of April and finishes it off by the end of May. In some years, the deadline is extended up to June 7 for the completion of the pre-monsoon works which includes cleaning, removing sludge, widening and deepening of nullahs, cleaning storm water drain, chambers, culverts cleaning of drainage lines among other things. However, this year, the administration is claiming to complete the work before June 10. The PMC had floated 22 tenders of cleaning nullahs in the last week of April. The amount of each tender was around ₹65 lakh. Besides this, the PMC floated 15 ward wise tenders each of ₹15 lakh. In Ambil odha which has emerged as the most affected part of the city since the last three years in the monsoon season, the PMC identified 19 spots to construct a retaining wall to restrict the flood water to flow into the slums or residential areas. However, the work of the retaining wall construction is still underway. The cleaning work at the Bhirobha Nullah has also not completed yet. Due to Tauktae, the PMC will have to clean the storm water drain in the Sinhagad road areas once again. On Saturday, additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar along with the drainage department and ward officers visited Kalas dhanori, Yerawada and Wadgaonsheri areas. The city has 236 major and small nullahs in the total 526 kilometre nullahs network in the city including the 11 merged villages (166 kilometres). Of that, 170 kilometres of nullahs are passing through high flooded areas which include Katraj, Wadgaonsheri, and all peth areas, Hadapsar, Pashan, Dhanori-Vishrantwadi, Hingne, Dattwadi, Aundh and Kothrud. Sunil Jadhav, a resident of Kharadi area said, “The nullah of Spring glory society is yet to be cleaned. The small stretch of nullah passing through Thite areas is also not clean. Last year, we had faced a problem of water logging in this area.” In Kothrud, Shastrinagar areas, Bavdhan area, PMC depot areas, Ramnadi area has also not completed the pre-monsoon work. The Hill side society and NDA Pashan road near Bank of India are some of the critical spots. Ramesh Patil, a resident of Kothrud area said, “I reside near NDA Pashan road area. The PMC hasn’t started the work of cleaning nullahs yet. We face water logging problems in the monsoon season.” Sameer Pathan, a resident of Kondhwa said, “There are nullahs passing through the Kondhwa police station. The PMC has not begun the work of cleaning the nullahs in Bhagodhaya Nagar and Survey number 42, 43 Prithviraj Sutar, a Shiv Sena corporator from Kothrud said, “In the Kothrud area, there 20 hotspots where we face water logging problems. The administration started the work late. It is not completed yet. Every year, the PMC is spending a lot of money on the same spots to clear water logging. We need a permanent solution on the water logging and monsoon-related problems.” Sushmita Shirke, superintending engineer, sewerage, maintenance and repair department said, “We will complete the work before June 10. The work is ongoing; we will carry out the work in monsoon which comes from outskirt of city in the nullahs. We have completed 70 per cent chamber cleaning work. We are facing some problems of manpower due to Covid-19 in chamber cleaning as it is completely manual. We use machinery to clean the nullahs. So, there is no problem, we will complete it before monsoon. At present, there are around ₹15 crore worth of pre-monsoon work going on in the city.” According to Shirke, the cleaning of nullahs in the 11 merged villages will begin from Monday. “We have almost 15 days to complete pre-monsoon work,” she said. ============================ Header: Job half done Info: Only 70 per cent of the pre-monsoon work in the city has been completed. The PMC has set a deadline of June 10 to complete all remaining work. Length of nullahs in the city: 526 kilometres approximately Length of cleaning work undertaken: 300 kilometres approximately Number of drainage chambers- 40,000 Cleaned drainage chambers: 3,000 Length of storm water drainage: 145 kilometres Length of cleaning work undertaken: 100 kilometres Number of Culverts: 300 Number of cleaned Culverts: 200 Length of critical nullahs: 28 kilometres Length of completed work: 18 kilometres High flooding-prone areas in the city: Katraj, Wadgaonsheri, all peth areas, Hadapsar, Pashan, Dhanori-Vishrantwadi, Hingne, Dattawadi, Aundh and Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-70-per-cent-pre-monsoon-work-complete-pmc-sets-june-10-deadline-101621782064656.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Pune city’s positivity rate below 10 per cent for four successive days||As the number of Covid cases continues to drop in city, the daily positivity rate has followed, dropping below 10 per cent for four successive days.The positivity rate in the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) limits for Thursday, Friday and Saturday, was 7.61%, 8.33% and 7.38%, respectively, while on Sunday, it stood at 7.82% with 709 cases against 9,066 tests, according to the district health office. With latest tally, the average weekly positivity rate between May 16 and May 22, has been under 10%, at 9.26%. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “The number of positive cases have been going down. The positivity rate has come down to 8%. Now, beds are available and necessary medicines are available. We hope this trend continues. People need to keep following the norms and should continue Covid-appropriate behaviour.” Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said the situation is in control in the city now, but people should not stop observing appropriate behaviour. “On April 18, the number of active patients in the city was 56,636. It was reduced to 12,330 on May 22. In the last one month the number of active patients has come down by 44,000 and is a silver lining for the city.” The week also saw Pune record less than 1,000 fresh cases for four days in a row. On April 8, Pune city had recorded its highest daily positive caseload of 7,010, with the positivity rate crossing 35%. With caseload dropping below the 1,000 mark, traders and hoteliers have started pushing for reopening of the markets and easing of existing restrictions. Responding to this demand, Mohol said that the administration will have to be cautious while easing curbs. “We cannot reopen everything in a hurry. It will have to be in the phases. Otherwise, there can be a resurgence of the infection. The discussion will take place in this week’s Covid review meeting. We need to tackle the soaring cases of mucormycosis and there is the possibility of the third wave,” Mohol said. The downward trend of Covid positive cases has also been observed in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The number of active patients recorded on Saturday in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits was at 7,800. According to Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner, in the last 10 days, the average positivity rate in Pimpri-Chinchwad has been 11%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-positivity-rate-below-10-per-cent-for-four-successive-days-101621781103041.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Pvt hospitals in Pune to start on-campus vaccination drives for corporates from Monday||PUNE After starting inoculation for the 18-44-year age group, private hospitals in Pune will now to start on-campus vaccination drives for employees of corporate firms, from Monday. Ruby Hall clinic, Noble hospital and Sahyadri hospital, have confirmed the on-campus drives.The hospitals have priced each dose of Covishield for corporates at Rs1,200, following a decision taken on the price by the Pune Hospitals Association. Private hospitals are charging regular citizens ₹900 per dose of Covishield, to get their jabs.“We have received the vaccine doses and have already started vaccinations from our hospital. We have signed MoUs with several corporates like TCS and Tech Mahindra to vaccinate their employees. These firms have already taken all the necessary permissions and approvals. From Monday onwards, we will start the vaccination drive on their campuses,” said Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent, Ruby Hall Clinic. Ruby Hall, along with Noble hospital, began vaccinating the 18-44 age group from Friday. “We would like to highlight that the government should should allow those within the age group of 18-44 years to walk-in. Currently, this facility is only allowed for the age group of 45+ people. The number of youngsters coming in for vaccination is huge. We have already sent a request letter in this regards to the Pune district administration,” he added. Noble hospital in Hadapsar is also starting vaccination inside Magarpatta city from Monday. “We are checking our logistics and other preparations to start the vaccination at Magarpatta city. It will be for everyone including employees of corporate firms and local residents, along with staff of the township. First a dry run will be done on Monday and once everything goes out smoothly, the process will accelerate as per the supply of doses.” said Dr H K Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital. Currently, at least 12 hospitals in the city have started inoculation for the 18-44 age group. All those getting jabs are required to register on Cowin given that walk-ins are not allowed. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar medical director at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “We have started the vaccination from our hospital for citizens. However, we have not yet received any demand from any of the corporates. We can offer them service as per the requirement.” All these hospitals from the city have procured doses directly from the Covishield manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII), based in Pune. Questions sent on email to SII, on whether it has started supplying Covishield doses directly to corporates and number of doses being provided to private hospitals to inoculate the 18 to 44-year age group went unanswered until the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pvt-hospitals-to-start-on-campus-vaccination-drives-for-corporate-firms-from-monday-101621780503118.html
24-05-2021||Other||Balgandharva checkpost’s “tripawd” canine gets designated “special police officer” by police chief||PUNE Raja (aka – Tridev), a three-legged “Special Police Officer” at the Balgandharva police chowky is seated at the barricades at the check post on the Balgandharva most days. He has been on duty ever since the lockdown kicked from April 5. The check post has been this canine’s home for the last 50 days. “Ever since the lockdown started, he has started to stay at the check post. He is not an aggressive dog. All enjoy his company. Raja has turned out to be a companion for us, bringing a smile to our faces,” said Murlidhar Karpe, inspector, Deccan Police Station. A tweet from Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta, read: “An ode to our Special Police Officer: Raja, the three-legged dog at the Balgandharva nakabandi - a vigilant companion and a true friend who has been with our Officers, throughout the lockdown.” The tweet generated a lot of traction among Puneties. Sushma Date, a pet lover and head of Deccan Gymkhana Animal Welfare Association, tweeted, “This is our sweetheart Tridev! So happy to see he is assisting the police”. ‘Tridev was the name given to the “tripawd” dog when he was found by Deccan Gymkhana association members – Ashlesha Pathak, Gauri Bopatkar and Anjali Kudale, at Dnyaneshwar Paduka chowk, as he has three legs,” says Date. “Since the lockdown started, we have continued to feed him. He has shifted his location from a tea shop to the check post where he is getting a lot of affection from the police personnel,” added Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/balgandharva-checkpost-s-tripawd-canine-gets-designated-special-police-officer-by-police-chief-101621779482986.html
