27-05-2021||Other||Delhi HC asks IRDA to consider insurance claims of Covid patients who couldn’t get hospital beds||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday said that several people were not able to avail the benefit of the insurance policies during the second wave of the pandemic as they did not get hospital beds, “not due to their fault, but for the dearth of infrastructure”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while noting that thousands of patients had to take treatment at home, asked the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) to consider such cases and see whether the insurance claim can be given to the insurers.“It’s a matter of common knowledge and we can take judicial notice at the same time that for about 3-4 weeks when the current wave of pandemic was at its height, there was acute shortage of hospital beds, not only in NCT of Delhi but all over the country. People suffering from Covid-19 requiring hospital were not getting beds much less ICU beds and those with ventilators. Thus thousands of patients had to take treatment at home and make arrangements at home.”“The insurance policies issued by several insurance companies which have been in existence do not cover claims unless the insurer is a hospital. It appears that it is only the Corona kavach policy which has been introduced as a standard policy. However, a large number of insured people would not be able to receive any benefit under the insurance policies held by them only because they did not get hospitalization for no fault of theirs, but for the dearth of infrastructure,” the court noted in its order.According to the insurance companies, the claims could be made on their policies, only if they are hospitalized for at least 24 hours.The bench also noted a submission by central government standing counsel Amit Mahajn who said that several people who have been paying premiums for years but did not get the insurance premium. Petitioner lawyer Rakesh Malhotra also told the court that he could not avail the insurance claims because he was discharged 23 hours later than the stipulated time to avail the benefit.“It seems unfair if somebody is paying insurance for 20 years but when he actually wants it... Now IRDA has come up with a new policy which is a good thing covering home care also,” the court noted even as the insurance companies were not doing charity but also making money.During the hearing, advocate Abhishek Nanda, appearing for the IRDA, told the court that they have introduced four new policies the first among them being the Corona Kawach policy which is a common policy which is mandatory for all the companies to issue it. He said that these were short term policies issued for specific months.He submitted that Corona Rakshak has been also issued by IRDA but it’s not mandatory for all the insurance companies to issue. He informed the court that more than 31 lakhs insurance policies have been sold.However, the bench did not seem impressed with the figures and said, “If you consider the population of this Country, this isn’t enough…. We feel it’s a very minuscule number”.It also questioned the provision of the Corona Kavach policy that covered only the age group of 18-65. “The data which we have shows that people who are above 65 are more prone to covid. You’re excluding these people. How does it help then?” the court questioned.“The way to go about it is to increase the age from 18 to 65 and cross subsidise. Increase the policy above 65,” it added. It asked the IRDA to consider this aspect and posted the matter for further hearing on July 14.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with other petitioners, had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-asks-irda-to-consider-insurance-claims-of-covid-patients-who-couldn-t-get-hospital-beds-101622139960515.html
27-05-2021||Other||Delhi: Matrix Cellular’s plea to release seized concentrators rejected||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed a plea by Matrix Cellular seeking to release the oxygen concentrators seized by the city police, saying that the company “was selling untested oxygen concentrators to people desperate for these devices at exorbitant prices” amid an acute shortage.“The facts show the petitioner was engaged in selling untested oxygen concentrators to people desperate for these devices and at exorbitant prices through false representations, especially, when the State and the whole country saw a unprecedented surge of covid-19 infections and severe lack of oxygen cylinders and/or concentrators,” Justice Yogesh Khanna said.The court said that there was “no illegality by the Delhi police in seizing the concentrators especially when the State was reeling under acute shortage of drugs, cylinders, concentrators and attendants of patients were running pillar to post, ready to part with their life savings for its purchase”.“The police official, when got information about black marketing and hoarding of medical devices (concentrator) and of violation of the law orders, had acted and seized the material,” said the court while rejecting a submission by Matrix that police acted arbitrarily or their action has no legal backing.The single judge bench said that the “prima facie the act of the petitioner (Matrix Cellular) is in violation of an office memorandum of the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers, government of India, dated June 29, 2020 which had directed the petitioner and others like it, selling oxygen concentrators, to not increase prices of oxygen concentrators by more than 10% of the maximum retail price in a year of the Drugs Pricing Control Order (DPCO), 2013.“Hence, the investigation being at initial stage, the reliefs sought for in this petition cannot be granted by this Court except the concentrators so seized be put an identification mark(s) and its coloured photographs be kept for future reference, by the respondent (Delhi police),” the court noted in its 17-page order.The court also said that the release of the concentrators would be a violation of an order of the division bench last month where it had said that such equipment be deposited to the District Magistrate who would distribute it for further use in wake of the acute shortage.The order comes on the plea by Matrix Cellular which had sought release of its concentrators seized by the police during raids at the company’s collection centre at Lodhi Colony and its office premises at Mehrauli on May 5.The plea had said that the petitioner company is dealing in oxygen concentrators and not oxygen cylinders and the equipment which are seized from them are sold over the counters and is not a regulated/controlled item.“These items are being sold by Amazon and other online portals and the acts of petitioner have been carved out separately is a mischief of the concerned Investigating Officer,” the company argued before the court.According to the plea, 32 boxes of oxygen concentrators of 9 and 5 litres; one box of thermal scanner and KN-95 Masks were recovered. An FIR was registered following this and four persons were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhimatrix-cellular-s-plea-to-release-seized-concentrators-rejected-101622139660480.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||42% of those aged 45 and above in Delhi have got at least one vaccine dose, says govt||Over 40% of all Delhi residents aged 45 and above have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi said on Thursday while presenting the daily vaccination bulletin, even as she flagged a shortage of Covaxin supplies for the age group. “In Delhi, 42% of the people aged above 45 years have received at least one vaccine shot. Around 24.32 lakh people in this age group have been vaccinated…,” said Atishi, the AAP’s Kalkaji MLA. So far, a total of 5.2 million people in the Capital have got at least one dose of the vaccine, of which 1.18 million have got both doses, showed government data. However, Atishi reiterated that the Capital needed more vaccine doses if it were to continue inoculating all eligible age groups “In Delhi, all vaccine sites for the 18-45 age group in public schools have been closed for four days now… On May 26, only about 34,000 people were vaccinated, of which 30,000 were given the first dose while the rest got the second. This is much lower than 130,000-140,000 people we were vaccinating a day till two weeks ago. We are facing a major vaccine shortage,” said Atishi. She also said, “Covaxin doses for the 45+ group are over, while we have 11 days’ stock of Covishield… We would like to appeal to the central government again to allow WHO-approved vaccines to be imported into India so that more and more people get vaccinated.” Sisodia inaugurates drive-in jabs centre in Saket Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday inaugurated a temporary drive-through Covid-19 vaccine centre at Select Citywalk shopping mall in south Delhi’s Saket. The centre will be open for two days (Thursday and Friday), and will administer Covaxin doses to those aged between 18 and 45, the mall said in a statement. The mall set the centre up in collaboration with the United by Blood NGO and Fortis Healthcare hospital. The centre is capable of providing a “safer, quicker and effective environment” for vaccination, Sisodia said while inaugurating the centre. On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated Delhi’s first drive through vaccine centre set up by a private hospital at a shopping mall in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka Sector 14. In the next few days, the Delhi government is likely to open a drive through vaccine centre at the Chhatrasal stadium in north Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/42-of-those-aged-45-and-above-in-delhi-have-got-at-least-one-vaccine-dose-says-govt-101622139600433.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Crackdown on drug hoarding: 136 kilos of meds seized after raids in 2,517 shops and units||The Delhi government has intensified its crackdown against the hoarding and black-marketing of life-saving drugs and the special task force (STF) in every district, formed for the purpose, have so far conducted searches in at least 2,517 shops and manufacturing units across the city, senior revenue officials said on Thursday. The move comes at a time when cases of secondary mucormycosis or black fungus are on the rise among Covid-19 recovered patients, which doctors are attributing to the compromised immunity of these persons, most probably as a result of the indiscriminate use of steroids to treat Covid-19, besides underlying conditions such as diabetes. “Acute shortage of medicines to treat black fungus patients is a bigger problem than the increase in the number of cases of this fungal infection. Amphotericin-B is in short supply across the country and each state is getting only a limited number of vials, depending on the caseload of that state or Union Territory. In such a scenario, ensuring that there is no black-marketing or hoarding of such life-saving drugs is of prime importance,” said a member of the STF in Central district, asking not to be named. These STFs, one in each of the 11 districts of Delhi, have officials from the district administration, Delhi Police and the city’s drug control office. Data showed that till May 24, STFs conducted searches in 2,512 shops and five manufacturing units. A total of 25 cases of hoarding and black-marketing of life-saving drugs have been reported so far and 136 kilograms of medicines seized. A total of 67 oxygen cylinders have also been seized in the past few days -- there were eight separate cases of hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen cylinders. A total of 16 FIRs (first information reports) have been lodged so far and 31 persons arrested, the government data further showed.On May 25 alone, the government’s drugs control department suspended the licences of 25 drugstores and initiated action against 12 others for selling medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 without prescription. Department officials said they sent decoy customers to various stores across the city to purchase ivermectin (to treat parasite infestation), antibiotics such as azithromycin, and steroids to check if these medicines were being sold without a doctor’s prescription. The licences of 25 drugstores were suspended after they sold ivermectin and antibiotics to the decoy customers without prescription on May 14 and 15.Show-cause notices have been sent to 12 other drugstores which were found selling steroids such as dexamethasone and budesonide without prescription on May 17 and 21. Their licences are also likely to be suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crackdown-on-drug-hoarding-136-kilos-of-meds-seized-after-raids-in-2-517-shops-and-units-101622139481622.html
27-05-2021||Other||SP distributing rations & food, offering medical aid to needy||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party (SP) activists in small towns and rural areas have started distributing ‘Samajwadi ration’ and ‘Samajwadi bhojan’ (food) through ‘Samajwadi kitchens’. They are also offering medical aid across the state, including free ambulance services in some places, according to a party statement issued on Thursday. In the statement, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said while the BJP was spreading confusion and lies among people during Covid times and no relief work was visible. In such a situation, the Samajwadi Party cadre was busy helping people state-wide. Akhilesh said that the SP leaders and workers, keeping Covid safety protocol in mind, were helping people with rations, cooked food, medicines and medical tools. In some places they were even running free ambulance service. He said that SP MLC Rajpal Kashyap was distributing Samajwadi ration and food packets among the needy at different places, while former SP candidate from Lucknow’s Sarojini Nagar assembly constituency Anurag Yadav had provided a consignment of oxygen, oximeters, nebulisers, thermometers, glucometers, masks, sanitizers and medical kits etc to the KGMU administration. He said that in Meerut, SP district president Chaudhary Rajpal Singh and others were running an ambulance services. In many places, the SP volunteers were giving food to patients and their relatives outside hospitals. Samajwadi kitchens were running in Maharajganj, Varanasi, Rae Bareli, Lucknow, Kannauj, Sidharthnagar, Hamirpur and other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sp-distributing-rations-food-offering-medical-aid-to-needy-101622139181276.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vax drive: Lagging districts Maharashtra’s priority||The Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to give priority to districts that are lagging behind in vaccination, by providing more doses to bring them up to the state’s average. State health minister Rajesh Tope said some districts have an average of around 40-50%, while some districts have an average of around 5%. The state, meanwhile, is seeking more information from the eight bidders that have responded to the state’s call for 50 million vaccine doses. Tope added that the Centre should intervene, reiterating that a national policy on vaccine import must be formulated. According to health department officials, districts such as Hingoli, Parbhani, Gadchiroli, Nandurbar, Solapur, Palghar, Beed and Solapur are behind on vaccination drive. These districts are expected to get more vaccines. Officials also added that besides vaccine shortage, vaccine-hesitancy and far-off vaccination centres in tribal districts etc are also reasons for low percentage of beneficiaries there. “In the above 45-years category, the state average is around 27% [vaccination]. Some districts have reached 50-60%, but there are also districts where it is around 5%. Therefore, we have taken a decision regarding vaccine distribution in such districts,” Tope said, after the state cabinet meeting. He also added that the government has decided on a “policy” to give priority to second dose. “Districts where second doses are due, the stock will be provided,” he added. The health minister further said the Centre needs to “intervene” in the matter of importing vaccines. Tope said the “marketing agencies” of vaccine manufacturers Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Sputnik and Astra Zeneca have given responses to the global bid. However, some companies have not given their rates, while some have not given their schedule, he said. “We are seeking more details from the companies, but the Centre too must intervene and we are requesting the Centre to give their opinion on this.” The intermediaries who have responded have quoted prices between US$10 to US$18, while it is US$25 for Pfizer and US$23 for AstraZeneca shots. Tope admitted that some companies’ decision to not provide vaccines to state governments has caused a hindrance. “Pfizer has clearly told Punjab [government] that it will not give vaccines to state, but only the Centre. So far, the Centre has given permission to Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik. They may give it to Pfizer and Moderna also later. Therefore, we appeal to the Centre to formulate a national policy on vaccine import,” he said. Meanwhile, the state administered 278,687 doses till 8pm on Thursday. So far, the state has administered 21,642,190 doses, of which 4,460,587 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated. Mumbai saw 46,156 doses being administered till 8pm on Thursday, while the total doses administered rose to 3,156,422. So far, 754,032 beneficiaries in Mumbai are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vax-drive-lagging-districts-maharashtra-s-priority-101622139001422.html
27-05-2021||Other||ANM penalised for throwing vaccine-loaded syringes in dustbin||Agra District magistrate of Aligarh Chandra Bhushan Singh has issued show cause notice to an ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) deputed at Jamalpur urban primary health centre for throwing 29 vaccine-loaded syringes in the dustbin. He also recommended termination of her contractual service, after a probe committee indicted the ANM. The matter came to light on Monday when 29 Covid vaccine -loaded syringes were found in the dustbin at Jamalpur urban primary health centre in Aligarh. The ANM on duty Neha Khan was suspected of allegedly having thrown these syringes. Chief medical officer (CMO), Aligarh, Dr Bhanu Pratap Kalyani ordered probe by a committee of additional CMO Dr MK Mathur and deputy CMO Durgesh Kumar. The ANM denied the allegations, calling them a conspiracy against her. The probe committee reached the urban primary health centre on Tuesday, questioned the staff, including ANM Neha Khan, and submitted its report on Wednesday, following which a show cause notice was issued to the ANM and recommendation made for termination of her services. “No such incident would be tolerated and whosoever is found guilty would face the action,” said DM Chandra Bhushan Singh. To note, there has been much focus on minimizing wastage of Covid vaccine and so the incident at Jamalpur PHC has raised many eyebrows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anm-penalised-for-throwing-vaccine-loaded-syringes-in-dustbin-101622139000120.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Probe how politicians, film stars procured Covid drugs, Bombay HC directs Maharashtra govt||While appreciating the initiatives of some political leaders and film personalities to help Covid-19 patients, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state government to probe as to how they procured essential Covid drugs that were being allocated by the Central government to different states. The HC also noted that those personalities could not resort to extra-legal methods by bypassing the state, to procure drugs even if their intentions were noble. The division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing compliance of its directions by the Centre, state and BMC that were passed in a clutch of public interest litigation (PIL), was informed by the respective counsels that the issues pertaining to fire audit of hospitals, providing oxygen and essential drugs to treat Covid and black fungus infection, bed management, cremation and curbing black marketing of the drugs had been addressed to a large extent. The PILs had alleged that there was large scale mismanagement by the authorities during the second wave of Covid-19, hence sought various directions on shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen supply, curbing black-marketing and profiteering during procurement and distribution of Covid-19 drugs among others. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni representing the state while submitting compliance of the earlier orders of the HC in the PILs informed the bench that notices were issued to actor Sonu Sood’s charity foundation and Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique by the drugs inspector and an inquiry was underway in relation to their procurement of drugs. Kumbhakoni submitted the state affidavit wherein it is stated that the actor and the MLA in response to the inquiry had informed that they had not purchased or stocked the medicines and injections and had merely acted as facilitators. “The reply states that Sood’s foundation requested manufacturers such as Cipla, Jubilant and others to help them to provide required medicines to needy patients,” said Kumbhakoni adding that notices had been issued to the manufacturers. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the bench that the central government had already questioned the manufacturers and they had denied having supplied them to any politician or celebrity. “They might be doing it bonafide, but not realizing the legal repercussions. They want to help somebody but it has to be within the parameters of the law and they cannot have extra-legal methods by which drugs are made available. Those who want to help, let them do that with procedures known to the government,” said the bench. The bench clarified that as neither Sood nor Siddique were party to the case it was not passing any orders against them but directed the state government to caution them and continue with the inquiry. Kumbhakoni then informed that following the recent fire incidents in Covid-19 hospitals, fire audits of 479 out of 520 government hospitals and health centres had been undertaken and directions were issued to them to comply with fire safety norms. Nine establishments had received fire NOC and mock fire drills were successfully conducted in 395 units. With regards to cremation Kumbhakoni submitted that while there was a delay in cremation due to large numbers, there were no cases of denial of decent cremation or burial for want of space like in other states where bodies were consigned to the river without proper cremation. The court then directed the state and civic authorities to install smoke controlling devices in crematoriums to reduce the pollution under the supervision of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board. On being assured that there was no shortage of oxygen, the bench asked the state to consider passing an ordinance making it mandatory for private hospitals to have their own oxygen manufacturing units to meet the demands in light of the possibility of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Regarding Mucormycosis cases, Kumbhakoni submitted that to date there were 3,200 cases mainly found in Covid patients and the daily requirement for treating it was 14,000 vials of Amphotericin- B drug however it was receiving only 4,000 vials on an average from May 11 to 25, per day. The PILs will be heard for further compliance on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/probe-how-politicians-film-stars-procured-covid-drugs-bombay-hc-directs-maharashtra-govt-101622138880187.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Respond to plea seeking Z-plus security for Adar Poonawalla, HC tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state government to respond to a petition seeking Z-plus security for vaccine manufacturer Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India, in light of alleged threats to him from certain politicians who demanded more supply of the Covishield vaccine. The petition also seeks registration of a first information report (FIR) and initiation of a probe into the threats. The vacation bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the petition filed by advocate Datta Mane, was informed that as per a May 4 news report, Poonawalla had been living in fear due to constant pressure from politicians and notable persons demanding that he provide their state with more supply of the Covishield vaccine. Mane’s petition further stated that the Poonawalla family had left for London due to this pressure and threats. The petition further stated that if vaccine manufacturers were subjected to such situations, the manufacturing of the vaccine would be affected. After hearing the petition, the court questioned the locus of the petitioner and said that if Poonawalla was not satisfied by the security already provided to him, he could have approached the authorities. Advocate Pradeep Havnur, however, submitted that criminal law could be set in motion by any person. The court then observed that Poonawalla was doing a good job and a huge service to the nation. “As per our knowledge, he has been given Y-Plus security already. The petitioner is seeking Z-plus security. We are not aware of it. If it is necessary, then the state will give it,” said the bench. The court also noted that as per news reports Adar Poonawalla’s father had clarified that he had gone to London for a break. “The petitioner, being an advocate, will have to bear in mind and be careful next time while arguing this matter as our country has a very good reputation and such proceedings will have an international impact. This is not an ordinary matter,” said the bench and asked the state to respond to the petition.Thereafter, additional public prosecutor SR Shinde for the state government sought time to take instructions from the concerned department and respond to the petition. The bench has posted further hearing of the petition to June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/respond-to-plea-seeking-z-plus-security-for-adar-poonawalla-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101622138820186.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||542 prisoners released from jails in Maharashtra after HPC order; bail pleas of 12,751 pending||Following the May 11 order of the high power committee (HPC) to decongest overcrowding in prisons, in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave, in all 542 prisoners have been released from jails either on emergency bail or Covid parole. However, as bail applications of over 12,000 prisoners remain pending before various courts, jails across the state are still overcrowded despite releasing over 10,000 prisoners last year, on emergency bail/parole.The HPC which, believed the second wave Covid-19 is more virulent and lethal, recommended that the concerned magistrate courts in the state, consider the pending applications for interim bail of the 12,751 under-trial prisoners liberally and on a priority basis for the sake of the safety and welfare of the prisoners.These 12,751 applications for interim bail have pending since last year. For the effective de-congestion in jails, this issue needs to be addressed on a priority basis, said a prison official. According to the prison department as of May 26, 483 and 59 prisoners have been released on bail and emergency parole, respectively, following recommendations of HPC dated May 7 and May 1, 2021. As new prisoners continue to be admitted, the prison population has gone up substantially again. As per the latest statistics, there are 32,362 inmates lodged across 46 jail in the state against the capacity of around 24,000 prisoners. It is also pertinent to note that over 10,800 prisoners, who have been released during the “first wave” of Covid last year, have not been called back and continue to remain on interim bail/emergency parole.As per the official data, the prison population was reduced from 36,061 as of March 31, 2020, to 26,379 as of July 31, 2020, due to the temporary release of eligible prisoners, following the decisions of the HPC. Hence, the impact of the first wave of the pandemic was thereafter diluted and the situation in the prisons had improved in the context of the spread of coronavirus.However, considering the decline in numbers of new Covid-19 cases, the government relaxed the movement restrictions. As a result, regular crime reported to police increased again, thus the number of arrests and accused being sent to judicial custody also gradually increased.From 26,379 prisoners on July 31, 2020, the population in state jails has now reached 34,733 as of May 11, 2021.At present, there are 212 Covid infected active patients (prisoners) in state jails. To date total of 4,023 prisoners got infected by the virus and 13 have succumbed to the disease, since April 2020. Around 840 prison staffers, of the 902, who tested positive, have recovered and nine have succumbed.Another prison officer said that the prison department has a minimum role in the release of prisoners on bail for decongestion, however, it has been adopting other measures to curb the spread of the virus. The department has set up over 41 temporary prisons and Covid care centres (CCC). “Almost all prisons in the state has one temporary prison and a CCC,” said the officer. Most of these temporary prisons are set up in schools and colleges. After the lockdown restrictions were relaxed last year, these temporary prisons were returned to the respective educational institutes. “Unlike last year, this time we would be keeping these temporary prisons functioning as part of our preparation to tackle surge in cases, in case of the third wave,” said a senior prison officer. The process of acquiring buildings for the creation of additional temporary prisons is still on.Steps taken to prevent the spread of Covid in prisons:- Over 41 temporary prisons have been established in the state. Of these, 10 double as Covid Care Centres, where asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic inmates are isolated. - New inmates are accepted only after RT-PCR tests and kept in temporary prisons until their test results are obtained. - Those who test negative are then admitted to a regular prison - Prisoners/inmates above the age of 60 are kept in separate barracks or hospital ward where there are special facilities available e.g. special toilets, equipment etc- Prisons are sanitised every week. Special attention is being paid to toilets - Use of sanitisers, soap, face masks and social distancing, both by inmates as well as prison staffers- Nearly 73,000 Covid-19 tests on inmates and 4,707 on prison staffers have been undertaken so far- 3,456 vaccine jabs were administered to the prisoners- 3,252 staffers out of 3,818 have been vaccinated and the process of vaccination of the balance staffers is in progress- A total of 124 smartphones and 73 coins box sets have been provided for prisoners/inmates to communicate with their lawyers as well as family members.- The video conferencing facilities between the prisons and courts have been put to use for communication with lawyers.- A total of 10,811 prisoners/inmates have been released on emergency parole or interim bail following the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/542-prisoners-released-from-jails-in-maharashtra-after-hpc-order-bail-pleas-of-12-751-pending-101622138760757.html
27-05-2021||Other||Covid –ve woman delivers corona+ve baby||VARANASI: A Covid-19 negative woman delivered a Covid-19 positive baby girl at Sir Sundar Lal hospital, BHU, on May 25. The woman was admitted to the hospital on May 24. A senior official of the hospital said that Supriya Prajapati (26), a native of Semra in Chandauli, was admitted to the gynecology ward of SSL hospital on May 24. The woman’s sample was taken for RTPCR test and sent to microbiology lab, BHU. She was found Covid negative. She delivered a baby girl on May 25. The infant’s Covid test was done and was found positive for Covid-19. Supriya Prajapati and her kin are surprised over the baby being Covid positive. Her kin said Supriya was healthy and both mother and baby were doing well.. SSL hospital medical superintendent Dr KK Gupta said that this was not a rare or abnormal incident. RT PCR test’s sensitivity was up to 70%. The woman’s sample might have gone beyond that sensitivity. So the woman’s Covid-19 test would be done again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-ve-woman-delivers-corona-ve-baby-101622138760154.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||3 jumbo Covid centres shut before Cyclone Tauktae to reopen for patients from June 1||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to reopen three jumbo Covid centres in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar and Mulund that were shut as a precautionary measure ahead of Cyclone Tauktae. The centres will reopen for Covid patients from June 1 in a phased manner. The BMC had shut its three jumbo Covid centres before Cyclone Tauktae hit the city on May 17. The civic body, between May 15 and 16, had shifted over 500 Covid patients to nearby hospitals namely SevenHills and Nesco jumbo centres, considering a threat of damage, owing to the high wind speed. Civic officials also used the opportunity to undertake maintenance of these Covid centres and make some structural changes, per BMC’s plan to be prepared for a possible third wave.The tentative date of reopening the three centres is June 1, said, civic officials.However, it has been decided to reopen the centres in phases as they need not be functional at full capacity since the number of cases in the city is on the decline. The capacity of the three centres is around 4,600 beds.According to BMC officials, the repair and maintenance work ongoing at the jumbo centres include cleaning and sanitation of the entire area, changing water pipelines at several spots, fixing leakages, stormwater works, sewage-related work, flooring, installing additional ropes to the hangars to ensure the makeshift hospital sustains longer, followed by furniture-related works.Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC Covid centre said, “The repair and maintenance work is currently ongoing and we will be in a position to take patients from June 1. However, currently, the caseload is less, and hence we may reopen in a phased manner. We are already conducting vaccination at BKC jumbo.”At Dahisar Covid jumbo centres, the BMC will restart the vaccination in the next two days, however, the jumbo centre will get reactivated in a phased manner, with the intensive care unit (ICU) beds getting activated first.Dr Deepa Shriyan, dean at Dahisar jumbo centre said, “We will first reactivate the jumbo centre with ICU beds, considering an emergency. Further, we are also adding a paediatric ward with 30 beds where children can be admitted.”Meanwhile, in the case of Mulund, the BMC plans to open up one hangar for admitting Covid patients. Dr Pradeep Angre, dean at Mulund jumbo centre said, “We have around 1,600 beds and starting June 1 we will activate one hangar for Covid patients. For the remaining beds, we will activate them in phases considering the ongoing maintenance work anticipating the third wave. Along with maintenance work, we are also carrying out pre-monsoon works, which we will require time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-jumbo-covid-centres-shut-before-cyclone-tauktae-to-reopen-for-patients-from-june-1-101622138700709.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Allow to open shops from June 1, waive taxes, association urges Maharashtra govt||Retailers who have lost substantial business due to repeated lockdowns have urged the state government to allow them to open their establishments from June 1.The Traders United Forum of Maharashtra (TUMF) warned that any further extension of lockdown will have a devastating effect on shopkeepers.“The state government should allow us to open our shops for at least eight hours daily. During the 2020 lockdown, we had some savings to sustain ourselves. This time the shopkeepers are badly affected, hence need to resume their businesses,” said Mohan Gurnani, convenor, TUMF.The TUMF has demanded that the state should waive off the taxes like license fees, professional tax as well as give concessions in property tax.After the surge in Covid-19 cases, the state had imposed first the night curfew, then a partial lockdown and finally a full lockdown. The lockdown has shown positive results as the cases fell from the 60,000 range to currently within 25,000.Nirmal Nahar who runs his clothing business from Mangaldas Market at Kalbadevi said it is imperative to start their business. “We have lost considerable business to other states like Gujarat and if the lockdown extends, it will be difficult to retain it,” said Nahar.Retailers in cities across the state too have demanded that the restrictions on their businesses should be lifted.Aurangabad member of Parliament (MP) Imtiyaz Jaleel warned the government to allow them to open or shopkeepers will defy the rules. “Shopkeepers are dying of suicide in Aurangabad and other parts of Maharashtra. The financial institutions are harassing them and the government is silent,” said Jaleel. “If the government still wants to extend the lockdown then they need to compensate the shopkeepers,” he added.However, Shiv Sena leader and former Aurangabad MP Chandrakant Khaire said the government will decide after reviewing the situation. “There is lockdown across the world and we have decided to save the lives of the people. The decision will be based on the ground situation,” said Khaire. Shopkeepers in Solapur have warned of opening their shops irrespective of the government’s stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-to-open-shops-from-june-1-waive-taxes-association-urges-maharashtra-govt-101622138700124.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Firm that proposed to supply Pfizer vaccine withdraws bid||A supplier from Czech Republic who had proposed to supply Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on Thursday, withdrew its proposal, said civic body officials. The supplier has not given any reason for the withdrawal, officials added. With this, now only seven interested suppliers offering Russian Sputnik V and Sputnik Light are in the race. The Czech supplier firm which withdrew its proposal on Thursday had responded to the BMC’s global expression of interest (EOI) floated on May 12 to procure 10 million Covid-19 vaccines. ​The supplier had also demanded advance payment in exchange for the same.However, following BMC’s announcement of it receiving total eight responses that included seven proposals for supplying Russia’s Sputnik and one for supplying Pfizer and AstraZeneca, Pfizer stated that it had not authorised anyone for distribution of its Covid vaccine.Pfizer in its statement had said, “Pfizer is supplying its COVID-19 vaccine only to central Governments and supranational organizations for deployment in national immunization programs. Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine.”Responding to this, the BMC on Wednesday had said that it will term the proposal of any supplier as ‘invalid’, in case no genuine link is found between the supplier and the manufacturer in its verification process.On Thursday, however, the BMC received an email from the supplier from Czech Republic expressing its withdrawal from the process without giving any reason, confirmed P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC.On whether the BMC like the Maharashtra government will go ahead and write to the Central government or any of the vaccine manufacturers for confirming the authenticity of the vaccine supply proposals, Velrasu said, “We will process the papers first. We have time till June 01. We will decide the future course of action later.”The BMC had on May 12 floated the EOI, giving time till May 18, but it extended the last date till May 25 as it had received only three proposals. Post this, on May 25 it extended the proposal till June 1 on getting eight proposals.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday had said that though BMC has got eight proposals, it will welcome more proposals till June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-firm-that-proposed-to-supply-pfizer-vaccine-withdraws-bid-101622138580134.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid positivity rate below 2% for two days now||The Capital’s Covid-19 graph continued on its downward trajectory on Thursday, with daily infections falling sharply, as Delhi added 1,072 new cases of Covid-19, over 400 fewer than the previous day. Thursday’s case count, the lowest in a single-day since March 30 (when it added 992 cases) came on the back of just over 70,000 tests and at a positivity rate of 1.53%, a number that has now dropped for 21 consecutive days. The positivity rate has now stayed below 5% for a week, and below 2% for two days. The World Health Organization recommends a number below 5% for two-weeks, for an outbreak to regarded as under control in a region. The average daily test positivity rate over the past week fell to 2.7% on Thursday, and has stayed below 5% for four days now. Delhi struggled with test positivity rates over 30% for 12 straight days between end April and early May, as cases and deaths spiralled out of control. The positivity rate in Delhi hit an all-time high of 36.24% on April 22, at the peak of the caseload of the fourth wave. The city also saw 117 people succumb to Covid-19 on Thursday. While fatalities have dropped over the past few days, they have remained in the triple digits for 44 days. The seven-day average deaths on Thursday, however, fell to 176, the lowest since April 20. On May 3 in Delhi, 448 people died of Covid-19, the most in one day so far. Active cases are also at their lowest in over 50 days, as infections fall and more people who contracted the disease recover. This has freed up hospital beds in wards as well as intensive care units (ICUs). The state government’s Covid-19 dashboard showed that 76% out Delhi’s 28,701 Covid-19 hospital beds were vacant as of 6pm on Thursday, while nearly half the 6,887 ICU beds, and over 18,000 oxygen-equipped beds were free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-positivity-rate-below-2-for-two-days-now-101622137920082.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Drug peddling couple and associate held with half kilo heroin, 1.92 lakh cash||Police on Thursday said they had arrested a couple and their associate with more than half a kilogram of heroin and ₹1.92 lakh in cash that they had allegedly earned from selling the contraband. The couple ran a garment shop from their home in outer Delhi’s Bawana JJ Colony and used the business as a front for peddling drugs, the police said.The 49-year-old husband, Mohammad Tabrej, has nearly 17 cases of drug peddling, attempt to murder and possessing illegal weapons against him, police said. He was last arrested in a drug peddling case in 2015 and remained in jail for two years, said deputy commissioner of police (narcotics cell) Chinmoy Biswal.“During his stay in jail, other inmates advised Tabrej to start a legitimate business and use his wife to carry out the drug trade in order to avoid police attention. After coming out of jail, Tabrej opened a garment shop named “Hollywood Garments” from his house and kept a low profile. His wife Mohsima took up the drug peddling business with their associate Mohammad Bilal. All three have been arrested,” said DCP Biswal.The police said the couple and Bilal sold heroin in small pouches to customers in areas near their residential colony. They sold each pouch for ₹300 and their daily target was 80-100 packets, which meant that they earned between ₹24,000 and ₹30,000 daily. The people in their neighbourhood were hassled by the couple’s drug dealings as their children were also getting addicted to drugs, said a senior narcotics cell officer, associated with the operation, asking to be named.“Nearly 200 residents gathered outside the couple’s home when we conducted the search and recovered the contraband and arrested the duo. They said they were happy with the arrests as that would save their children’s lives,” said the officer.Biswal said the narcotics cell team had received information that drug peddlers were active in the JJ Colony in Bawana and that they were continuing the trade even during the ongoing lockdown. The information was developed and on May 23, it was learnt that a woman would be supplying heroin to her associate in Block E. Accordingly, a trap was laid and the team caught Mohsima,45, along with her husband Tabrej and associate Bilal,27.“We caught them with some quantity of heroin and ₹1.92 lakh in cash. The couple’s house was also searched and more recovery of heroin was made. In total, 520 grams of the contraband, valued at around ₹75 lakh in the international market, was seized,” DCP Biswal said.This is the second case in the past fortnight where a couple has been held with heroin. In the previous case, an Afghan refugee couple was held with 125 kilograms of heroin that they were going to deliver to another person in west Delhi when they were caught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drug-peddling-couple-and-associate-held-with-half-kilo-heroin-1-92-lakh-cash-101622137740069.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: With private units backing out, govt hospitals become Shimla’s lifeline||With the lethal second wave of the pandemic raging across the ‘queen of hills’, private players have refused to admit and treat coronavirus patients, making the two primary government hospitals in Shimla, the state capital, the lifeline of the masses in this hour of crisis. The two hospitals — Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital — have been shouldering the Covid burden of the state. While IGMC has been admitting patients from Sirmaur, Kullu, Kinnaur and Solan apart from Shimla, DDU only admits patients from Shimla. Despite limited resources and heavy caseload, the staff, comprising doctors, paramedical staff and Class-4 workers, has been working round the clock to tackle the pandemic.102-year-old woman beats CovidA 102-year-old patient, Dharamdasi of Kinnaur district, who had tested positive for Covid on May 14, was discharged from IGMC, where she was admitted after complaining of headache, fever and difficulty in breathing, on Thursday.An IGMC spokesperson said, “None of her family members were present with her at the hospital. She was looked after by the hospital staff. It is a matter of pride for us that she has made complete recovery as it a challenge to treat people her age.” Another almost centenarian, 99-year-old Suvdha Devi Bhimta who contracted the viral disease recovered after a month-long stint at DDU. “The two private hospitals in Shimla were not admitting Covid patients so we had no option but to admit her to DDU. However, we were pleasantly surprised as she was looked after properly and made a full recovery at her advanced age,” said her son-in-law Jaisi Ram Jodhta,“There was shortage of nurses, but oxygen supply was sufficient. We were also provided with an ambulance on our way home after my mother-in-law’s recovery. Medical superintendent Dr Ravinder Mokta and his team were very vigilant,” he said.‘DDU Covid ward was like a high-end hotel’Another family had a close brush with death after everyone, except two children, tested positive for the virus and had to be hospitalised. Suresh Chauhan, his wife, mother and elder brother had to be hospitalised at DDU as their oxygen levels dipped. Chauhan and his wife’s oxygen level had plummeted to 80 and their lungs were severely damaged. As their health deteriorated, they were put on ventilators. As they battled the virus, neighbours stepped in to look after their children. Unfortunately, his mother succumbed to the infection and had to be cremated by relatives. Chauhan attributes his family’s recovery to the efficiency and kindness of the hospital staff from the specialists to the sanitary staff. “Surprisingly, the food quality and hygiene standard in the Covid ward was like a high-end hotel,” Chauhan said. “The credit goes to the entire staff, they have been putting in relentless efforts,” says Mokta.2% mortality rate at IGMC IGMC, the state’s premier health institute, which treats the most critical patients, and has a mortality rate of around 2%. As many as 2,025 patients admitted at the hospital since the outbreak have recuperated, 241 are undergoing treatment and 568 patients have succumbed.“As per the World Journal of Death and Dying, the Covid death rate world over has been estimated to be 2-3%. In many countries it has been as high as 5%,” says medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj Pakhretia.The hospital has also provided dialysis to 235 Covid patients. It is the only hospital in the state, which has continued non-Covid OPD even during the peak of the virus.In 2020, the IGMC held 4,24,788 outpatient departments (OPDs) on non-Covid patients while this year 2,00,536 patients have been attended.Six lakh liters of oxygen has been used at IGMC since the outbreak. No shortage was reported despite heavy caseload.Jai Ram visits Virbhadra in IGMC SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur visited Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, on Thursday to enquire after the health of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who was hospitalised on April 30. Congress’s octogenarian leader and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh had been admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College’s (IGMC’s) cardiac unit ICU on April 23 after he complained of difficulty in breathing. He had just been discharged from Max Hospital in Mohali where he was being treated for Covid. He had been brought to Shimla in the state chopper. The 86-year-old leader had tested positive for Covid on April 13. The CM was accompanied by urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, IGMC principal Dr Rajneesh Pathania, senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj and other senior officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-with-pvt-units-backing-out-govt-hospitals-become-shimla-s-lifeline-101622135700720.html
27-05-2021||Lucknow||Light rains, thundershowers in eastern Uttar Pradesh||Light to moderate rains accompanied with thundershowers occurred at isolated places over eastern parts of Uttar Pradesh while the weather remained dry over the western region in the past 24 hours, the meteorological officer said on Thursday.According to the Met office, areas that got rainfall included Gaighat (Ballia), Nautanwa, Trimohanighat, (Maharajganj district), Sakaldiha (Chandauli district), Uska Bazar (Siddharthnagar district), Dudhi (Sonbhadra district), Bansgaon (Gorakhpur district), Deoria and Salempur.The highest temperature in the state at 42.6 degrees Celsius was recorded at Jhansi while the lowest temperature at 20 degrees Celsius was registered at Meerut.Day temperatures fell markedly in Varanasi division; fell appreciably in Gorakhpur division; rose appreciably in Agra division and there was no large change in the remaining divisions of the state, they said.They were markedly below normal in Varanasi, Prayagraj, Kanpur divisions; appreciably below normal in Gorakhpur division; below normal in Ayodhya, Lucknow, Bareilly, Jhansi divisions and normal in the remaining divisions of the state.There was no large change in the night temperatures in all the divisions of the state.The Met office forecast that rains/thundershowers are very likely at many places on Friday over eastern UP and at isolated places over western UP.They warned that thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds(40-50 kmph) are very likely at isolated places over eastern UP and at isolated places over western UP on Friday.Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely at isolated places over east UP, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/light-rains-thundershowers-in-eastern-uttar-pradesh-101622135030093.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 2,322 fresh cases, tally over 750,000||Haryana on Thursday reported 98 Covid-related deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 7,939 while 2,322 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 750,062.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the latest deaths include 12 from Hisar, 11 from Jind, eight from Sirsa and seven each from Karnal, Panchkula and Bhiwani districts.The fresh infections reported from various districts include Hisar (213), Sirsa (193) and Gurugram (171).The total active cases in the state were 28,189, as per the bulletin.So far, the total recoveries were 713,934 and the recovery rate was 95.18 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate was 8.48 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-haryana-records-2-322-fresh-cases-tally-over-750000-101622134365938.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius||Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday, a notch above the season's normal, the meteorological department said.The minimum temperature settled at 22.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season's average, while the humidity at 5.30 pm was 22 per cent, it said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted mainly clear sky on Friday with the minimum and maximum temperatures hovering around 24 degrees Celsius and 40 degrees Celsius, respectively.Delhi's air quality was in the 'moderate' category on Thursday. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7.05 pm stood at 144.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-of-41-2-degrees-celsius-101622132124451.html
27-05-2021||City||Covid-19: Continuous efforts gave unexpected results, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday hailed his government’s performance in coronavirus management, claiming that their continuous efforts gave unexpected results.“The apprehensions of the increase in Covid infection in villages forced me to hit the ground to assess the situation myself,” the CM said during a press conference in Siddharth Nagar.The CM said there were predictions that between April 25 and May 10, UP will report around 1 lakh cases per day and the situation will be out of control.“In the past 24-hour, only 3,278 fresh cases were reported. The active cases have come down from 3.10 lakh to 58,270 within just 26 days in the state,” he said, adding that continuous efforts to successfully deal with the pandemic gave expected results.The CM further claimed the state is conducting aggressive testing in rural areas with rapid response teams going door-to-door and carrying out antigen tests.The government is working on a strategy to prevent encephalitis and other vector-borne diseases along with Covid-19, he said.In Basti, the CM inspected a hospital.To intensify vaccination and to protect the children from the coronavirus third wave, the government will identify and vaccinate parents of children below 12 years on a priority basis from June 1, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid19-continuous-efforts-gave-unexpected-results-says-adityanath-101622132132435.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra districts with poor Covid-19 vaccination coverage to get more doses||The Maharashtra government has decided to allocate more Covid-19 vaccines to districts that have reported low coverage during the inoculation drive, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.Speaking to reporters here after a state cabinet meeting, Tope said the state government's focus is on administering the second dose of the vaccine on priority."There are some districts in the state where at least 60 per cent of the targeted population has been vaccinated, while others are performing poorly. The state cabinet has decided to allocate more vaccines to these districts and improve their performance," the minister said.Some districts have recorded just three per cent inoculation as against the target population, he said.The minister further said that the state government has also decided to suspend home isolation in districts with high Covid-19 positivity rate. "The state government has also decided to stop home isolation in districts with higher Covid-19 positivity rate. We are now setting up Covid-19 care centres at village and tehsil levels. Infected patients should be isolated at these centres," Tope said.District collectors have been asked to provide all facilities including food and accommodation to people who are advised isolation, he said.Maharashtra currently has 3,15,000 active cases, of which 50 per cent of the patients are in home isolation, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-districts-with-poor-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-to-get-more-doses-101622131785481.html
27-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally goes past 2.5-million mark, daily fatalities continue to remain high||With 24,214 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Karnataka’s total cases went past the 2.5-million mark on Thursday, a bulletin from the state health department showed. Also, fatalities continued to remain high in the state after 476 patients succumbed to their infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 27,405, according to the bulletin. The state had reported 26,811 new cases and 530 deaths on Wednesday.Active caseload fell by 7,721 cases in the last 24 hours and stood at 402,203 from the 409,924 reported previously. Also, 31,459 people were discharged on the day, taking the total recoveries to 2,094,369 with a recovery rate of 82.97 per cent according to data from the bulletin.Karnataka emerged as the new hotspot of Covid-19 in the country during the second wave and currently has the highest number of active cases in the country.Also read | Covid-19: Strict restrictions in Mysuru for 10 days from May 29, relaxation given for 2 daysIn the week, the daily new deaths have remained above 500 with the exception of Thursday. Earlier, 530 deaths on Wednesday, 588 deaths on Tuesday and 529 deaths on Monday were reported in the state. Earlier in the past week also, the state witnessed at least over 450 new deaths everyday except on May 21, when 353 people lost their lives.Among the districts, Bengaluru Urban with 12,421 deaths, Mysuru with 1,556 deaths and Ballari with 1,306 deaths have reported more than 1,000 fatalities so far. Bengaluru Urban is also the worst affected district in terms of the active caseload and the total positive cases detected so far.Meanwhile, medical workers in the state tested 137,643 samples on Thursday, including 29,885 through Rapid Antigen and 107,758 via RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far, 29,198,945 samples have been tested for the disease.The bulletin also showed that as many as 12,754,056 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state.Covid-19 related restrictions are currently in place in Karnataka to curb the transmission of Covid-19. Earlier on Wednesday, stricter restrictions were implemented for 10 days in Mysuru district due to the high number of cases reported in the past week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-goes-past-2-5-million-mark-daily-fatalities-continue-to-remain-high-101622130398387.html
27-05-2021||Other||Weapon fired, 3 hurt in dawn incident at resort on Sinhagad road; cops hunt for suspect||PUNE: Three people were injured in a violent incident at a resort on Sinhagad road early on Thursday morning, where a weapon was also allegedly fired. The police are on the lookout for Bhagwan Narayan Pokharkar, member of the Khed Panchayat Samiti and the Shiv Sena.The injured have been identified as Prasad Dashrath Kale, Santosh Sandbhor and Sakharam Shinde, according to police.Pokharkar arrived at a hill-top resort located on the Khadakwasla stretch of Sinhagad road at 5:30am on Thursday, along with 15-20 of his supporters, according to the complainant.Pokharkar’s supporters manhandled the resort staff, Pokharkar fired his weapon in the air, and the men molested the women from the families of the injured men. Pokharkar then forced Sandbhor and Shinde in one of the cars he had arrived in, and dropped them off at a distance from the resort, according to the complaint.“The complainantis are telling us that there was a shooting. We also have CCTV [footage] showing a hand-held weapon,” said Vivek Patil, additional superintendent of police, Pune rural police. The deputy superintendent of Pune rural police Sayee Bhore Patil said police were confirming if a weapon was fired at the resort. “Currently, there is a complaint by Kale and they all have injuries caused by wooden sticks and metal rods. We are looking for one suspect and are in the process of identifying his accomplices,” Patil said. “Khed taluka Panchayat Samiti chairperson Bhagwan Narayan Pokharkar had completed his prescribed tenure, but was refusing to relinquish charge due to which other members of the Shiv Sena in the samiti, had sent a complaint to the district collector against him. The hearing of that matter was scheduled on May 31 and the other members of Shiv Sena in the panchayat samiti had gone to the resort on Wednesday,” read a statement from Pune rural police.Pokharkar allegedly believed that the men visiting the resort were plotting against him in the run-up to the hearing, according to the police.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 452 (wrongful restraint), 363 (kidnapping), 354 (sexual harassment), rioting, and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 3, 27 of the Arms Act; Section 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Haveli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weapon-fired-3-hurt-in-dawn-incident-at-resort-on-sinhagad-road-cops-hunt-for-suspect-101622130179363.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 21,273 new Covid-19 cases, 425 deaths as tally tops 5.67 million||Maharashtra's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 5,672,180 on Thursday, with the addition of 21,273 Covid-19 cases on the day, the latest bulletin issued by the Maharashtra health department showed. The daily toll due to the viral disease was recorded at 425, taking the total death toll to 92,225, the bulletin further showed.Also Read | Home ministry extends national Covid-19 containment measures till June 30This is for the eighth straight day when Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 rise has been below 30,000. On May 19, the western state saw 34,031 fresh infections and 594 fatalities.The latest positivity rate was recorded at 8.14% as out of 261,151 tests conducted, 21,273 gave a positive result. On Wednesday, the positivity rate stood at 8.73% as 24,752 samples returned a positive result out of 283,394 tests conducted to check for the disease.Meanwhile, Mumbai, the state’s capital city, saw its daily Covid-19 count drop to 1,258 from 1,352 a day ago. The related fatalities were at 36 as against 34 on May 26. The city’s infection tally has thus reached 701,598 including a death toll of 14,720.These numbers come on a day Maharashtra's health minister Rajesh Tope said that the lockdown-like restrictions in the state "will not be completely lifted." Speaking to the media after a meeting of the state cabinet, Tope said, "We will allow relaxations only in those districts where cases are very less. The decision on how these relaxations will be allowed will by taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after a discussion with the Covid-19 task force."As per the minister, 21 districts in Maharashtra have a positivity rate of more than 10%.Also Read | Covid-19 lockdown will not be completely lifted in Maharashtra: Health ministerSeparately, a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) noted: “Though the positivity rate in the state is coming down, 10-15 districts are reporting a rapid growth in Covid-19 cases. There is also a rise in cases of mucormycosis. Active cases have now dropped to the tally of highest cases recorded during the first wave. But we still need to be careful. Instead of completely lifting the lockdown, we will have to extend it from June 1 and also provide relaxations in the restrictions wherever necessary. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to take steps accordingly after discussing the same in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.”Also Read | 'Completely baseless': Centre dismisses New York Times' report on India's Covid-19 tollThe lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in mid-April and were later extended till May 15. However, on May 13, the government announced that the restrictions will continue to be in force till June 1 in a bid to break the chain of transmission of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-21-273-new-covid-19-cases-and-425-deaths-101622122359499.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown woes: Final year students worried about job opportunities||For students graduating from some of the premier colleges, the Covid-19 induced pandemic has come with another set of challenges. From campus placements to the inability to network, the lockdown has affected their chances of getting good job opportunities. Ravi Sharma, a final year student at IIT Delhi, feels panicked and uncertain due to the current situation. “The college placements were relatively low as compared to previous years and the influx of companies for visiting the campus was also less. The online hiring process was not at all effective; it was rather time-consuming and tedious,” says Sharma. “ It is especially hard for freshers to find a job with no experience.”Agreeing to this Jyoti Yadav, another student from IIT Delhi who will be graduating this year says, “On campus, we form job groups for placements and help each other until the whole group is placed. Now, that couldn’t happen this time. This disturbed the whole idea of placement for students and there was no networking. Generally, students who get placed first, come forward to help and guide others who still have not been placed. But since everyone was stuck at home during placements this could not be done. How many calls can one person take?” Apart from placements, last few days on campus brings festive fervour among students. However things have been different in the past year. “ Online exams, finishing deadlines stuck at home wasn’t fun at all. It was depressing to say the least,” says Rishabh Agrawal, who is graduating from IIT Delhi amidst a pandemic.Pursuing final year from home, students miss perks of studying on campus. “Everything else was on but college wasn’t. We had to do all the assignments and tests locked inside our homes, our peers were not there to help or accompany us. Taking a break on campus is a good stress reliever. You can go out for walk in the lush green campus. It’s stressful to sit at home and graduate,” adds Agrawal. With graduation celebrations cancelled or shifted online, students missed out on a lot of fun. “There are a lot of farewells, hostel, batch, and society farewell parties. None happened because of the pandemic,” adds Yadav.Final year of college is the most cherished time in a student’s life, however it has been very different for the batch 2021 . “There isn’t much stress around academics in the last year; the course material is mostly finished before the last semester. All students prepare for their goodbyes, placements and to bid adieu to college. Sadly, we had to do it sitting at home,” says another student Ram Prabaharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-woes-final-year-students-worried-about-job-opportunities-101622128988416.html
27-05-2021||Ranchi||Over 8 lakh students of Classes 9, 11 promoted without exams||Over eight lakh students studying in Classes 9 and 11 across the state have been promoted to higher classes without any examinations in wake of the second wave of Covid-19 and lockdown-like restrictions imposed in Jharkhand since April 22, an official said on Thursday.State secondary education directorate issued an order in this regard on Thursday and asked all school headmasters to promote the students and ensure their admissions in higher classes at the earliest.The academic session for 2020-21 ended on March 31 and the new session began on April 1. The students have already suffered an academic loss of two months this year, an education official said.State secondary education director Harsh Mangla said, “It’s doesn’t seem to be possible to reopen schools till next few months. In such a situation, students would not get enough time for completing the syllabus of Classes 10 and 12, in case they are not promoted. Hence, the state government has decided to promote the students of Classes 9 and 11 to higher grades.”Officials at Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), which conducts the examinations for Class 9 and 11, said that around eight lakh students study in the abovementioned grades in Jharkhand.Jharkhand government has already promoted the students from Class 1 to 8 without any examination because of the Covid pandemic.The JAC officials had said that they would issue a fresh examination schedule after reviewing the Covid situation on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/over-8-lakh-students-of-classes-9-11-promoted-without-exams-101622128199204.html
27-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas/ Over 10 lakh affected across state Ranchi, Jamshedpur set new rainfall records||Ranchi and Jamshedpur received the highest rainfall to ever be recorded in a single day in May, triggered by the Cyclone Yaas that caused major damage and affected more than 10 lakh people in the state, including two deaths reported from Ranchi on Thursday, officials said. Ranchi set the new record by registering 151mm rainfall in 24 hours, from 8.30 am on Wednesday to 8.30 am on Thursday. Ranchi’s earlier record was 72.2mm registered on May 17, 1990, as per the records available with Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD). Ranchi also set a new record in terms of monthly rainfall in May. The city recorded 269.3mm rainfall from May 1 to May 27, breaking all previous records. The previous monthly record was of 151 mm rainfall registered in May, 1959, officials said. Jamshedpur also set a new record of 108.1mm rainfall in 24 hours this month. Jamshedpur’s earlier record was of 104mm rainfall recorded on May 27, 2017. The incessant rain since Wednesday caused heavy damage in many parts of the state as several houses were collapsed, large-scale standing vegetable crops have been destroyed, rainwater gushed into the houses in low lying areas while many trees and electricity poles were uprooted. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal said around 8-10 lakh people in the state are affected by the cyclone. “We had evacuated 15,000 people as a precautionary measure from vulnerable places before the cyclone, while 4,000 more people were evacuated from low-lying areas on Thursday,” he said. He added that the reports of houses being damaged are coming. “An assessment of the damage will be done once the weather improves,” he said. Reports from the capital city, two persons, including an infant, died after a wall of their asbestos-roofed house collapsed and fell on them due to heavy rain in Ranchi’s HEC area on Thursday morning, police said. The deceased were identified as Shankar Ramani, 26, and his 11-month-old son Reshab Kumar. The locals removed the debris and rushed the victims to RIMS where doctors declared them brought dead. Meanwhile, most parts of Ranchi faced frequent power cuts since Wednesday evening due to heavy rainfall. Rainwater gushed in several houses in low lying areas of Ranchi. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) sent its teams to many places to clear the roads and waterlogging. A bridge built on the Kanchi river in Ranchi’s Tamar block collapsed, while several diversions washed away due to the heavy rains. Water levels at Swarnarekha and Kharkai rivers have reached danger level. The East Singhbhum administration evacuated thousands of people living in low-lying and vulnerable areas. Senior scientist at Ranchi IMD centre Abhishek Anand said that Cyclone Yaas entered Jharkhand in form of deep depression on Wednesday midnight. “Most parts of Jharkhand, mainly the central areas, experienced heavy to very heavy rainfall on Thursday,” he said. Anand said the situation might improve on Friday, as the depression would move out from Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-over-10-lakh-affected-across-state-ranchi-jamshedpur-set-new-rainfall-records-101622128139177.html
27-05-2021||Other||MeT sees no severe impact of cyclone Yaas on Bihar||PATNACyclone Yaas, which was ripping through Jharkhand, was expected to enter Bihar on Friday afternoon, but was unlikely to trigger intense rain in the state or inflict much damage, officials at the Patna Meteorological Centre said on Thursday.Addressing a press conference, Vivek Sinha, director of Patna MeT Centre, said, “The cyclone, which is situated over central Jharkhand, has weakened into a depression. It is likely to move northwards at the speed of 8 to 10 kmph and reach Bihar within 24 hours. However, the state will not witness severe rainfall or high-velocity winds like seen in West Bengal and Odisha coastal areas.”Meanwhile, south-central parts of Bihar witnessed moderate to heavy rain, coupled with strong winds, on Thursday. As per daily bulletin issued, the highest rainfall was ar Sherghati (70 mm). Wind speed was recorded at 25-35 kmph in the state. Winds uprooted trees near Patna airport while several low-lying areas in the state capital, like Mithapur Bus stand, Kankarbagh, Rajendra Nagar and pockets of Bailey Road, were waterlogged.District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh inspected sump houses and big drains to assess monsoon preparedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/met-sees-no-severe-impact-of-cyclone-yaas-on-bihar-101622128079184.html
27-05-2021||Other||Pappu Yadav’s bail plea rejected||PATNAA Madhepura Court on Thursday denied bail to Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav in a 32-year-old kidnapping case in which the former MP was arrested from Patna on May 11.“I told the court that the case was lodged in some confusion and the complainant further told the court he was not kidnapped. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate heard us and asked us to move the sessions court for bail. We will soon file bail plea at sessions court at Madhepura within three to four days,” said Shivandan Bharti, an advocate of Patna High Court who appeared for Yadav at the Madhepura court in the virtual hearing.On March 22, 2021, the ACJM court at Madhepura had issued an arrest warrant against Pappu Yadav in the case.Yadav is currently undergoing treatment at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) while in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-yadav-s-bail-plea-rejected-101622128019192.html
27-05-2021||Other||Drug crunch hits patients with black fungus in Bihar||PATNAThe two top medical institutions in Bihar — Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) — are facing an acute crisis of drug for treating patients with mucormycosis or black fungus, associated with coronavirus. Liposomal Amphotericine-B injection, a specific drug for the fungal infection, has flown off the shelves. The AIIMS, which has around 65 patients of black fungus, is struggling in the absence of drugs. “It will be butchery if we operate upon patients and don’t make drugs available. Surgery is 50% cure, the remaining 50% recovery is through drugs,” said a doctor. With 98 patients out of the total 109 admissions and eight deaths, the IGIMS has the highest number of patients with black fungus in any health facility in the state, said Dr Bheem Ram, assistant professor of medicine, IGIMS. Its stock of Amphotericin-B is enough to barely last a day. The IGIMS received 500 vials and AIIMS 400 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B on Wednesday evening after the two institutes sent SOS to the state health department. Their stock has now exhausted. The AIIMS had earlier received 2,000 vials and the IGIMS 1,300 vials of the injection. “We have around 65 patients of mucormycosis. Each patient requires between six and 12 vials of Amphotericin-B injection per day. The drugs replenished are woefully inadequate to last even a day. The drug is out of stock,” said Dr Kranti Bhawna, additional professor and head of ENT department at AIIMS-Patna. To make matters worse for the AIIMS, its empanelled vendors have refused to supply Amphotericin-B at the approved rate of ₹1,700 per vial after the Centre agreed to purchase it at ₹4,000 to ₹6,000 per vial from manufacturers. Purchasing the drugs is a costly proposition for patients, given that its average daily requirement is 6-12 vials per patient a day, considering the patient’s body weight — more the weight, higher the drug requirement. The state government, which declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease on May 22, has decided to supply it free to patients. Meanwhile, the IGIMS, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, on Thursday initiated an integrated outdoor patient department (OPD), comprising experts from the ophthalmology, ENT and neurology departments for patients with mucormycosis. “The idea is to facilitate patients so that they don’t have to run about and wait in queues subsequently when referred for consultation from OPD of one department to another,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent, IGIMS. “The experts in our integrated OPD unit for patients with mucormycosis will evaluate patients and decide on their admission for treatment. Those who are very serious and unstable will be examined and admitted in emergency,” added Dr Mandal. The government, on the other hand, defended itself. “We have made available 10,000 vials of the drug to hospitals, including private, across the state. Since the drugs supplied are not one-time allotment, they are being replenished continuously, as per availability. We are relocating drugs from facilities having no patient of black fungus to those where the patient burden is high. We are also purchasing drugs directly from manufacturers. There is some supply issue, which we hope to tide over soon,” said an official of the health department, handling the allotment of Amphotericin-B. Used in the treatment of kala-azar, Bihar had some stock of Liposomal Amphotericin-B, which it had received from the WHO. It diverted 10,000 vials of the drug for treatment of mucormycosis after obtaining the Centre’s nod. Bihar reported 14 deaths and 244 cases of mucormycosis till Wednesday after the first case of mucormycosis was reported in the state late last month. The mucormycosis miseryCases and deathsBihar reported 14 deaths and 244 cases of mucormycosis till Wednesday after the first case of mucormycosis was reported in the state late last month. AIIMS-Patna has 65 patients while IGIMS in the state capital has 98. Both are faced with an acute crisis of the drug used to cure black fungus.Injection for infectionLiposomal Amphotericine-B injection, a specific drug for fungal infection, has flown off the shelves. Since it’s used in the treatment of kala-azar, Bihar had some stock, which it had received from the WHO. It diverted 10,000 vials of the drug for treatment of mucormycosis after obtaining the Centre’s nod.A drug gone dearerAt AIIMS-Patna, empanelled vendors have refused to supply the drug at the approved rate of ₹1,700 per vial after the Centre agreed to purchase it at ₹4,000 to ₹6,000 per vial from manufacturers. Average daily requirement is 6-12 vials per patient a day. More a patient’s body weight, higher the drug requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-crunch-hits-patients-with-black-fungus-in-bihar-101622127959903.html
27-05-2021||Other||Ignore Ramdev, Bihar BJP chief tells doctors||PATNAAmid the ongoing row between the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and yoga guru Baba Ramdev, Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal has advised the IMA not to give weight to his diatribe against allopathic medicine. “Don’t waste your years of education and energy in useless discussion and instead concentrate on our noble profession,” Jaiswal, a doctor himself and MP from West Champaran in his Facebook post.“Concentrating on our profession would be the most befitting service to our innumerable colleagues who have lost their lives attending to their duties in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the Bihar BJP president.Baba Ramdev has been in the eye of a controversy when he questioned the efficacy of allopathic medicines in treating the dreaded coronavirus.“Ramdev is a Yoga guru. Nobody can question his mastery of Yoga. But he is certainly not a Yogi. A Yogi is one who has control on all his senses and brain. What he has done for Yoga is comparable to what Coco Cola did for beverages. Indians have been, since ages, consuming Shikanji and thandai but after the advent of the soft drink giant, every home seems to be stocked with bottles of Pepsi and Coke”, Jaiswal said in his post.“There is no need to reply to all baseless talks. If you speak more, you start giving more weight to others,” he advised the IMA. Jaiswal, who is the first BJP leader to speak on the controversy, however, lauded yoga. “It is important as it keeps you disease free but this is not a system of medicine,” he said. “Every system of medicine has its own limitations, which held true for Yoga, a sophisticated form of physiotherapy which can help us ward off illnesses but can create problems if we take to it to cure existing ailments.”The IMA, however, seemed unmoved. “Over five lakh doctors associated with the IMA across the country, including 12,000 in Bihar, are hurt. He shouldn’t demoarlise doctors who have done yeomen service in treating patients during the ongoing pandemic. He should stick to yoga and his Patanjali products,” said Dr Shahjanand Kumar Singh, IMA national president (elect). “Every state organization is contemplating legal action and now only PM’s intervention can bring sanity,” he said.The Indian Medical Association has been up in arms against Ramdev over his recent diatribe and its Uttarakhand chapter has slapped the yoga guru with a hefty defamation suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ignore-ramdev-bihar-bjp-chief-tells-doctors-101622127959200.html
27-05-2021||Other||Man posing as Ayurvedic doctor, working at Pimpri-Chinchwad hospital, arrested||PUNE A man posing as an Ayurvedic doctor and working at a hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad has been arrested by the local police on Wednesday, charged with cheating, and impersonating a doctor.The man, identified as Akshay Keshav Neharkar, is a native of Pisegaon in Kej, Beed, and currently resides at the Onyx Hospital, Bijlinagar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Vishal Bhaskar Katkar (49), a resident of Worli Koliwada, Mumbai.According to the complainant, the man tried to apply for a job as medical consultant at a major insurance company, sending them his resume.The resume allegedly mentioned that Neharkar had a BAMS degree and an MD from the DY Patil College of Ayurvedic Research, Pimpri-Chinchwad.Neharkar allegedly claimed to have worked at the Citi Care Hospotal, Unique Hospital, ONP Leela Hospital, and at the Onyx hospital, according to the complaint. The man is believed to have been working at a hospital in Bijlinagar for the past one year, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 33 and 33(a) of the Maharashtra Medical Practice Act, 1961, was registered at the Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-posing-as-ayurvedic-doctor-working-at-pimpri-chinchwad-hospital-arrested-101622126999155.html
27-05-2021||Other||Social media group of cops and e-commerce reps prevents online frauds worth ₹15 crore||A social media group that has nodal officers from e-wallet firms and e-commerce portals, and police officers from across India, has been able to prevent fraudulent transactions amounting to ₹15 crore across the country over the last six months. The informal group, opened by two cyber police staff from Madhya Pradesh, now has 2,000 members on Telegram. The mission is to stop online frauds and prevent money reaching the fraudsters, all in real time. A recent example is the quick refund to an online fraud victim from Pune. A private school teacher has ₹2.5 lakh siphoned from his account after he made an online payment of ₹10, as a token amount towards for an RT-PCR report, prior to his air travel to Ladakh. The above fraud details were put on the group by the Pune cyber cell, after which nodal officers of the e-wallets involved checked their domains, and blocked the transaction. The money was immediately refunded to the victim. The cyber cell helped a Dhanori-based computer engineer get back ₹1.93 lakh, a businessman from Kothrud received a refund of ₹1.5 lakh and a senior citizen from Bibvewadi got back ₹97,000, all in various cases of cyber fraud. Pune police have, so far, helped victims recover a total of ₹8 lakh from fraudulent online transactions. An online financial transaction is made on one of, or all of, four platforms - banks, e-wallets, e-commerce and bill payments. Nodal officers from all four platforms are on the group, which makes it easy for cyber sleuths to block a payment to a fraudster. Police inspector Chandrakant Hake, incharge of the Pune cyber police station, said, “The group is indeed very helpful for us to stop payment before it reaches the destination of the fraudster. The group has proved to be a very useful platform for sharing critical fraud-related information and also get results in real time, so that victims are assured that their money is safe. It’s a country-wide group which is effectively run by all the participants for the public good.” The Maharashtra coordinator of the social media group, speaking on the condition of anonymity said, “This group has served to protect victims from losing money to scammers and results are encouraging. This process works faster based on the basic nature of the complaint, like an email, and later the necessary paperwork can be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-media-group-of-cops-and-e-commerce-reps-prevents-online-frauds-worth-rs-15-crore-101622126639697.html
27-05-2021||Other||Annual waterhole wildlife census missed for second year running||PUNE The annual waterhole wildlife census, undertaken by the Maharashtra forest department, has not happened for two years in a row in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The exercise is traditionally carried out on a full moon night when it is easier to spot animals at national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves. The waterhole census is a conservation exercise and environment experts believed it should not be missed. “We are working with 15 per cent staff, which makes it very difficult to organise and arrange this census. We need at least two persons, a forest officer and a volunteer, at each location across all sanctuaries, keeping a vigil at waterholes atop machaans (a platform erected on a tree or at a height off the ground),” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune. Though Patil added that counting of animals happens throughout the year using cameras placed inside the forests.The last census was conducted in 2019 at four wildlife sanctuaries - Nanaj, Bhimashankar, Rehekuri and Mayureshwar, where it was found that there has been an increase in the number Sambar deer, Chinkara, antelope and wolves. The Pune division of the Maharashtra forest department registered 2,497 different types of wildlife species during the 2019 census.According to the census, the number of Sambar increased from 29 in 2018, to 31 in 2019. Along with that the Chinkara number increased from 399 to 417. The census report also shows that antelope figures increased from 858 to 1,071. The number of Bengal foxes had come down from 39 to 38.Sunil Bhoite, honorary wild life warden in Satara, said, “Due to the pandemic, we could not get a group together, though we are constantly monitoring cameras, with motion sensors and infrared. We have recent tiger sightings on the Western ghats and have set corridors. If we can’t conduct an animal census, it affects the forest ecosystem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/annual-waterhole-wildlife-census-missed-for-second-year-running-101622126639043.html
27-05-2021||Other||Case filed against 7 for hurting sentiments of Buddhists in Nidgi||PUNE One person has been arrested and released on bail on Thursday, while six others have been booked for hurting religious sentiments of Buddhist community members living in the Ota scheme in Nigdi.The arrested man has been identified as Rajanikant Uttam Kshirsagar (50), also a resident of Ota scheme, Nigdi.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a social worker Ramdas Kundalik Tathe (51), a resident of the same area.“Some eight years ago, the community had built a mural of the Constitution of India. This man felled it and built a tin shed where he was going to start a shop,” said assistant police inspector Shaikh of Nigdi police station who is investigating the case.The complainant, as well as the accused, are all from the same community, according to the police.Three of the six others booked in the case include Ratilal Uttam Kshirsagar (53), Dhammaprakash alias Dhamma Rajnikan Kshirsagar (28), and Pramod Rajanikant Kshirsagar (28), all residents of Ota scheme.A case under Sections 141 (unlawful assembly), 143, 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs10) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-filed-against-7-for-hurting-sentiments-of-buddhists-in-nidgi-101622125978962.html
27-05-2021||Pune||NCP MLA Anna Bansode’s son among four arrested for attempted murder||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police were granted custody of legislator Anna Bansode’s 21-year-old son after his arrest from Ratnagiri in one of the two cases of attempted murder in which he was on the run for the past two weeks. The accused, identified as Siddharth Bansode, was arrested along with three accomplices identified as Rohit Durgesh Pandhrari (25), Sawantkumar Ramesh Saladallu (48) and Satish Ramesh Landage (40), according to the police. A local court in Pimpri remanded them to police custody till May 30. “We checked his house, the hotels that he frequents and could not find him. We formed multiple teams to look for these men. The teams visited many locations, including Solapur, Satara and New Panvel, before tracking him down in Ratnagiri,” said Krishna Prakash, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner. Of the two cases registered against the group, the first case is under Sections 307, 325, 452, 269, 324, 323, rioting, and 506 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 37(1)with135 Maharashtra Police Act; Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act; Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act; Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulation, 2020 while the second case was registered under Sections 364, 307, 504, 506, rioting, of IPC and Section 4(25) of Arms Act, and the other Covid19 specific laws. These two cases were a fallout of the shootout that happened at Bansode’s office at Credoc Fintech Pvt Ltd when the legislator lodged a complaint against a man named Tanaji Pawar (39) of Santnagar in Moshi and a manager at AG Enviro Infra Projects near Hedgevar Bhavan in Pradhikaran, Nigdi. The company has a contract from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) for garbage picking. “Bansode wanted some of people from his office to be employed at the infra company. It was during the discussion of this topic that the group of men allegedly went to Pawar’s office and caused ruckus on May 11. On May 12, the men revisited the office in Akurdi and allegedly kidnapped Pawar and brought him to Pimpri where the firing happened. The ballistics report is awaited. Firing happened, that’s for sure,” said Prakash. The police had arrested nine people in the past two weeks and further probe led to the arrest of the four. The police teams followed leads for 40 hours to find them in a bungalow called Shramasafalya in Kakshminagar area of Kolambe village in Ratnagiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncp-mla-anna-bansode-s-son-among-four-arrested-for-attempted-murder-101622125679048.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Yaas-hit people cry for food, shelter amid heavy rain in pockets of Bengal||Hundreds of people complained that they had to go without food and sleep in the aftermath of cyclone, which has wreaked havoc in Bengal, as their homes lay inundated amid heavy showers that continued to pummel several parts of the state on Thursday.Cyclone 'Yaas', which made its landfall near Dhamra port in Odisha, barrelled through the neighbouring state and Bengal on Wednesday, causing widespread destruction as it hollered on its path to Jharkhand.Officials said that the administration was trying its best to reach out to people in need, but the inclement weather is impeding relief work in certain pockets.At Kadupara village in Sunderbans area of South 24 Parganas, water has risen to waist level, forcing people to step out of their homes with children in tow."No one from the administration has visited us yet... I am starving, these children are starving," Lakshmi Majhi, a resident of Kadupara said, as she stood on the flooded courtyard outside her house with her three children.Majhi further said, "We were asked by the administration to rush to nearby school camp. But how can we go? It will take me 30 minutes to reach the camp. How will I wade through the flooded roads with my children, leaving my home and belongings behind?"Bapan Laskar, a migrant worker of the same village, said he was finding it difficult to make ends meet in the midst of the lockdown, and the cyclone has added to his woes."I work as a mason in Kolkata, but the COVID-induced lockdown robbed me of my livelihood. This cyclone, on top of that, has partially damaged my home. I do not know what to do," Laskar, who lives with his ailing parents, said.In cyclone-ravaged Kultali, villagers were seen lining up on the elevated pavements, most of them without masks, even as water levels kept rising due to the incessant rainfall."Saline water from the sea gushed in, breaching the embankments, and destroyed crops that we had taken pains to grow. Almost every villager in the area depends on fishing and farming. With ponds and farmlands flooded with saline water, residents here are now staring at an uncertain future," one of the villagers lamented.Kultali MLA Ganesh Chandra Mondal, however, said that disaster management personnel have fanned out to the affected areas in South 24 Parganas to shift all marooned villagers to relief camps, set up in school buildings.Similar tales of misery were shared by people in Purba Medinipur district, which, too, bore the brunt of the storm.In the tourist town of Digha, one of the worst- affected areas in the state, shops selling knick-knacks close to the beach lay ravaged, with shells, junk jewelleries and other decorative items seen floating in the flood water.Several hotels in Mandarmoni, another resort town, also suffered extensive damage.In Shankarpur, roads in certain areas were reduced to patches of boulders with telltale signs of destruction around.A Digha Development Authority official said work to repair damaged structures would begin in a day or two.Mamoni Das of Ramnagar in Purba Medinipur broke down when reporters approached her.Das, a middle-aged widow with no children, said she was rescued by Army personnel after the squall on Wednesday morning flattened her home in a trice."I am thriving on puffed rice that I managed to get from a nearby relief camp. With everything lost, I do not know how to rebuild my life," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/yaashit-people-cry-for-food-shelter-amid-heavy-rain-in-pockets-of-bengal-101622124956410.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 restrictions in Punjab extended till June 10||The Punjab government on Thursday extended the coronavirus restrictions till June 10 but removed the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles and allowed the resumption of elective surgeries and OPD operations in hospitals.The state government had imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and a night curfew to check the spread of the infection.The decision to extend the curbs was taken at a review meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh here, according to a government statement.Earlier, the state government had extended the Covid curbs till May 31.The CM directed the resumption of elective surgeries in both government and private hospitals besides the restoration of outpatient department (OPD) operations in view of the improvement in the coronavirus situation, the statement said.The state government had stopped elective surgeries on April 12 to ensure adequate availability of beds and medicine oxygen for serious infection cases.The CM has now allowed these to be resumed, subject to the condition that there shall, for the present, be no reduction in beds for Level-3 coronavirus patients in hospitals.The CM also said while the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles is being removed, the limit on commercial passenger vehicles and taxis will continue to be in place.Earlier, the government had announced that not more than two persons could travel in a car.Pillion riders on a two-wheeler were also not allowed, except for those belonging to the same family and living in the same house.The deputy commissioners may make any adjustment for the opening of shops dealing in non-essential items as are merited by local conditions, the CM said.According to the statement, given the comfortable oxygen situation currently, the CM directed that it now be allowed to be used for essential non-medical purposes, with a three-day buffer stock of it, however, to be maintained at all times.He said oxygen concentrator banks have been created in every district for post-covid care patients who have a doctor's prescription.The control room had ensured that there was no shortage of oxygen in any hospital, he said, adding that the demand in the state had come down from 304 metric tonnes to 236 MT in the past 10 days.The CM directed the Health and Medical Education Departments to continue strengthening the Covid care infrastructure to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic.He asked them to invest in augmenting paediatric care and to seek 500 ventilators for it from the Centre.It was told at the meeting that all 809 ventilators received earlier under the PM Cares Fund have been distributed and 136 of them were not working.The CM also ordered the creation of more technical and specialist posts to meet the demand of the possible third wave.All mid-level IAS/PCS transfers in all departments should be put on hold till the Covid crisis continues, directed the CM.The CM also warned that profiteering and fleecing of patients by private hospitals amid such a crisis will not be allowed at any cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-restrictions-in-punjab-extended-till-june-10-101622122656289.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown will not be completely lifted in Maharashtra: Health minister||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday that the lockdown-like restrictions imposed in the state will not be lifted completely as 21 districts have over 10% Covid-19 positivity rate. Tope, however, added that relaxation might be given to those districts where cases are going down and guidelines in this regard will be issued in a few days. The current restrictions are in place till June 1.“It was decided in the cabinet today that it is not right to remove the lockdown-like restrictions completely. We will allow relaxation in those districts where cases are very less. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a final decision on how these relaxations will be allowed after holding a discussion with the Covid-19 task force,” Tope told reporters, as quoted by news agency ANI.Also Read| Maharashtra announces paediatric task force to prepare for 3rd wave of Covid-19The restrictions, imposed in mid-April this year, banned movement of people, vehicles, opening of shops selling non-essential items along with movie theatres, gyms, swimming pools, educational institutions etc. Maharashtra during this time was clocking nearly 70,000 cases of the coronavirus disease daily and was the worst affected state across India. On April 22, another set of restrictions were introduced on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings.According to experts and ministers in the Maharashtra government, the daily cases and deaths have dropped significantly in the majority of the districts including the state capital Mumbai as these curbs were successful in arresting the spread of Covid-19. On Wednesday, the state reported 24,752 new cases, 453 more deaths and 23,065 recoveries. The daily cases in Maharashtra have been below the 30,000-mark for the last one week.Two days back, the state government stopped home isolation for Covid-19 patients in 18 districts having above-average positivity rates, with health minister Rajesh Tope adding that such patients will be shifted to Covid care centres. Collectors of these 18 districts including Nashik, Pune, Latur, Ahmednagar, have been instructed by the state government to come up with more Covid care centres in their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-lockdown-will-not-be-completely-lifted-in-maharashtra-health-minister-101622122691516.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccination for 18-44 group remains suspended for 4th day in Delhi: Atishi||Around 34,000 people were vaccinated in Delhi on May 26 and the majority of jabs were provided by private hospitals, AAP MLA Atishi said on Thursday, highlighting the acute shortage of vaccines the city government has been grappling with.She also said 42 per cent of the people (24.32 lakh) in the 45 plus category have received at least one dose of vaccine."This is the fourth consecutive day that the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group has remained suspended," Atishi said.It's a cause for serious concern. Delhi has not received any more doses from the manufacturers so far. The makers have made it clear that they have been supplying vaccine to states according to the directions by the Centre, she said."As many as 34,147 people got vaccinated on May 26. Of this, most of the jabs were given at private hospitals," Atishi said.She appealed to the central government to immediately approve vaccines such as – Moderna, J&J and Pfizer – which have been approved for use by around 60 countries.A total of 52.25 lakh doses have been administered in Delhi so far since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. As many as 11.79 lakh people have received both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-for-18-44-group-remains-suspended-for-4th-day-in-delhi-atishi-101622122524371.html
27-05-2021||Bhopal||Video of MP firm’s employees washing used PPE kits surfaces, probe on||Employees of a bio and medical waste disposal company were found washing personal protective equipment (PPE) kit and gloves, used by doctors and paramedical staff working in Covid-19 wards in several hospitals of Satna district, allegedly to resell, said a health department official. Indo Water management and Pollution Control Corporation supplied the used PPE kits and gloves to other districts for sale, alleged an employee of the company. The matter came to light on Wednesday night after some videos of the employees of the company went viral. In the videos, they are seen washing used PPE kits and gloves. In another video, the employees are seen making bundles and packing the PPE kits. Also Read | Trials of Covid-19 vaccine on children to begin soon in India: SitharamanRequesting anonymity, an employee of the company said, “Instead of cutting the kit into pieces, the management has asked us to wash the used PPE kits. They told us that the boiled water will kill the virus. The company got at least 1,000 kits daily for disposal at ₹10 per kit. I don’t how much they are earning from reselling it.” The Madhya Pradesh health department wrote to the pollution control board to hold an inquiry in the matter. The state health department’s additional director Pankaj Shukla said, “Bio disposal waste plant in Barkhera, Satna has been given a contract to dispose of PPE kits and gloves by the district administration. The company is also working for some private hospitals. The kits and gloves are for single-use and such an act can spread more infection.” We have released an order to all the hospitals of MP to tear the kits and gloves before handing them over for disposal, he added. The state pollution control board is holding an inquiry in the matter. Pollution control board regional officer RS Parihar said, “We sent a notice to the company and a team will visit the company to inquire about the matter. After completing the inquiry, we will initiate the process of cancellation of license.” The company director Anmol Mohane said, “The video is being circulated in wrong manner. We washed the PPE kits before cutting it into pieces to dispose. We don’t sell the in the market. We are following all the guidelines of disposal of PPE kits and gloves.” (with inputs from Amit Singh from Satna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/video-of-mp-firm-s-employees-washing-used-ppe-kits-surfaces-probe-on-101622121179254.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 1,072 Covid-19 cases, positivity rate falls to 1.53%||Delhi recorded 1,072 new infections of the coronavirus disease and 117 fatalities in a span of 24 hours, a bulletin from the health department stated on Thursday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the national capital reached 1,422,549 and the death toll climbed to 23,812. Daily positivity rate further fell to 1.53 per cent for the first time since March 24, when it was recorded at the same level.Meanwhile, recoveries continued to be more than the new cases as 3,725 people were discharged on the day, according to the health bulletin. So far, 1,382,359 people have recovered from the disease and the recovery rate stood at 97.17 per cent, according to the latest data.Active caseload declined by 2,770 in the last 24 hours and currently stands at 16,378. It constitutes 1.15 per cent of the total positive cases in the city, the bulletin showed.Also read | Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest waveDelhi reported less than 2,000 daily new infections for the fifth consecutive day on Thursday. It was also the second straight day when the city saw less than 1,500 cases in a 24-hour time period. This indication of declining new cases in Delhi adds further hopes to the unlocking and easing of Covid-19 restrictions in the city.However, Thursday’s decline in cases comes alongside a significant fall in the number of samples tested for the disease. While 70,068 tests, including 49,348 RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and 20,720 Rapid Antigen Tests, were conducted in the last 24 hours, medical workers tested more than 77,000 samples earlier on Wednesday. So far 19,009,274 tests have been conducted in the city and the tests per million count stands at 1,000,488 data from the bulletin showed.Cumulative positivity rate in Delhi remains at 7.48 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 1.67 per cent. As many as 8,247 people are currently in home isolation, the latest data showed.Under the city’s vaccination drive, 34,327 people were inoculated in the last 24 hours out of which, 30,886 received the first dose and 3,441 received the second. So far, 5,219,372 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged for the procurement of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine shots as soon as possible for the inoculation of children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-072-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-falls-to-153-101622118329228.html
27-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 3,278 new cases, 188 more deaths; toll nearing 20,000||Uttar Pradesh reported 188 fresh Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday as the death toll due to the viral disease rose to 19,900, while the infection tally reached 16,83,866 with 3,278 new cases, officials said."In the last 24 hours, 3,278 fresh cases were reported, while 6,995 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 16,05,696," additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters.The state witnessed 188 fresh deaths, taking the toll to 19,900 from 19,712 on Wednesday.The recovery rate in the state is now 95.4 per cent, while the number of active cases came down by 81.26 per cent since April 30 when a peak of 3,10,783 active cases were reported.The active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 58,270, the official said, adding that the figure includes 34,508 patients who are in home isolation.In the last 24 hours, more than 3.47 lakh samples were tested for the novel coronavirus infection in the state, while overall more than 4.80 crore samples have been tested.Prasad said over 1.70 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the state so far. Of this, 1.36 crore beneficiaries have taken the first dose and 33.92 lakh people have taken both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-3-278-new-cases-188-more-deaths-toll-nearing-20000-101622116284534.html
27-05-2021||Other||Fake assessment notices served to several taxpayers, case filed||The income tax department has filed a case against an unknown person/group for allegedly issuing fake and illegal assessment notices to several taxpayers in Gurugam last year. The matter came to light when in April, the department received an undelivered notice served to taxpayers in the city. During an interval investigation, it was found that the notice under section 147 of the IT Act was signed with a fake name. The stamp and letterhead were allegedly found to be fake, said police. The department complained that someone or a group impersonating as IT officials were trying to dupe taxpayers, said police. The notice was dated June 2018 and addressed to a private company based in Sushant Lok-1. The notice was signed by someone named Naresh Yadav, who identified himself as an assistant commissioner of IT circle (4) of Gurugram, said police. K K Rao, commissioner of police, said on the date when the notice was issued, no assistant commissioner named Yadav was posted in the IT department. Moreover, the stamp affixed on the notice was not the one used by Income Tax authorities. “The seal used on the said notice was also forged. The notice pertains to the assessment year 2017-18. However, the said year was not under regular assessment so it was not possible to issue notice for that year,” he said. Besides, the notice had several other defects like wrong e-mail address and wrong letter serial numbers. Rao said during investigation, it was found that the notice was sent from the website of the department of post and it was posted from Delhi and not Gurugram. It was clear that the notice in question was not issued by the IT department. Seema Dhankhar, joint commissioner of Income-tax, Kurukshetra, said they had complained to police last year when she was holding charge as deputy commissioner. “We were suspecting the role of an insider who worked on a contract basis. The suspect tried to impersonate as an Income Tax authority and sent a forged notice to the taxpayer. The dispatch number used was correct, which led to the suspicion that it was a doing of an insider. It is a matter of serious concern,” she said. On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered under section 170 (personating a public servant) of the IPC at Udyog Vihar police station on Tuesday. “We have conducted a thorough investigation and it seemed someone tried to settle a personal score with the victims. Maybe an individual or a gang is involved,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-assessment-notices-served-to-several-taxpayers-case-filed-101622116306126.html
27-05-2021||Other||Gang held executive hostage, blackmailed him with intimate footage, booked||Gurugram Four members of a gang, including a woman, were booked on Tuesday for allegedly blackmailing a 37-year-old executive of a private company after they held him hostage and filmed him in a rented room in DLF Phase 3 in March. Police said the suspects had managed to extort ₹1 lakh and a gold chain by reportedly blackmailing him with videos and photographs. They also asked the victim to arrange ₹20 lakh but he left the city, following the accused started harassing his family.The victim said the woman suspect, whom he had met on social media last year, had called him on March 21 and asked him to meet her at her rented room in DLF Phase 3.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said the woman told him that she had broken up with her boyfriend and was leaving Gurugram as she feared for her life. “When the victim reached her room, she told him that she had no money to pay the rent and to buy groceries. Due to lockdown she had lost her job and was finding it difficult to make ends meet. After spending half an hour, she opened the door on the pretext of disposing garbage when suddenly three men entered the room,” he said. Police said the suspects allegedly took him at gunpoint, snatched his mobile phone and wallet, and even took his gold chain. Police said the suspects also allegedly assaulted him and took mobile numbers of his family members, including his wife. The victim later fell unconscious after he had a glass of juice which he suspects was laced with sedatives, said police.Goel said when the victim gained consciousness, he found himself naked on a bed. “The suspects filmed videos and clicked pictures of the victim with the woman and threatened him with a fake rape case. They even threatened to send the recordings to his family and transferred ₹1 lakh from his account. Since he didn’t have any more money in his account, they asked him to arrange ₹20 lakh,” he said. However, the victim went to Manesar, where he lived in a rented accommodation, packed his stuff, and switched off his mobile phone. Fearing for his life, later that day he also resigned from his job and left for his native place in Haryana’s Bhiwani. The suspects, however, started calling his father and wife and threatened them too. Since March 21, the victim’s family members had been allegedly receiving over 10 threatening calls every day, following which they approached police and lodged a complaint on Tuesday. A case under section 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 389 (putting a person in fear or accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion), 342 (wrongful confinement), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation), 379A (snatching), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms Act was registered at DLF Phase 3 police station on Tuesday. Police said the suspects have been identified as natives of Nuh and Manesar. “Their mobiles have been switched off since the matter was reported. We have formed teams and are conducting raids to arrest them. All of the suspects were known to the victim through a common friend,” said Goel, adding that they are probing whether the gang members had indulged in similar acts in the past too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-held-executive-hostage-blackmailed-him-with-intimate-footage-booked-101622116246262.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgaar Parishad case: HC extends Hany Babu stay in private hospital till June 1||The Bombay high court on Thursday directed Breach Candy hospital to seek permission of the court before discharging Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad -Bhima Koregaon violence case, who was admitted there for treatment of a severe infection in the left eye following an order of the court on May 19.While restraining the hospital from discharging Babu till June 1, the court has also asked it to furnish a medical report on the status of the infection and the treatment administered to him. Also Read | Health deteriorated after arrest, says Stan Swamy; seeks bailA vacation bench of justices SS Shinde and NR Borkar was informed by Babu’s counsel Yug Choudhary that an urgent hearing was sought in the petition filed by the professor’s wife, Jenny Rowena, to ensure that the Breach Candy hospital did not discharge him and send him back to Taloja jail on the grounds that he did not require critical care anymore. The petition seeks interim bail for Babu on medical grounds. In the earlier hearing on May 19, Choudhary had submitted that Babu had contracted an infection in his left eye and though he complained about it to the prison authorities from May 3- 12, it was not heeded. It was only after he tested positive for Covid and was shifted to GT hospital did Rowena approach the high court as the GT hospital had said they did not have the wherewithal to treat Babu’s eye infection. The petition will be heard next on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgaar-parishad-case-hc-extends-hany-babu-stay-in-private-hospital-till-june-1-101622116127330.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 15||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced the extension of lockdown-like curbs in the state to control Covid-19 spread, till June 15. Restrictions in the state were scheduled to be lifted on May 30.Banerjee has sought the cooperation of Bengal's people and appealed to them saying, "Please don't call this a lockdown. Covid numbers have come down. For economy's sake there will be no total lockdown."She said that pandemic situation in Bengal has eased a little because of the existing restrictions.Earlier on April 30, Banerjee had decided to impose an indefinite prohibition on several things, including shopping malls, markets, restaurants and bars, gyms, and swimming pools, with immediate effect.West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 16,225 fresh Covid-19 infections, which pushed the state's infection tally up to 13,18,203, a health department bulletin said. The death toll mounted to 14,827 after 153 more fatalities were reported, it said.The state now has 1,23,377 active cases, while 11,79,999 patients have recovered from the disease, including 19,071 since Tuesday.A total of 1,21,21,940 samples have so far been tested for Covid-19, taking into account 63,976 clinical examinations in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said. At least 59,593 people were vaccinated in the state during the day, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-15-101622113270999.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Candida infection led to tear in GI tract in Delhi patient after Covid, cancer||After treating cases of tears in the small intestine due to mucormycosis, doctors from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital have now reported similar tears in the gastrointestinal tract of a patient due to another fungal infection called candida. The severe disease in the 49-year-old patient was because of her immunocompromised state – she had undergone surgery and chemotherapy for breast cancer and then contracted coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Candida is a very common infection and people walk around with it not even knowing they have it. However, it turned pathogenic in the patient because she was severely immunocompromised owing to the cancer, chemotherapy and Covid-19. there were perforations (tears) in the lower end of the food pipe. A part of the small intestine had developed gangrene and she had multiple thinned out patches in the wall of the colon with one small leak,” said Dr Samiran Nundy, advisor, department of surgical gastroenterology and liver transplantation. He added, “Along with that, her bowel also had blood clots resulting from Covid-19.” Also Read | Politics behind US call for coronavirus origin probe, says ChinaThe patient was admitted to the hospital earlier this month with complaints of severe abdominal pain, vomiting, and constipation. She was in circulatory shock (a life-threatening complication) and had severe respiratory distress. A CT scan of her abdomen revealed air and moderate amount of free fluid in the abdominal cavity indicating a tear in the intestine. A tube was placed to drain the fluid, which turned out to be a litre of bile-stained pus. A part of the bowel removed during the surgery was tested and she was found to have candida hyphae. “Candida is a normal part of the gut flora but in immunosuppressed states caused by diabetes, injudicious use of steroids, overzealous broad spectrum antibiotics, and chemotherapy for an underlying malignancies, the candida migrates inwards disrupting the normal gut barriers. This is followed by intestinal complications like ulcers, bleeding, gangrene and perforation followed by the infection getting into the blood resulting in septicaemia (blood infection) and multi-organ failure,” said Dr Anil Arora, chairman of the institute of liver, gastroenterology and pancreaticobiliary sciences. A recent Indian Council of Medical Research study had found that 6% of the secondary infections caused in people after Covid-19 was due to candida during the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/candida-infection-led-to-tear-in-gi-tract-in-delhi-patient-after-covid-cancer-101622113533989.html
27-05-2021||Bhopal||MP to unlock Janata curfew from June 1, ban on marriages and businesses to go||MP government has decided to relax the Janata curfew in districts with less than 5% test positivity rate for Covid-19 infections and resume business activities from June 1, said state home minister Narottam Mishra. He made the announcement after a meeting of a group of cabinet ministers on Thursday.“The construction work and other business activities will resume from June 1. The government offices will be opened with 50% staff while registrar office, agriculture Mandis and farmers’ welfare department offices will be run with 100% staff,” Mishra said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced easing of restrictions beginning June 1 following a marked improvement in the state’s Covid situation.Marriages will also be allowed but with the presence of not more than 20 people including bride and bridegroom and members in the marriage party will have to necessarily get their Rapid Antigen Tests done, Mishra added.Places of worship will be reopened for people but not more than two people will be allowed to enter the premises at a given time. However, the ban on larger social, religious, culture and political functions will continue. The crisis management committee will take a decision on lifting the ban, said the minister.The state government imposed Janata curfew in April when the test positivity rate for Covid 19 rose to 23%, indicating every fifth person to be tested was turning positive for the disease amid the second wave of the disease. After two months of restrictions, the test positivity rate has decreased to 3.1%. A TPR of less than 5% is considered manageable by the World Health Organisation.On Wednesday, 2182 positive cases and 72 Covid deaths were reported from MP. Now, the state has 43,265 active cases of the disease. With 70,195 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus have crossed 95.24 lakh. In May so far, Madhya Pradesh recorded 208,551 cases including 2,142 fatalities, as per the health department data. MP CM had said on Tuesday that the state will continue to test 75,000-80,000 samples every day in order to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread undetected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-unlock-janata-curfew-from-june-1-ban-on-marriages-and-businesses-to-go-101622113354790.html
27-05-2021||Pune||PMC to provide free treatment to patients suffering from black fungus under urban poor health scheme||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, has taken the decision to cover treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus under urban poor health scheme and patients can avail treatment worth ₹3 lakh at private hospitals.The decision has been taken amid a rise in mucormycosis cases and costly treatment.To date, the city has reported 168 cases. The first death was reported on May 19 that of a 29-year-old man who was obese and diabetic.The state government has already taken the decision to give free treatment to mucormycosis patients under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana.On Tuesday, the PMC standing committee approved a proposal to pay the expense of mucormycosis under the urban poor health scheme.Hemant Rasane, standing committee chairman said, “ PMC provides health treatment up to ₹2 lakh to Pune residents who have an annual income of ₹1 lakh. Now, we have covered the treatment of mucormycosis and the corporation will pay up to ₹3 lakh to patients for treatment in private hospitals as treatment is costlier.”Mucormycosis is a fungal infection caused mainly because the immunity is suppressed in Covid recovered patients due to the use of steroids during the treatment course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-provide-free-treatment-to-patients-suffering-from-black-fungus-under-urban-poor-health-scheme-101622112930762.html
27-05-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Opium rumours bring this Pune tea story to a boil||Shrikrishna Govind Phadke was famished when he reached Pune one summer afternoon in 1921. He was 14-years old and had walked to Pune from Dapoli, near Ratnagiri, where he was employed in a small inn. He had five rupees with him.Phadke had come to the city in the hope of earning a better living. One of his distant uncles was working as a cook in a local restaurant and he wished to join him. Phadke had been told by this uncle in a letter, that wages were better in Pune and that he would never sleep hungry in the city. Phadke had been planning to get out of Dapoli for months and now that he was in Pune, he suddenly realised that he did not know where to find his uncle. All he knew was that he worked in a restaurant near the mandai, and despite making enquiries in all the nearby inns and restaurants, his search drew a blank.Hungry and exhausted, he decided to have something to eat. It was almost 3 pm and most of the eating houses were closed. The only shop that was open was the one selling tea and biscuits. Written on a pale blue slate in beautiful yellow font was the name of the shop - “Gandharva Golden Tea”. “Gandharva Golden Tea” was named after the legendary actor-singer Balgandharva. Established in 1911, it had shortly acquired a cult status and a greater notoriety. For soon after it opened its doors to patrons, whispers in the city suggested that the proprietor of the shop added opium poppy-seed pods to the concoction, which got its customers addicted to the tea. Now it was not uncommon amongst Europeans to enjoy opium tea, especially those with a connection too China and the Levant. But opium tea in the peths of Pune was unheard of till then.The owners of “Gandharva Golden Tea” strived hard to dispel the rumours. At least five advertisements in the newspapers “Kesari”, “Subodh Patrika” and “Kaal”, placed by the owners between 1912 and 1915, appealed to the public to not believe the grapevine and urged them to patronise the shop.We do not know if the advertisements had their desired effect. It was not unusual for rumours to be taken seriously in Pune. In January 1896, pandemonium broke out in the local vegetable market after a rumour circulated that a ship carrying vegetables from Calcutta to Pune had sunk in a storm. Half the city rushed to the market to buy vegetables in the fear that they would not be able to buy any for the next few days. Had they paused a bit to think, they would have realised that there was no waterway connecting Calcutta and Pune, and that the city did not source its vegetables from Calcutta in the first place. Exactly a year later, a ship ferrying goods, mostly cotton fabric, from Calcutta to Patna did sink in a river. After the news appeared in “Kesari”, people thronged the market to buy clothes. This too was published in the same newspaper with the editor urging its readers to think before they acted. Similarly, the “opium in tea” story was bought by many. How would they otherwise explain the addiction to tea? The shop prospered. There’s a possibility that several customers went there to relish what they thought was “opium tea”. “Gandharva Golden Tea” soon started selling tea powder in the shop as well. An article in “Jnanaprakash” in 1938 mentions how several conservative citizens would stand outside the shop and shout slogans in the initial years of the establishment. The owner would always offer them tea with a smile and after they refused, ignored them throughout the day. Phadke could not meet his uncle that day. He returned to the shop that evening and requested the owner to let him work in the shop. The owner agreed. Phadke got a roof over his head and he did not sleep hungry ever.Five years later, he established his own restaurant near Appa Balwant chowk. And a couple of years later, he left Pune for Aden in Yemen, where he started a tea shop and named it “Gandharva Tea”. It was located near the port and was popular among Indians living in Aden. This is all we know about Phadke and his tryst with the two tea shops, both named “Gandharva”, one in Pune and the other in Aden. He passed away childless in 1961 in Aden. A short obituary appeared in an issue of the periodical “Kirloskar”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-opium-rumours-bring-this-pune-tea-story-to-a-boil-101622112564592.html
27-05-2021||Other||J&K to construct 4,200km of road under PMGSY this fiscal||The Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) government plans to construct 4,200 kilometres of road connecting remote areas with Central assistance during 2021-22 under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY).The PMGSY scheme was launched in 2001.J&K chief secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam held a meeting with the principal secretary, Public Works Department (R&B), to review the progress made under the PMGSY in the previous financial year and fixed a target of completing 4,200km of road this fiscal.Appreciating the progress made in the previous financial year, the chief secretary observed that the department has completed the construction of 3,300km of rural roads under various schemes.Also Read | Kashmiris hope for reopening of Srinagar-Muzaffarabad trade route“The projected target [this year] includes 800km and 3,400km rural road in Kashmir and Jammu province, respectively,” a government spokesman said, quoting Subrahmanyam.The J&K chief secretary directed the principal secretary to periodically review district-wise progress for timely resolution of bottlenecks and associated challenges.Officials said that since the scheme was implemented in J&K, around 14,053km of road has been completed, for which 90% of the fund came from the Centre, while 10% was arranged by the UT administration (or the erstwhile state).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-to-construct-4-200km-of-road-under-pmgsy-this-fiscal-101622111657755.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||2 killed, 7 injured in lightning strike in Bengal’s Murshidabad district||Two boys were killed and as many as seven persons were injured in two incidents of lightning strike in Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Thursday morning, police said. The incident happened at Ramna-Bilpara village in the Hariharpara police station area.The injured were rushed to the local health centre and Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital (MMCH). The condition of two people was described as very critical by doctors.The deceased were identified as Tahabul Sheikh, 17, and Sahidul Islam, 16. They were members of the same family.In another incident, a woman was injured by lightning in the Lochonmati area. She was also admitted to MMCH in a critical state.Residents of Ramna-Bilpara village said the dead and injured people were sitting near a lake around 11.30 am when a storm suddenly rose. They took shelter in an abandoned thatched hut which was struck by lightning.Tony Sheikh, an uncle of the deceased, said, “Some villagers were resting near the lake after working in the field. They ran for cover and entered the hut.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/2-killed-7-injured-in-lightning-strike-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-district-101622110698353.html
27-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan forms 3 teams to audit Covid-19 deaths amid under reporting cloud||The Rajasthan government has constituted teams to audit deaths caused by Covid-19 amid opposition allegations that the official toll discounted several unreported deaths caused by the disease in the rural areas.Health minister, Dr Raghu Sharma said the statistics of deaths from Covid-19 in the state have already been verified by senior officials. It will now be certified within the prescribed time-limit by the three teams headed by senior doctors in compliance with chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s directive.He said in 2019, a total of 396,799 deaths were registered in the state, which increased to 420,403 in 2020 -- an increase of 5.94%. Similarly, from January 2020 to May 25, 2020, the number of deaths registered was 166,392; which rose this year to 175,244 – an increase by 5.31%. He said the growth rate was the same as the previous year.Sharma said due to Covid-19 from March 2020 to March 2021, a total of 2,818 deaths happened - In the same period, the total number of deaths was 439,996. The number of Covid-19 deaths between April and May this year stood at 5,093, which is 6.12 % of all 83,188 deaths recorded so far in the state.He said that the audit teams will go to various districts and look at deaths caused by Covid-19 among the overall deaths. “The teams will also submit their suggestions about treatment of the infection in districts and ways to reduce the possibility of death. These teams have been directed to... submit their report in the next 15 days,” he said.According to the health department, 8,018 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in Rajasthan till date. However, a survey by a local news daily, listed 14,482 deaths caused by the disease in the state’s 25 rural districts between April 1 and May 20 this year alone, while the government’s record puts the number of deaths in this period to 3,918. Rajasthan has 33 districts in all. A political row soon erupted with the opposition party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the state was underreporting Covid-19 deaths.While ordering the audit of Covid and non-Covid deaths in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot stated that the government was worried about people’s lives and not figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-forms-3-teams-to-audit-covid-19-deaths-amid-under-reporting-cloud-101622109497630.html
27-05-2021||Lucknow||UP to start Covid-19 vaccination of 18+ category in all 75 districts from June 1||Aiming to intensify Covid-19 vaccination, Uttar Pradesh will run the drive for the 18+ category in all the 75 districts of the state in the next four days. On the instruction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the administration has prepared an action plan to inoculate at least 1,000 people a day in scarcely populated districts. For this, the Covid-19 vaccinations centres are being categorised for a smooth and swift vaccination.The decision of the Yogi-led government will ramp up the vaccination drive further, officials said, adding that it will increase the vaccination rate to thrice of what it currently stands. So far, the facility was available in only 23 districts and now it will be taken to the remaining 52 districts, they said.“The campaign for 18+ is being extended to all the districts of the state from June 1. We have decided to inoculate at least 1,000 citizens every day in the less populated districts," said additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad.With the aim to push anti-Covid vaccination among beneficiaries of this category, ‘Workplace Covid vaccination centres (CVC)’ will be set up in each district, according to state government's plan. At least four workplace vaccination centres will be established in each district where one will be for the district court, two will be in the government offices and one for the journalists and media personnel along with the employees of information department. Over 50 people will be given doses every day at the workplace CVC, Prasad said.In densely populated districts, extra one or two centres will be set up for bank workers, railway and transport department employees etc. in order to boost the vaccination drive.Also, there is provision for reserving 50 vaccine slots for the category of 45+, taking the daily doses administered at the centre to one hundred. There will be a separate centre for this category.Ramping up the Covid-19 vaccination process in urban areas, the government has ordered to three CVCs so that 100 people can get their doses every day.For vaccination of 18-44 category in the peri-urban areas, the state government has ordered to set up CVC to administer around 100 doses every day. Two CVCs will be established in the rural areas of each district with the intention of vaccinating over 100 villagers a day so that the rural population does not face any problem in getting themselves vaccinated.The chief minister has directed the team officials to make all arrangement and ensure adequate stock of vaccine doses to inoculate maximum youths under the campaign.According to the official data, Uttar Pradesh has given around 1,70,74,158 jabs so far, of which, over 1,36,81,405 people have been administered the first dose while around 33,93,753 people got their second jab.In the category of 18-44 years, around 15,13,293 youth have so far been able to receive a jab in Uttar Pradesh. In the last 24-hour, around 1,51,574 got their first dose administered in this category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-start-covid-19-vaccination-of-18-category-in-all-75-districts-from-june-1-101622107080539.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces paediatric task force to prepare for 3rd wave of Covid-19||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday announced the setting up of a paediatric task force, comprising 13 experts from the state, to prepare for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, in which children are likely to be affected.Tope in a statement said noted paediatrician Dr Suhas Prabhu will be the chief of the 13-member task force, while Tatyarao Lahane, the director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, will be its member secretary.An order in this regard was issued on Thursday by Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of the public health department, it was stated.Anticipating a third wave of the pandemic, which is likely to affect children in more numbers, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had instructed the public health department to set up a task force of experts to make necessary preparations, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-paediatric-task-force-to-prepare-for-3rd-wave-of-covid19-101622107934885.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata abduction case: 5 more held; police looking for journalist||The Kolkata Police has arrested five more people in connection with a kidnapping in which the accused posed as officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to collect a ransom of ₹15 lakh from a family. The alleged crime took place in the Kasba area of south Kolkata on Monday. The five accused have been identified as Anirban Kanjilal, Arghya Sengupta, Raju Mondal, Zulfikar Ali, and Asraf Ali. While the first three live in the southern outskirts of Kolkata, the last two are residents of Sasan in North 24 Parganas district. They will be produced in court on Thursday. More raids are being conducted, said Murlidhar Sharma Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). Avishek Sengupta, a journalist who worked with a newly launched Bengali news channel, is also a suspect and the police are looking for him. The news channel where he worked has issued a statement saying Sengupta was on probation and has been suspended. Also Read | Covid+ve Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee conscious, BP stable, says Kolkata hospitalNaming Sengupta, the channel said, “As an organisation with zero tolerance towards such abhorrent criminal acts, the said probationer was immediately suspended on Tuesday evening pending a thorough probe into the matter.” The channel also said Sengupta was untraceable and could not be reached over the phone. Homemaker Swity Nath Roy alleged in her police complaint on Tuesday that her husband Ajit Roy was taken away by some men claiming to be CBI officers. Later, the family started getting calls where initially ₹2 crore were sought as ransom but the alleged kidnappers eventually settled for ₹15 lakh. A friend of the family gave the money to the kidnappers and Roy was released, said Sharma. Earlier, Swarup Roy and Pratik Sarkar, who allegedly posed as CBI officers, and Rajesh Adhikari, the driver of the vehicle used in the abduction, were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-abduction-case-5-more-held-police-looking-for-journalist-101622107817702.html
27-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra police after politician in suspected shooting at resort||Three people were injured in an incident at a resort in Pune’s Sinhagad road area on Thursday early morning. The police said they were on the lookout for a Khed Panchayat Samiti member belonging to a major regional political party in the case.The attack happened in the early morning hours at a hill-top resort located at the Khadakwasla stretch of Sinhagad road. The injured were identified as Prasad Dashrath Kale, Santosh Sandbhor, and Sakharam Shinde, according to the police.“The complainants are telling us that there was a shooting. We also have CCTV [footage] showing a hand-held weapon. However, we are yet to confirm whether any rounds were fired as we have not found [bullet] shells yet, if any,” said Vivek Patil, additional superintendent of Pune division of Pune rural police.The deputy superintendent of Pune rural police Sayee Bhore Patil said police were confirming if there a shooting at the resort.” Currently, there is a complaint by Kale and they all have injuries caused by wooden sticks and metal rods. We are looking for one suspect and are in the process of identifying his accomplice,” Patil said. A case was getting registered at Haveli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-police-after-politician-in-suspected-shooting-at-resort-101622107277404.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer, son shot dead over land dispute in Punjab’s Patran||A farmer, Balbir Singh, 58, and his son, Charanjeet Singh, 30, were murdered at Hamcheri village in Patran, 60km from Patiala, over a property dispute on Wednesday night. Police said a case has been registered against Balbir’s brother Karnail Singh, his mother Balwinder Kaur, his nephews Khuvinder Singh and Gurpal Singh besides his friend Jaspal Singh under Sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Also read: Red Fort violence was ‘well-planned conspiracy’: Charge sheetThe family was at loggerheads over the ownership of about two acres of farmland. Deputy superintendent of police Bharpur Singh said the incident occurred around 11pm on Wednesday when Balbir’s nephews, Khuvinder and Gurpal, barged into his house and fired multiple shots with their .12-bore gun. “The two died on the spot, while the accused fled,” the DSP said. The accused had entered the house on the pretext of asking Balbir of the dates on which he would be going for the farmers’ protest at the Delhi border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-son-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-punjab-s-patran-101622107037780.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC allows duty free import of mucormycosis drug till Centre decides||In an interim relief, the Delhi high court on Thursday allowed duty free import of drug Amphotericin-B, used for treating mucormycosis (also known as black fungus disease) patients, primarily those affected by it after recovering from Covid-19. The court said that the duty free import can be carried out after the importers furnish a bond till the Centre takes a final decision on waiving the customs duty on it.The high court said the medicine is required to save lives of thousands of people suffering from mucormycosis and the central government shall seriously consider waiver of customs duty till the drug is in short supply in India."We direct if any import is made by any person, the same may be cleared by accepting the bond from the importer without actual payment of duty till a final decision on the said aspect is taken," the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said in its order."The bond shall have the undertaking that in case the import duty is not waived, the duty shall be paid by the importer," the order further said.The judges also said they have been assured that the customs shall clear all consignment of medicines of black fungus without any delay.During the course of hearing, senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal - who appeared for one of the petitioners - said that there is an import duty of 27% on the drug and people who want to source it from their end will find difficulty in procuring the medicine.The Centre said that there were seven manufacturers and five more have been added. The Centre's standing counsel Kirtiman Singh added that the government has asked more manufacturers and if they are interested, they can apply and the matter will be expeditiously considered.Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently gave instructions to India missions across the world to get Amphotericin from anywhere in the world. The missions have been scouring for supply after the Prime Minister's instructions.Meanwhile, American biopharmaceutical firm Gilead Sciences said on Wednesday that it is working on accelerating the supply of Liposomal Amphotericin B injections (AmBisome) to India. The company said that it will supply a total of 1 million doses of AmBisome.States have been hit hard by a shortage of Amphotericin B injections. The national capital has received 3,850 vials of Amphotericin B till Tuesday as against its weekly requirement of 30,000 doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-allows-duty-free-import-of-mucormycosis-drug-till-centre-decides-101622106142819.html
27-05-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Strict restrictions in Mysuru for 10 days from May 29, relaxation given for 2 days||The Mysuru district administration earlier on Wednesday decided to impose stricter restrictions in the district for ten days between May 29 and June 6 (6am), according to an order by the deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. However, some relaxation has been given to shops selling essential goods.During the 10-day period, there will be relaxations on Monday (May 31) and Thursday (June 3) when all shops would be allowed to remain open between 6am and 12pm. On the rest of the days, barring milk booths, medical services, Horticultural Producers' Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms), ration shops and shops that are selling fruits and vegetables, all other activities would be restricted, the order said.Despite the decreasing trend in the number of daily new cases, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 26,811 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a slight increase from the previous day’s tally of 22,758 new cases on Tuesday (May 25). Currently, the state is also the highest contributor to the national tally of active caseload with 409,945 cases, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, on Thursday, showed.Also read | Karnataka village sealed as hundreds gather to attend a horse’s funeralAmong the districts, Mysuru has been reporting above 2,000 new cases daily for the past week. On Wednesday alone, the district detected 2,792 new Covid-19 cases, the highest it has reported in the past week. Earlier, there were 2,241 new cases on Tuesday, 2,680 new cases on Monday and 2,222 new cases on Sunday, indicating an increase in the daily infections. Also, there were 16,611 active cases reported in the district, according to a medical bulletin by the state health department, released on Wednesday.In terms of active cases, Mysuru contributes the fourth highest among all districts in Karnataka. Only Bengaluru Urban with 207,357 active cases is at a distant first, Tumakuru with 19,770 cases and Belagavi with 18,333 cases are ahead of Mysuru, the latest data showed.Karnataka witnessed a rapid increase in Covid-19 cases during the second wave and the state government has imposed strict restrictions to curb the transmission of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-strict-restrictions-in-mysuru-for-10-days-from-may-29-relaxation-given-for-2-days-101622105657686.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||BJP asks Delhi government to clarify how many vaccines it procured||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday asked the Delhi government to come clean on the arrangements it has made to procure vaccines and set up oxygen plants while accusing it of politicising the Centre’s vaccine procurement to deflect attention from what it should have done to provide them.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said only 13% of people, who have been vaccinated in the national capital, have got their vaccines from the Delhi government. “Nearly 46 lakh [4.6 million] free vaccines were supplied by the Centre to Delhi. Private hospitals... procured about 9 lakh [90,00,00] doses of vaccines while the Delhi government managed to procure just a little over 8 lakh [80,00,00].” Patra said private hospitals have managed to get more vaccines on their own than the Delhi government. He said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government should also clarify how many doses of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine has it ordered and paid for so far.The BJP-led Centre and the AAP government have been at loggerheads over the vaccine policy as well as over the allotment of oxygen to Delhi. The state government has alleged the Centre did not supply oxygen to it as per the quantum of requirement. The Centre has sought an audit of the oxygen being supplied.Also Read | 848 kgs of used surgical hand gloves seized from 2 Delhi godowns, 3 heldPatra said it has been a month since chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced 44 oxygen plants will be set up within a month. “It has been a month already… I want to ask how many plants have been started.”Patra said the number of companies manufacturing the drug needed to treat mucormycosis, which has emerged as a major Covid-19 complication, has gone up from four to nine following the Centre’s intervention. Kejriwal on Wednesday said there was an acute shortage of the drug.Patra said American firm Gilead Sciences is sending about 100,000 vials of the medicine to India and 85,000 of them are on their way. “…Delhi has so far received 4,550 vials of the medicines required to treat mucormycosis or black fungus,” Patra said. “As per our information, the vials are not reaching the hospitals properly because there is a problem at the Delhi government end in terms of management.”Patra referred to the Delhi government’s statement that companies such as Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell vaccines to state governments and added Centre has amended the rules to allow vaccines certified by international agencies or listed for emergency use by the WHO to be allowed for use in India. “There are constraints in the supply of vaccines.”He said the Centre is talking to these companies and working to procure vaccines. “Political leaders such as Arvind Kejriwal, who are asking questions, should remember this is not something that can be bought off the shelf. There is a process to be followed.”Patra accused the opposition parties of propagating the myth that domestic manufacturing has not been encouraged. “This is again not true. Bharat Biotech has been ensured that the company can share the [vaccine] license with three other companies to increase enhance the production of Covaxin.”He called the Delhi government’s claim about the reluctance in vaccinating children untrue. “Children are not guinea pigs for our experiments.” He said there was a need for proper trials before children are vaccinated. “There should be no politicisation on the issue of vaccinating children.”There was no immediate response from the AAP or the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-asks-delhi-government-to-clarify-how-many-vaccines-it-procured-101622105417514.html
27-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt extends ban on strikes in state departments for 6 months||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) in the state, banning strikes in public services, corporations and local authorities under it, for a period of six months, an official spokesperson said on Thursday.A notification to this effect was issued on Tuesday, he added.The Act gives police the powers to arrest, without a warrant, anybody for violating its provisions.An official statement issued here said strikes have been banned with immediate effect in all public services, including corporations and local authorities owned or controlled by the state government.The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1966 mandates imprisonment for a term which may extend to a year, or a fine which may extend to ₹1,000, or both, to any person who instigates a strike which was illegal under the Act.The Uttar Pradesh government had initially invoked the ESMA in the state in May last year for a period of six months. It subsequently extended the provisions for another six months on November 25, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-extends-ban-on-strikes-in-state-departments-for-6-months-101622104970349.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Youtuber arrested for posting video of his ‘flying’ dog||A Delhi-based Youtuber, who made his pet dog “fly” by tying it to a bunch of helium balloons and then posted a video of the act, was arrested after an NGO accused him of cruelty towards the animal, the Delhi Police said on Thursday.The 27-year-old Youtuber, Gaurav Sharma, runs a channel named GAURAVZONE and has 4.15 million followers. Once this particular video began drawing criticism, he pulled it down and posted another video apologising for his act and explaining that he took the necessary precautions to keep his pet safe.“Sharma was arrested after being booked under the Disaster Management Act and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). Since the offence was bailable, Sharma was released on bail soon after his arrest on Wednesday.The trend of uploading videos of small dogs tied to helium balloons is prevalent in some other countries. While they usually draw a lot of clicks, they are also criticised for being cruel to the animals.In the apology video, Sharma acknowledged that he was influenced by the foreign videos.Last Friday, he and his mother took their brown Pomeranian, named Dollar, to a shop to buy hydrogen balloons. In the video, Sharma explained that he preferred hydrogen as helium balloons were more expensive.In any case, the video showed that Sharma got his dog tied to a bunch of balloons before taking it to a park. The dog appeared to be finding it difficult to stay on the ground while running in the park.When it was suspended in the air to make it fly, the dog was seen throwing its limbs around.Another scene showed Sharma climbing atop a car and then letting the dog fly.The dog appeared to float a few metres, reaching up to the second floor of a building, while ramming into the railing of a balcony in the process. The video was uploaded on Saturday, drawing lakhs of views and severe criticism.On Sunday, the video was taken down and Sharma posted another video to explain why he pulled down the original. He pointed out that he told his viewers that safety precautions were taken to keep the dog safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-youtuber-arrested-for-posting-video-of-his-flying-dog-101622104637436.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||San Jose mass shooting: Tarn Taran village mourns Sikh youth’s death||Taptejdeep Singh, the 36-year-old train operator who was among the eight people killed in the mass shooting at San Jose in California on Wednesday, belonged to Gagrewal village in Khadoor Sahib sub division of Punjab’s Tarn Taran district. Taptejdeep is survived by two children, aged eight and two, besides his wife and elderly parents. He had migrated to the United States with his father, Sarabjit Singh Gill, and uncles more than two decades ago. Also read: Drug peddler, accomplice shot dead in Punjab’s border town of PattiA former sarpanch of Gagrewal, Kashmir Singh, who lives in the neighbourhood of the grieving family’s locked house, said: “Taptejdeep had been living in the US for 20-25 years. His parents, uncles, namely Inderjit Singh, Ranjit Singh and Amarjit Singh, are also settled there. Though the family members rarely visited the village, we share deep ties with them. The death of the young man is a loss for us. We are in grief.” A media portal quoted Taptejdeep’s cousin, Bagga Singh, who also lives in the US, as saying, “My cousin was a train operator. He was one of several relatives, all immigrants from India, working for the transit agency, Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, but my cousin was the only one on duty on Wednesday morning when the shooting occurred.” On April 15, four members of the Sikh community, including three women, were killed in a shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, Indiana, in the US. A total of nine people were killed, including the shooter, a 19-year-old former employee named Brandon Scott Hole, who committed suicide. Expressing concern over the incidents of violence, in which members of the Sikh community were also targeted, US-based Punjabi community activist Sameep Singh Gumtala said, “The country is suffering from an epidemic of gun violence”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/san-jose-mass-shooting-tarn-taran-village-mourns-sikh-youth-s-death-101622104277270.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Covid+ve Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee conscious, BP stable, says Kolkata hospital||The oxygen saturation level of former Chief Minister of West Bengal, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who is admitted to a private hospital in Kolkata after testing positive for Covid-19 infection, has fallen slightly and his oxygen support has been increased. However, he is conscious, alert, and his BP is stable according to a medical bulletin issued by the hospital on Thursday."He is on BIPAP with 4 litres of oxygen, SpO2 maintaining at 92 per cent. He is presently conscious, alert, and talking sensibly. He is having a heart rate of 54 per minute," said the medical bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt added that Bhattacharjee's blood pressure is stable, urine output is satisfactory and he is taking food orally.In yesterday's bulletin, the hospital had informed that the former Chief Minister was on BIPAP with 3 litres of oxygen and SpO2 was at 93 per cent. Yesterday his heart rate was maintained at 62 per minute.77-year-old Bhattacharjee, who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18, was admitted to the Critical Care Department of Woodlands Hospital in Kolkata after complaining about drowsiness and shortness of breath on May 25. Senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader, Bhattacharjee was West Bengal Chief Minister from 2000 to 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covidve-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-conscious-bp-stable-says-kolkata-hospital-101622103340126.html
27-05-2021||Lucknow||BJP to distribute Covid kits in rural UP to mark Modi’s seven years as PM||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has asked its workers to distribute masks, sanitisers, and immunity boosters across rural Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to mark the completion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s seven years in power. It has cited the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that has hit the state’s rural areas as well and said it has decided to cut out on celebrations and to concentrate on service.The BJP also plans to hold blood donation camps and launch a campaign to increase awareness regarding Covid-19 vaccination in rural areas, where the state government has launched a test-trace-treat campaign.“We have decided to cover at least 20,000-gram sabhas [village councils] across Uttar Pradesh on the seventh anniversary of the BJP government at the Centre. Covid essentials like face masks and immunity boosters would be distributed and villages might also be sanitised,” said BJP leader Govind Narayan Shukla, who will coordinate the rural outreach campaign. “...we plan to distribute them in each house in the villages.”Also Read | Covid-19 strategy working well, vaccination for 18+ in all districts soon: UP CMChief minister Yogi Adityanath is expected to virtually interact with newly elected village heads as part of the outreach after the BJP’s dismal performance in the rural polls, which have also been blamed for a surge in Covid-19 cases.The government has launched a campaign for Covid-free villages and Adityanath has been interacting with people during his visits to villages. The government has also announced incentives for villages, which are able to control Covid cases.As many as 299 of Uttar Pradesh’s 403 assembly segments are rural or semi-rural.Hoping to cash in on the prevailing sentiment, the Congress has announced “Mera Gaon, Mera Abhiman (my village, my pride)” under which the party plans to sanitise villages, distribute masks, sanitisers, and ration kits.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has arranged 1.5 million litres of sanitisers and one million medical kits for the villages. He added she has written to all the new village heads in the state seeking their cooperation.BJP workers have been directed to make people in rural areas aware of the government’s ₹5,000 assistance for the last rites of those who die of Covid as dead bodies have been found floating in the Ganga in the state and buried in riverbeds.The state’s labour welfare council has announced ₹7,500 for the last rites of labourers.BJP leader Navin Srivastava accused the opposition of discrediting the government and added people have been burying dead by the riverside for years. “There has also been the practice of disposing of dead bodies in rivers...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjpto-distribute-covid-kits-in-rural-up-to-mark-modi-s-seven-years-as-pm-101622102838518.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||848 kgs of used surgical hand gloves seized from 2 Delhi godowns, 3 held||Nearly 848 kilograms of used surgical gloves have been seized from two godowns in southwest Delhi’s Dabri, the police said after arresting three men, including a resident of Kerala, who were involved in the illegal business of its recycling and resale. They collected used surgical gloves from scrap dealers, washed them, and packed them in new boxes before reselling them as unused ones, the police said.The arrested persons have been identified as Arun Shriniwasan, 36-year-old Kerala resident, Manish Kumar,30, and Dinesh Kumar Rajput,28, both from Delhi. They were caught on Tuesday and booked for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant and negligent act, likely to spread infection of [a] disease danger­ous to life. All three were later released on bail, the police said.This is the second such seizure this month in Delhi-NCR. On May 4-5, three men were arrested after a raid at a factory in Tronica City in Ghaziabad led to the recovery of used and recycled surgical gloves. Ninety-eight gunny bags containing used surgical gloves and 60 with washed gloves inside were seized. As many as 800 packing boxes, three washing machines, one dryer and some chemicals were also seized.In the latest operation, the Dabri police station on Tuesday received inputs about a godown in Chanakya Place in Dabri being used for illegal activity. A team raided the godown and caught one person with such used gloves. His questioning led the police to another godown in Badri where two more men were caught with similar items.Around 848 kgs of used surgical gloves were recovered from both the godowns. Keeping in view the health hazard, and the possibility of these gloves having been used in Covid hospital, the seized materials were sealed in the godown itself, said a police officer, who was part of the raiding team.“The arrested persons disclosed that the deliveries of the used surgical gloves were made to them by various scrap dealers, who collected the protective medical equipment from hospitals in Delhi-NCR. The usable gloves were further washed and packed in new packets while the torn ones were discarded in drains. The packets were further sold in markets,” the officer added.Police said the arrested men disclosed that they were making some quick money amid a high demand for such protective medical equipment due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/848-kgs-of-used-surgical-hand-gloves-seized-from-2-delhi-godowns-3-held-101622102837449.html
27-05-2021||Ranchi||9-year-old girl sexually abused in Jharkhand shelter home; panchayat member held||A 50-year-old panchayat member has been arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a nine-year-old girl while shifting her to a relief camp set up for those evacuated in view of Cyclone Yaas in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district.“A First Information Report has been lodged against him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” said Ranjit Singh, a local police officer. He added the girl’s mother filed a written complaint in the case.Also Read | ‘No template of apt behaviour after assault’: Experts on Tarun Tejpal verdictPushpa Rani Tirkey, an activist, said the girl has been sent to a childcare institute for counselling. “The [girl] told the police...that Sagar Pal shifted her grandparents and cousins to the shelter home ... Later he took her to the toilet behind the shelter home and sexually abused her late on Wednesday... When she cried, he took her into the car again saying that he would take her to her mother and aunt. But he made her sit in his lap while driving the car and sexually assaulted her again,” Tirkey said. She added the people have vacated the shelter home. “They were angry how such a thing could happen in a government shelter home. If girls and women are not safe in the shelter home, why should they stay there?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/9yearold-girl-sexually-abused-in-jharkhand-shelter-home-panchayat-member-held-101622102357641.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Drug peddler, accomplice shot dead in Punjab’s border town of Patti||Two car-borne assailants shot dead a drug peddler and his accomplice in the border town of Patti in Tarn Taran district on Thursday morning, police said, adding that the third person accompanying them was injured in the firing. The deceased were identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji, and Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran, while their accomplice Dilbagh Singh, alias Shera of Patti, was injured. Also read: New rules to prevent abuse and misuse of social media: Ravi Shankar PrasadAll three were riding a scooter and returning after paying obeisance at a peer dargah (saint’s tomb) when the assailants opened fire at them at Nadohar roundabout in Patti town at 6.45am, the police said. Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said that a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons at Patti city police station. A senior police official said Amandeep Singh was involved in heroin peddling. “We have traced his links to gangster Bhagwan Kazikot,” he said, adding that efforts were on to catch the accused, who had fled in a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-peddler-accomplice-shot-dead-in-punjab-s-border-town-of-patti-101622101877285.html
27-05-2021||Jaipur||Hundreds of Covid-19 infected Hindus cremated by Muslim family in Kota||A Muslim family in charge of Kota’s biggest cremation ground since three generations claims to have performed the last rites of close to 800 Hindus in the last two months, including around 400 Covid-19 victims, many of whom couldn’t be attended to by their family members.Earlier this month, a Brahmin family in Kota’s Talwandi locality lost an elderly person to Covid-19 while the rest were themselves battling the infection, leaving no one to collect and cremate the body. It was at such an hour that 31-year old Moid Anwar responded to the distress call and arranged for an ambulance to transport the body to the Kishorepura crematorium after four members of his team had packed it as per the Covid-19 containment protocols.Social worker Om Prakash Sahni, who called Anwar for help said, “Moid and his brother themselves arranged the pyre for the last rites of the deceased in the presence of a Hindu priest as no one from the family of the victim could attend.”One priest of Sindhi community, Jeetu Sharma (30), said Moid and his brother Moin not only sell firewood for last rites but made all arrangements for cremation and their services were exceptional during the peak of Covid-19 crisis, when crematoriums overflowed yet many abandoning their dead ones due to fear of contracting the virus.“They even provide free firewood to those who cannot afford the expenses of last rites and have cremated so many Covid-19 deceased,” said Jeetu Sharma.“They performed the last rites as per the wishes of the family members of the deceased, for which people extended their gratitude to them,” he said.Rajaram Jain Karmayogi of Karmayogi Seva Sansthan, whose organization provide vehicles for dead body transportation and arranges for last rites in the city, said, “At a time when human race is facing one of its worst moments with family members not cremating even their own, Moid and his team have cremated countless people risking their own lives.”Moid says his family has been the caretaker at the Kishorepura Muktidham for the last 50 years”.“Our grandmother Haleema Bai started working here and later my father Anwar Hussain joined her and now we are working at Kishorepura,” he said.“During Covid-19 peak period in April and May this year, we worked round the clock as bodies were coming in one after another,” Moid added.There are half a dozen members in Moid’s team. “We have performed the last rites of 800 persons in these two months. More than 50% of these were Covid-19 deaths. Our team members, comprising both Muslim and Hindus, lit several pyres in absence of family members,” he said.Moid also arranges ambulances to bring Covid-19 patients through his contacts with service providers.“We only charge for the firewood for cremation, but provide free facilities, including arranging ambulances to pick up the dead and pyres and priests for the last rites,” he said, adding that families are requested to pay the priests directly.Moid said he and his team earned around ₹30,000 a month. Interestingly, all of them have remained uninfected despite cremating several Covid-19 patients.“We follow the protocol while God also helps us in our service to mankind and keeps us fit enough to help others,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/hundreds-of-covid-19-infected-hindus-cremated-by-muslim-family-in-kota-101622101757380.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Pandemic hits conservation of key ASI monuments, Chandni Chowk revamp||The restrictions due to Covid-19 since March 2020 and subsequent shortage of labour and delay in procuring construction material have hit the heritage conservation of key monuments and structures in the national Capital over the past year. Officials from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) said work on projects such as the conservation of Sher Shah Suri Gate, Sab Burz, and Tughlakabad Fort slowed down in the past year and the second wave of the Covid-19 in the country has again thrown a spanner in the works.In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the ASI had announced the closure of all centrally protected monuments and museums on April 15.Delhi has over 70 monuments under ASI, including the Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, Qutub Minar, and Purana Qila, among others. While the Red Fort had been closed to the public since January 26, when violence had broken out there during the farmers’ tractor rally, the other monuments had reopened in July last year following the nationwide lockdown announced in March 2020 and was again shut on April 15.Also Read | Emergency vehicles to be allowed in revamped Chandni Chowk stretch: JainSubsequently, the Delhi government imposed a lockdown on April 20 to arrest the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths.An ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said project completion deadlines of multiple heritage sites would have to be revised following the lockdown. Prior to the lockdown, conservation work was being carried out at Sher Shah Suri Gate and Sab Burz, among other places, he said.“A part of the National Museum was to be shifted to the Red Fort but that now stands delayed. At the Tughlakabad Fort, we were carrying out repairs on the fort walls but that has now stopped. Tenders that we were supposed to float did not happen due to the lockdown. In other cases, tenders were passed but the work did not start,” said the official.Anticipating a repetition of hardships that they had suffered last year, several migrant workers have left the city for their homes and villages in other states. Agencies fear that, unlike last time, it might take more time for work on pending projects to take off again since the virus has reached the rural areas.The official said the shortage of labour and difficulty in acquiring construction material were two major reasons for work to slow down over the past year -- issues that are likely to get exacerbated in the months to come.“Construction material is transported from different cities and the closure of shops in those cities poses problems in procuring the material that we require. Shortage of labour also continues to a major concern,” said the official.He added that, unlike the previous wave, several staff members of the ASI have succumbed to Covid-19 in the past two months and so several processes were likely to be expedited only when offices reopen.“When the office reopens, we will have to rework the project deadlines and take stock of the situation since we have lost several staff members to the virus,” said the official.Ajay Kumar, project director of the Delhi chapter of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, said while work had resumed following the gradual unlocking last year, the second wave had put the brakes on the work once again. “We were supposed to finish work on the Dara Shikoh library building in April but before we could complete the work, lockdown restrictions kicked in,” said Kumar.He said the resumption of work might take time even if the lockdown restrictions were eased-- there is still the uncertainty over labour. “We are not sure if we will be able to find workers immediately. Around 90% of the labour force that we work with comes from other cities. They may or not return as the situation continues to be dire in rural areas,” said Kumar.The much-delayed Chandni Chowk redevelopment project is also likely to get further delayed. The initial deadline was fixed for March 2020, but it was revised to March 2021 due to several factors such as the pandemic-induced delays from last year and legal issues in removing encroachments. While the inauguration for Phase 1 was scheduled for April 17, it was eventually called off as Covid cases started peaking in Delhi.Officials from the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, said work was bound to be affected in these circumstances. Garima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, said that while the first phase of the project was on the verge of completion, work had to be stopped on account of the pandemic.“The first phase of the project is about to be completed though the lockdown is bound to have an impact on the timeline. Factors such as shortage of labour and procurement of material have hampered work in the past as well due to which the project timeline was breached. Once the situation improves, a new timeline for the project will be decided,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pandemic-hits-conservation-of-key-asi-monuments-chandni-chowk-revamp-101622101697358.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats operated for black fungus||Kuldeep Vats, the Congress MLA from Badli, has been successfully operated after he contracted black fungus infection, his family said on Thursday. The 46-year-old MLA’s son Jatin Vats said over phone that his father had undergone the surgery for mucormycosis at Medanta hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday and is in a stable condition. Also read: Zydus Cadila seeks human trial approval for Covid-19 antibody cocktailJatin said that Kuldeep Vats had suffered from Covid-19 twice since the outbreak last year. “My father returned home from Medanta on May 20 after being cured of coronavirus infection for the second time. Three days later, his condition started worsening and we rushed him to the hospital where doctors found he was suffering from black fungus. The infection was scraped off from near his forehead on Wednesday. He is fine now,” Jatin said. Kuldeep Vats, who had defeated BJP’s OP Dhankar in the 2019 assembly elections, had tested positive for Covid-19 last year, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-congress-mla-kuldeep-vats-operated-for-black-fungus-101622099597539.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine should be procured as soon as possible for children: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday sought procurement of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine as soon as possible to inoculate children.This comes after the US pharma company sought fast-track approval for its jab in India.The US major has told Indian authorities that its vaccine is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees Celsius, sources had said."We shud procure this vaccine asap for our children," Kejriwal tweeted, citing a news story on fast-track approval sought by the company.The Delhi chief minister has been requesting the Central government to explore suitable vaccine options, citing opinion of experts that a possible third wave of Covid-19 in coming months may affect children.The Delhi government has also suggested that the Centre should vaccinate students and teachers if it decides to conduct class 12 Board exams delayed due to the second wave of the virus.Pfizer, which has offered 5 crore doses to India between July and October, recently held a series of interactions with Indian government authorities.It has shared with authorities the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-should-be-procured-as-soon-as-possible-for-children-arvind-kejriwal-101622098257736.html
27-05-2021||Patna||Darbhanga airport beats bigger airports in footfall amid Covid pandemic||Boosting regional air connectivity under Centre’s UDAN scheme, Darbhanga airport continues to register large footfalls amid Covid pandemic despite very low human resources support.As many as 221,414 passengers have travelled to and from Darbhanga airport till May 22 since flight operation to Bihar’s biggest city in the north was launched by low cost carrier Spicejet on November 8 last year.Despite very few flights, Darbhanga airport has recently been way ahead of other airports in the eastern region, including Raipur (Chhattisgarh) and Bhwaneshwar (Odisha), in terms of passenger footfall.Past one week’s (May 16- 22) data released by the Airport Authority of India’s (AAI) regional headquarters reveals that despite being a single operator airport,Darbhanga airport handled 56 flights and 7,468 passengers, while Raipur, with 88 flights and 4,191 passengers and Bhubaneswar, with 132 flights and 7,092 passengers were far behind in terms of flight occupancy. The Bagdogra airport in West Bengal operated 110 flights and handled 6,080 passengers during this period. In Bihar, Gaya stood at the bottom of the pile with 10 flights and 296 passengers during this period.Jai Prakash Narain (JPN) airport in state capital Patna, however, served 25,573 passengers and 297 flights. The Birsa Munda Airport at Ranchi, Jharkhand’s capital, operated 112 flights and served 8,287 passengers during this period.According to AAI’s daily updates, the passenger footfall at many regular and RCS (Regional Connectivity Scheme) airports, such as Jharsuguda in Odisha, Port Blair, Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh and Pakyong in Sikkim, were nowhere close to the footfalls seen recently at Darbhanga airport.Likewise, between May 1 and May 7, Raipur airport handled 142 flights while catering to 6,158 passengers. In this period, Darbhanga airport handled 8,516 passengers and 68 flights.An AAI official pointed out that Gaya airport, with the worst footfall of air travellers in Bihar, has 63 staff members whereas Darbhanga airport has only seven to man the operations of the airport. A few outsourced staff working at the airport were also said to be facing retrenchment threat, the official, who didn’t wish to be identified, added.The staff strength at Deoghar (Jharkhand) airport, which was yet to become operational, stood at 12, more than Darbhanga airport.According to an official figure, the staff strength at various airports are: Patna- 196, Bhubaneswar- 188, Ranchi-126, Raipur- 111, Port Blair- 46, Jharsuguda-45, Bagdogra-39 and Pakyong- 20.AAI eastern region director (Kolkata) Manoj Gangol couldn’t be contacted for his comments in this regardThe number of daily flights from Darbhanga has risen to six from three, besides two additional daily flights to Bengaluru and Mumbai till June 15. Apart from these, Darbhanga airport is connected to Delhi, Ahmedabad and Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-airport-beats-bigger-airports-in-footfall-amid-covid-pandemic-101622098277274.html
27-05-2021||Bhopal||Two sisters detained for alleged espionage in MP’s Indore exonerated||Two sisters, who were detained in Indore on May 20 on suspicion of espionage, got in touch with suspected agents of Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) through a popular matrimonial site to marry them but were not found involved in any anti-national activities, a police officer said on Thursday.Inspector general of police HN Mishra said they have exonerated the two Indore residents, aged 27 and 32, after six days of investigation. “Military intelligence [MI] gave [police] input that the women were in touch with two ISI agents for the past seven months. The women used to talk with ISI agents through calls and chats,” said Mishra. He added they did not find anything suspicious against the women after retrieving their chats and other data from their four phones and also interrogating them for six days at their house.Also Read | Dewas catches the rain where it falls“After going through chats and information exchanged by the women, we found that they were not involved in anti-national activities. They did not leak any important information.” Mishra said the MI’s inputs failed the mission of ISI agents, who laid the marriage trap for the women and met through the matrimonial site. He added the agents introduced themselves as the Pakistan Army officers and the women wanted to marry them and were even ready to go to Islamabad after marriage.Police said the ISI agents tried to trap the women as their father is an ex-army man and they live near Mhow cantonment in Indore district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/two-sisters-detained-for-alleged-espionage-in-mp-s-indore-exonerated-101622097317782.html
27-05-2021||Lucknow||All eligible persons in state will be vaccinated: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asserted that all eligible persons in the state will be vaccinated against Covid and said a vaccine for those in the 12-18 age group is coming soon.Currently, those above 18 years of age are being inoculated against the infection."Vaccine for people in the age group of 12-18 years is coming soon. We will vaccinate everyone," Adityanath said in Deoria.The chief minister during his visit to Deoria went to Katrari village and interacted with the Gram Pradhan as well as the members of the Covid monitoring committee.He said that active surveillance committees played a major role in the door-to-door screening of people to curb Covid cases. Timely identification of symptoms and then distribution of medical kits and isolation helped in keeping the spread of the disease in control, Adityanath said.The chief minister emphasised on creating awareness in the village about encephalitis, the UP government said in a statement here.People should avoid open defecation and keep the village clean, he said.Adityanath later reached the Primary Health Centre in Majhgawan to inspect the vaccination campaign and asked the people, who have come for their jabs, to inspire others as well.He also informed that the government is preparing itself to deal with diseases like encephalitis and dengue that occur mainly during the rainy season due to contamination of water and mosquitoes.An action Plan is being prepared in this regard, Adityanath said."We have to go door-to-door in every district prone to encephalitis and provide medicine kits in advance to tackle encephalitis," he added.Adityanath on Wednesday also visited the Integrated Covid command and control room in Kushinagar district and met the family members of a home isolated Covid-19 patient at her home and asked about her well being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-eligible-persons-in-state-will-be-vaccinated-yogi-adityanath-101622090875790.html
27-05-2021||Patna||Patna waterlogging reveals many mitigation plans have remained on paper||Patna municipality’s preparedness to deal with water logging during the monsoons got a rude awakening following just 52 mm of rain on May 19 and 20 this year, when important localities were left flooded for hours. A status check has now revealed that many measures cleared to rid the city of the problem have remained only on paper.While, the urban development department (UDD) and Patna municipal corporation (PMC) claim to have the machinery to clean the capital city of storm water within an hour or so after heavy showers, they were found out badly during the 36-hour intermittent rains which submerged Gandhi Maidan, Patna Junction, Kankarbagh residential colony and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital to name a few.Last year too, similar claims failed to live up to the promise with many localities, including the state secretariat, state legislative building, Shashri Nagar and Rajvanshi Nagar, Patliputra, Kankarbagh getting flooded for hours during the monsoon.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar inspected waterlogged areas and drainage pumping stations (DPS) last June and asked UDD officials to concretise the old and kuchha Badshahi Nala—the main channel to take drain water out of the capital city. CM’s instruction was in line with the recommendation made by a high-level committee that probed the severe flooding in Patna in 2019. However, the project has not taken off yet.Bihar urban infrastructure development corporation (Buidco) was given Rs168 crore to buy additional submersible pumps, diesel generator sets and pumps etc to ensure smooth operation of 39 existing and 27 temporary drainage pumping stations by June last year. The temporary DPS were to be made permanent, but that did not happen so far.PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the corporation was better prepared this time and had identified water prone areas and installed portable pumps to clear water. “About 97% of the capital city would be cleared of storm water within a few hours if it rained around 100-120 mm in a day,” said Sharma, adding that some areas, which have old drainage networks, might take some extra time to flush out drain water.The commissioner said that a few new drains, connecting the localities facing perennial waterlogging, have been created to deal with the issue. He, however, admitted that the capacity of the main drainage network, which takes water from smaller drains out of Patna, could not be enhanced.504 posts, including for engineers and pump operators, were sanctioned by the state cabinet in May last year to run and maintain pumping stations. However, no appointment for engineers or other technical staff could be made as yet. A special secretary of UDD said he was not sure if any fresh appointments were made in the past one year.Associate professor of Patna University and social activist Shankar Kumar said recurring waterlogging was the result of too much planning on paper and little execution on ground. “First of all, the sewerage and drainage network has to be completely delinked. There should be comprehensive planning for drainage networks in keeping with related hydraulics. But, generally drains are made in isolation. The comprehensive plan with depth and stretch of pipes and rains must be brought in public domain for social inspection of regular cleaning carried by authorities,” said Kumar.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad (also in-charge of urban development department), UDD principal secretary Anand Kishore and managing director of Buidco Raman Kumar could not be reached for their comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-waterlogging-reveals-many-mitigation-plans-have-remained-on-paper-101622089997868.html
27-05-2021||Dehradun||Ramdev dares authorities to arrest him in viral video, IMA escalates offensive||A video, which surfaced on social media on Wednesday, has yoga guru Ramdev challenging the authorities to arrest him. Earlier in the day, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to book the Yoga guru under sedition laws for questioning the efficacy of allopathic medicines and vaccines against Covid-19 disease.In the 40 second video, Swami Ramdev is seen saying, “Khair arrest to unka koi baap bhi nahi har sakta Swami Ramdev ko…lekin ek shor macha rahey hain...ki arrest Swami Ramdev…kabhi kuch chala detey hai….ki arrest Ramdev…Thug Ramdev…Kabi maha thug Ramdev…Kabi giraftaar Ramdev…chalate rahe hai..chalane do (’No one ..in fact no one’s father can arrest Swami Ramdev…but they are making noise… arrest Ramdev, Thug (con) Ramdev…They are following trends …let them)”HT cannot independently verify the authenticity, origin or context of the video and Patanjali spokespersons have refrained from commenting on it till the filing of this report.Watch | 'Even their fathers can't arrest me': Ramdev video tweeted by CongressThe war of words between the IMA and the yoga guru has escalated over the past couple of days with Ramdev raising 25 questions on the efficacy of modern medicine and the IMA Uttarakhand chapter threatening him with a ₹1000 crore defamation case. It all started with a video, where Ramdev was seen calling allopathy a ‘stupid science’ and alleging that thousands of doctors had died despite taking the vaccine to prevent Covid-19 infection. He later retracted those comments following the IMA and Union health minister’s objections.Following Ramdev’s continued questioning of modern medicine, the Delhi Medical Association filed a complaint against the yoga guru and IMA’s Uttarakhand chapter has given him a fortnight to withdraw his remarks.“Baba Ramdev has no knowledge whatsoever regarding allopathy. Baseless opinion, allegations and statements, as seen in videos surfacing in social media itself, points to his derogatory views about allopathy and doctors who are front line warriors,” said IMA Uttarakhand secretary Dr Ajay Khanna.Swami Shivanand Saraswati of Matri Sadan ashram said it seems Ramdev has become an arrogant person.“If allopathy has no significance for him, then why Acharya Balakrishnan was taken to AIIMS Rishikesh two years back for food poisoning. He should prove first that Coronil is much better than allopathic medicine treatment then raise fingers on Covid-19 treatment and fatalities,” said Swami Shivanand Saraswati.Coronil is an ayurvedic immunity booster manufactured by Ramdev’s firm Patanjali. Acharya Balakrishna is Ramdev’s close aide and co-founder of the firm.Former president of IMA’s Haridwar chapter, Dr Sandhya Sharma said Ramdev should concentrate on jointly fighting the war against Covid-19.“Allopathic doctors are working day-night for past 14 months in the fight against Covid-19 and so are Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Unani or Siddha medical therapies,” said Dr Sandhya SharmaRamdev has courted controversy before with his remarks. Last year, his company launched Coronil after claiming it was a medicine for Covid, only to withdraw the claim months later. In 2012, he claimed that yoga could cure cancer and HIV-AIDS, drawing strict censure from medical councils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ramdev-dares-authorities-to-arrest-him-in-viral-video-ima-escalates-offensive-101622085856596.html
27-05-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: Have you exited a WhatsApp group lately?||My friend, Raju, is incensed. He calls me out of the blue and says, “I am thinking of exiting too.”I know exactly what he is talking about. Our high-school WhatsApp group has become a battlefield. On a day last week, six people abruptly exited the group.Some left after a few principled words (which were immediately construed as sanctimonious holier-than-thou natter by the people at whom the words were aimed at). “Those of you who have been defending this government ought to ask yourself if you will take such a strong position if one of your own died in the hospital without bed, oxygen or care.”Others left with a virtual throw of the arms in the air. “Folks, I am tired of this infighting. Will return when things get saner in our group. Thank you all and have a great life.”Raju’s phone call is really a plea. He doesn’t want to leave the group but he wants the fighting to stop.“Can you mute those two jokers?” he asks. “After all, you are the admin.”I know the two people he is talking about. They have hijacked the conversation so that everything is about forwarding articles that support their position.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Moonwalking at night on city streetsI attempt a mild plea. “The rest of us can change the discourse. Why can’t you change the topic? Talk about Danish Sait or the latest Kannada movie? Why are you keeping quiet and letting them have at it?”“What’s the use? The two of them just rant and rant. There is no air-time for anything else.”The trouble with what seems like a never-ending, ever-complicated pandemic is that people get testy and want to place blame somewhere. These days, there is enough blame to go around. We want to blame someone for the vulnerability that we all feel.The illusion of control that we all had about our lives has now been irrevocably shattered. Today, we live and breathe because a tiny virus decides not to invade our body.Bengaluru, like much of the country, is teetering under wave after wave of this mutating virus. Battle lines have been drawn and they are as obvious as the Lakshmana Rekha that our politicians like to talk about. There are the pro-BJP folks and the anti-BJP folks.With any large WhatsApp group -- which is where we all live these days -- there are participants who belong to both camps. And they cannot stand each other even if they once played gully cricket together. The result? A potent brew of sarcasm, vicious name-calling, and principled outrage. The stakes, meanwhile, are dug deeper and deeper into the ground. And unlike a battlefield, there are no clear winners. Each side thinks they are right. “Obviously,” they say with a roll of the eyes and a sneer.It didn’t used to be this way. Bengaluru was a different kind of city. It seemed to encourage certain gentility in its citizens. Maybe it is the weather, maybe it is the parks and trees all around. Whatever the reason, I haven’t felt the extreme kind of reaction that happens frequently in say, neighbouring Chennai, during the 15 years that I have lived in Bengaluru. Even road rage is muted and borders on civil.So what do you do? How do you deal with the cacophony of WhatsApp groups? How do you deal with people who once used to be your friends, but have now morphed into folks you can barely stand? How do you keep the vitriol out of the conversation? Do you make a principled and abrupt exit or not? Do you engage or mute the whole conversation?It isn’t only in Bengaluru though. WhatsApp is geography agnostic. Most of the school and college groups that we all belong to have participants from a number of metros all over India and abroad. On the one hand, it is exhilarating to be in this giant courtyard-adda. On the other, it is exhausting to just keep up with the barrage of messages. One of my friends exited all her WhatsApp groups two months ago. It is something I think about every day.A way forward was afforded by Deepa Krishnan, who lives in Mumbai. In a long post on -- what else-- Facebook, she talked about how she used to be one of those abrupt exiters, but eventually made her way back into the groups she exited to figure out how to tolerate the folks whose opinions she was against. “It’s not easy, the process of learning to tolerate someone who is the opposite of you, and whose very presence is constantly pushing your buttons,” she said. “I really struggled a lot. I still struggle, but it is getting easier. What made it possible was my realisation that the group was a community in which I lived (albeit virtually). Communities are made up of all kinds of people, just like the real world around me. I deal with a lot of diverse people in the real world, without getting into fights. Then surely I could do the same in the virtual world?”To clamp down on voices that are the opposite of your own is a slippery slope. If one of the pillars of democracy is free speech, it ought to be part of how we practice it. After 20 minutes of good-natured ribbing, I eventually talked Raju off the cliff he had climbed on. We both agreed that there were two ways to deal with WhatsApp triggers -- to speak louder and take over the conversation, or to stay silent and ignore the fighters.Sanity has to come back sometime. To the world and to the virtual world.Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-have-you-exited-a-whatsapp-group-lately-101622085556667.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: Calcutta HC to hear bail plea of 4 arrested leaders||A five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal of Calcutta high court is scheduled to hear today the bail plea of the four politicians arrested in the 2016 Narada sting operation case. “The matter has been listed for 11am on Thursday morning. The hearing could not be held on Wednesday as the court had suspended all judicial proceedings because of Cyclone Yaas,” said an advocate who also happens to be a TMC leader. The arrested politicians are sitting ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress legislator Madan Mitra, and former MLA Sovan Chatterjee. Also Read | Cyclone Yaas: Calcutta HC suspends all judicial proceedingsThe case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.Though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the high court stayed it and sent them to judicial custody. Later, the first division bench of the Calcutta high court put the leaders under house arrest on May 21 and a five-judge bench was constituted to hear the bail plea.Meanwhile, this Monday, the CBI moved the Supreme Court against the high court order of putting the leaders under house arrest instead of lodging them in jail in judicial custody. On Tuesday, however, the agency withdrew its petition before the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-4-arrested-leaders-101622084896644.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Positivity rate in Delhi below 2% after 60 days||The Capital’s Covid-19 test positivity rate dropped below the 2% mark for the first time in 60 days, while the city added fewer than 1,500 new cases as it continues to recover from a deadly fourth wave of infections.State health minister Satyender Jain hailed the improvement in Covid-19 numbers as an effect of the ongoing lockdown.On Wednesday, the city recorded a test positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive for Covid-19 — of 1.93%, the lowest since March 27. After the third wave of the infections receded last December, the positivity rate remained below 2% for 103 days.Experts regard the test positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an outbreak in a region. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a rate below 5% for at least two weeks for an infection to be considered under control in an area.Between December-end and mid-March, this number stayed below 1% for 82 days in Delhi, before infections began to rise, and it became clear that Delhi was entering another surge.The Capital added 1,491 more cases to its tally on Wednesday, even as the active case count dropped below 20,000 for the first time in 50 days.Covid-19 deaths, too, fell to 130 on Wednesday, down from 156 the previous day, according to the state government’s daily health bulletin.“The positivity rate and number of cases have gone down, and this is a direct impact of the lockdown. The bed occupancy has also reduced and several beds are available for Covid-19 patients. Around one-thirds of the ICU beds are also vacant,” said Jain.The fall in active cases has freed up hospital beds, with nearly 75% Covid-19 beds vacant.Around 45% of ICU beds were vacant as on Wednesday evening, the Delhi government’s dashboard showed, compared to end-April, when all ICU beds were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/positivity-rate-in-delhi-below-2-after-60-days-101622076094989.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||India must be united in hunt for vaccine shots: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked the Centre to procure vaccine doses and distribute them across the country, saying that several states failed to get global vaccine makers to supply to them directly, a remark that appeared to intensify the tussle over shortage of jabs amid a widened inoculation drive.The chief minister drew a war analogy to make his point. “If Pakistan declares war tomorrow, we cannot tell UP (Uttar Pradesh) to get their own tanks and Delhi to get their own arms. If India loses the war, it won’t be a loss for the BJP but a loss for India as a nation. If Delhi loses the battle, the Aam Aadmi Party does not lose, India will lose. If Maharashtra loses the battle, it is not the Shiv Sena that will lose, but India will lose,” Kejriwal said in a digital briefing, adding that the country needed to stand in solidarity as “Team India”.The chief minister recently said Delhi received 1.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in May, and its allocation for June was halved to around 800,000, adding that at this rate, it would take the city 30 months to inoculate its entire adult population of about 15 million adults.On Wednesday, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has received supply assurances from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for Sputnik V doses but added that there was little clarity on the number of doses. “Senior government officials had their last meeting regarding Sputnik V supplies on Tuesday. They assured us they will supply but we are currently discussing how many doses they can supply to Delhi at the earliest,” he said.He later appealed to the Centre to approve vaccines being used in other countries for use in India and stressed on expanding the vaccination drive to include people under the age of 18.“At this point we should have opened more vaccine centres. But the shortage of vaccines is forcing governments to close vaccine centres. This is concerning… We could have protected India’s population to a large extent from the devastation caused by the second wave of the pandemic with more vaccination. We should have started vaccinating and scaled up the drive at least six month ago. We were (one of) the first countries to start manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines. But when several countries were expanding their vaccine coverage, we chose to export our vaccines to other countries. We should have started the vaccination drive on a war footing in December 2020,” said Kejriwal.“In March, the second wave started. India should have procured vaccines from across the world. But then, states were asked to procure vaccines on their own. I am in touch with several chief ministers. They have left no stone unturned in their attempts to procure more vaccines, except the ones which were supplied by the central government. But, as far as I know, no state has been able to procure even one vaccine dose directly from the manufacturers on their own. Vaccine companies have clearly said that they will only talk to the central government. Global tenders were floated but they failed,” Kejriwal said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) shot back, accusing the Delhi CM of indulging in “politics of self-promotion”. Party spokesperson Sambit Patra said Kejriwal earlier advocated the decentralisation of the vaccination programme, but after the Centre did so, he took a U-turn and was indulging in “lies, misinformation and credit-taking”.The government’s vaccine bulletin on Wednesday said that 43,824 doses were administered in the city on Tuesday. AAP MLA Atishi, in a video press briefing, said around a week ago, about 125,000 to 140,000 people were being vaccinated in Delhi daily, but there has been a drop in the numbers now as hundreds of centres for ages 18-45 have been shut due to the shortage of jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/india-must-be-united-in-hunt-for-vaccine-shots-cm-kejriwal-101622075695130.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||EDMC allows food carts in residential areas||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to allow food e-carts to sell packaged foods and beverages in residential and mixed land roads.EDMC officials said the mayor has approved this policy on health trade licence last week to encourage entrepreneurship among people. The move will also generate more revenue sources for the cash-strapped civic body.Nirmal Jain, mayor of EDMC, said under the new policy, licences will be issued for e-cart (battery operated) for the sale of packaged food.Similar policies were approved by the north and south municipalities earlier this year.“At the starting of the initiative, maximum of two e-carts will be allotted in each municipal ward, subject to obtaining a no objection certificate (NOC) from the Delhi traffic police. If the plan succeeds, the number of e-carts will be increased. These carts will be mobile and restricted for movement only in residential and mixed land roads, not in commercial areas and notified commercial roads,” said Jain.The mayor further said that e-cart owners can use the prototypes of bus/train coaches for the operation of eating establishments.“EDMC is committed to the welfare of citizens in East Delhi. This initiative will create employment for many people and also help the corporation to become self-reliant,” Jain said.A senior EDMC official, who asked not to be named, said there are a number of eateries already functioning at different locations on mix land-use streets and residential areas falling under the EDMC jurisdiction but the civic body does not get any revenue from such establishments. “This scheme will streamline the problem of haphazard mushrooming of such food carts in every corner of the east Delhi. It will pave a way to regulate and legalise such food carts after paying a licence fee, which will be decided later,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-allows-food-carts-in-residential-areas-101622074995752.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||New excise policy set to be cleared, with minor tweaks||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has cleared the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, and the draft Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, with some suggested tweaks, paving the way for a range of sweeping reforms envisaged by the Delhi government to boost the city’s revenue, crack down on the liquor mafia, and improve user experience.Major changes include slashing the legal drinking age from 25 to 21, getting the state out of the retail alcohol business, overhauling a labyrinthine tax system, reducing the number of dry days in a year from 21 to 3, and improving spread and service. It gets rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allows buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice.Documents seen by HT show that the Delhi government’s council of ministers, led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, cleared the suggestions given by the L-G in a Cabinet meeting last Friday.Senior government officials privy to the developments said that Baijal recently discussed the draft excise policy and rules with Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. While approving the policy, he gave seven suggestions.However, the decision to reduce the legal drinking age to 21 is going to take longer because it requires the Delhi assembly to convene and pass the amendment to the Delhi Excise Act, officials said.One of the amendments, now approved by the Cabinet, included strengthening clauses aimed at preventing brand pushing and cartelisation by tightening checks not just on wholesalers, but also on retailers.“The retail licensee holder should not have any manufacturing facilities/distilleries/breweries/wineries anywhere in the country or abroad either directly or through any sister concerns/related entities. For this purpose, sister concerns/related entities shall mean that the entities should not have common proprietor or partners or directors. Majority ownership (51% or more) of the proprietorship or partnership or company should not lie with the same person in all the entities. The entities should not have a holding subsidiary relationship or are not subsidiaries of the same holding company,” said the Cabinet decision dated May 21. HT has seen a copy of the note on this.On April 6, an HT investigation revealed that several liquor stores in Delhi were controlled by a small group of people through proxy ownership that, experts said, led to cartelisation and suppression of State revenue. The government’s new policy aims to end that.Some of the other amendments include lowering the minimum carpet area of “super premium vends” to 2,500 sq ft from 5,000 sq ft; lowering the minimum stock of these super premium vends from 100 imported liqour brands (including wines) to 50; renewing retail licenses subject to timely payment of license fee and compliance to the rules;The policy, with the amendments approved by the Cabinet, has been again sent to the L-G for his final approval. Once that is granted, the process of notifying the draft excise rules and the policy will be initiated, the official cited above said.A liquor industry executive in Delhi said the changes proposed by the L-G were “nominal”, and that the essence of the new policy remains unchanged. “The latest amendments were done with some stakeholders requesting for changes. Overall, the policy is fundamentally the same,” the trader said, asking not to be named.The policy was first approved by the Delhi government on March 22, after which amendments were approved on April 15 and May 21. It aims at providing a more equitable distribution of stores, scraps several antiquated laws regulating service in restaurants.The policy divides the Capital in 32 zones for retail sale of liquor, and ends the system of collecting licence fees separately from each store. Instead, the licence fee is charged upfront, and retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP being mandated by the government. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends — all of which will go to one successful bidder.Anurag Katriar, president of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) said, “We are extremely happy that pursuant to the earlier decision made by the Delhi government, the L-G has also given his ascent to the new excise policy for Delhi now. This is historic and will significantly change the F&B landscape of Delhi..”Neither the Delhi government nor the L-G office commented on the matter on Wednesday.The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) also welcomed the move.“..We urged the government to take steps to ensure monopolies are not created in retail space. We are glad to note the government has inserted measures to prevent this.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, questioned the government’s priorities. “It is really sad that when the entire country is trying to fight Covid and governments are busy arranging vaccines, Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal government’s priority is approving liquor policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-excise-policy-set-to-be-cleared-with-minor-tweaks-101622070621747.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest wave||At 12.15pm on April 19, when Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a lockdown, the Capital was in dire straits.The city had posted an average of 24,000 cases daily for the previous four days, every third person tested was turning out positive, hospitals were overrun, intensive care unit beds were scarce, and pharmacies were short of critical drugs and essentials. There was panic on the streets as infections mounted across India.In the weeks leading up to the announcement, the government had imposed night curfews and restrictions to avoid the crushing economic impact and human suffering seen last year. Imposing a lockdown was a tough choice; at the time, there were “curfews” in some other states, but none had officially gone into complete “lockdown”.Faced with a spiralling virus spread, the government decided to shut down the city and try to break the chain of transmission. “If we don’t impose a lockdown now, it will lead to a major tragedy,” Kejriwal said at the time.The decision has paid dividends. In the six weeks that Delhi has remained locked, the city’s average daily case count plummeted from 23,686 to 2,108 on Wednesday, and the positivity rate dropped from 26.1% to 1.9%. The count of daily deaths, which usually shows a two-week lag from average infections, is also starting to fall with the city recording 130 deaths on Wednesday, the lowest in 41 days.“It was time for decisive action and CM Kejriwal was clear that hard decisions had to be taken to control this wave. It’s because of his timely decision that Delhi was able to bring down its positivity rate from 35% to 2% within a month,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.Officials said that the lockdown was carefully planned. Prior to the announcement, Kejriwal announced a weekend curfew on April 17 and 18. Special arrangements were made for migrant workers to avoid a repeat of last year’s humanitarian crisis and the government announced expanded ration distribution, and financial assistance to workers registered under the Delhi construction workers board and auto-taxi drivers, reopened hunger relief centres to help the poor and marginalised apart, from facilitating transportation of at least 800,000 workers to their villages.Through the lockdown, the average daily tests didn’t drop below 60,000, even at the peak of the fourth wave.“All of Delhi supported this decision wholeheartedly. A lot of lives have been saved because of this timely decision,” the CM’s office added.The impact of the lockdown, which has been extended five times, gradually made itself apparent.The seven-day average of new infections, which denotes a region’s Covid-19 case curve, peaked at 25,294 on April 23 – the highest ever recorded in the city till date – but then hovered at what appeared to be a week-long plateau before finally beginning to decline starting May 1.By the time the third extension came into effect on May 10, the rate of new infections had dropped 30% from the April 23 peak – for the week ending May 10, there were 17,604 new cases in Delhi every day.In another week, when the fourth extension was enforced, cases dropped 65% from peak levels – there were 8,882 new cases a day in the week ending May 17. For the week ending on May 24, this number has fallen to 2,861 – a drop of 89% from peak levels.Public health experts attributed this easing of the city’s fourth wave largely to the lockdown.“At such a time, the only other possible intervention is vaccination. But even if you do it in the last one month, it will take some time for the people to develop immunity. So, clearly, the numbers came down because the chain of transmission was broken by the lockdown. The decline in Delhi has been fast, which many modellers had predicted would be slower,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.Due to a supply crunch, vaccination in the city has stagnated in recent weeks though the state has built a capacity of 214,150 doses a day. Due to a shortage of vaccines, Delhi had no option but to shut all the 368 government vaccination centres for the 18-45 age group, while only around 450 instead of about 650 centres are operational for those above 45 years due to non-availability of Covaxin.Strict enforcement of the lockdown played an important part in taming the virus curve, said Sanjeev Khirwar, Delhi’s divisional commissioner, to whom all the 11 district magistrates report.“Without strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour and lockdown rules, it is impossible to bring contact between individuals to a bare minimum, which is essential to break the chain in this pandemic. From the day of the lockdown (April 19) till Monday (May 24), Delhi issued nearly 100,00 challans and registered about 1,800 FIRs. So, there has been no laxity from our district administrations during this period and the lockdown orders have been followed in letter and spirit,” said Khirwar. The figures of prosecutions and FIRs cited by him are combined data of actions taken by the DMs, police and local bodies.A senior health official said for that Delhi created a record number of microcontainment zones during this wave. Data analysed by HT showed that between April and May, Delhi saw a 1,648.7% jump in the number of its containment zones. The Capital had 3,291 containment zones on April 6. The number shot up to a staggering 57,550 by May 13.Last week, Kejriwal announced that if the downward trend continued in cases and deaths, the lockdown may be eased in phases from May 31. Senior government officials said that lifting of the curbs may start once daily Covid-19 cases fall below 1,000-mark, and remain so for at least two days or more.Delhi’s success on this front was in line with global trends where lockdowns have proved the most effective non-pharmaceutical intervention to curb infections. In a number of global studies last year, researchers attributed strict lockdown to effective disease control in China and south-east Asian countries.Some experts suggested that Delhi should have imposed the lockdown even earlier, but admitted that the case spike was sharp, leaving the government with little time to think and act. “There has to be aggressive testing and the government has to be vigilant about which localities are seeing a surge,” Singh said.Dr. Suneela Garg, Member Covid India Task Force of Lancet Commission, and National President of Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine, New Delhi, said while lockdowns cannot eliminate Covid-19, they can flatten the curve. “Basically, a lockdown increases the duration of the pandemic which is always better than getting everyone infected in a single surge and attaining herd immunity. Lockdowns reduce the load on hospitals and help strengthen contact tracing and isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tough-but-crucial-lockdown-decision-enabled-delhi-to-tame-deadliest-wave-101622070234243.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||From constable to ACP, Delhi cop realises his dreams with true grit||As a student at a government school, Firoj Alam had two dreams -- first, to join the police force; and second to become an “officer”.Alam, the son of a scrap dealer in Pilkhuwa town of western Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur district, realised his first dream in 2010, when he joined the Delhi Police as a constable; and the second on April 1 this year when he joined the force again, but this time as an assistant commissioner of police (ACP).Alam’s success story made headlines last year when he cracked the UPSC 2019 civil services exam, results of which were announced on August 4, 2020. Alam achieved the 645th rank from among 800,000 aspirants.Alam, 30, said he was determined to not waste a single minute that he could find off-duty. “All these years, I shared a room with my friends in Mukherjee Nagar. My colleagues and seniors in the force were very helpful and cooperative. Whenever I managed to find time from my job, I studied. Even for a minute, I did not forget I wanted to clear the civil services. Education was the only way to fulfil my dreams and I was focused on my aim to clear UPSC (exam),” he said from the Police Training College in Delhi’s Jharoda Kalan over the phone.Talking about his journey to the post of ACP, Alam said, “Once I became a constable after passing Class 12, I knew I wasn’t done. I chose to work, make a living, pursued my education but my goal was cracking the civil services. I am fortunate to have succeeded. I am an ACP now,” he said.Having achieved the rank, Alam said the road ahead of him is full of challenges. “I remind myself that I have to be a good leader. There is so much to learn. When I wore the officer’s uniform for the first time, I realised the responsibility and the expectations that come with the stars (insignia).”Now, Alam is helping other constables crack the civil services exam. He started a WhatsApp group called – Delhi Police Family For UPSC. Fifty-eight constables who aspire to pass the UPSC exams are part of the group. “Some have cleared their main examinations, others are preparing. I help them in whatever way I can. Be it sharing notes or time management, I tell my brothers that I am just a call away,” he said.But how has life changed for the man who until last year was among the 46,000 most junior cops in the Delhi police?“Sometimes it is awkward. My constable friends, who called me Bhai(brother) for so many years, now call me sir. We smile. I do not know how to respond to that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-constable-to-acp-delhi-cop-realises-his-dreams-with-true-grit-101622069240350.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Two held for fraud over O2 cylinders||A 21-year-old man, who claimed to be a social worker and the national president of “India Youth Icon Team” with 1.8 million members and followers, was arrested along with his associate for allegedly duping Covid-19 patients and their families in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders, the police said on Wednesday.Investigators said Ritik Kumar Singh and Sandeep Pandey have duped nearly 50 people in different states of ₹8-10 lakh since the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country in April. They circulated their cellphone number on various social media platforms as suppliers of oxygen cylinders and promised home delivery, the police said.They tricked Covid-19 patients and their families into transferring token amounts into their digital wallets for securing cylinders. But after receiving the money, they blocked the person or deactivated their contact number, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.The two suspects were arrested from Greater Noida on Tuesday following investigations into a cheating case filed at the Vivek Vihar police station on the complaint of Sanchet Aggarwal, whose mother was ill and needed an oxygen cylinder. Aggarwal told the police that on May 6, he found a supplier’s number on Instagram and contacted the person, who promised the home delivery of two cylinders after receiving ₹14,000 as token money. The family paid the money through an e-commerce payment gateway. However, neither the cylinders were delivered nor the money was returned. The family filed a complaint after the phone number was switched off, the DCP said.Though the website of “India Youth Icon Team” and his social media profile show that Singh is allegedly connected with a national political party and its senior leaders, the Delhi Police said they have not come across any evidence that links Singh with a political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-fraud-over-o2-cylinders-101622068366749.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Mini tornado hits villages of West Bengal before cyclone||Before cyclone Yaas could hit the Odisha – West Bengal coast on Wednesday morning, videos of a tornado swirling over villages and the river Ganga in south Bengal were widely shared on social media.The incident took the residents of Bandel and Chinsurah in the Hooghly district and Halisaha in the North 24 Parganas district by surprise, however, the meteorological experts said tornadoes can develop before an approaching cyclone or a major thunderstorm.“When a cyclone approaches, such vortex develops because of the difference in wind speed in the upper air and the ground level, known as vertical wind-shear. This is, however, not a full tornado, It is a mini tornado,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of India Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata.“A tornado is basically a column of air rotating violently that extends from a thunderstorm to the ground. It tears and lifts everything in its path,” said a meteorological department official.The cyclone Yaas landfall began near Dhamra port in Odisha on Wednesday morning, even as strong winds and heavy tides saw seawater enter in many coastal towns and villages in Odisha and West Bengal ahead of the landfall.The “very severe cyclonic storm” packed sustained winds of 130-140 kilometers (up to 87 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 155 kph (97 mph) when it made landfall, the IMD said.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at least two persons were electrocuted when the mini tornado hit parts of the two districts, and around 40 houses were damaged.Such mini tornadoes have been seen earlier in the district of Murshidabad in west Bengal and also in Odisha experts said. Even though it is rare, but thunderstorm activity occurs when a cyclone approaches, they added.“They [tornadoes] can happen when a cyclone or a thunderstorm approaches. Just like a pilot car moves ahead of a VIP convoy, these mini tornadoes act like a pilot of the cyclone, occurring before a cyclone comes,” said KJ Ramesh, former head of the IMD. In the early 70’s, Delhi witnessed a mini tornado ahead of a thunderstorm in which an entire bus was lifted in the air by the vortex, Ramesh said.If the tornado passes over a water body or a river, it starts lifting the water. There were examples from Odisha where a mini tornado had emptied an entire pond by lifting the water.“Just like a cyclone and a thunderstorm, a tornado too needs heat and moisture to develop,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist of IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mini-tornado-hits-villages-of-west-bengal-before-cyclone-101622068150190.html
27-05-2021||Other||Vaccine shortage: No jabbing for 18-45 age group in P’kula today||The Panchkula health department has run out of vaccines for the 18-45 age group, prompting it to suspend jabbing for this group on Thursday. No inoculations have been conducted for this group for the past two days.On Thursday, first and second doses of the vaccine will be administered only to beneficiaries above the age of 45. On May 24 and 25, only 200 slots were opened for the 18 to 45 age group in the district. Immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan said, “Over 5,000 doses were administered during the drive-through vaccination that took place last week. So we ran out of our stock. Only a few doses are left for the 18 to 45 age group, which have been reserved for those living in slum and rural areas.”On Wednesday, 1, 347 persons were vaccinated in all.Earlier, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Haryana, had said: “Currently, vaccination sourcing is a controlled commodity. We are getting vaccines for the 45-plus group from the government of India, and for the 18 to 45 group, the state government is directly coordinating with the company. But this is also regulated and we get limited supply, and there is nothing much that we can do.”Though the vaccination drive has not been stopped for even a day in Panchkula, getting a jab has not been easy task for residents. Days after starting the drive for the 18-plus group, the administration stopped giving the first dose to the 45-plus group. And now, it has halted jabbing for the 18-plus group while resuming the drive for the 45-plus category.As per Meenu Sasan, “We are managing with whatever limited resources we have. We have been vaccinating people without a break. Even people from adjoining states are coming to Panchkula to get a shot. But we cannot do much, unless we get a fresh stock.”Till date, 2, 08, 807 persons have been vaccinated by the Panchkula health department, out of which 37, 674 are in the age group of 18-45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-shortage-no-jabbing-for-18-45-age-group-in-p-kula-today-101622063235214.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh saw 37% of its Covid-19 deaths in last four weeks||Though Chandigarh is now seeing a slight decline in daily fatalities, the city recorded around 37% of its total Covid-19 deaths in the last four weeks alone. A total of 265 deaths and 18, 094 cases were reported in four weeks in the city, pushing the fatality ratio to 1.5%. During this period, the UT also recorded its highest single-day toll of 14 fatalities thrice. For the last three days, however, the city’s fatalities have remained below 10.Though Mohali had the highest infection numbers in May (see graphic), the fatality ratio of all three cities were close -- Chandigarh (1.5%), Mohali (1.5%) and Panchkula (1.4%).Dr KK Talwar, former director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and health adviser to the Punjab Government, said that after high infection spread, it takes time for the death toll to come down. “It takes around three to four weeks for the death toll to come down after widespread infection. Such a pattern was witnessed during the first surge in September 2020 as well,” said Dr KK Talwar.Also, the time period in which the case-fatality ratio increased coincided with the time when the health infrastructure crumbled, leading to cases where severely infected persons were not able to find critical care beds in hospitals.On Wednesday, eight persons succumbed to Covid-19 in Chandigarh, taking the toll to 722. Also, 224 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city. The city now has 3, 573 active cases.Cases dip but fatalities still a worry in P’kulaFour deaths were reported in Panchkula on Wednesday, taking the district’s toll to 327. As many as 103 persons also tested positive. The deceased included a 38-year-old man from Chowki, a 65-year-old woman from Khera Sita Ram, a 67-year old woman from MDC-4 and a 67-year old man from Kalka.Till date, 29, 570 persons have tested positive, out of which 1, 335 are active and 27, 908 have been cured and discharged. In the last one week, 1, 493 new infections and 31 deaths have been reported in the district. While new cases witnessed a decline, the fatalities continued to be cause of worry.Of 889 total deaths in Mohali, 268 seen in last 26 days Seven more persons succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali even as 268 others tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Wednesday. The district’s toll currently stands at 889, of which 268 deaths were recorded in the last 26 days alone. In April, the number of Covid deaths in the district was 159. Of the new cases, 72 were reported from Mohali city, 53 from Dhakoli, 54 from Kharar, 35 from Dera Bassi, nine from Boothgarh, 25 from Gharuan, seven from Kurali, six from Banur and seven from Lalru. Meanwhile, 558 patients also recovered from the disease, bringing the number of active cases down to 4,722. Since the outbreak last year, Mohali has recorded a total of 65, 483 cases, of which 59,872 have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-saw-37-of-its-covid-19-deaths-in-last-four-weeks-101622062935124.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala jailbreak: 2 assistant jail superintendents, a warder suspended for lapse||The Punjab prisons department has suspended two assistant jail superintendents and a warder for negligence in the Patiala jailbreak case. Additional director general of police (prisons) PK Sinha ordered suspension of assistant jail superintendents Tarlochan Singh and Kuldip Singh and warder Sant Singh on the basis of an inquiry report submitted by IG (prisons) who found them prima facie guilty in the jailbreak incident. Three prisoners — Inderjit Singh, Sher Singh and Jaspreet Singh — fled from the quarantine ward of the Patiala Central Jail on the intervening night of April 27 and 28 by scaling the prison wall. An FIR under sections 223, 224, 225, 225-A, 427, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, section 4 of the Damage Public Property Act, and section 42 of the Prison Act was registered against the escapees at the Tripuri police station. The police had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) besides six other teams to track and nab the accused. Eight days later, the SIT managed to nab Inderjit, a former army trainer. The police also arrested a person who allegedly gave shelter to Inderjit when he was on the run. Sher Singh and Jaspreet are still absconding.“The IG in his report found that the officials did not ensure surveillance. They were also found negligent as per the jail manual. A stern action should be taken against officials as the incident has dented the image of the prisons department,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-jailbreak-2-assistant-jail-superintendents-a-warder-suspended-for-lapse-101622061015139.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fake currency racket busted in Patiala, 4 arrested||Police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang involved in manufacturing of fake currency and arrested four persons, including a woman, with counterfeit bills to the tune of ₹1.99 lakh. The accused were identified as Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and Ravi of Sangrur district and Piarjeet Kaur of Patiala city.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Kumar Garg said they also recovered printers, a computer and laminators from their possession. “Acting on a tip-off, a police team conducted a raid and arrested the suspects from the spot. During interrogation, it came to the fore that Jasvir, who was earlier involved in such cases, had formed the gang after coming out on bail last year,” he said.Garg said the fake currency seemed to have been prepared using very high-quality equipment.“There is little difference between the notes they made and the genuine ones. Shopkeepers are liable to be easily cheated with such bills,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-currency-racket-busted-in-patiala-4-arrested-101622060955915.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moga villagers to install statue of IAF pilot who died in MIG crash||Residents of Langeana Nawan in Moga district have decided to install a statue of Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary (29), who died after his MIG-21 fighter jet crashed near the village on May 21, as a tribute. The statue will come up in the vicinity of the village. The locals said the Indian Air Force pilot died in an attempt to save the lives of hundreds of residents of Langeana Nawan and adjoining Langeana Purana village as the fighter jet could have crashed into residential areas. The two villages have a population of nearly 5,000. They have already approached sculptors to make the statue of Choudhary. Also, an akhand path (non-stop recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) started at Langeana Purana on Wednesday in the squadron leader’s memory and a bhog ceremony will be held on Friday. Choudhary, whose body was found from fields nearly 2km from the crash site, was on a routine training sortie and was returning to the IAF base in Suratgarh, Rajasthan. He hailed from Baghpat district in Uttar Pradesh.Langeana Nawan sarpanch Jagsir Singh said, “He averted the crashing of the fighter jet in the residential area. He could have survived by crashing the jet in the residential area but chose to save others’ lives. The statue will be installed with the contribution of villagers. Once the IAF completes formalities pertaining to the death, we will start the work on the installation of statue.”Langeana Purana sarpanch Sukhdev Singh said, “We lost a brave young warrior in the unfortunate incident. Senior IAF officials were also informed and they may also join us in the bhog ceremony on Friday.”Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans, said, “It is a good initiative. They just have to inform us where they want to install the statue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-villagers-to-install-statue-of-iaf-pilot-who-died-in-mig-crash-101622060954982.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh’s wife tests +ve, admitted to hospital||Two days after 91-year-old Olympian Milkha Singh was admitted to Fortis Hospital in Mohali with Covid pneumonia, his wife Nirmal Kaur, 82, tested positive on Wednesday and was admitted to the same hospital.Like Milkha, Nirmal also has Covid pneumonia. The hospital in a statement said, “Milkha Singh continues to be stable on oxygen support. However, he is weak and we are trying to persuade him to increase his food intake. Today, we have stepped him down from the ICU to a room, which he is sharing with his wife Nirmal Kaur. She was admitted earlier in the day with Covid pneumonia.” Last week, Milkha, Nirmal, his son Jeev Milkha Singh’s wife Kudrat and son Harjai had taken an RT-PCR Test. While Milkha tested positive, others came out as negative. Since Milkha has been admitted to the hospital, his food intake has been quite low. Meanwhile, Milkha’s daughter Mona Milkha Singh, who is a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Centre in New York, arrived in Chandigarh on Wednesday. His son Jeev also arrived from Dubai on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-s-wife-tests-ve-admitted-to-hospital-101622060595315.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt reviews Patiala devp works, asks DC to push canal water supply project||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday asked the Patiala deputy commissioner to speed up the ongoing ₹468-crore canal-based water supply project to ensure potable drinking water supply to the city residents. He also directed to formulate a plan to cover all colonies in and around the city under this scheme.Reviewing the progress of the ongoing development works in Patiala, the chief minister asked the DC to personally monitor the progress of these projects and update him regularly to ensure their timely execution. He also directed all the line departments to work in tandem for speedy completion of the projects, including canal-based water supply, new bus stand, sports university, rejuvenation of Chhoti and Badi Nadi, besides sprucing up the heritage street. Earlier, making a detailed presentation on the development works, the DC informed the CM that 60% of the work on the water supply project will be completed by March 2022. Regarding the status of new bus stand and workshop with an outlay of nearly ₹60 crore, the principal secretary public works said the bus stand will be ready by November 2021 and the workshop by March 2022. He also informed the CM that for direct entry of buses into the new bus stand, the PWD has already got an approval from Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) for construction of a flyover at a cost of ₹7.7 crore. The CM also asked principal secretary (transport) to clear PRTC proposal to purchase 255 new buses. For the upcoming Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University at Sidhuwal village, the CM asked the finance department to immediately grant sanction for filling requisite post of teaching faculty so as to make the university fully functional besides approving ₹60 crore for the construction of the varsity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-reviews-patiala-devp-works-asks-dc-to-push-canal-water-supply-project-101622060176107.html
27-05-2021||Other||Covid treatment: More trouble for Mayo Hospital as 100 cases of fleecing surface||Trouble mounted for Mohali’s Mayo Hospital (now Mount Star Hospital), which was recently found guilty of black marketing 83 remdesivir injections, as the district administration detected around 100 instances of overcharging of Covid patients at the hospital. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said it had come to fore that the hospital has been charging around ₹20,000 a day from Covid patients.As per the rates set by the government, a private hospital can charge ₹16,500 a day from a patient requiring ventilator support while for a bed without ventilator, the charges are capped at ₹14,500 a day. This includes all expenses including room rent, visiting charges and PPE requirements. “Mayo Hospital was found to be offering a package of ₹40,000 for the entire span of hospitalisation but was adding ₹6,000 a day as visiting charges, which is completely illegal,” said the DC. Referral money The administration also found that the management of the hospital was paying 10% to the doctors of other hospitals for referring patients here and in the last two months, the management has paid ₹17 lakh as referral money. Dayalan said, “Strict action will be taken against the hospital.”One of the directors of the hospital admitted that the patients were charged more than the limit set by the government but added that the management has decided to refund the money.Hospital’s managing director KD Singla said, “I am not aware of overcharging but have I have already submitted my resignation to the board of directors due to ongoing controversy in the hospital.” On Monday, a four-member inquiry committee headed by sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal had recommended penal and legal action hospital after discrepancies were found in the bills issued for purchase of remdesivir, a drug used in Covid treatment. In the report submitted to Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, the committee stated that the bills for the injection were issued in the name of a prominent cement manufacturing firm, besides the chief finance officer (CFO) Mukesh Sharma and a few doctors of the hospital. One bill was also issued in the name of a woman on March 17 even as she was admitted on March 18. While doctors reportedly denied getting any injections, the reply to the show-cause notice issued to the hospital was also unsatisfactory, the committee stated in its report.Internal controversyWhen the controversy erupted, three directors of the hospital — Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad, and Dr Manoj Sharma — had accused the CFO and his son of illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to patients outside the hospital. The CFO, on the other hand, has alleged that the directors had fabricated documents pertaining to the drug sale to frame him. Both allegations are being probed by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-treatment-more-trouble-for-mayo-hospital-as-100-cases-of-fleecing-surface-101622060174993.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Row over ‘missing content’ from SGPC’s new website||A controversy has erupted over the new website of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) with voices being raised over removal of important content related to the Sikhism from the portal. The SGPC unveiled its new website www.sgpcamritsar.org in January this year, which earlier was was www.SGPC.net. Urging the Akal Takht to take action against the SGPC, Sikh Federation activist Prof Sarchand Singh said the gurdwara body has deliberately removed old and new kirtan (devotional singing), hukamnama sahib (hymn from the Guru Granth Sahib which is an order to Sikhs) pages from the new website. He said, “The panth (community) has yet not got the plundered treasure of the Sikh Reference Library and the SGPC president Jagir Kaur has removed important content related to Sikh customs and history from the website under a deep-rooted conspiracy. Instead of using Punjabi, the new website is decorated with the English language. Instead of uploading the pictures of Sikh martyrs, the SGPC has uploaded pictures of celebrities and political leaders.” He said, “It has been around four months since the new website was launched, but there is no information about the Sikh history, the life of Sikh gurus and Sikh ideology. If there had been any issue with the old website, the SGPC chief could have taken suggestions from Sikh scholars and technicians. No permission was taken for changing the website from the executive committee.” Terming the allegations as “baseless”, SGPC’s additional secretary Sukhminder Singh said the work to transfer data from the old portal to the new is still underway. He said the domain name of the old website gave an impression of a network whereas the SGPC is a large organisation. Therefore, the domain name was changed to ‘sgpcamritsar.org’. “The new portal will contain the entire data which was available on the old website. As per the need of the hour, modern technology has been adopted in the new website,” he said. Sukhminder said Jagir Kaur had constituted a committee of Sikh experts, including Dr Balwant Singh Dhillon, Dr Paramvir Singh, Principal Prabhjot Kaur, Dr Inderjit Singh Gogoani, Dr Amarjit Singh, and Dr Jogeshwar Singh for reviewing the content on the website. Not only this, many historic, as well as new books related to the Sikh faith, will also be a part of this new website. “Sarchand Singh can approach the SGPC with his suggestions, which will be welcomed. It is not good to create baseless controversies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-missing-content-from-sgpc-s-new-website-101622059997396.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab transfers 58 IAS and PCS officers||Chandigarh Punjab on Wednesday transferred 58 IAS and PCS officers. According to the order, Manvesh Singh Sidhu will now be holding the charge of Roopnagar divisional commissioner in addition to this posting as secretary, revenue and rehabilitation, while Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, divisional commissioner, Jalandhar, has also been given the additional charge of secretary, finance. Malwinder Singh Jaggi will now be commissioner, municipal corporation, Amritsar, whereas Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal will also hold the charge of chief administrator, PUDA, at SAS Nagar. Vipul Ujjawal will also be holding the charge of director, social justice and empowerment. Vishesh Sarangal will now be ADC, Hoshiarpur, whereas Harbir Singh will now be ADC, urban development, at SBS Nagar. Komal Mittal has been posted as ADC (urban development), Amritsar whereas Ruhee Gugg will now be ADC (General) at Amritsar. Other IAS officers transferred include, Jaspreet Singh as ADC (development), Jalandhar, Himanshu Aggarwal as ADC (general), SAS Nagar, Abhijeet Kaplish as ADC (general), Fazilka, Aaditya Uppal as ADC (general), Kapurthala, Paramvir Singh as ADC (development), Bathinda, Palavi as ADC (urban development), Amritsar, Aashika Jain as ADC (urban development), Hoshiarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-transfers-58-ias-and-pcs-officers-101622059649079.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University may put annual fee hike on hold again||Panjab University (PU) is likely to put on hold the annual fee hike for the upcoming academic session in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.A recommendation in this regard was given by a special panel constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to discuss the fee structure of the university teaching departments, regional centres and constituent colleges for 2021-22 academic session.The 16-member panel, headed by dean university instruction VR Sinha, has recommended that the varsity should put the annual fee hike on hold for the upcoming session in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. It is learnt that the members of the panel were of unanimous view that the fee hike should be deferred. However, these recommendations are subject to the approval of the vice-chancellor.Sinha said, “The recommendation has been made keeping in view the hardships faced by the students amid the pandemic.”This will be for the second year in a row that PU will not hike the student fee. Also, there will be no hike in the examination fee in the upcoming session.PU syndicate last year had deferred the 7.5% fee hike for self-financed courses and 5% for traditional courses for new entrants to the 2020-21 academic session.Moreover, last year the varsity also allowed students to pay the semester fee in instalments and helped many students who were not able to pay the fee. A member of the panel said that they also discussed the possibility of allowing the students to pay the semester fee in instalments this year as well.Students for refund of miscellaneous charges Student body Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar seeking the refund of all the miscellaneous charges imposed on the students. It has said that no offline activity took place during the past one year due to the Covid pandemic and the miscellaneous charges were not utilised. They have requested that these charges be refunded to the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-may-put-annual-fee-hike-on-hold-again-101622059648120.html
27-05-2021||Other||Mohali: Five years on, basic amenities continue to elude Aerocity residents||Even after more than five years of calling Aerocity their home, basic amenities continue to elude thousands of residents of the prime neighbourhood.Greater Mohali Area Development Authority’s (GMADA) pilot project, Aerocity promised a high-flying lifestyle to homeowners who were given possession of apartments in 2015, but the situation is going from bad to worse.There are around 1,500 families in the 10 blocks of Aerocity. Multinational conglomerate Larsen and Toubro (L&T) is responsible for its maintenance.The residents’ complaints range from blocked stormwater pipes and ill-maintained parks to wild outgrowth. They say internal footpaths and periphery berms are either missing or in dilapidated condition, while there are no benches, canopies, or swings for children. Stray cattle and herders also have a free run in the residential area. Moreover, GMADA has failed to construct a dedicated bus stop, dispensary, milk booth, police post and community centre.Ranjit Malhotra, who is building a house in Block H, decried the poor-quality infrastructure. “The procedure for getting water and sewerage connections is so cumbersome that allottees are always at receiving end,” he said.He added that GMADA has failed to check illegal encroachments by street vendors that too on the main road. “Vendors are using electricity panels and street poles for free advertising and defacing homes and parks,” he complained.Vasudev Gupta, president of Block A, said, “Dangling electricity wires are a potential hazard. Fogging against mosquitoes and pests is not done on a regular basis, leaving the resident to fend for themselves and remain indoors in the evening and early morning hours.”“The sewerage system is mess and even stormwater pipes are blocked in most parts of Aerocity. Parks are in shambles in absence of maintenance,” said Kuldeep Singh Issapuri, president of Block J.Bhupinder Singh, president of Block H, alleged that only 60% of the streetlights work, while electricity panels for meters in most of the blocks are either missing, damaged or need to be replaced immediately. Also, high and low-tension power lines have been damaged at numerous places and residents have to bear the brunt of the power cuts for long hours. “What makes the situation worse is the absence of three-phase power lines and a dedicated grid for Aerocity,” he rued.GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said L&T is responsible for the maintenance work and we will seek a report from the latter. “As far as dispensary, police post and community centre are concerned, the department concerned should contact the GMADA officer for getting sites earmarked,” he said.When contacted, Ravi Kumar, L&T project manager for Aerocity, said, “Allottees are responsible for the blocked sewerage as they dump construction material over manholes. Our power cables are damaged due to this frequently. Parks are being maintained time to time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-five-years-on-basic-amenities-continue-to-elude-aerocity-residents-101622059636983.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Work on automated vehicle inspection hub set to kick off in Chandigarh||The construction of Chandigarh’s first automated inspection and certification centre (AICC) is all set to begin at Raipur Kalan.The UT engineering department has already started the demarcation of the land in the village.The centre will be used for testing the fitness of all commercial motor vehicles registered in the city. It will also be a regional driver training hub.With little human intervention, the sensor-based machines at the state-of-the-art facility will inspect, test and certify whether a vehicle is fit for plying on roads.All commercial goods vehicles, taxis and public and school buses will have to visit the new facility for annual fitness certification.The facility will test each vehicle on more than 24 parameters as laid down in the Motor Vehicles Act before certifying its road worthiness. These parameters include components, parts and fixtures such as brakes, steering, suspension, emissions transmission, electrical systems and assessment of general condition of the vehicle including tyres etc. Failing to pass the stipulated tests, vehicles would be denied permission to plying on the road.The road-worthiness test ensures safety of passengers or other road users such as pedestrians. “These tests also help in keeping worst polluting, unworthy vehicles off the roads, and help protect the environment,” a UT official said.The entire inspection process will involve negligible human intervention. The current system involves state transport authority (STA) officials’ subjectivity, which encourages corruption. The manual inspection is not exhaustive. The new facility will eliminate the need for STA inspectors’ discretion.It will also make the process time-bound and transparent. During the tests, owners will be able to see the process through CCTV feeds and nobody will be allowed near the vehicle, including officials.“The centre will be spread over three acres of land. The construction will start within a month and is expected to be completed in a year’s time,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/work-on-automated-vehicle-inspection-hub-set-to-kick-off-in-chandigarh-101622059574938.html
27-05-2021||Other||Kashmiris hope for reopening of Srinagar-Muzaffarabad trade route||Some locals are hoping that the Srinagar-Muzaffarabad trade and transit route connecting the two parts of Kashmir across the Line of Control could be reopened in the coming months following the renewal of the ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan and moves to develop Kaman post into a major tourist attraction.Kaman post is the first point on the national highway 1A on the Indian side of the LOC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district and served as a trade point on the Srinagar Muzaffarabad route before its suspension in 2019. After renewal of the 2003 ceasefire agreement in February this year, the Indian Army has renovated an old cafeteria at the Kaman post and also installed a 60 feet National Flag Pole. The post was named in 1956 in the memory of Lt. Col. Kaman Singh, the hero of ‘Thikal war’ in 1948 and a Mahavir Chakra awardee.“The post is especially popular for its view across the Line of Control,” said defense spokesman Emron Musavi. He adds that Kaman Post was once popular for motivational tours organised by schools and colleges.The Srinagar-Muzaffarabad route was first thrown open in the year 2005 and was seen as one of the biggest Confidence Building Measures (CBM’s) between India and Pakistan. The route was made inoperative in April 2019 purportedly for some repair work but could not be reopened after relations between the two countries nosedived after abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories in August that year.The Indian Army officials have spoken of plans to turn Kaman post into a major tourist attraction offering stunning views across the LoCs with accompanying tales of snipers shooting from pigeon hole bunkers at one of the most hostile boundaries between India and Pakistan. The renovated cafeteria near Kaman bridge also known as ‘Aman Setu’ (bridge of peace) was thrown open a few days ago and is now being run by a local former army soldier. Hilal Turkey, chairman of Salamabad Cross LoC Trade termed the reopening of the cafeteria a good omen.“After the ceasefire, this is a welcome step and the people are hopeful that once Covid-19 situation improves, the road will be thrown open for both trade and the bus service. This was the most hostile place; now it’s being revived again which gives all the traders a hope of trade and bus resumption.”Turkey said that around 4,229 families have suffered due to the suspension of trade through two trading points of Uri-Muzaffarabad and Poonch-Rawalakot.“We have suffered an annual loss of about ₹40 crores due to trade suspension. Now we feel the ice is again melting between the two neighbouring countries,” Turkey added.The developments have also made locals hopeful. “Many families could meet their family members after decades when Srinagar - Muzaffarabad road was opened 18 years ago. After its closure, hopes were crushed. Now, there is again a hope that this road will open again,” said Farooq Ahmad Shiekh whose relatives live at Muzaffarabad. He travelled many times to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) via Kaman.“Though it’s premature to say anything when it comes to India-Pakistan relations, we have not lost hope,” Shiekh adds.Some experts say that the renewal of the ceasefire agreement through back channel negotiations pointed to an effort towards improving relations, however, it would be too early to hope for a significant breakthrough given the fact that the two sides are currently sticking to their respective stands on Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashmiris-hope-for-reopening-of-srinagar-muzaffarabad-trade-route-101622058799457.html
27-05-2021||Other||53 Rohingyas test Covid+ at Jammu sub-jail, quarantined||At least 53 illegal Rohingya immigrants, out of a total of 222 detained at Hiranagar sub-jail in Kathua district, have tested positive for Covid-19.All 53 have been quarantined in exclusive barracks within the jail premises. Chief medical officer of Kathua district, Dr Ashok Choudhary, said, “The 53 who have tested positive have been isolated within the holding centre in separate barracks exclusively identified for them. For now they are all fine.” Earlier, all the Rohingyas were kept in common barracks. “Some among them have Covid symptoms and remaining are asymptomatic, but they are all normal. Kits have been distributed and the doctors are regularly checking on them,” he claimed.“To check further spread of the contagion, the prison has been sanitised. The remaining inmates will be tested on Wednesday and Thursday,” he said.On vaccinating the inmates, Dr Choudhary said the health authorities will have to wait for Covid tests of all. A senior prison official, however, said, “58 of them above the age of 45 years have already been vaccinated. We have 222 inmates in the holding centre.” No instructions on releasing immigrants“We have not received any instructions from the higher authorities on releasing the remaining Rohingyas. We have enough space and proper arrangements to deal with the situation. Proper Covid protocols are being adhered to in the holding centre and in all the prisons across Jammu and Kashmir,” the official added.A Rohingya, who lives in Kiryani Talab in Narwal in Jammu, said, “We are also hearing that testing and vaccination drive will be started soon in all our clusters, but so far no one has come to us.”On March 6, on the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved 197 of them to the Hiranagar holding centre.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing persecution.Rohingyas plead administration to provide rationNajmul Haq, plot in-charge at Rohingyas’ cluster at Kiryani Talab in Narwal, said, “Is there any possibility of releasing the inmates from the holding centre because we have younger ones here in the cluster, whose parents have been lodged in the holding centre.”“We request the administration to provide us help during the pandemic because there is a lockdown and we are not able to get any work to eke out a living. We appeal to the government to provide us ration for survival,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/53-rohingyas-test-covid-at-jammu-sub-jail-quarantined-101622058797025.html
27-05-2021||Other||On Buddha Purnima, Dalai Lama calls for collective efforts to end pandemic||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama in his message on the occasion of Buddha Purnima on Wednesday called for collective efforts to end the Covid-19 pandemic, which, he said, had brought pain and hardship across the world.On this auspicious day, Buddhists will hold prayer services in holy places such as Bodhgaya, Lumbini and Kandy. “Let us all join together in doing whatever we can to overcome the global threats we face, including the Covid-19 pandemic that has brought such pain and hardship across the world,” the 14th Dalai Lama said.The spiritual leader said that Lord Buddha’s teachings were essentially practical and “people can follow this path according to their ability and inclination”. Citing his example own example, he said that he started his Buddhist education as a child and although he was 86, he was still learning.“Although our world has changed substantially since the time of the Buddha,” the Dalai Lama said the essence of his teaching remained as relevant today as it was 2,600 years ago.The Buddha’s advice, stated simply, was to avoid harming others and to help them whenever we can and in whatever way possible, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-buddha-purnima-dalai-lama-calls-for-collective-efforts-to-end-pandemic-101622058795813.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 4,124 Covid cases, 186 more deaths||Punjab’s Covid-19 caseload surged to 5,52,235 on Wednesday as 4,124 more people tested positive for the disease while the death toll climbed to 13,827 with 186 more fatalities, according to a medical bulletin.The positivity rate dipped to 5.44%, the lowest in two months.Ludhiana reported the highest number of fresh cases at 438, followed by 385 in Bathinda, 337 in Jalandhar and 318 in Mansa, it said. According to media bulletin, 20 deaths each, the highest in the state, were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala, followed by 15 from Sangrur and 14 each from Amritsar, Bathinda and Fazilka. The number of active cases dropped to 50,549 from 53,127 on Tuesday. There are 354 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 942 other critical patients and 6,007 patients on oxygen support, it said.A total of 6,397 Covid patients recovered in a day, taking the number of cured persons to 4,87,859. So far, 89,25,740 samples have been collected for testing in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-4-124-covid-cases-186-more-deaths-101622058255153.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||All ICU beds occupied, 47% ventilators still non-functional at Faridkot medical college||Even as the daily Covid cases in Punjab has seen a dip in the past fortnight, all level-3 beds are occupied at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot. Besides, 47% ventilators are still non-functional at the facility, which caters the south Malwa region of the state.Against a daily caseload of 8,668 May 11, the state reported 4,539 new cases on May 25. The positivity rate has also dropped from 15% to 6.51%.Of the total 119 ventilators, only 63 are operational at the Faridkot facility.With 450 isolation beds facility, the GGSMCH is providing care to critical Covid patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. As per official records, all 128 level-3 Intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators and 175 of the 320 level-2 beds are occupied. Following non-availability of beds, critically ill patients have to wait or go to another level-3 facility in other district. On May 11, 73 of the total 119 ventilators at the GGSMCH were found non-functional following multiple defects. Of the 73 non-functional ventilators, 71 were received under Prime Minister (PM) Cares Fund. Though engineers of a private company visited the facility to repair the ventilators, all of them are yet to be operational. Doctors have also refused to certify some ventilators due to snags.GGSMCH medical superintendent Dr Shilekh Mittal said they are facing a shortage of level-3 beds as patients from nine districts are visiting the facility. “Right now, all ventilators are occupied but engineers are working to repair the faulty life-saving machines. We are stuck in a cycle as 3-4 ventilators are being repaired everyday but the same number of these machines stop working due to some defect. We are not using some ventilators as their performance is not up to mark,” he added.Dr Ruhee Dugg, registrar, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), said initially the GGSMCH got 82 ventilators under the PM Cares Fund and nine from AvGa. Later, more ventilators under PM Cares Fund were shifted to the Faridkot medical college from other districts. But these were non-functional. The engineers are continuously repairing the faulty ventilators but some are yet to be certified doctors. We put the machines on a 24-hour trial run as we cannot test them on patients directly. We are witnessing problems in some ventilators even after repairs,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-icu-beds-occupied-47-ventilators-still-non-functional-at-faridkot-medical-college-101622058134882.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP slams Punjab govt for removal of doctors from villages||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Wednesday condemned the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government’s decision to remove the MBBS doctors from villages during the Covid-19 pandemic.Cheema said the decision to remove these doctors from villages at such a crucial time is wrong. He also questioned the move to transfer about 489 subsidiary health centres in rural Punjab under the rural development and panchayat department to the health department. “These decisions will deprive the people of about 3,000 villages of medical services,” the LOP claimed in a statement, accusing the state government of betraying the people. He also alleged that the black marketing of Amphotericin B drug for black and white fungus was rampant.Cheema demanded the Punjab government stop the mistreatment of the people living in the villages and immediately appoint MBBS doctors in villages so that the people are not forced to go to cities for treatment of Covid and other diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-slams-punjab-govt-for-removal-of-doctors-from-villages-101622057955547.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Pawar urges PM Modi to withdraw controversial policy decisions in Lakshadweep||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar urged Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi to look into the concerns raised over policy decisions taken by the Lakshadweep administration recently. He also requested for re-examination and withdrawal of the decisions that would allegedly lead to destruction of traditional means of livelihood and the unique culture of the Union Territory. Lakshadweep is represented in the Lok Sabha by NCP MP Mohammad Faizal.Pawar made the demand through a letter to the PM on Wednesday.Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s recent reforms have attracted widespread resentment among the local populace, with many believing the changes are aimed at “destroying the unique culture and tradition” of the islands. Around a dozen MPs, including Faizal, sent letters to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking immediate recall of the decisions.Pointing out the decisions and their likely impact, Pawar said, “I fear that unwarranted and irrational decisions taken by the Lakshadweep administrator would lead to the destruction of traditional means of livelihood and the unique culture of Lakshadweep. It has already resulted in huge unrest and protest.”“I would be happy if orders and decisions taken by the incumbent authority of Lakshadweep administration are re-examined and necessary directions are passed to the Lakshadweep administration to withdraw the unreasonable and unwarranted orders,” he added.Lakshadweep, which has an overwhelming Muslim majority, is facing a draft regulation against cow slaughter, ignoring the fact that beef forms part of the daily diet. Locals have opposed draft regulation for the creation of Lakshadweep Development Authority, fearing this would enable outsiders to purchase land. The administration has also decided to implement Goonda Act in Lakshadweep, which has a very low crime rate.Meanwhile, while the islands had been free from Covid-19 for almost a year, the decision to lift the stipulation for mandatory quarantine for travellers from Kochi is attributed as a key reason for a surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-urges-pm-modi-to-withdraw-controversial-policy-decisions-in-lakshadweep-101622057954297.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Amid reservation issues, Sharad Pawar meets Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence on Wednesday evening. The meeting, which lasted for around 45 minutes, took place in the backdrop of the issues related to Maratha reservation.Pawar is considered the guiding force of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. He was the one who brought the Shiv Sena and Congress to join hands with his party to form the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in the state.It has been more than two months since Pawar met Thackeray as the former was not well. He had to get admitted in the hospital multiple times for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure, gallbladder surgery, post-operative gallbladder surgery and a surgery for removing mouth ulcer. For the past one month, the NCP chief was recuperating at home.The Maratha community is upset as 12% and 13% reservation granted to them in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act was quashed by the Supreme Court. Many Maratha organisations have threatened to start large-scale public agitations in the state.Besides, the Congress, an ally in MVA, has been demanding withdrawal of the state’s May 7 decision scrapping reservation in promotion. After state energy minister Nitin Raut, state Congress chief Nana Patole too raised the demand.“Both the leaders would have discussed the reservation issue as many leaders from the Maratha community are threatening to start agitation. Apart from this, the issue of reservation in promotion, which may have come for discussion, also cannot be overlooked,” said a senior NCP leader. He added that the two leaders may have discussed about relief to those affected by Cyclone Tauktae which hit the state last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-reservation-issues-sharad-pawar-meets-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101622057894247.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid management: Shiv Sena’s shot at retaining stronghold Mumbai||With Covid-19 expected to be a major issue even for the rest of 2021, the Shiv Sena has turned its entire attention to managing the disease in the city, considering the party rules the state as well as the Mumbai civic body. While the second wave seems to be waning, the Sena is now focusing on vaccination in Mumbai and preparing infrastructure for the projected third wave that could hit between July and September. Mumbai matters Mumbai is important in the Sena’s political plans. The party has been ruling the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which handles local governance in India’s financial capital, for almost three decades. The BMC has an annual budget of over ₹30,000 crore, which is more than a few small states in India, giving the Sena its strength and influence. Consequently, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been making plans to wrest control of the civic body. In the 2017 civic polls, the BJP emerged the second biggest party after the Sena, and the party’s leader in the state, Devendra Fadnavis, is working on winning power in the BMC in the next civic polls scheduled to be held in February 2022. The Sena, meanwhile, is working on its counter-strategy. The party’s efforts in Mumbai are largely handled by environment and tourism minister and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray, insiders said. Thackeray, the guardian minister of Mumbai (suburban district), has been holding regular review meetings with top civic officials during the second wave. The Sena cadre and Yuva Sena (party’s youth wing headed by Aaditya Thackeray) functionaries have been on the ground since the pandemic hit in March 2020. During the second wave, they were helping people with admissions to hospitals, securing anti-viral injections Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, getting oxygen cylinders, etc. Now, the Sena-controlled BMC has decided to set up vaccination centres in each of the 227 wards across the city, asking corporators to take initiative and set up helpdesks to guide people. Thackeray’s meeting with senior civic officials has yielded decisions such as two-time reporting from laboratories, instead of the 24-hour cycle; helping patients secure a bed at jumbo facilities even at night; increasing bed capacity on war-footing; drive-in vaccination centres and calling global tenders for 10 million vaccine doses. As a part of the preparation for the third wave, earlier this month, Thackeray directed BMC officials to set up a dedicated paediatric Covid-19 ward at Nesco exhibition ground — one of the BMC’s jumbo Covid Care Centres. Shiv Sena MP and party’s chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said the idea is that if Mumbai gets safe, so does Maharashtra. “The European nations and United States of America have vaccinated their citizens on a large scale and are now protected against Covid. Our focus has not shifted. Aaditya ji has said that each ward should at least have one vaccination centre. Then we took a decision to add more centres in wards; in my constituency we have two to three vaccination centres. The idea was simple – to bring the vaccination centres closer home. He (Aaditya) also came up with the idea of drive-in vaccination,” said Sawant. The vaccination centres are mostly run by the BMC and in some cases by private hospitals in association with elected representatives. BJP’s plans The BJP is likely to use all its might to wrest the civic body from the Sena, while the latter is looking for a Covid success story to get an upper hand. However, Sawant denied there are any political calculations behind the management. “In Mumbai, the Shiv Sena is known for its social work. Our shakhas (local offices) are a centre for people to voice their grievances or seek help. It has created enormous goodwill for us over the years. In times of a pandemic, it is logical that people would expect us to help them and we are anyway doing it,” said a former Sena mayor. “The only addition is making our on-ground work known. The BJP has a massive machinery for marketing, which shows what their governments do irrespective of their actual performance. We also need to keep people informed,” she added. The equation In 2017, the BJP and Sena, despite being in power in alliance in the state, fought the civic polls against each other. It was a close contest, with the Sena securing 84 seats and the BJP bagging 81 seats, in the 227-member body. The BJP would want to capitalise on its numbers in the upcoming elections and has been targeting the Sena-led corporation over the handling of Covid-19 in Mumbai. Earlier this month, Fadnavis alleged the death figures in Mumbai are being fudged and the number of RT-PCR tests has reduced to show a lower case count. Earlier, the BJP has also alleged corruption in the construction of Covid Care Centres. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said this time, traditional agendas and planks such as Hindutva ideology and Marathi manoos will not be at the fore in the campaigning for BMC polls. “The conversation has changed due to Covid now. People will look at Covid handling and vaccinations. For Shiv Sena, the prime political concern will be handling the third wave and vaccination. The BJP government at the Centre is creating a bottleneck in vaccination, not just for Mumbai, but also for the state. The BJP, which gave a neck-and-neck fight last time, wants to win the BMC elections after losing the state,” Jondhale, a former professor of political science at Mumbai University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-management-shiv-sena-s-shot-at-retaining-stronghold-mumbai-101622057835617.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Final-year PG medical, dental students await exam schedule||Days after the state government and the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) released exam commencement dates for undergraduate and postgraduate medical, dental and diploma exams, final-year postgraduate medical students are still waiting to hear about their exam schedule. Originally scheduled to take place in May, the exam was postponed by a month by the National Medical Commission (NMC) to ensure that all students are working across hospitals as the country was facing the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. As of May 25, these students still do not know when their exams will take place.“We have sent repeated requests and reminders to MUHS as well as authorities at the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), but to no avail. The Central government extended our residency by one month till May 31; so post that, we should be appearing for exams but the authorities have no clarity,” said Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice-president (central), Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD). In April, the Central government’s decision to extend final-year postgraduate medical and dental exam by a month and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate courses by four months did not go down well with stakeholders, especially the students. To make matters worse, the state released a circular postponing the exams, but so far has not given any clarity on the future date of exams, something several other states including Rajashthan and Delhi have already released.“Most of us (students) are working every day at hospitals across the state and have had no time to prepare for exams. MARD has also requested that the government give us at least 45 days before starting exams, to give us ample time to prepare, but with no date in sight, we are unsure when the exam will finally be held,” said Dr Prajakta Mhatre, another final-year postgraduate medical student.While exams for undergraduate medical and dental students as well as non-final year postgraduate students are scheduled to take place between June 10 and 30, final-year students still await answers from the authorities. “We cannot announce exam dates until we get a go ahead from the state government. Once that comes through, we will confirm the schedule and also ensure that students get ample time for exam preparation,” said a senior exam authority from MUHS, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-final-year-pg-medical-dental-students-await-exam-schedule-101622057774301.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: SC candidate moves high court over LLM admissions||A candidate belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, who had applied to the University of Mumbai’s (MU) Master of Law (LLM) course, has filed a writ petition in the Bombay high court (HC) alleging an unfair admission process.Maruti Mhavarkar, a lawyer enrolled with the bar council of Maharashtra, had applied to MU for LLM in criminal law and had secured 68 marks in the common entrance test (CET). His name did not appear in any of the first four merit lists. Having realised that few seats were available for criminal law, he wrote an application to the university’s department of law for admission to any seat in any stream as per merit. The varsity then issued a notice stating that seats for reserved category students were vacant in two subjects — human rights and law, and environment and legal order. Applications were invited for the same. Mhavarkar claimed that he applied for both the subjects, but did not make it in the fifth and sixth merit lists too. The sixth merit list was issued last Wednesday. “Candidates who have scored less than me have been admitted. The admission process was unfair and unjust. I am seeking judicial intervention for the same,” he said. Rajeshri Varhadi, professor and head of MU’s department of law, said, “The entire admission process is computerised. There is no scope of any human intervention. All applications received for reserved category seats were measured on merit alone.”Refusing to comment on the writ petition, Varhadi said, “There is a process for responding to such legal cases. A lawyer is appointed by the university and we will respond through the lawyer.”Mhavarkar, in his plea, has urged the court to undo the “injustice meted out to him in the admission process”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sc-candidate-moves-high-court-over-llm-admissions-101622057714309.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae felled 812 trees in city: Time to dig deeper for cause||Tree damage after Cyclone Tauktae, which uprooted at least 812 trees in Mumbai as per official data, has once again brought to attention allegedly poor horticultural practices by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Over the past week, several environmentalists and activists pointed out that a significant number of uprooted trees had not been planted in adequately-sized basins. At least 15 such instances have been brought to the notice of Hindustan Times since March 16.“This would have certainly contributed to the tree’s fate because it needs a fully-developed root system to keep it anchored. Too small tree basins, especially for larger trees, hamper this. More worryingly, several trees which fell did not even have any discernible basins around them, and were concretised or paved all the way to the trunk. When this happens, the underlying critical root zone could get disturbed, weakening the tree’s structural integrity,” said Stalin D, director, NGO Vanashakti.Stalin on Tuesday wrote to BMC and environment department, requesting the authorities to take corrective measures before the onset of monsoon. “This email is to voice our concerns about the precarious condition of the trees of Mumbai and Thane city. All the trees are standing in shallow concrete tree basins and have no soil for the roots to grip and stand firm,” Stalin’s letter stated. According to regular logs maintained by Vanashakti, there are at least 500 large, old-growth trees in Mumbai and Thane which require urgent de-paving. One particular locality where this problem is conspicuous, according to environmentalists, is south Mumbai’s Ballard Estate, where wide roads are lined with large banyans and gulmohars among others. A visit to the area on Wednesday by a HT team found BMC workers clearing up trees that fell during last week’s cyclone. HT identified at least six large trees that had been completely uprooted, while at least a dozen others were vaulting or bursting out of their tree basins, causing cracks in the pavement. “Giant trees on the road towards RBI signal and the road alongside Port Trust Bhavan have died after concreting of the roads and basins was done. The remaining trees in Ballard Estate will collapse and fall in this monsoon or within the next year if urgent steps are not taken... Despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordering that tree bases must be freed of concrete, and soil be provided for the tree bases, no action has been taken so far. Neither depth nor lateral space is available for the trees to anchor itself,” Stalin informed the authorities. In 2015, Vanashakti had approached NGT seeking remedial measures against rampant concretisation over root zones of large trees in Mumbai. In a subsequent order dated September 10, 2015, the tribunal instructed BMC to implement a “de-concretisation programme... in phased manner, ward by ward and not selectively but in contiguous manner”. BMC, for its part, had conveyed to NGT in September itself that around 11,790 trees in the city had already been de-concretised, but given there were an estimated 1.9 million trees in the city at the time, covering them all would take considerably longer. It is unclear whether the programme has continued to be implemented in the years since. Officials in BMC’s tree authority and garden department did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.“The programme has either tapered off or is being implemented too slowly. The situation after Cyclone Tauktae shows clearly that the order has not been complied with fully. Had it been so, we may have lost fewer trees,” said Zaman Ali, advocate for Vanashakti in the matter, referring to guidelines prescribed by the ministry of urban development in its Urban Green Guidelines, 2014.“A minimum area of 1.25x1.25 metre around the trees be left un-cemented and widening of roads up to the trunk of trees be avoided, as roots come under the asphalted roads, which will gradually die. In case of storm, these trees may topple. Activities which adversely affect the roots are to be minimised,” the guidelines stated. However, as Ali pointed out, these are only directive principles and not legally binding.“But such guidelines are still required to be followed in absence of a statutory directive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-felled-812-trees-in-city-time-to-dig-deeper-for-cause-101622057654331.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six months of stir: Punjab farmers hold protest, hoist black flags atop houses||Farmers in Punjab put up black flags on their houses and burnt effigies of the Narendra Modi government on Wednesday, joining a “black day” call given by protesting farmer unions to mark six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the Centre’s three farm laws.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal raised a black flag at his house at Badal village in Muktsar district and urged the central government to accept the demand of protesting farmers. Opposition political parties, including the Congress, SAD and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have extended their support to the farmers’ call of observing the day as “black day”.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting unions, had announced that farmers will observe May 26 as “black day” to mark the completion of six months of their protest.Farmers carrying black flags while women wearing black ‘chunnis” held protests in villages and raised slogans against the Union government.Protesting farmers burnt effigies of the BJP-led government at many places, including Amritsar, Muktsar, Moga, Tarn Taran, Sangrur and Bathinda.Farmers, especially youth, put up black flags on their vehicles including tractors, cars and two-wheelers at several places in Punjab to register their protest.SAD leaders led by Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljit Singh Cheema hoisted a black flag at their party office in Chandigarh.Hundreds of farmers, including women and youths, holding black flags held tractor marches in Sangrur and Barnala districts.Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Gobinder Singh asked farmers to join a three day long protest against the state government in Patiala from May 28. Leader of opposition and Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema, Sunam Aam Aadmi Party MLA Aman Arora and Lehra SAD legislator Parminder Singh Dhindsa hoisted back flags atop their residences to oppose the farm laws.Covid norms violated Amid the second wave of the pandemic, a large number of farmers and their supporters gathered at various places of southern Punjab on Wednesday to observe the “resistance day”.Carrying black flags, scores of activists gathered outside the Bathinda district administrative complex. They later marched to Hanuman Chowk and burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Scores of the protesters did not adhere to Covid norms and social distancing was not followed.Reports of similar gatherings were reported from Muktsar, Mansa and other districts of southern Punjab. Women-led protests in various villages of the region.Bajwa demands scrapping of lawsCongress’ Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Wednesday demanded that the BJP government at the Centre should immediately scrap the three farm laws to pave the way for the return of protesting farmers to their homes. Bajwa, who paid obeisance at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, for safety of farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders for six months, said that he hoped the central government would listen to views other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat. “Scrap these #BlackLaws so that our farmers can return to their homes,” he tweeted with photos of black flags at his residence here in support of the Black Day protest observed by the farmer organizations.AAP protests outside guv’s residenceThe AAP observed the “black day” by staging a protest in front of Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore’s residence in Chandigarh. AAP workers led by Kotkapura MLA and state kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Barnala MLA and state youth wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer carried black flags and raised slogans in support of farmers protesting against the three farm laws.“At a time when the entire country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic; what was the need for the Union government to bring three black farm laws?” Sandhwan asked, accusing it of neither consulting the farmer organisations nor the opposition parties before enacting the legislation. Sandhwan and Hayer demanded immediate repeal of the three laws.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-months-of-stir-punjab-farmers-hold-protest-hoist-black-flags-atop-houses-101622057595633.html
27-05-2021||Other||‘The voice of people, who inspired all’: Tributes pour in for Doreswamy||Bengaluru: Freedom fighter and activist Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy, 103, died in Bengaluru on Wednesday, days after recovering from Covid-19 this month. He was cremated with full state honours at Chamarajapet crematorium on Wednesday evening. A school teacher, Doreswamy joined the freedom struggle in June 1942, at the age of 23, on Mahatma Gandhi’s call. He was also jailed for organising protests against the British government. CN Manjunath, the cardiologist at Jayadeva Hospital said that Doreswamy had heart failure and a cardiac arrest and passed away around 1.40 on Wednesday. Adding that Doreswamy had pre-existing valvular heart disease for the last 10 years, he was admitted to Jayadeva Hospital multiple times in this period. “He tested positive for the novel coronavirus earlier this month. This could be a precipitating factor since he tested positive and was hospitalised till May 12. He was readmitted to the hospital on May 14,” Dr CN Manjunath added. “It is very sad to hear the news that senior freedom fighters, Gandhian, journalist, social worker, and the voice of the people, HS Doreswamy, has passed away. Praying for goodness to their soul, I ask that God grant their families the power to bear the pain,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted. Doreswamy actively participated in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens in Bengaluru in 2019-20. “HS Doreswamy, who parted from all of us, was our self-conscience. He condemned us when he saw wrong, supported us when he saw right and guided us. He was an inspiration from a young age, came to the streets when he saw injustice and was an inspiration to all of us,” tweeted former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah. Former chief minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy tweeted, “I am deeply saddened by the death of the centenary and freedom fighter Doreswamy.” Many ministers and senior Congress and the BJP leaders expressed their sorrow over the demise of Doreswamy. “I am deeply pained by the death of freedom fighter and journalist HS Doreswamy. The state has become poorer losing a great social activist who fought for the upliftment of people throughout his life,” said former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda in his tribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-voice-of-people-who-inspired-all-tributes-pour-in-for-doreswamy-101622057594268.html
27-05-2021||Other||Delhi: 50 cops, footage from 1,350 cameras and nine days of probe nail three in cow slaughter cases||New Delhi: Five teams of 50 police personnel from three police stations worked for nine days, scanned footage from 1,350 CCTVs installed across 62 kms of road length to arrest three suspects in three cow slaughter cases reported from outer Delhi’s Baprola village and Nihal Vihar between May 16 and 20, investigators associated with the case said.On May 16 morning, the carcass of a cow was found on a vacant plot in outer Delhi’s Baprola village, said Parminder Singh, deputy commissioner of police (outer district). A crowd gathered at the spot and they informed the police. A case was registered at Ranhola police station under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Delhi Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, Singh said. Around the same time, another carcass was found at a different spot in the same village. The DCP said, “An inspection of the scene and the animal carcass suggested that same people could be involved in the two cases.” He said a separate FIR was registered in this case. While the police were investigating the two cases, a similar crime was reported from Nihar Vihar on May 20. An FIR was registered there too.Since the recoveries of animal carcass led to tension in the two areas, the police constituted five teams of a total 50 personnel from police stations in Ranhola, Mundka and Nihal Vihar. The team was led by two additional deputy commissioners. The personnel were drawn from different wings such as the special staff, the anti-auto theft squad (AATS) and the narcotics department, an officer associated with the case said.The officer said CCTV footage revealed that a Vitara Brezza car was used in the crime. Thereafter, the police scanned footage from 1,350 CCTVs spread over 62 kilometers to finally trace the suspects to Jamia Nagar in south-east Delhi, said Singh.Between Monday night and Tuesday afternoon, the police arrested the three men from Jamia Nagar. These included two brothers, Asif and Monis, and their cousin Naeem.The DCP said while Asif had two dozen cases against him, including two in which he was convicted, Monis had four cases registered against him. Both carried a reward of R50,000 each that was announced by the Uttar Pradesh Police, on their arrests.The officer said they were using a curfew pass purportedly issued by APMC in Azadpur Mandi to travel around the city to allegedly slaughter cows during the lockdown.The police are checking the authenticity of the pass as well as looking for other people that could possibly be involved in the alleged crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-50-cops-footage-from-1-350-cameras-and-nine-days-of-probe-nail-three-in-cow-slaughter-cases-101622057475662.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Four associates of wrestler Sushil Kumar held for Dhankad’s murder||Four associates of wrestler Sushil Kumar were arrested from outer Delhi late Tuesday in connection with the murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankad at Chhatrasal Stadium on May 4, police said.Police said the four are members of the Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang, which also points to Kumar’s possible links with jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana and the apprehension that Dhankar’s murder may lead to a gang war.All four men are from Haryana and have been previously involved in serious crimes such as abduction, murder, rioting and robbery. They have been identified as Bhupender alias Bhupi,38, Mohit alias Bholi,22, Gulab aka Pehalwan,24, and Manjeet alias Chunni Lal,29.Mohit and Gulab belong to Asauda village in Haryana’s Jhajjar, which is also the village of Rajeev alias Kala Asauda, their gang leader, who was killed by members of a rival gang on the court premises in Haryana’s Rohtak in 2017. As Bawana is also in jail, the gang was being led by Bhupender and Mohit, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the special staff team of Rohini district on Tuesday received information that four men, wanted for the murder of wrestler Dhankad, would be coming to Ghewra village to meet an associate named Kala Sethi. The team laid a trap near Ghewra railway crossing and the four were caught after they were identified by an informer, he said.The four were present at Chhatrasal Stadium in north-west Delhi where Dhankad was allegedly beaten to death in a brawl involving two groups, one of which, according to the police, was led by two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Kumar.“Their preliminary interrogation revealed that they were called to Chhatrasal Stadium on the night of May 4 by one Kala alias Sethi, who is still on the run. The four disclosed that they knew the purpose for which they were called there and so they came prepared with weapons,” Tayal said.On Wednesday, their custody was handed over to the crime branch team which is investigating Dhankad’s murder. The team also has custody of wrestler Kumar and his associate Ajay Sherawat.During interrogation, DCP Tayal said, the four men disclosed that on the intervening night of May 4 and 5, they had gone to Chhatrasal stadium around midnight in two vehicles.“They were actively involved in the crime. On hearing police sirens, they fled the stadium, leaving behind their vehicles and weapons. The four have narrated the sequence of events leading to Dhankad’s death and details of the other persons involved in his murder,” the DCP added.After fleeing the stadium, the four split up and were hiding in remote villages in Haryana. They had switched off their cellphones to avoid detection. One of them had recently procured a new cellphone, which he was operating only for virtual calling through a secure app and using a Wi-Fi connection. They were using their confidants to pass messages to each other, said an investigator, asking not to be named.Police said that while Bhupender is involved in nine cases of kidnapping, murder, robbery, cheating, rioting and other serious crimes, Mohit and Manjeet have five and four cases against them, respectively. Gulab has previously been involved in two cases, they said.Bhupender’s interrogation, the DCP said, revealed that he became Rajeev Kala’s associate in 2000 and committed several crimes with him. In 2011, Bhupender went to jail in a double murder case and remained there till February 2021. After his release, he was reviving his gang to take revenge of Kala’s murder. He was being helped by the key associates of jailed gangster Bawana, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-associates-of-wrestler-sushil-kumar-held-for-dhankad-s-murder-101622057475092.html
27-05-2021||Other||Man claiming to be head of a youth organisation arrested for cheating Covid patients||New Delhi: A 21-year-old man who claimed to be a social worker and the national president of a youth organisation having 18 lakh members and followers, was arrested along with his associate for allegedly duping Covid patients and their families in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders, police said on Wednesday.Investigators said Ritik Kumar Singh and Sandeep Pandey have duped nearly 50 people in different states of ₹8-10 lakh since the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country in April. They had circulated their cellphone number on various social media platforms as suppliers of oxygen cylinders and promised home delivery. They tricked Covid patients or their families into transferring the token money into their online payment wallet for securing a cylinder. But after receiving the money, they used to block the person or deactivated their contact number, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.The two suspects were arrested from Greater Noida on Tuesday following investigation into a cheating case filed at the Vivek Vihar police station on the complaint of Sanchet Aggarwal, whose mother was ill and needed an oxygen cylinder. Aggarwal told the police that on May 6, he found a supplier’s number on social media (Instagram ) and contacted the person, who promised the home delivery of two cylinders after receiving ₹14,000 as token money. The family paid the money through an e-commerce payment gateway. However, neither the cylinders were delivered nor the money was returned. The family found the phone number switched off and filed a police complaint, the DCP said.Although the website of the youth organisation named “India Youth Icon Team” and his social media profile show that Singh is allegedly connected with a national political party and its senior leaders, the Delhi Police said they have not come across any evidence that linked him to any party.“Also, India Youth Icon Team that Singh claims to be heading and has branches in at least seven states is not a registered organisation. He claims that his organisation had over 18 lakh members and followers. But it’s a matter of investigation. Singh was running this unregistered organisation to project himself as an influential social worker and to cheat people,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.Singh’s social media accounts have images in which he is seen with luxury cars, surrounded with bodyguards carrying weapons, distributing essential items to needy people and standing with politicians. He also claims to be running a consultancy firm for admissions in educational institutions, said the DCP.“We interrogated Singh and he told us that he used to hire bouncers and luxury cars regularly to influence people, including those associated with his organization, and to give an impression that he is a powerful person having political links. In reality, he doesn’t own a car,” added the DCP.During the investigation, DCP Sathiyasundaram said, the investigating team collected details of the online wallet in which the money was deposited and also of the bank accounts in which the money was routed. The phone number linked with the online wallet and the bank account was the same and belonged to one Sandeep Pandey. It was also learnt that the phone number and the accounts were used for similar frauds. The money was further transferred into two more bank accounts belonging to Ritik Kumar Singh. On the basis of mobile phone location and local intelligence, Pandey and Singh were arrested from Greater Noida, the police said.The DCP said that Singh, who originally belongs to Bihar, is the mastermind of the racket that he was running in connivance with Pandey to cheat people for money they needed to live lavishly. Singh’s bank account had ₹4.23 lakh while Pandey’s had ₹2.43 lakh, which they had accumulated through cheating people in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders. Two cellphones and two SIM cards used in the crimes were also seized, he said.Police said Pandey is from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur and he completed his diploma in civil engineering from a college in Allahabad, UP. He has been working as a property dealer and also runs a wheat flour mill in Greater Noida with his friends, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-claiming-to-be-head-of-a-youth-organisation-arrested-for-cheating-covid-patients-101622057474327.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Farmers observe ‘Black day’ to mark six months of protest at Delhi borders||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders marked six months of their agitation on Wednesday by observing a “Black Day” and burning effigies of the government, and once again demanding that the Centre repeal the three farm laws promulgated in September 2020. The farmers also celebrated Buddha Poornima at the protest sites at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri on Wednesday.While black flags were hoisted across tents and trolleys at the protest sites, farmers’ collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha said people from several villages and cities also shared pictures of black flags hoisted atop houses as well as pictures of them attired in black, in a symbolic show of support to the agitation at the Delhi borders.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri, since November to press the government into repealing the new laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.“From across India, visuals have arrived of farmers and their supporters expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers, and anger against the BJP government. Lakhs of Indians responded to the call put out by SKM and wore black clothes, hoisted black flags atop their homes and vehicles, and assembled in small groups to burn effigies of the BJP government,” SKM said in a statement.“We had arranged for black flags and they got delivered on Tuesday. We carried the effigies around, raising slogans, before burning them,” said Tejvir Singh, a farmer from Ambala district in Punjab. “More people are expected to join us on Thursday and in the coming days as the harvesting season is now over.”The continuous rain in the Capital last week, and the deadly second wave of the pandemic since March, have led to a thinning of the numbers at the protest sites. But, the farmers said they will continue the agitation till their demands are met.“Even though the farmer agitation has had to continue for six long months, with farmers suffering many hardships including the martyrdom of more than 470 farmers so far, we are prepared to continue (with the protest) for however long it takes; the determination and resolve of farmers remain strong and firm,” the farmer leaders said in a joint press statement on Wednesday.Experts had warned that such a gathering could turn into a super spreader event, particularly at a time when cases have been receding in the Capital after a devastating few weeks and a hard lockdown.But SKM said they were taking several steps to arrest the spread of the virus at protest sites. “We put up the sound system [loudspeakers] closer to trolleys so that farmers would not have to come towards the stage to listen to speeches. We invited doctors to speak on stage and educate the farmers on precautions, symptoms and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” ’SKM media coordinator Harinder Singh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-observe-black-day-to-mark-six-months-of-protest-at-delhi-borders-101622057415397.html
27-05-2021||Other||Will help people despite 1K PILs, says Gambhir on allegations of hoarding meds||East Delhi MP and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir on Wednesday said he will continue to “save people’s lives” even if a thousand public interest litigations (PIL) are filed against him, two days after the Delhi high court said that he has done “disservice” by storing large stocks of medicines used to treat Covid-19 during severe shortage of the medicine in the city.Speaking at the Delhi BJP office, Gambhir said, “I entered politics to help people and save their lives. I’m not afraid if one or hundred or thousand PILs are filed against me.”He added, “Whatever the court decides, we will accept it. But whenever I’ll get an opportunity in the future to help people, I will do it because saving people’s lives is the meaning of politics.”The court on Monday directed the Delhi government’s drug controller to launch an inquiry into three politicians — Gambhir and Aam Aadmi Party MLAs Praveen Kumar and Preeti Tomar — for allegedly buying and storing Covid-19 drugs and medical oxygen in bulk amid a severe shortage in the Capital.To be sure, all three did not sell the medicines or oxygen, but distributed them for free to people in their constituencies. Also none of the politicians were named as party in the case.On April 21, Gambhir announced on twitter that people who needed Fabiflu tablets, an anti-viral, could get them for free at his east Delhi office.The court, however, said it was not responsible behaviour. “Gambhir must have done it with best of intentions. He has been a national player for our country. But when you know the medicine is in short supply and you buy over 2,000... Is that responsible behaviour? Should he not have realised that medicines are in shortage for others?,” the high court bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/file-1k-pils-will-still-save-people-s-lives-gambhir-101622057414810.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||250 shanties gutted in Kapurthala fire||Around 250 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out on Wednesday afternoon near the Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala. Police said there was no report of any casualty in the incident, but more than 1,000 dwellers have been rendered homeless. It took four fire tenders over two hours to douse the flames, they said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Eyewitnesses say after the fire spread across the shanties, commuters and local shopkeepers rescued those trapped inside. Kapurthala district administration officials said that they are making temporary arrangements for migrant workers at government school in Bhulana village. The administration has also arranged food for them, they said. Deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal said the administration will assess the loss caused by the blaze and will compensate the dwellers. Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema said that Punjab government will provide compensation to the affected families.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has asked the district administration to provide immediate relief and assistance to all the affected families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/250-shanties-gutted-in-kapurthala-fire-101622057355406.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor unit busted in Amritsar, 4 arrested||Police on Wednesday unearthed an illicit liquor manufacturing unit at Nangal Wanjanwali village falling under the Ajnala sub-division on Wednesday.Four persons have been arrested and police have recovered 105 tonne lahan (raw material used for producing illicit liquor), 500 litre illicit liquor, three stills and 35 tarpaulins.The accused have been identified as Malkiat Singh, Sunny, Kabal Singh and Bindu of the same village. Police have identified a few more members of the gang and raids were on to nab them.The liquor was being smuggled in various villages of Ajnala and its adjoining sub-divisions, said the police.Senior superintendent of police (Amritsar-rural) Dhruv Dahiya said they got a tip-off that the racket was being operated in the village. He said: “A team of 150 policemen, including DSPs and inspectors, was formed to conduct early morning search and cordon operation. We are also identifying the properties accumulated by the accused through the illegal trade, so that they can be attached.”This was the 9th operation of the Amritsar rural police under the state government’s “red rose” campaign in the past last three months. Earlier, such rackets were busted from Khiala Kalana, Lakhuwal, Chapa Ram Singh, Kotli Sakka, Jasso Nangal, Chak Mishri Khan, Jethuwal, and Fatehwal villages. During these operations, the police arrested 40 accused, besides recovering 850 tonnes of lahan, 60 stills and 4,000 litre of illicit liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-unit-busted-in-amritsar-4-arrested-101622057234986.html
27-05-2021||Other||K’taka revises discharge policy to detect black fungus cases||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it has formulated a new discharge policy for Covid-19 persons to help detect any possibilities of Mucormycosis, more commonly known as black fungus cases in the state.The decision came after Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, held a meeting with experts on the topic amid a rise in cases of black fungus.“There is more clarity now after meeting with experts. It has been found that administering steroids in the first week of treatment of Covid-19 is one of the main causes of black fungus infection. We need to avoid this and steroids should be administered only from the second week,” Sudhakar said in a statement on Wednesday.He added that there are around 95 known cases of black fungus being treated in Bengaluru, of which 75 have either uncontrolled diabetes or have been administered steroids during Covid treatment.Karnataka has formed a task force dedicated to black fungus, under the chairmanship of Dr HS Satish, and ENT specialist at government-run Victoria Hospital. There are nearly 481 persons known to have contracted black fungus and are being treated in Karnataka, according to information shared by the Centre. There are at least two suspected cases of white fungus in Belagavi, about 500 kms from Bengaluru.Several states including Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan among others have reported a sharp increase black fungus cases, which can be fatal in the third stage when it enters the brain if not detected and treated early.He said that the discharge policy will include a provision in which recovered Covid patients will be subjected to further tests for black fungus and even an MRI scan, if necessary. “After one week of discharge, Covid recovered persons should get themselves tested here or they can also get a tele-consultation. Every Covid recovered person will be contacted to check for any symptoms of fungus infection. If symptoms are found they will be called to hospitals for further diagnosis,” the minister said.He added that post-recovery, the patients will be contacted for nearly two weeks based on their condition.“It has been found in a preliminary report that the infection is reported in small hospitals, taluk hospitals and those under home isolation in some cases. We will get more clarity in the final report,” he added.Meanwhile, union minister for chemicals and fertilizers, DV Sadananda Gowda said that the Centre had made more allocations of 29,250 vials of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat black fungus.“Additional 29,250 vials of #Amphotericin- B drug, used in treatment of #Mucormycosis, have been allocated to all the states/UTs today. The allocation has been made based on the number of patients under treatment which is 11,717 across the country,” Gowda said in a post on Twitter. Of this Karnataka has received 1,221 vials, according to the information shared by the Union minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-revises-discharge-policy-to-detect-black-fungus-cases-101622057114350.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three national committee members of dera nominated in sacrilege case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases on Wednesday named three absconding members of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee as accused in the case relating to putting up of derogatory posters near the Bargari village gurdwara.Three Haryana residents Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kaler and Harsh Dhuri have been nominated as conspirators in the case. The SIT said two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, 2015, by the accused dera followers on their directions. The SIT had on May 21 nominated the trio in another case of sacrilege wherein torn pages of ‘bir ‘were found scattered in Bargari . Remand of 2 dera men extended Meanwhile, the police remand of two dera followers, Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, arrested on May 16 in the Bargari sacrilege case, was extended by two days by the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Sanjeev Kundi.The probe has found that derogatory posters were put up by the dera followers and they also have a witness to prove this, the SIT told the court. “Gopal Das, who runs a stationery shop, identified the papers and markers that were purchased from his shop to make posters before the incident took place in 2015,” the SIT claimed, adding that two cars used in the crime were also recovered from the possession of accused dera followers.Dera committee members missing link in case The three absconding members of the dera’s national committee are the missing link in three sacrilege incidents that sparked off state-wide protests in 2015. The teams probing the cases claim that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari (Faridkot), Malke (Moga) and Gurusar (Bathinda) were given by Bareta, Kler and Dhuri to the district dera committee members.In July 2020, The SIT had named Breta, Kler and Dhuri as accused in a case relating to the theft of a “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the “bir” were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari village.Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were also found at Malke village in Moga district in November 2015 and Gurusar (Bhagta) village in Bathinda district in October 2015. The SIT led by former IGP Ranbir Singh Khatra had nominated them accused in both cases in 2018. They have already been declared proclaimed offenders in these three cases. “The trio had met Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in Nabha jail in 2019, and instructed him to steal the bir. Similarly, in Moga sacrilege case, they gave instructions to dera state committee members Pirthi Singh and Jatindervir, alias Jimmy, after which sacrilege was done by a dera follower at Malke and Gurusar villages. Once arrested, the trio can reveal names of more people involved in the case,” said an SIT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-national-committee-members-of-dera-nominated-in-sacrilege-case-101622057055151.html
27-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana firm illegally imports peas worth ₹2 crore, booked||Officials of the Customs Commissionerate at Kila Raipur have booked a Ludhiana based firm for illegally importing around 102 metric tonnes of peas, valued at ₹2.04 crore, to save customs duty.Customs officials from Inland Container Depot, Hind Terminals Private Limited (HTPL), while examining the goods imported by Resham General Trading, Ludhiana, found the peas concealed behind bags of bamboo beans. AS Ranga, commissioner of customs, Ludhiana, said that the firm has filed a bill of entry through their customs broker, Safe Clearing Forwarding and Service, Ludhiana, for import clearance of bamboo beans. During examination, the containers were found fully stuffed with bags containing bamboo beans and peas. The value of the goods, as declared by the firm in the bill of entry, is ₹44.6 lakh for 5,198 bags of bamboo beans. But, it was found during a detailed examination that 4,050 of the bags contained peas, which was not declared by the importer. The Union of India, vide notification dated March 29, 2019, had exercised the powers conferred to it under Section 3 of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act and amended the import policy conditions wherein peas were restricted for import and only quota-based import at minimum import price of ₹200 per kg was allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-firm-illegally-imports-peas-worth-2-crore-booked-101622056996324.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana YouTuber handed over to Arunachal police||The Arunachal Pradesh police on Wednesday got transit remand of YouTuber and social media influencer Paras Singh, alias Bunty, who was arrested in Ludhiana on Tuesday for his racial remarks against a Congress MLA from Arunachal Pradesh and for bearing ill will towards the people of the state.Paras, a resident of Janakpuri, was presented in court following medical tests and was handed over the Arunachal Pradesh police on transit remand, said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.Paras Singh, who goes by the name Paras Official on his YouTube channel, had in a video posted on Sunday termed Congress MLA Ninong Ering a non-Indian and apparently claimed that Arunachal Pradesh was a part of China, sparking furor among Arunchalees and people from other parts of the country.In another video, posted on Monday, he apologised for his comments. Paras Singh has 457k subscribers on his YouTube channel.Paras did not understand repercussions: MotherParas’ mother Chanda Devi said her son did not realise the repercussions such a statement would elicit. “We regret what happened. My son has also apologised. He had no clue that his foolish act would invite so much trouble. The government and people of Arunachal Pradesh should show kindness as my son is merely 22 years old,” she said.The family had migrated to Punjab from Bihar in 1998. Paras’s father had died a few years ago. The family lived in rented quarters and Paras’ mother did odd jobs to earn a living. However, a few years ago, Paras, who used to play PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG), launched his YouTube channel and started live streaming the games. Soon his channel became a hit, and he began earning from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-youtuber-handed-over-to-arunachal-police-101622056754930.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cases continue to dip as 438 test positive in Ludhiana||The number of fresh coronavirus cases continued to dip in Ludhiana with the district recording less than 500 cases for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The district recorded 438 fresh cases even as 20 more people succumbed to the contagion. Out of the 20 people claimed by the virus, 13 are men and seven women. The youngest to succumb was a 34-year-old man of Jagraon, while the oldest was a 77-year-old woman of Vikas Nagar. Six of the deceased were in their sixties, five in their seventies, four in their fifties, three in their thirties and two in their forties.The number of active cases now stand at 6,629. The figure has fallen below the 7,000-mark for the first time in a month. Since the Covid outbreak, Ludhiana has clocked 82,424 cases while 73,867 people have recovered. At present, there are 51 patients on ventilator support in different hospitals of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cases-continue-to-dip-as-438-test-positive-in-ludhiana-101622056514849.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, curfew relaxation in Ludhiana till 3pm||With the district witnessing a dive in the number of Covid cases and positivity rate over the last two weeks, the administration on Wednesday extended the curfew relaxation timings till 3pm on weekdays. In a major relief to the business community, which had been clamouring for relaxation in timings, all shops can now operate from 5am to 3pm, an extension of two hours. The permitted hours for home delivery of cooked food have also been increased till 9pm. The weekend curfew will remain in place. In his weekly Facebook live session, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said Ludhiana has been witnessing a slight respite in cases for the last two weeks after hitting an extraordinary scale amid the second wave of the pandemic in mid-April and May. He said the Ludhiana administration will be honouring health workers and officers of all departments that have been performing their Covid duties tirelessly. Traders had met DC earlier in the dayEarlier in the day, a delegation of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal had met Sharma and demanded that shops be allowed to remain open till 5pm. The meeting had been facilitated by MLA Rakesh Pandey, to whom the traders’ association had submitted a memorandum after staging an agitation on May 24. Citing losses due to the imposition of a 16-hour daily curfew and weekend lockdown, traders said they will be forced to raise an agitation and hand over their shops to the government unless the curfew relaxation period was extended till 5pm next month. Though the extension of timings have been welcomed, traders want further relaxation citing the low footfall during the relaxation hours in the morning and afternoon. Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said, “Shopkeepers are struggling to pay rent, power bills and salaries as marginal sales are made between 5am and 1pm. Shops should be allowed to stay open till 5pm from next month as is being done in other districts of the state.” A garment store owner in Model Town market, Ashu Grover, said, “The decision to allow the shops to remain open till 3pm will certainly increase the footfall in the market. It is not possible to keep running businesses without profits. The move will also reduce chaos and traffic jams witnessed around 1pm as the curfew hour approaches.” On May 7, the administration had first imposed a 17-hour curfew from 12pm to 5am, which was relaxed by an hour on May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-curfew-relaxation-in-ludhiana-till-3pm-101622056274947.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three KTF activists booked for killing gangster Sukha Lamme||Moga police have booked three activists of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) for killing gangster Sukha Lamme in June last year. The accused have been identified as Arshdeep Singh, Lovepreet Singh and Kamaljeet Singh of Dala village of Moga. Lovepreet and Kamaljeet were arrested on Saturday for their involvement in several heinous crimes in the past. Arshdeep, who is living abroad, is yet to be arrested.According to the FIR, the accused were booked on the complaint of a 38-year-old resident of Moga. The complainant told police that in June last year, he was going to Moga from Loppo village and when he reached near the bridge of Daudhar canal, he saw these accused throwing something in the canal.He said recently he read in newspapers that the accused had murdered Sukha Lamme and threw his body into the canal. A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered against them at the Badhni Kalan police station.Badni Kalan SHO Sandeep Singh said the accused are being interrogated by the CIA Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-ktf-activists-booked-for-killing-gangster-sukha-lamme-101622056215849.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha to write to Centre as it seeks clarity on global bids for vax supply||After the Maharashtra government received eight responses to its global tenders for supplying Covid-19 vaccines, it now plans to throw the ball in the Centre’s court over engaging with intermediaries. Senior government officials said the state is going to write to the Centre, seeking clarity on whether the companies that showed interest in supplying vaccine doses to Maharashtra are authorised by the company.On Tuesday, the state received bids for the supply of vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Sputnik and AstraZeneca. However, the bids have been submitted by suppliers or middlemen and not the vaccine manufacturers. Senior health department officials said the government’s concern is the authenticity of the proposals as manufacturers including Pfizer and Moderna has clearly stated that they have not appointed any suppliers.Senior officials said that there are number of queries the state intends to ask the Centre in its letter, including can the state engage with the intermediaries, can it procure AstraZeneca vaccine, which is in a pact with Serum Institute of India (SII), that manufacturers same vaccine under Covishield brand.N Ramaswami, commissioner of health services, said, “We will refer this issue to Government of India. We will write to them, asking if the manufacturers have appointed these companies to supply the vaccine doses, and whether the state government can engage with them. These are complex matters and therefore we need to tread cautiously.” If the state finds the companies that showed interest to be unqualified, it’ll have to depend on the supply of Sputnik, which, too, will be limited as its domestic manufacturers will have to give 50% to the Centre and remaining 50% stock will be given to states/UTs and private hospitals. Ramaswami added that the state is trying to get in touch with Russian Direct Investment Fund—the developer of Sputnik V—but so far, they have not responded. The state has got five responses from suppliers of Sputnik, which have quoted a price between Rs800 and Rs2,500, state officials said.The uncertainty over the vaccination and the slow pace of inoculation is expected to continue until SII and Bharat Biotech can supply enough stock by July. Ramaswami said that they expect to hear from the two companies on the stock it will sell to the state. “We are constantly in touch with Serum and Bharat Biotech for the doses we will procure. We expect to hear from them on the schedule of supply by tomorrow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-write-to-centre-as-it-seeks-clarity-on-global-bids-for-vax-supply-101622056216314.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Healthcare of malnourished children takes a back seat in Covid pandemic||While the state is still struggling with the second wave of the pandemic, severely malnourished children with compromised immunity have been at the receiving end. Though the Women and Child Development (WCD) has taken up several initiatives to improve their outreach programme, to improve the health of malnourished children, social activists said the burden of such children in the state will further increase due to the closure of anganwadis and discontinuation of mid-day meal programmes. Doctors said severely malnourished children are most vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 infection. Malnutrition is a non-communicable disease that is referred to when a person’s diet does not provide enough nutrients or the right balance of nutrients for optimal health.According to the last measurement in March 2020, before the pandemic hit the state, Maharashtra had 45,217 severely malnourished children below six years, and around 1.5 lakh children were identified as moderately malnourished. This counted as 3.5% of the total children weighed. Most children are from rural parts of the state like Nandurbar, Palghar, Raigad, Marathwada among other districts. However, activists in rural areas said the number will increase drastically like a ‘ripple effect’ in the pandemic. Dr Ravikant Singh, founder, Doctors for You, said that since the lockdown last year, anganwadi centres have been closed down to reduce transmission of infections. “Also, the mid-day meal programme that provides the primary source of nutrition supplementary to school-going children has halted. Due to the lockdown, many parents have lost their jobs and are facing financial constraints to take care of their children. This will cumulatively contribute to the rise of the acute under-nutrition among children.”With the rise in cases of malnutrition, doctors said these children are likely to become more vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 due to low immunity and several other underlying health issues. MA Patil, president of the Mumbai wing of the Maharashtra Asha Workers and Gatpravartak Sangh said post-Covid, nutrition-related deaths among children would surge.“Malnutrition is classified into various categories. Only if a child is severely malnourished, he can not only contract Covid but other infections like tuberculosis. Since they also have underlying health issues like cardiac or kidney problems among others, they become easy targets for any virus,” said Dr Subhas Prabhu, who heads the paediatric task force. However, so far, the task force hasn’t provided any suggestion on it to the state government.Compared to the first wave, in the second wave, more children below the age of 10 have been infected with Covid-19. Considering this, social activists said the battle against the pandemic is a long term struggle that requires strengthening the implementation of the community-based management strategy for addressing malnutrition among children.To address the issue, Integrated Child Development Services under WCD has been distributing take-home ration to the children registered with anganwadis. “Since the lockdown, we are making all possible efforts to provide an uninterrupted supply chain of nutritious foods to the children. For moderately and severely malnourished children, we are sending doctors and trained Asha workers to their home to check their health parameters. If we find anyone unwell, we immediately shift them to the hospitals and nutritional rehabilitation centres,” said IA Kundan, principal secretary WCD. “We are also sending ready-to-eat energy-dense nutritious food which is a mixture of peanuts, oil sugar, nuts and nutrition-rich ingredients to severely malnourished children,” she added. However, activists claimed only 10% of the total severely malnourished children are getting it. Patil said the take-home ration isn’t providing much help. The state government should focus on providing daily ration to the malnourished children. “At present, the ration is provided every month which is also being consumed by the parents of the children. Along with just dal, wheat and rice, the department should provide more nutrient-rich foods like dry foods and fruits,” he said.Many rural nutritional rehabilitation centres have recorded a sizable drop in the number of referred children. “Earlier, we used to get around 15 referral children every month. Now, we barely get 3-5 cases. In most cases, patients reach us only when they have an infection or develop any health complication,” said an officer from government medical college in Nandurbar. The department is also providing training to the caregivers on how to use the Mid Upper Arm Circumference to measure the degree of malnutrition among children. Also, the state health department has instructed the WCD to make planning for vaccination of lactating and new mothers.Take flu shots as a precautionary measureThe paediatric task force has, as a precautionary measure, suggested that children be inoculated with the influenza vaccine. The suggestion has also been submitted to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Dr Prabhu said since symptoms of Covid-19 and seasonal flu are similar, taking the shot might help control the mental anguish of parents if their children develop flu.“There is no scientific evidence that children will be more affected in the third wave. But if taking the shot helps control the development of seasonal infection, it will save parents from getting paranoid and decrease the unnecessary burden on the hospitals. This is just for a precautionary measure,” he said. When HT enquired with private and civic-run hospitals, they said that so far, they haven’t recorded any sudden surge in the demand for the influenza vaccine from parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-healthcare-of-malnourished-children-takes-a-back-seat-in-covid-pandemic-101622056154880.html
27-05-2021||Lucknow||Now, free post Covid treatment at govt medical colleges in UP||: Patients requiring post Covid treatment will now get free treatment at all government medical colleges/institutions running post Covid wards, said principal secretary medical education Alok Kumar. In an order issued on Tuesday, principal secretary said, “In the present scenario it has been observed that despite testing negative for Covid-19, many patients have to stay further for post Covid treatment in hospitals. Such patients who test negative for Covid but need further treatment in post Covid wards will be treated free of cost.” Several medical institutions had raised the issue with the medical education department as many patients who come for post Covid treatment are unable to afford the same and despite recovering from infection need prolonged hospital stay. Till now medical colleges were charging from post Covid patients who were shifted out of Covid ward after they tested negative. “The decision will be a big relief particularly for those who cannot afford treatment cost. Covid treatment is free of cost, but the sudden burden of post Covid treatment might be a trouble as many patients come from poor economic background,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. The order has been sent to all government medical institutes, including King George’s Medical University, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow and all government medical colleges across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-free-post-covid-treatment-at-govt-medical-colleges-in-up-101622056154269.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh case: Maharashtra govt v/s CBI hearing to be held on June 8||A vacation bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday adjourned to June 8 hearing on the petition filed by the state government seeking to drop two topics from the purview of investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the corruption charges against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The adjournment came after the state agreed to CBI’s contention that the petition be placed for hearing before the bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta, which had on April 5 directed the central agency to conduct a preliminary probe into the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh, as the petition essentially involved interpretation of the April 5 order.The state government agreement was based on the condition that CBI would not seek certain documents from the state related to offences that were included in two unnumbered paragraphs in the first information report (FIR) registered against Deshmukh after the HC directed preliminary probe was concluded. The documents sought by the central agency included the communication by former commissioner of state intelligence Rashmi Shukla in August 2020 to her superiors alleging political interference in posting and transfers of police officers in the state, and the minutes of the June 2020 police establishment board meeting which reinstated arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze after 15 years of suspension. After the counsel for CBI assured the bench that it would not seek the said documents till June 9, the court directed its registry to place the matter before the bench headed by the chief justice on June 8. On Wednesday, when the state government’s petition against CBI came up for hearing before the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, the bench sought to know from special senior counsel Rafique Dada, for the state, whether he was agreeable to the CBI’s contention that the petition should be heard by the same bench which passed the April 5 order. After taking instructions, Dada submitted that the state was agreeable, provided CBI did not press for the documents pertaining to the two issues that it had included in the unnumbered paragraphs in its FIR against Deshmukh. Additional solicitor generals SV Raju and Anil Singh, for CBI, after taking instructions informed the court that it would not press for the documents till June 9 if the petition was heard by the same bench which had passed the April 5 order. After hearing both the sides, the bench adjourned the hearing and directed the registry to place the matter before the division bench of the CJ on June 8 at 10.30am. In the previous hearing on May 21, during preliminary arguments, the state had objected to the scope of the investigation by CBI as it had included issues pertaining to the report by Shukla and the reinstatement of Vaze in its FIR. Dada had submitted that as these issues had nothing to do with the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh, it was an example of over-reach by CBI as the April 5 order had directed the agency to conduct only a preliminary probe into the allegations. Dada had also added that CBI had not followed procedure and had gone beyond the norms laid down in its manual of taking prior approval of the state. CBI had, however, contended that the issues involved had far-reaching consequences and the April 5 order had not put any restrictions on CBI with regards to the extent of its preliminary probe. Raju had further referred to Supreme Court judgements which had set aside objections by other states regarding the over-reach by CBI in its investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-case-maharashtra-govt-v-s-cbi-hearing-to-be-held-on-june-8-101622056094139.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||State suspends 18+ jab drive as stocks dry up||With no dose left to administer to people under the 18-45 year category, Punjab has suspended the vaccination drive for the next few days. Punjab has received 4,29,000 doses of Covishield vaccine out of 30 lakh booked with the Serum Institute of India (SII) this month, which have already been administered. “All these doses have been administered and rather, Punjab vaccinated 4,35,000 persons in the 18-45 category against the 4,29,000 doses as one vial of Covishield actually has 11 doses and whereas the company mandates it to have 10 doses,” said state nodal officer for vaccination Vikas Garg. He said the state has booked 1,16,000 doses of Covaxine for the 18-45 category but the schedule for the arrival of these does is not known yet. Senior officials said 3.8 lakh doses of Covishield are expected to arrive in the first week of June. A few days ago, US-based manufacturers Moderna Pfizer refused to deliver vaccines directly to Punjab citing policy decisions. The Punjab government had approached all manufacturers for direct purchase of Covid vaccines, including Sputnik-V, Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of jabs for early inoculation in the state.The manufactures said they can deal with the Government of India and not the state governments or private companies for delivering vaccines. The Punjab government on May 13 decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at the best price, but it also informed the government that it doesn’t deal directly with the state. But a spokesperson for GAVI, one of the three organisations that have set up COVAX initiative, said that since India is already a participating member of the facility, Punjab could not separately apply to access Covid-19 vaccines.These efforts to procure vaccines from manufacturers abroad were driven by an acute shortage of vaccine for beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 years due to which the state government has had to first delay its start and then suspend the drive at several vaccination centres across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-suspends-18-jab-drive-as-stocks-dry-up-101622055975402.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P-305 tragedy probe: Police summon 5 companies||The Yellow Gate police have issued summons to five companies in connection with the investigation into the Barge Pappa-305 (P305) tragedy. The police, however, have not revealed the names of the companies, as the investigation is underway. P305 is owned by Durmast Enterprises Limited, and chartered by a consortium led by Afcons Industries to carry out a project contract for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). As Cyclone Tauktae hit the coast, accommodation barge P-305 sank in Heera Oil Fields in the Arabian Sea on May 17. Of the 261 people on board, the Indian Navy rescued 186 crew members, recovered 71 bodies and four are still missing. Of the 71 bodies, 13 are still to be identified. Six of them were identified on Wednesday. The executives of the companies have been asked to visit the police station with relevant documents pertaining to ownership of the barge, agreement of subcontracting of work, compliance of safety norms, compliance of other marine laws, etc. Their statement would be recorded, said a police officer from Yellow Gate Police station. “Details about the ongoing investigation can’t be shared,” said Mumbai police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu. The police had earlier registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the master of P305, who is still missing. “It was the call of the master of the barge Pappa-305 to not to move to Mumbai Harbour or other safe region, despite prior warning of a storm. The master chose to just move 200m away from the platform where the barge was working, and to remain at that location, deciding this as a safe location. Unfortunately the weather conditions deteriorated and reached a level worse than predicted. The master didn’t get enough time for any further action to be taken,” Afcons Infrastructure Limited had stated earlier. All 12 anchors of the barge gave away and it drifted. It collided with the unmanned ONGC platform. Most of the crew members jumped into the sea with life jackets on. Police have already recorded statements of over 50 survivors. “Some of them have given a detailed account of the fateful night,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p-305-tragedy-probe-police-summon-5-companies-101622055974148.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi man held with 1kg heroin in Ludhiana||A New Delhi resident was arrested with 1kg heroin near the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godown on GT Road, national highway 44, in Doraha on Wednesday. Acting on a tipoff, a team led by sub-inspector Kuljeet Singh laid a trap in the front of the godown. A taxi coming from Khanna was stopped for checking and the passenger Gaurav, a resident of Mansa park in New Delhi, was held with the contraband, said Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal. Gaurav had hired the taxi from Delhi Bypass for ₹5,000 to deliver the consignment, which he had collected from a Nigerian, to a Zira resident. He had recently moved to New Delhi from Ludhiana. “Questioning is still on to find out who is the operator of the drug racket and to whom the accused was going to deliver the contraband,” said SSP Grewal. The SSP said, “ Traditionally, Punjab was used as a transit point for drug peddlers across the border for transporting contraband to other parts of the country. However, tight security measures have snapped the supply lines. Now, drugs are being smuggled through other parts of the country and are being supplied to peddlers in the state.” He said that it was the third such attempt to sneak huge quantities of drugs into the state in the last two months. A case was registered under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances ( NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-man-held-with-1kg-heroin-in-ludhiana-101622055915462.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Decide on reliefs for hotels hit by pandemic, HC asks Centre, Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) in two separate petitions filed by an organisation representing owners of hotels and restaurants has directed the Union finance ministry to respond and consider the request to extend the moratorium for paying loans availed by them in light of the pandemic restrictions which has stalled their businesses. In the second petition filed by the same organisation seeking waiver of hotel license fees and other statutory charges, the court has asked the state authorities to decide on the representation of the organisation, as the purpose of the fees and charges has not been availed of by the members due to the Covid-19 restrictions. On May 6, the division bench of justice KK Tated and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the petition filed by United Hospitality Association, which represents owners of hotels and restaurants and is based in Pune, through video conferencing, was informed by advocate Abhay Anturkar and Yatin Malvankar that the hotel industry had abided by the lockdown announced on March 24, 2020, which was extended from time-to-time and had curtailed their businesses. The advocates submitted that as the business had come to a standstill they were not in a position to pay back the loans availed by them and sought directions to the Union finance ministry to grant relief, in respect of repayment of loans given the Covid-19 pandemic under the Disaster Management Act. Anturkar further submitted that the association had made representations to the Central government to consider grant of relief in respect of repayment of the loan to the hospitality industry in Pune and Maharashtra and also sought extension in moratorium on loans and a restriction on banks for non-performing assets (NPA) tagging of loans of the hospitality industry in the state.The association said that it was finding it difficult to repay the loans and taxes and hence in the interest of justice, the respondents be directed to decide on their representation.The court issued notices to the respondent Union finance ministry and Disaster Management Authority to respond to the petition and also directed the Union Finance Minister to take a decision on petitioner’s representation on its own merits and communicate the same to the organisation and posted the further hearing of the petition to June 18. The second petition which was heard on May 19, the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the petition of the organisation seeking waiver of license fees for the period that the hotels remained shut due to the pandemic and adjusting the amount already paid towards license fees (FL-III) when the hotels become functional was informed that the hotels had not been able to take benefit of the license fees and other statutory charges already paid. After hearing the association, the bench directed the commissioner of state excise to hear and decide the representation by the organisation which also sought to treat the commencement date of the license period for FL-III license for the financial year 2021-22 from the time the restrictions imposed on the operations of hotels and restaurants were lifted. The bench directed the commissioner to hear and dispose of the representation within four weeks and posted further hearing of the petition on June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decide-on-reliefs-for-hotels-hit-by-pandemic-hc-asks-centre-maharashtra-govt-101622055914136.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Assistant dean of Mumbai hospital booked in third case of cheating PG aspirants||The Sion police have registered a third case against Rakesh Verma, assistant dean at the Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital at Sion, and arrested his associate Luv Gupta for allegedly duping an MBBS doctor to the tune of ₹45 lakh, for securing a postgraduate (PG) medical seat for her.Verma was arrested in December last year in two similar cases, where he along with his associates duped two doctors – from Pune and Hyderabad – of ₹50 lakh and ₹18.50 lakh respectively. The Sion police have given an application to the court to seek his police custody for further investigation. Gupta is in police custody till Thursday. He had secured anticipatory bail in one of the previous cases, said a police officer. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital said, “Dr Verma has already been suspended. I am not aware about police action.”According to the police, the complainant lives in Kurla (East) and wanted to pursue Master of surgery. However, she failed to crack the test. She then approached Verma through a Goregaon-based man. Gupta, who was the middleman, allegedly accepted the money on behalf of Verma, said the officer.The Goregaon-based man arranged the meeting with Verma at Sion hospital, where the victim was promised to get admission through a government quota. The suspects demanded ₹1.10 crore, but after bargaining, the amount was reduced to ₹75 lakh. The victim alleged in her complaint that she paid ₹45 lakh directly to Gupta and ₹26 lakh through bank transaction. The rest of the amount was given later in cash, the officer said.When the victim did not secure admission till April 2020, she contacted Gupta, however, he avoided her calls. The victim along with her family approached the Sion hospital last year in December and learnt about the fraud. The victim approached the Sion police station and gave a written complaint a few months ago. Sion police registered a case and arrested Gupta, said inspector Dilip Ghuge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/assistant-dean-of-mumbai-hospital-booked-in-third-case-of-cheating-pg-aspirants-101622055854135.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Multiple applications by same students, LLM students blame Mumbai university||A day after the University of Mumbai (MU) said that admissions to the Masters of Law (LLM) course were conducted without any errors, applicants have highlighted more issues.In a statement shared with the university vice-chancellor and the governor, LLM applicants have highlighted how a single candidate’s more than one application was accepted by the varsity despite a strict admission rule which states that a student cannot apply to more than one division of the course.“As per the university circular dated May 15, only these seats which are vacant as per their list could be applied, and every student can apply to one division only. However, once they released the list of applications received, it showed the same applicant’s form being accepted for all six divisions,” said a student, who is one of those who have approached the university.On May 15, the university’s department of law issued a notice allowing candidates, who couldn’t make it to the first five merit lists, to apply afresh to vacant seats for spot admissions. In the same notice, the department announced that the sixth merit list would be the last one.There are around 600 seats for LLM in six divisions—Constitutional and administrative law, business law, intellectual property and information technology law, human rights law, criminal law and criminal administration and environmental and legal order.As per a statement highlighted in bold in the same circular, MU stated “candidate should apply for only one group of LLM depending on availability of vacant seats as per the shared list”.Some students highlighted how as per this list, only four seats in the general category were vacant across two of the six divisions.“I had originally applied for group 2, but in the final round I could’ve applied to another group had the varsity announced the total vacant seats. Without sharing this basic information, the varsity later released a sixth merit list showing new admissions in the general category across all six divisions. How is this fair?” asked another applicant who scored 82 in her entrance exam and has lost a seat in one of the divisions to a student with 76 marks in the same exam.A spokesperson for the university told HT that since the last admission round for LLM was a special spot-admission round, students were given a free hand to apply across any division as long as there are vacant seats available. Students, however, highlighted that the MU circular speaks otherwise.“Originally there were only four seats in the general category across six divisions, which we displayed. In case, if the seats in the persons with disability (PWD) category have no applicants, only such seats can be converted to the general category, hence some students who knew the rules applied and got admission. This was a computerised process and no foul play has been highlighted,” said the spokesperson, who added that complaints against the admissions procedure should be addressed to the grievance redressal cell for proper verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/multiple-applications-by-same-students-llm-students-blame-mumbai-university-101622055794263.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,752 cases, 453 deaths||Maharashtra is witnessing a decline in not just Covid-19 cases but deaths, which was on the higher side over the past several days. On Wednesday, the state recorded 24,752 new cases and 453 deaths.The death toll has now reached 91,341 since the outbreak of the virus.In the past 10 days (May 17-26), 5,773 people succumbed to the virus, while from May 7-16, the toll was 7,971. From April 27 to May 6, the state had recorded 8,181 deaths.There are currently 315,042 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 45,655 patients followed by Mumbai with 28,074 active patients. The death toll has now reached 91,341 with Mumbai leading with 14,684 deaths followed by Pune with 11,966. The total number of cases now stands at 5,650,907.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 1,352 cases, followed by 34 deaths. There are total 700,340 cases with 14,684 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 93% with 655,484 recoveries, while the fatality rate of the city is 2.09%.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management attributes the decrease in the number of deaths to various corrective measures taken over a period of time. “We are testing much earlier than before. In addition, the patients with comorbidities are being sent to the hospitals and are not advised of home quarantine, which has improved the situation. Today we have far better knowledge of the mode of treatment, the medication required as well as post-Covid-19 protocols than before. All these factors combined have resulted in a decrease in the death rate,” he added.Dr Jeevan Jain, physician from Lalbaug who has treated over 15,000 Covid-19 patients credits the lockdown for a decline in cases. “The lockdown played an important role in curbing the transmission of the virus and consequently bringing down the number of deaths,” said Jain. However, Jain cautions both the government and the citizens against adopting a casual approach. “The government needs to open up in a staggered manner and with strict protocols. People should follow Covid-19 guidelines and refrain from mass gatherings or social function till the end of this year or else all these gains will be lost,” said Jain.Meanwhile, despite Ratnagiri being included in the red zone, the Savarde market in Chiplun saw huge crowds. In Jalgaon, thousands of people participated in the funeral procession of local politician Gaffar Malik. Akola saw thousands of people on roads despite it being on the list of 18 districts that have a high number of cases. The police and municipal staff raided various cloth stores for violating Covid-19 guidelines. Traders in Solapur have warned of opening shops from June 1 irrespective of the government’s orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-24-752-cases-453-deaths-101622055735681.html
27-05-2021||Other||NGOs set up Covid counseling centres in 3 Kashi villages||: For free help and treatment in rural areas, non-government organisations (NGOs) have set up Covid-19 help and counseling centres in three villages in Varanasi. These centres have been set up in Nagepur, Harsos and Aswari Bhimchandi villages where doctors have been treating people for fever, cold and other seasonal diseases. Villagers turning up with high fever are being referred to the nearest primary health centre (PHC). Nagepur is among those villages adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the Varanasi MP. Social activist Nand Lal Master said that medicines from these centres were also being sent to the Covid patients in home isolation in these villages. Counseling of Covid-19 patients is also being done by the experts. Dr Jai Prakash attended around 35 patients at Nagepur centre and gave them medicines. Master said that the centres that would function for a month will also create awareness about measures to prevent getting infected by Covid-19. Thermal scanning is being done of each and every person reaching the centre and persons with high fever were being advised to visit the nearest primary health centre (PHC) and get tested for Covid-19 infection, Master said. Father Anand, a social activist, who inaugurated the centres, said that serving the poor during the pandemic was true service to humanity. NGOs running these Covid care centres include Asha Trust, Lok Samiti, Vishwa Jyoti Jansanchar Samiti along with Cairitas India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngos-set-up-covid-counseling-centres-in-3-kashi-villages-101622055735032.html
27-05-2021||Other||BKU stages protest across west UP to mark 6 months of farmers’ stir||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders and supporters observed “black day” in many districts of west UP on Wednesday to mark six months of the ongoing farmers’ movement against the Centre’s three new agriculture reform laws.Blaming the government for ignoring the farmers’ movement, they blocked traffic on the Delhi- Saharanpur highway for some time. They vowed to continue their movement until withdrawal of three farm laws and a new law on MSP was enacted.The protesters hoisted black flags on their houses and tractors in villages of Meerut, Shamli, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Saharanpur districts, burnt effigies, shouted slogans and took out processions.At many places, farmers wore black kurtas and turbans. They engaged in scuffles with police personnel who wanted to prevent them from burning the effigies at some places.Leaders and supporters of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) supported the protesting farmers and unfurled black flags.A group of farmers led by BKU general secretary (National Capital Region) Mangeram Tyagi gathered at Kala Aam crossing in Bulandshahr district with black flags and had a scuffle with the police.“Heavy force was deployed there, which tried to prevent us from burning effigy, but we managed to burn it,” said Tyagi.Villagers also burnt an effigy at Ghopla village in Partapur area of Meerut district. The protesters shouted slogans against the union government and showed black flags to police personnel who reached the site.Farmers took out a motorcycle rally through many villages in the Chausana area of Shamli district.BKU supporters gathered at Vandana Chowk in Baghpat and put up black flags there.They handed over a memorandum to sub divisional magistrate Anubhav Singh in which they demanded immediate withdrawal of contentious farm laws and a law guaranteeing the purchase of crops at minimum support price (MSP).Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Sudhir Panwar staged a protest at Kandhla town in Shamli district with his party workers.BKU activists also held protests at Shahpur, Mansoorpur, Purkazi and other places in Muzaffarnagar district.The family members of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait unfurled a black flag at their house on Circular Road in Muzaffarnagar district. BKU and RLD workers burnt an effigy of the union government in the Bhooraheri area of Muzaffarnagar district.BKU activists also staged a protest outside their city office in the Numaish area of Saharanpur district.Farmers displayed black flags and burnt effigies in Najibabad, Dhampur, Kiratpur, Nageena, Chandpur and Bijnor (all in Bijnor), besides various places in the districts of Amroha, Sambhal and Moradabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-stages-protest-across-west-up-to-mark-6-months-of-farmers-stir-101622055734249.html
27-05-2021||Other||Setting up Covid centres in Thane gram panchayats: Collector||With the state government banning home isolation for Covid patients in 18 districts; the Thane district collector has informed that they are making arrangements to set up Covid care centres (CCC) in various gram panchayats, within rural areas of Thane district. These are being set up within zilla parishad schools and ashramshalas that are located within the proximity of the public health centres in the rural areas. The district’s rural areas have witnessed around 36,000 cases last year, whereas the district’s rural areas have already recorded 61,114 cases in five months of this year. Keeping this in mind, the preparations for the possible third wave has begun in the Thane district. There are 2,181 active patients, of which, around 1,546 patients in home isolation and 219 in CCC. The collector has shortlisted three spots in Bhiwandi rural, Shelar grampanchayat and Shenale village in Murbad to build a 30-60 bedded CCC. “We are having one CCC in each taluka and in case of a bigger taluka, we are looking for a suitable space in a cluster of gram panchayat to build CCC. By preferring institutional quarantine, we can curb the further spread of the virus. Moreover, immediate medical help can also be provided in case any individual has more symptoms or health issues,” said Rajesh Narvekar, collector, Thane district. Similarly, Thane Municipal Corporation has made basic preparations for the same, “We already have a centre in Bhayanderpada which is being used as a CCC; it has ample space. With the available infrastructure, if need be we can easily increase the number of beds and provisions in CCC,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.As of now, TMC has 86% beds available, from among the 895 CCC beds available. Thane city currently has 2,105 active cases and 678 from among them are under home quarantine. During the peak of cases in mid-April, the city witnessed 16,700 active cases and around 12,650 were under home quarantine during that period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/setting-up-covid-centres-in-thane-gram-panchayats-collector-101622055674148.html
27-05-2021||Other||Thane civic body floats global tender for 5 lakh vaccine doses||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has floated a global Expression of Interest (EOI) for buying five lakh vaccine doses on Wednesday. The last date of submission for EOI is June 8, while the bids will be opened on June 9. The civic body has a budget of ₹50 crore for the buying of these five lakh vaccine doses. With the unavailability of adequate vaccine doses from the Central government, the TMC has planned to buy the vaccines from the global markets. The civic body got approval for the EOI from the general body last week. As per the EOI, manufacturers, Indian partners, wholesalers, authorised dealers and distributors who have vaccines duly approved by the drug regulator, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) can submit the EOI. An officer from TMC said, “We have asked the bidders to give us a clear timeline of vaccine stock, which will be available in the first 15 days after the EOI is signed in the next 15 to 30 days. Those who will provide maximum stock in a lesser time frame at a feasible cost will be given preference. The vaccine suppliers should also be responsible for providing their own transporting agents and cold storage facilities till the vaccines are supplied to the TMC centres. Moreover, if the vaccines need any specific cold storage conditions, other than the normal available with the corporation, provision for the same should also be done by the concern provider.” The bidders who apply should also attach an earlier success story of supplying vaccines to any other government agency across the world. He added, “The rate quoted in the bid should clarify the rate of per vaccine dose, which needs to be inclusive of all taxes, licensing fees, transportation cost and other charges. The bidder can be from anywhere across the world, except for those countries which share a border with India. The bids will be scrutinised by our Bid Evaluation Committee and will be approved for the further process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-civic-body-floats-global-tender-for-5-lakh-vaccine-doses-101622055614139.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Bid will be termed invalid if unauthorised: Mumbai civic body||As civic officials began screening the proposals the Mumbai civic body received in response to its global tender for supply of 10 million Covid-19 vaccines, they said the bids of suppliers who have not been authorised by vaccine manufacturers will become invalid. A day after Pfizer made it clear that it has not authorised anyone globally or in India to import, market or distribute its Covid-19 vaccine, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said it will term the bid to supply Pfizer’s vaccine as invalid if no genuine link is found between Pfizer and the Czech supplier behind the bid. The civic body said the same rule will apply to all bidders who have proposed to supply other vaccines. On Tuesday, the BMC said it received eight proposals for supplying 10 million vaccine doses. Out of the eight bidders, seven have proposed to supply Russia’s Sputnik vaccine. One bidder had submitted a proposal is for supplying the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. The BMC said further scrutiny is going on, and the last date for submitting proposals has been extended up to June 1, 2021. The BMC had floated a global expression of interest (EoI) on May 12, giving one week’s time to interested parties for supply of vaccine. Post which ,two extensions were given on May 16 and May 25. Pfizer had on its statement on Tuesday said: “As stated earlier, during this pandemic phase, across the world, Pfizer is supplying its COVID-19 vaccine only to central Governments and supra-national organizations for deployment in national immunization programs. Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally.” Civic officials on Wednesday said they are aware of the statement made by Pfizer and that it will scrutinise each and every bid for the same (if suppliers are authorised by the manufacturers). The last date for bids is June 1, 2021. A senior BMC official, not wishing to be named, said, “We have received bids from a Czech supplier to supply Pfizer vaccine and AstraZeneca. We have also gone through the statement of Pfizer and are aware of their claims. We will see if the suppliers who submitted their bids are backed by the vaccine manufacturer. If no genuine link is found in verification of documents, that particular proposal will be counted as invalid, be it of Pfizer or any other company.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday told HT, “It is a fact that someone has sent the bid for Pfizer. If someone has bid, we will evaluate it as per merits of the case.”The bidder offering supply of Pfizer vaccine has also sought advance payment, said civic officials. However, the BMC in its bid document has stated that it will not make any advance payment, they pointed out. “On the issue of advance payment, our tender conditions are clear that no advance payment will be made. The pricing part will come at a later stage. First, we are wanting to ensure whether those who have sent proposals are authorised to supply us the vaccines or not,” said an official who did not want to be named, as he is not authorised to talk to the media. According to BMC’s condition, a supplier or manufacturer is supposed to supply 10 million vaccine doses within three weeks from the date of appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bid-will-be-termed-invalid-if-unauthorised-mumbai-civic-body-101622055554148.html
27-05-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai: Enough beds to isolate all patients if required, says NMMC chief||After the state government announced a ban on home isolations in the 18 districts where the positivity rate is higher than the state’s average, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) said that despite its positivity rate being low, the city has enough beds to isolate all Covid-19 patients, if required. The civic body claimed that 70% of its patients are institutionally quarantined and that it has enough beds for 100% institutional isolation of patients. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar, said, “The city has enough beds to isolate all the patients if required. The government’s latest guidelines are for those areas where the positivity rate is not coming down. We are doing very well in that regard as our positivity rate is a very good 3%. Anything below 5% is good.” According to civic body data, there are 1,771 active patients in the city at present. Of these, 533 are under home quarantine, while 1,238 are in institutional quarantine. 859 patients are admitted to NMMC-run Covid care centres and hospitals, while 379 are admitted to private hospitals. The city has a total of 6,803 beds capacity including ICU, oxygen, general and beds with ventilators. With the daily Covid positive cases dropping to less than 100 in the past couple of days, just 2,183 of these are occupied, while 4,620 beds are available. For the third wave, NMMC is further planning to increase the isolation facility to 12,000 beds. These will include 1,500 ICU beds and 5,000 oxygen beds. Bangar, however, explained, “The more people we have in institutional quarantine, the more opportunity we will have to reduce the death ratio. Late reporting and delayed treatment are main reasons for an increase in the number of deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navi-mumbai-enough-beds-to-isolate-all-patients-if-required-says-nmmc-chief-101622055434108.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Primary Health Centres left out of Covid care net||At a primary health centre (PHC) in Amravati district’s Morshi taluka, patients who come in with Covid-19 like symptoms such as high fever, breathlessness or depleting oxygen saturation are immediately referred to the district hospital, 30 km away. The PHC located in Vichori village is among the 59 such centres in the district. Yet, despite being the nearest medical centres for the community, they have merely acted as referral centres in the pandemic. Dr Satish Pawar, additional mission director, Directorate of Health Services, Maharashtra said that PHCs so far have been kept away from treating Covid-19. “The primary centres implement crucial programmes like maternal and childcare,” said Pawar. “We did not want Covid-19 to affect any of the other health programmes. It is a conscious decision to refer all Covid-19 patients to designated Covid Care Centres, rural hospitals or district hospitals,” he said. “Rare exceptions may be made in cases where access to designated Covid care centres is difficult. But such need has not occurred so far,” he added. However, data over the past month indicates that most of the cases in Maharashtra have emerged from rural parts of the state. Take the case of Amravati, which recorded 8,204 active Covid-19 cases on May 24. Nearly 80% were from rural areas. The district in Vidarbha region was the first to record the spike of the second wave. From less than 100 cases daily till January-end, it reported its highest single-day spike of 1,067 cases in the third week of February. At the time, the numbers rose rapidly in urbanised pockets of Achalpur and Warud, prompting authorities to impose a lockdown on February 23, and which ended on March 8. Simultaneously, they focused on testing and tracing. This so-called “Amravati pattern”, officials said, helped bring down the numbers. On May 12, Amravati district recorded 1,089 cases, with 1,097 active cases. The rural share of daily cases on that day was 76.12%, while in active cases, it was 57%. The gap between the rural and urban areas has only been increasing since then, even though the overall cases have been falling. On May 25, Amravati district recorded 605 cases, but 560 of those were in the rural areas, with only 45 in the city. That’s a rural share of 92.56%. On May 25, Amravati district had 1,376 active cases, with the rural part contributing 820 or nearly 60% of those. Other badly affected districts are showing a similar pattern. Until the second week of May, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur recorded disproportionately high rates of rural cases. On May 13, rural parts of Ahmednagar reported 2,370 new cases as opposed to just 255 in the urban parts. In Jalgaon, 575 new cases were recorded in rural areas whereas 71 new cases came from urban Jalgaon. Solapur rural saw 1,569 new cases while the urban pockets in the district clocked 125 cases (that’s a difference of 1,155%). Kolhapur and Sangli recorded 1,144 and 1,229 cases in rural areas and 125 and 234 new cases in the urban areas, respectively, on the same day. As the cases spike across rural Maharashtra, officials now realize that PHCs can play a crucial role in curbing the spread of the coronavirus disease by ensuring that villagers wouldn’t have to travel far for treatment. But, to achieve this, the state must first overcome some roadblocks. VACANT POSTS In a video conference with doctors from his constituency of Varanasi last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised the need to bring medical services closer to the Covid-19 patients, and said “jahan bimaar, wahin upchaar” [treat the sick where they are located] should be the goal. Even the Union health ministry’s recently released guidelines on Covid-19 Containment and Management in Peri-Urban, Rural and Tribal areas, recognizes the need for stronger primary level health care infrastructure to intensify the state’s response to the pandemic. Maharashtra’s network of 1,829 PHCs in the rural areas are ill-equipped and under-staffed. According to the Rural Health Statistics (2019-2020), a report brought out by the Government of India’s National Health Mission, there were 1,962 vacant posts of female health care workers in PHCs across the state in 2020. Of the 3,587 sanctioned posts of doctors, 739 are vacant; 669 of the 3,834 sanctioned posts of nurses are vacant. Maharashtra requires 1,112 specialists like obstetricians, gynecologists, physicians and pediatricians in its PHCs and Community Health Centres (CHCs) but only has 558 sanctioned posts of which 159 are vacant, leading to an overall shortfall of 713 specialists in rural pockets. The state has 32 vacant posts of radiographers, 247 vacant posts of pharmacists and 544 vacant posts of lab technicians in the PHCs and CHCs. LACK OF INFRASTRUCTURE A PHC typically has two doctors and support staff like supervisors, a pharmacist, and a lab technician. One PHC is commonly connected to five sub-centres which have a female and male healthcare worker each. “We mainly offer primary first aid, antenatal and prenatal care, run OPDs every day and implement immunization drives,” said Yogesh Gawai, a healthcare worker attached to the PHC in Vichori village in Amravati. This PHC, for example, has a four-bed ward, a delivery room and a minor operation theatre for family planning procedures. But the PHC does not have an ICU set up or a specialist doctor. The medical officers in most PHCs are Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) doctors. “The only medical equipment used at PHC is a stethoscope. Anything beyond that is referred ahead,” said a health worker who did not wish to be named. In the tough rural terrain with bad road connectivity, reaching advanced medical centres in district hospitals becomes challenging for patients, leading to delays in seeking medical treatment. Last August, the Vichori PHC was equipped with an oxygen cylinder and last week they received two oxygen concentrators gifted by guardian minister Yashomati Thakur. The PHC staff is yet to be trained in using the concentrators. “PHCs were never envisaged to tackle diseases like Covid-19,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, district health officer of Amravati. “But we are now trying to expand their use without affecting the non-Covid work,” he said, adding that the PHC staff has played a crucial role in contact tracing and rolling out vaccination in the pandemic. “Nearly 85% of the Covid-19 cases are mild or asymptomatic, and such patients could easily be managed at well equipped, well-staffed primary centres,” said health activist Dr Abhijit More. “If patients are diagnosed and treated at the earliest, the further complications of requiring oxygen or ventilators can be controlled largely. But PHC’s in Maharashtra have not been upgraded to keep up with such challenges.” UPSCALING INFRA NEEDS Washim district’s Ashegaon village appointed two MBBS doctors last week. Till now, the centre was led by BAMS doctors who were appointed on a contractual basis. The centre has a pharmacist, a staff nurse, two supervisors and three multipurpose workers. “But we have a shortfall of at least five staff members including two Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANM) staff,” said a health worker. The PHC caters to a population of 28,000 across 21 villages. The staff has been trained in recording pulse oximeter readings after Covid-19 but the members have been asked to refer confirmed and suspected Covid-19 patients to the Covid Care Centre, 22 km away from the PHC. While most patients are transferred through ambulances, some travel on their own, risking the spread of the virus. “Many who are allowed home quarantine don’t follow rules and roam outside,” the health worker said, adding that they had to call the police to warn two such patients. “In rural areas, the farther a patient is asked to go, the more reluctant they get. Equipping PHCs for Covid-19 care is a good idea but manpower will be crucial to run them,” he added. Meanwhile, Amravati officials have identified 20 PHCs that will simultaneously function as isolation centres for mild patients. The isolation wards, however, will be set up in halls and schools near the PHCs to ensure that other patients are not at risk. “We have finalised the premises for the isolation wards and are in the process of setting up the beds,” said district health officer Ranmale. “The isolation wards will start functioning in another week’s time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-primary-health-centres-left-out-of-covid-care-net-101622055374182.html
27-05-2021||Other||Yogi asks pradhans, surveillance committees to help free villages from Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday called upon the newly elected gram pradhans (village heads) and village surveillance committees to play a proactive role in freeing their villages from the Covid-19 disease in Deoria and Kushinagar districts in the eastern region of the state.He was reviewing Covid management and preparations to control Japanese Encephalitis (JE) and acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) in both the districts.Addressing village surveillance committee members at Katrari village in Deoria, he said they should ensure that people coming from outside stayed at quarantine centres and the samples of suspected Covid-19 patients were sent for tests. The committee should also motivate people to go for Covid vaccination, he said.The surveillance committee should also work for the control of JE/AES, check open defecation, organise regular sanitisation and cleanliness drive.The state government will set up “parent special booths” in each district for the vaccination of parents whose children are below 12 years of age, he reiterated.He also said the recovery rate in UP had increased to 95% and the positivity rate declined to 3%.Later, he inspected the vaccination programme at Majhgawan primary health centre in Deoria.He visited the dedicated district Covid hospital and inspected the oxygen plant set up in the hospital premises.The state government was working to make each district self-sufficient in oxygen supply, he added.He also inspected the integrated command and control centre (ICCC), gathered feedback about ambulance service, allotment of beds in hospitals and distribution of medicine kits to the patients from the ICCC staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-asks-pradhans-surveillance-committees-to-help-villages-from-covid19-101622054474201.html
27-05-2021||Other||Noida: Child PGI ramps up infra for patients||The Super Specialty paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, better known as Child PGI and the only hospital for children in the district at the moment, is recruiting more medical staff and increasing beds“We are in the process of recruiting more senior residents and staff for the emergency ward. Every week interviews are being held on walk-in bases. The process will be completed in a fortnight. We currently have around 36 doctors, while 5-6 junior residents have come from Meerut and other districts in the paediatric department. Some consultants may be appointed from other hospitals as well,” said Dr. (Major) B P Singh, senior emergency medical officer (EMO) of Child PGI.Dr Akash Raj, medical director of Child PGI, said that the 50-bedded paediatric Covid ward will be increased to 100. “Out of these, 50 will be paediatric ICU [PICU] beds for Covid patients,” said Dr Raj. Currently there are 150 general PICU beds in Child PGI, the officials said.On a visit to the district on May 16, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced that all districts in the state will be equipped with adequate PICU beds.“The district health department is working to ensure at least 425 PICU beds and 20-30 additional neonatal ICU (NICU) so that we have over 450 PICU/NICU combined beds in the district,” said Dr Ohri.Dr (major) Rakesh Gupta, director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “Currently we have some 20 beds combined for neonatal and paediatric care which we will now increase to 100. Around 30 will be equipped with ventilators and other 20 will be with other oxygen support systems.” The hospitals are also planning on helping each other.“We will map all the paediatric beds in the district and mark them as level 1, 2 and 3 in increasing order of severity. In case patients have to be shifted from one hospital to another, we can ensure the transfer with this data. We can coordinate among ourselves and arrange medicines from one another,” said Gupta.He added that currently GIMS does not have any paediatric Covid patients. “Third wave is inevitable we expect it will come in October-November. We had relaxed after the first wave and were not as much prepared for the second wave as much we should have been. Now for any such wave in the future, we are preparing more than needed so that we are prepared for the worst,” he said.Meanwhile at Sharda Hospital too, a task force has been formed to increase medical facilities.“In our hospital, from oxygen to beds, NICU wards, ICUs, general wards etc. are being kept ready. We currently have six NICU and 14 PICU beds which will be increased to 20 each soon,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, Director, Sharda Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-child-pgi-ramps-up-infra-for-patients-101622054234864.html
27-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Hospitals to train staff in handling children||Gautam Budh Nagar hospitals will be training their staff to ready themselves in the event of a third wave of Covid-19 infections that could possibly affect more children.The focus on children comes on the instructions of the government. While some reports indicated that children may be more affected in a third wave, experts have been saying that there was no evidence to support this theory.But since paediatrics is a specialised branch and in case the infection in children does prove to be severe, hospitals say they want to be ready.“We have 60 resident doctors and over 200 nurses who are being trained by two paediatric experts,” said Dr (major) Rakesh Gupta, director, Government Institute of Medical Sciences who is also the former head of the department of paediatrics in the Armed Force Medical College (AFMC), Pune. They will be instructed on how to handle children, triage and administering medicine.Dr Gupta added that on Wednesday, paediatric experts from government and private hospitals in the district came together to chalk out a plan to prepare for an expected third wave.In the first step, paediatricians will train staff in their own hospitals.Dr Ashutosh Sinha, additional director of Paediatrics, Fortis Hospital, said, “The trainings will help reduce an anticipated staff crunch in the paediatric wards. Uniform guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOPs) will also be created,” he said.Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida will also hold a virtual weeklong session for all health care workers in the district from 11am to 4pm on May 31. “Three paediatric experts from our hospital will train the participants,” said PK Gupta, chairman of the hospital.“Handling children is a bit sensitive. We will train nurses on how to administer medicines, and their doses along with how to handle the medicines. We will also advice on symptoms and the line of treatment,” said Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, medical superintendent at the hospital.The district health department too will hold similar sessions. “The dates have not been decided yet,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, Chief Medical Officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/hospitals-to-train-staff-in-handling-children-101622054114130.html
27-05-2021||Noida||Bed occupancy falls to 33%, ICU at 63% in Ghaziabad||There are considerably more vacant Covid beds available in Ghaziabad than what was the case at the starting of the month.On May 25 night, the overall bed occupancy stood at just 33% (1133 of 3409 beds occupied), and 499 of the 785 ICU beds occupied, according to official data. On May 1, there was not a single ICU bed available and the overall occupancy was 83.5% (where there were 3262 beds).From April 29 to May 5, the weekly average test positivity rate was nearly 41%, which dropped to 18% the next week and 5.37% the week after that. From May 20 to 26, the average weekly positivity rate was 3.78%.An expert said that the curfew from April 30 had helped in reducing the stress on hospital beds with reduction in cases.“During the period (April-May), the cases had spiked considerably, and we were also short on options. However, the situation has almost normalised now with all types of beds easily available in hospitals,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “We still have 229 patients on ventilators and another 89 on oxygen concentrators. The recovery case in such Covid patients is slow. We expect the ICU situation will further improve after 10-15 days.”Doctors said that the second wave saw patients taking longer to recover and hence, occupied beds for longer too.“Last year, the patients generally recovered within 7-8 days even in the ICU. But this year we witnessed recovery time of 10-15 days,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar.Others said that patients still on ventilator-support pose a major concern.“After the partial corona curfew was announced, the shortage of beds continued till May 10, but thereafter the cases started to decline,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association.On Wednesday, district officials said that they have marked a 10-bedded paediatric ICU (PICU) and another 10-bedded neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at Santosh Medical College, which is a government-acquired tertiary care Covid facility.“The arrangements are being made to tackle any shortage of beds in case a third wave happens. It is believed that children may be more affected at the time. Private hospitals have been asked to create PICU wards with 10 beds each. We will also start with 60-bedded dedicated healthcare facility for children,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Experts have earlier said that there is no evidence to support the claim that children will be impacted in the event of a third wave. They said that infected children may have a greater share in the overall infections in than previously but that would be because many adults would have got their vaccinations by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bed-occupancy-falls-to-33-icu-at-63-in-ghaziabad-101622054054081.html
27-05-2021||Noida||Covid vaccination camps start in residential areas in Noida||Noida: Cherry County in Greater Noida West on Wednesday became the first residential society in Gautam Budh Nagar to start vaccinating residents on-campus.“Nearly 800 residents registered for the camp over Co-Win. We also had 250 society staff register themselves, while some residents also got their domestic helps to sign up,” said Gyaan Singh, a society resident. The camp was organised by Fortis Hospital, Noida. The camp started at 9.30am and went on till 6pm, in which nearly 400 people under the 18-45 years age group were inoculated with their first dose of Covishield. The rest will be vaccinated on Thursday, said the residents. Each beneficiary had to pay ₹1,050 for the shot and service. No adverse reaction was reported on Wednesday, they said.The health care staff, equipment and an ambulance were provided by the hospital.Such a camp has come as a relief for residents who found scheduling appointments over Co-Win difficult. “We had been trying to associate with private hospitals for a while to organise such camps. Other societies will host them soon as well,” said Abhishek Kumar, president, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association.Office bearers of residential bodies said that the idea has been popular with the public.“In less than a day, 250 residents registered and paid for the vaccination camp to be held tomorrow in our sector. Other sectors are also starting these drives in collaboration with private hospitals, making it easy for people to get themselves inoculated. Domestic helps, cooks, and guards are also being registered,” said KK Jain, president, Sector 34 RWA.Fortis Hospital’s zonal director Hardeep Singh said, “Fortis Noida is holding camps in Cherry County, Cleo County, Supertech Cape Town, Jaypee Greens, Mahagun Moderne, Aravali Apartments, Mahagun Maywoods, Gaur Atulyam, and Gaur City this month and the first week of June. People will be vaccinated with Covishield. Presently, we are planning to vaccinate about 700 people daily through this drive itself and we are aiming to vaccinate more and more people in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-vaccination-camps-start-in-residential-areas-in-noida-101622053994059.html
27-05-2021||Noida||Need more liquid oxygen storage facility in Noida, say health officials||Noida: While Gautam Budh Nagar is now able to meet its oxygen demand amid a dip in Covid-19 cases, health officials have emphasised on increasing the storage facilities of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in the district, keeping in mind any possibility of a third wave. According to the officials, the district needs to reduce its dependency on oxygen cylinders and focus more on LMO as it is “logistically and medically a better option”. They also said that some new storage tankers for LMO are being planned in the district and new PSA (pressure swing adsorption) plants or oxygen generating plants are being installed.“Currently, the demand for medical oxygen in the district is roughly between 80 to 85 metric tonnes (MT), while the total storage capacity, including LMO plants and all the cylinders, is around 125 MT. We need to enhance the LMO facilities. We are working on it,” said Dr Sweta Khurana, nodal officer for medical oxygen, GB Nagar. At present, the district has 113 MT of LMO holding facilities across 13 private and public hospitals, the officials said. “We are working to increase the LMO tanker storage capacity keeping the future emergencies and likely third Covid wave in mind. Also, we aim to reduce our dependency on oxygen cylinders as LMO tankers are better option logistically and medically as they have better pressure and can be available on time, while cylinders are better for home-isolated patients,” Khurana added.According to the GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, oxygen from LMO plant is cleaner as compared to the oxygen cylinders. “An LMO plant stores oxygen in fluid form and there is assurance of its purity while the purity of oxygen depends on the condition of cylinders which often are not cleaned properly. There are high chances of black fungus and other bacterial infections in cylinders especially when they are stored in high humid areas. Besides, an LMO plant stores more oxygen in lesser space,” said Ohri.He further said that work will soon begin on installing new oxygen generating plants and LMO storage tankers in community health centres at Jewar, Bhangel, Badalpur and Dadha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/need-more-liquid-oxygen-storage-facility-in-noida-say-health-officials-101622053934108.html
27-05-2021||Noida||At UP Gate, ‘Black Day’ observed to mark six months of farmer protest||Ghaziabad: Hundreds of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws at the UP Gate marked six months of their agitation on Wednesday by observing a “Black Day” and burning effigies of the government. Later, farmer leaders, who have been demanding the rollback of the farm laws, said that the government is using Covid-19 just as an “alibi so that the laws stay”. During the protest, the farmers also waved black flags to press for their demands. Farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa, who is a member of UP Gate farmers’ committee, said that about 1,000 farmers gathered to observe “Kala Diwas (Black Day)”, but they followed all Covid protocols. According to the directions of the UP government, the state faces partial Covid-19 curfew, and processions or gatherings are banned. The partial curfew came into effect on the night of April 30 and would continue till May 31.“We did not call farmers, but they arrived on their own. We observed social distancing, and everyone was wearing a mask. We waved black flags and burnt effigies. Flags were also waived by people in villages as mark of protest. For past six months, there has been no solution and we will continue our movement,” Bajwa added. The farmers are staying put at the UP Gate site since November 28 last year and also occupying the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway since December 3. The several talks with the Centre have failed to break the deadlock. The Ghaziabad police had made elaborate arrangements on Wednesday and said that the protest by farmers went on peacefully. “They brought black flags and also tried to burn effigies. When we tried to stop them, they entered jurisdiction of Delhi. About 700-800 protesters had gathered today, which was higher than what normally is nowadays. Majority of them arrived from Uttarakhand. The police deployment was there, and the protest passed of peacefully,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).Meanwhile, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said it seems that the agitation will get prolonged. “The government does not ready to talk to peaceful protesters. We ask if Covid is a bigger issue or farm laws are a bigger issue. If Covid is a bigger issue, they should take back the laws and farmers will return home. But Covid is just taken as alibi so that laws continue to stay. But we will carry our our protest peacefully,” Tikait said at the UP Gate on Wednesday. The last talks between the farm union leaders and the government were held on January 22. “During the peak of the pandemic, an injection which costs ₹400-800 was sold for thousands of rupees and oxygen cylinders were refilled for as high as ₹20,000. Common man suffered. They faced similar situation like farmers will face with the new laws. We have sent letters and if the government talks to us, we will talk. But we have to be prepared for any eventuality. If they snap our electricity supply, we will disconnect supply of electricity to police stations and administrative offices,” Tikait added. Tikait, during the earlier days of the agitation, had alleged that with the new laws, the crops of farmers would go to corporates and farmers would suffer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-up-gate-black-day-observed-to-mark-six-months-of-farmer-protest-101622053874122.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Self-collected mouth samples a good option for Covid testing: PGI study||Self-collected buccal (cheek) samples are promising alternatives to nasal and throat swab culture for Covid testing, a study by researchers at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and Panjab University has noted.The researchers stated that nasopharyngeal (nose) and oropharyngeal (throat) swab sampling remains the gold standard for reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) tests as these methods have established track records for detection of respiratory viruses and have been widely used in pandemic situations. However, these pose unique challenges, such as requiring the healthcare worker to be in close proximity to the infected patient, which can be risky in the backdrop of a public health emergency. In addition, these induce discomfort and can stimulate the gag reflex (contraction of the throat that happens when something touches the roof of the mouth) in patients undergoing sampling. This can affect compliance and carries the risk of aerosol generation.Nasal and throat sampling also require the use of personal protective equipment (PPE). Researchers noted that although nasopharyngeal sampling remains the gold standard, it must be recognised that there are specific patient groups that are not amenable to this procedure. For instance, it can be difficult to obtain nasal and throat samples from children and adults with various health conditions.Compared with nasal and throat sampling, the sensitivity of tests from buccal swabs and saliva was 58.90% and 62.90%, respectively suggesting that the oral cavity and its fluids are of high relevance to the pathophysiology of SARS-CoV-2.“Results from nose and throat samples were used as the gold standard to gauge the diagnostic capability from buccal and saliva samples. Both asymptomatic (59) and symptomatic (14) patients, whose nose and throat samples were positive for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-qPCR, were included in our study. Of 73 buccal swabs, 43 (58.90%) were found positive for SARS-CoV-2 and of 62 saliva samples, 39 (62.90%) were positive for SARS-CoV-2.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/samples-collected-from-cheeks-alternative-for-covid-testing-pgi-study-101622050334027.html
27-05-2021||Pune||Work on ‘escape passages’ linking Shivajinagar and Civil court Metro tunnels begins||PUNE The Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation (Maha-metro) has begun excavation work on the passage that will link the Shivajinagar and Civil court tunnels. Officials said a short underground passage, connecting the parallel tunnels will be used in case of an emergency. According to Atul Gadgil, director, Maha-Metro, “Maha-Metro has planned seven such passages on the underground stretch between Shivajinagar and Swargate. Generally, there is one passage for each 500 metre underground stretch. It is in case a train derailment tales place, there will be an escape route for passengers. We have started excavation work on the first passage between Shivajinagar and the civic court tunnel.”On the overall completion of the underground route, Gadgil said, “We have crossed the river and reached the Budhwar peth area. From the Swargate side, we will reach Mandai in the coming 15 days.” The underground stretch between Agriculture college and Swargate is part of the 16-kilometre Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate corridor. Meanwhile, a ramp to link the elevated track with the underground route at Agriculture college depot will be completed by August.Gadgil said, “At Swargate, we are using cut and cover sections for the station work. Behind the station, there are two tunnel works going on under the New Austrian Tunnelling Method (NATM) method. It is a conventional method as there are no tunnel boring machines. It takes at least three months to complete this tunnel work.” There are five underground stations. Of these five metro stations, Maha-Metro is erecting multi-modal hubs at three stations.The cross passages are generally constructed using traditional techniques. These typically include the use of ground treatment, excavators, rock breakers, rock bolting and concrete lining from within the tunnels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/work-on-escape-passages-linking-shivajinagar-and-civil-court-metro-tunnels-begins-101622040193470.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Master Plan 2041 to be out in first week of June||Tackling pollution, provisioning rental housing, enhancing walkability and redevelopment of old areas are some of the key features of the Master Plan of Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041), the blueprint for city’s development in the next two decades. The draft MPD-2041 was approved by the Delhi Development Authority on Tuesday and will be placed in public domain for comments next month.DDA vice chairman Anurag Jain said, “The vision is to foster a sustainable, liveable and vibrant Delhi by 204I. There are several policies and norms that have been introduced to achieve this. In fact, we have included some of them such as green development areas (policy for development in green belt areas), walkability, Transit Oriented Development (ToD), norms for unauthorised colonies etc in the current master plan.”While focus is on sustainable development, the draft plan talks about urban design provisions to ensure safety of people on the streets by allowing round-the-clock activities.Jain said, “It is important to have eyes on the streets for the safety of people. It is based on this idea that we have included provisions to mainstream urban design ideas such as active frontage, walkable block lengths, round the clock activity, etc. In new areas which will come up under land pooling, this can easily be done.”The DDA aims to notify the MPD-2041 or the vision document by December this year.While there are proposals to modify some existing norms related to development control, there are many new policies which will change the city. These include introduction of Special Green Economic Uses having low Floor Area Ratio and larger green areas, allowing development in green belt, rental housing, etc.EnvironmentIncreasing air pollution has been one of the key concerns of the city in the past few years. The draft MPD-2041 stresses on the need to enhance the city’s preparedness to deal with climate change issues and tackle pollution, mainly air.For this, the draft plan has proposed a blue-green policy which is to integrate the drains (blues) with the green areas around it. A senior DDA official said, “The policy for new industrial areas has been changed and no manufacturing units will be allowed. There is provision for adopting strict norms for tackling air, water and noise pollution and Special Green Economic Uses that will have low Floor Area Ratio and large green areas.”Environmentalist Diwan Singh said just pushing for construction of green buildings or green industries is not enough and concrete measures have to be taken.Singh said, “There is a conscious effort to increase the green buffer. The DDA should include creation of a biodiversity park or dense green area every 4-5 square km. Green cover is essential to mitigate local air pollution. There should be a plan to revive the water bodies and not flood them with treated water.”HousingCurrently, the DDA is one of the main agencies responsible for providing housing in the city. While the land-owning agency has modified its policies allowing private developers to provide housing, the DDA has made provision for rental accommodations in its next master plan (a major departure from the existing norms).A DDA official said, “The focus will be on non-ownership/ rental and small format housing (particularly close to mass transit) with incentivising new formats like serviced apartments, condominiums, hostels, student housing, worker housing, etc. DDA could earmark some plots in the zonal plan for this which can be allotted on leasehold basis to private developers.”While transit-oriented development (ToD) is being pushed as a major policy in future developments, the draft plan proposes policy for redevelopment and re-densification of old areas specially urbanised villages and unauthorised colonies. DDA officials said that this could be done either through retrofitting or redevelopment. The draft plan also has provisions to provide flexibility in land use and FAR. It stresses on the need to provide social infrastructure in existing residential areas such as urbanised villages, unauthorised colonies, etc.GIS-based planningFor the first time, the DDA has used GIS-based planning in the MPD-2041. DDA officials said that zonal plans have been prepared after digitally mapping every service, land use and infrastructure . “GIS-based plan is to enable stakeholders to know the exact policies/provisions of the draft Master Plan,” said an official.There are 168 layers such as residential, trade and commerce, utilities, roads, transport networks, unauthorised colonies, government offices etc which are being earmarked. “So far we have completed 50 layers and plan to finish the remaining soon,” said a senior DDA official.AK Jain, former planning commission, DDA, said, “GIS is an outdated system and DDA should use new technologies for better planning of the city.”DDA officials said that efforts have been made to make the document people-friendly and easy to read and understand.Other provisionsThe draft MPD-2041, which is divided in two volumes, focuses on enhancing infrastructure for walkability, special provisions for preservation and redevelopment within identified heritage and cultural precincts. There is also focus on enhancing the environment with focus on preservation and enhancement of ecological heritage (Yamuna riverfront development, biodiversity parks).Jain, who has been part of the preparation of 2001 and 2021 master plans, said, “The focus of the new master plan should be on developing a 15-minute city by allowing development along transport nodes. It should take people 15 minutes to reach their workplace from home. Also, the land use provisions should be relaxed and made flexible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-master-plan-2041-focuses-on-sustainable-development-and-checking-pollution-101618340142801.html
