29-05-2021||Other||Covid-19: Meerut Diocese to find, help orphans of second wave||The Meerut Diocese of the Catholic community has decided to help children orphaned in the second wave of the pandemic.Its financial administrator, Rev Fr Jesu Amirtham, said, “Like the other communities, the Catholic community also suffered a great loss of lives in the second wave of the pandemic. After mourning the deaths of our people, we must move forward and offer our services to those whose families have been devastated in the pandemic,” he said.He said that it has been decided to send a circular to all priests and nuns in the Meerut Diocese to look for children who had been orphaned in the pandemic, and extend help to them in every possible way.“It is not possible to keep such children with us because of the tedious and lengthy procedure of adoption under juvenile laws. Therefore, priests and nuns have been asked to evolve some way to help these children,” Fr Amirtham said.He said that Catholic priests had run an orphanage near Daurala town in the district for 38 years, but for some unavoidable reasons it was closed two years ago. “Our dedicated and committed priests and nuns have a long experience of doing selfless service to society, hence, they know how to find a way to help these children even without opening an orphanage for them,” said Fr Amirtham.He said that four priests and 10 sisters of the diocese have died after contracting the Coronavirus during the second wave. These religious were in Ghaziabad, Meerut, Moradabad, Dehradun and Mussoorie.The Meerut Diocese has 155 priests and 800 sisters with a total population of 32,000 Catholic believers in 14 districts which span from Ghaziabad to Rampur and Mussoorie in Uttarakhand.He said that 170 fathers and 150 sisters (data is still being compiled) have died across the country.Sharing the message of Bishop Kalist, he said that the whole Catholic community is praying for the departed souls and eradication of the virus so that peace could return.What is a diocese?A diocese is the territorial jurisdiction of a bishop where many churches exist. India has 174 dioceses and the Meerut Diocese comprises 14 districts of Western UP and Uttarakhand. The head of the Meerut Diocese is Bishop Francis Kalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-meerut-diocese-to-find-help-orphans-of-second-wave-101622312432681.html
29-05-2021||Other||Power subsidy bill, arrears cross 10% of Punjab’s total budget||Political compulsions and poll promises are set to take a huge toll on the state’s finances in the election year as the power subsidy bill has steadily risen to ₹17,796 crore, which is more than 10% of Punjab’s total budget. The budget approved for the current fiscal is ₹1,68,015 crore.The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has worked out a subsidy of ₹10,668 crore payable to different consumer categories. It comprises ₹6,735 crore for agriculture pump set consumers, ₹1,627 crore for scheduled caste, backward class and below poverty line domestic consumers and ₹2,266 crore for industrial consumers. The large supply consumers are to get ₹1,928 crore, medium power ones will get ₹197 crore and ₹142 crore in subsidies has been allocated to small power consumers.Free power to farmers for agriculture besides weaker sections was a poll promise made by the Congress. So was the subsidy to provide power at ₹5 per unit to the industry. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has already clarified that these subsidies will continue. ₹7,117 crore arrears There are also ₹7,117 crore arrears from the last fiscal, as the state government has been failing to pay the full subsidy for the past seven years.The total subsidy payable for the financial year 2021-22 is ₹17,796, which will be payable in 12 instalments this year. The first two instalments are ₹1,386 crore each, while the balance ₹15,024 crore will be paid in 10 equal instalments between June 2021 and February 2022, reads the PSERC order.The Punjab government has written to the commission on May 25 that it will continue to provide subsidy to industry, agriculture and domestic consumers amounting to ₹10,621 crore, and it has been provided for in the state budget. This comprises ₹7,180 crore for agriculture, ₹1,928 crore for industry and ₹1,513 crore for domestic consumers.Punjab is the only state in the country where industrial consumers, who are cross-subsidising another category of consumers, also receive subsidies. While the Punjab industry is cross-subsidising other consumers to the tune of ₹1,175 crore, it is getting a subsidy of ₹2,200 crore. At the same time, it is paying ₹2,000 crore as excise duty and other taxes.Punjab is levying 20% electricity duty across the board on payable bills of all consumers. It has reduced the power tariff for consumers having load up to 7 kW.“Punjab should reduce electricity duty to 5% on domestic loads up to 2 kW, 10% for up to 7 kW and 15% for up to 15 kW. This will further reduce the burden,” said VK Gupta, spokesman of All India Power Engineers Federation. He said the government should now introspect over its poll promises as these are bleeding Punjab’s finances. “There is a need to rationalise the subsidies,” he said, adding that poll promises are important, but these should be limited to the needy sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-subsidy-bill-arrears-cross-10-of-punjab-s-total-budget-101622309733292.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Vaccination picks up pace in Noida in last 15 days||Noida: In the past 15 days, the number of vaccinations administered per day at Gautam Budh Nagar’s Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) for all age groups has almost doubled, with around 7,000 doses being administered daily up to May 14, to over 13,000 from around Thursday onwards. The total number of vaccinations carried out at government CVCs on May 10 was 4,621, with 2,603 inoculated in the 18-45 category. This is in contrast with the figures of May 29, when the total vaccinations carried out in the district were 14,600, including 11,296 in the 18-45 category.By May 14, the average per day vaccinations by the Gautam Budh Nagar health department averaged around 6,000-7000 but since then to around Wednesday, the vaccinations went above 10,000 per day. If vaccinations administered at private centres are taken into account as well then on May 28, a total of 19,206 doses were given in the district, out of which 14,180 were at government centres, according to official data.Narendra Bhooshan, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in GB Nagar, said, “The vaccinations being carried out at workplaces vaccination centres (WVCs) and camps being held by private hospitals in residential areas is helping increase the inoculation numbers”.Moreover, ever since May 10 when vaccinations for the 18-44 category were started in the district, the health department has added 62 new government CVCs. On May 10, the district had 21 centres while on May 29, this figure had increased to 83.The district has an estimated population of 21 lakh, of which around 15 lakh to 16 lakh people are to be vaccinated. As of Saturday, 5,95,122 people in the district had been vaccinated, which is around 30% of the total targeted population for vaccinations, said district magistrate Suhas LY.“I believe the government centres as well as private ones can easily vaccinate 25,000 people in a day, combined. If this goes on at the same pace, within two-three months we shall be able to cover all of the 18+ population in the district with at least the first dose,” said Suhas.Workplace vaccinations kick off in NoidaMultinational firm UFlex kicked off a vaccination drive Saturday at its headquarters in Sector 62. The drive is set to cover 6,000 employees of the firm above the age of 18 working in facilities across Noida, including shop-floor workers and contract staff. Doses will be provided free-of-cost to employees, for which UFlex has tied up with Kailash Hospital in the city. The camps will be set up inside the company premises and plants across different locations. The company plans to complete the vaccination drive by June 5.Earlier, digital and business solutions firm Tech Mahindra Ltd had also rolled-out a vaccination drive for its associates and dependent family members above the age of 18 years at its office campuses at NSEZ in Sector 82. The company is covering the cost of vaccination and has partnered with Fortis Healthcare for the same.Meanwhile, Felix Hospital in Sector 137 launched a 24x7 vaccination drive-through facility at its hospital on Saturday. Here, beneficiaries will need to book their slot on Cowin for ₹900.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-picks-up-pace-in-noida-in-last-15-days-101622309312375.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||FIR against TV actor Munmun Dutta for casteist remark||Amboli police on Saturday booked actor Munmun Dutta for allegedly using casteist slur against a community in a video she had posted online on May 10. The actor, who plays the character of Babita in the television series Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, has been booked under relevant sections of the Atrocities Act and the Indian Penal Code. This is the third FIR against the actor. In the past, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh police had registered FIRs against the actor for the same objectionable video. The actor had later uploaded an apology after her comment sparked controversy on social media.The FIR was registered by Amboli police after a complaint was filed by Naresh Bohit, Maharashtra president of Walmiki Vikas Sangh. Bohit stated in his complaint that while announcing her entry on YouTube the actor expressed a casteist slur for the Walmiki community.“Her comments have hurt sentiments of the Walmiki community people. It insults the community and it also maligns the community’s image in society and shows us in a bad light,” Bohit stated.After Dutta’s video courted controversy she uploaded a one-page apology on Twitter and stated, “A video that I posted yesterday wherein one word used by me has been misinterpreted. It was never said with the intent of insult, intimidate, humiliate or hurt anyone’s feelings. Because of my language barrier, I was genuinely misinformed about the meaning of the word. Once I was made aware of its meaning, immediately took the part down. I have utmost respect for every single person from every caste, creed or gender and acknowledge their immense contribution to our Society or nation. I sincerely would like to apologize to every single person who have been unintentionally hurt by the usage of the word and I sincerely regret for the same.”Bohit said, “It has become a trend for the celebrities to first make a derogatory comment and then after damaging reputation of the community apologise for the comment. We need legal action on the actor.”Mumbai police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu said that a first information report (FIR) has been registered at Amboli police station under sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of IPC and 3 of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-tv-actor-munmun-dutta-for-casteist-remark-101622309192323.html
29-05-2021||Bangalore||‘Reopening can start with people’s cooperation’: Yediyurappa on lifting lockdown||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that cooperation of the state’s citizens is necessary in order to begin reopening and further decision on the lockdown will be taken depending on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case trajectory.He said that even if the government decision on lockdown will be based on Covid-19 situation, people’s cooperation will also depend upon extension or gradual relaxation of the lockdown in the state.“If people cooperate, the question of extending it (the lockdown) after June 7 may not arise, people will have to cooperate. We will put in all our efforts,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“Lockdown will continue till June 7. Depending on the situation, we will take further decisions. For now, till June 7 we shall observe. All the strict measures that need to be taken will be followed till then,” Yediyurappa further added.Earlier in the day, state home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that following the directions given by Centre to continue lockdown-like measures till June 30, the state may extend the lockdown. The Centre on Thursday directed governments in all state and Union Territories to continue implementation of the lockdown-like measures till June 30.“The positivity rate has not decreased drastically, it needs to fall below 10%, and in rural areas there are about 22,000-23,000 cases, it to fall below 10,000 cases, even the number of deaths will have to decrease, only then we will be able to manage the health infrastructure in the state,” Bommai said. The positivity rate in Karnataka is currently 16.42% and the case fatality rate is 1.75%.Yediyurappa met with MPs, legislators and public representatives from Mysuru, Hassan, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts. These districts have reported a high number of cases in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/reopening-can-start-with-people-s-cooperation-yediyurappa-on-lifting-lockdown-101622308314645.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Take locals into confidence or there will be unrest: Shiv Sena over Lakshadweep row||Targeting the Centre over the set of new regulations in Lakshadweep, Shiv Sena on Saturday warned of “communal tension”, adding that such moves could create “unrest” in the country. Sena leader Sanjay Raut asked why that there is no ban on cow slaughter in Goa and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states in the North East, like the one proposed by the Lakshadweep administrator Praful K Patel.Patel, a former Gujarat BJP leader and the state’s former home minister, is facing criticism on the slew of regulations he has brought in Lakshadweep where he was made the administrator by the Centre. The new regulations have drawn the ire of the locals as well as political parties including Sena’s allies in Maharashtra—Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP added that the decision that are made in the Union Territories and the islands must be taken after taking the locals into confidence. “If there is unrest then the whole country has to pay the price for it. And if somebody is trying to create communal tension in such Union Territory then it is wrong,” Raut said. Sena mouthpiece Saamana also published an editorial on Saturday and said that Patel’s “arbitrariness” is now seen in the island after Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Patel was named in the suicide note of Dadra Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar who committed suicide earlier this year in Mumbai.His regulations include a new development plan, proposed cow slaughter ban, the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, which allows the police to detain a person without any public disclosure for a period of one year, and the draft panchayat notification, where a person with more than two children is disqualified from being a panchayat member. Raut said that three is no opposition to development in Lakshadweep but added, “But the law and rules have to be uniform for everybody. There is a new regulation of beef in Lakshadweep, which is fine but Goa doesn’t have a ban, neither does Kerala or North-Eastern states. If such a law comes only in Lakshadweep, then many questions crop up in the minds of the people. Therefore, whether the administrator is a political appointee or a civil servant, if we do not take step cautiously then we will face unrest in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/take-locals-into-confidence-or-there-will-be-unrest-shiv-sena-over-lakshadweep-row-101622309072309.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Include pregnant women in vax ambit, Sena MP writes to Union health min||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Priyanka Chaturvedi on Saturday wrote to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan seeking inclusion of pregnant women in vaccination ambit. The Rajya Sabha MP sought inclusion citing increase risk to pregnant women in the second wave of Covid-19.In her letter, Chaturvedi said that in the second wave, pregnant women have been found at an increased risk of severe illness from Covid-19 when compared to others. She further quoted that a recent report found that pregnant women with Covid-19 are more likely to require intensive care unit (ICU) beds, invasive ventilation and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. She said that the risk of death is 70% higher in pregnant women than in non-pregnant women, they are also at an increased risk of a blood clot.“About 67,000 babies are born every day in India, approximate 2.7 crore pregnancies in a year are recorded in our country, keeping this segment out of the vaccine process will not only endanger their lives but could also lead to their babies having to suffer the consequences,” she wrote. She further said, “I do understand the position, due to lack of clinical trials data on the effect of the Covid-19 vaccine on pregnant mothers. I also acknowledge that India administers a different set of vaccines other than the mRNA vaccines for which data exists,” the letter stated.Recently, the Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had initiated consultations with gynaecologists and health task force after which had given its in-principle nod and drawn up a detailed plan to priorities bringing expectant and lactating mothers in the vaccine ambit. However, they are unable to roll it out since they await a final nod from the Centre, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/include-pregnant-women-in-vax-ambit-sena-mp-writes-to-union-health-min-101622308952313.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s active cases go down by 45% in 20 days||In a significant development in the fight against the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the number of active cases in the city has almost halved in the last 20 days. From 52,000 active cases in the city as of May 8, the number of active cases has come down to 28,000, as of Friday.On Saturday, the city recorded 1,038 cases and 25 deaths. The case tally now stands at 703,560, while the death toll is 14,775. The city’s recovery rate is 93% with 658,056 recoveries. There are 28,606 active cases in the city and the fatality rate is 2.09%.Along with the city’s active cases, the daily positivity rate has also come down to around 3% from being around 27% in the first week of April, known to be the peak of the second wave.According to the state health department data, from being over 90,000 active cases in the first 15 days of April, the number came down to 82,616 on April 22. Further, the number went down from 63,325 active cases on May 1 to around 52,000 active cases on May 8.As of May 28, there are around 28,000 active cases in the city. This means, in the last 20 days the number of active cases has come down by 45%.Another sign of the number of cases going down drastically is the significant drop in the number of containment zones, sealed buildings and sealed floors. As of May 27, there are 41 containment zones in the city, 175 active sealed buildings and 4,226 sealed floors, down from 111 containment zones, 979 sealed buildings and 9,899 sealed floors, as of April 30.According to BMC officials, though the number of cases is declining, the civic body is preparing for the third wave, which is anticipated in the coming months. The civic body said it had to handle around 1,500 symptomatic cases, per day, during the second wave; it is now preparing to handle around 2,500 symptomatic cases.Two days ago, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal also said that experts are of the opinion that the third wave might hit the city between July to August.Meanwhile, Dharavi, the city’s former hot spot, recorded four cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 6,810 followed by 6,422 discharges.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “The number of cases is bound to drop after a spike. We are seeing a similar trend in the city. But we have to be very mindful during the unlocking, considering we do not know how the virus will behave post the downfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-active-cases-go-down-by-45-in-20-days-101622308892406.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||OBC communities may lose political reservation in local bodies in Maharashtra||This may turn into a major political crisis for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) as the Other Backward Classes (OBC) is on the verge of losing political reservations in the local bodies of Maharashtra comprising municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, gram panchayats etc. This is because the Supreme Court has rejected the state government’s review petition concerning reservation to the OBCs. It has ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota determined by it.Moreover, the Apex court directed the state government to appoint a commission to determine the backwardness and population of the OBC communities, based on which, the reservation quota should be fixed for them. However, it won’t be allowed to breach the 50% cap on reservation quota. This simply means no seat is going to be reserved for the OBC community in the upcoming local bodies at least for this year or until the state government completes the entire process.This has upset the community who have threatened that the state government will have to face its consequences.The community leaders are preparing to meet in the next two days to deliberate and decide the next course of action. They will also be seeking the appointment of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The review petition of the state government was quashed by the Supreme Court on Friday. The Apex court gave its verdict on March 4 following which the state had approached it for a review.This is the second setback to the MVA government this month as on May 5, the Apex court had quashed 12% and 13% reservation in government jobs and admissions to the Maratha community through the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act. The state government, which is yet to decide its next course of action against the verdict, is now facing another blow over reservation to the OBC communities.While reading down section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, the court on March 4 also quashed notifications issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) in 2018 and 2020 to the extent of providing seat reservation in local bodies concerned for OBCs.Section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, provides a 27% quota for persons belonging to backward classes, which was challenged in the court of law.The legislation for the local bodies in Maharashtra provides reservation to the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Schedule Tribe (ST) communities based on their population in those particular bodies, whereas in the case of OBC this data is not available as their last census was conducted in 1931.Referring to a constitutional bench verdict passed in K Krishna Murthy versus Union of India in 2010, the Apex court has said, “It was imperative for the state to set up a dedicated commission to conduct contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of backwardness and on the basis of recommendations of that commission take follow up steps including to amend the existing dispensation such as to amend section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961.”While doing so it further ordered that in any case, such reservation shall not exceed an aggregate of 50 per cent of the total reserved quota favouring SC, ST and OBC communities.State election commissioner UPS Madan said that the Supreme Court verdict is going to be applicable for all the local bodies including urban and rural. “The only thing is they will become applicable only when fresh elections are to be conducted. It means the verdict would be applicable for the upcoming elections of local bodies. It also means no seat can be reserved for OBC communities until the state government completes the entire process of setting up a commission, who will go into details of OBC communities and then come up with recommendations on which local bodies should have how much OBC reservation,” the election commissioner said.He further clarified even after that the combined reservation of SC, ST and OBC communities will not be allowed to exceed the 50% limit.Five major municipal corporations are going to polls in 2021 and ten other corporations and 27 district councils are going to poll this year.The Apex court in its March 4 order also observed that the reservation given to the OBC communities is not mandated by the Constitution unlike SC and ST and thus it should be reduced wherever the total reservation quota exceeds 50% limit. “This is the reason the OBC community will be at the receiving end as they were getting 27% reservation as per state legislation. Thus even after the entire process is completed the communities will not be able to get 27% reservation in all those local bodies where SC and ST have more population,” said an official from the state election commission.“We are going to pay a big price for the mistakes of this government. If the state government had taken immediate measures soon after the March 4 verdict then this situation may not have arisen. We have requested them to get the case deferred unless the entire process of setting up the commission and its study is completed. However, they chose to ignore it and the political future of the community has been pushed into the darkness,” said Chandrakant Bavkar, president, OBC Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti.“The state government will have to face the consequences as it is giving step-motherly treatment to the OBCs and preferential treatment to the Maratha community. All this is going to be discussed in a meeting to decide the next move in the next two days,” he alleged.State Nationalist Congress Party minister and a prominent OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal said that they have to look into details of the verdict. “I have yet to read the order. The issue was related to the areas having a tribal population in the majority. We will look into the details and take necessary steps,” Bhujbal said.He further said they have been demanding a census of the OBC community by the census commissioner to understand what is the population of their community and what are they getting in terms of reservation.Meanwhile, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis wrote a letter to the chief minister for appointing a commission to study backwardness of the OBC communities. He also said that the OBC communities have lost their political reservation owing to the incompetency of this government. “The state government showed no seriousness for OBC reservation. It sought to postpone the hearing eight times in the last 15 months. In one of the hearings, SC has clearly said about setting up a commission to justify the 27% OBC reservation but they did nothing except filing a review petition. With this decision in place, OBC communities will not get a single seat reserved in all the local bodies across the state,” Fadnavis said in his letter.He pointed out raising the issue in a meeting with the chief minister on March 5 and later sending a reminder but the government took no action on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-communities-may-lose-political-reservation-in-local-bodies-in-maharashtra-101622308832330.html
29-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Daily Covid-19 cases, active caseload dip but fatalities continue to remain high||While the daily new infections of the coronavirus disease continue to recede in Karnataka, the number of new fatalities continues to remain a concern for the state. With 20,628 new Covid-19 cases and 492 deaths on Saturday, the state’s tally rose to 2,567,449 and the death toll climbed to 28,298, a bulletin from the state government showed.Active caseload further fell to 350,066 cases from the 372,373 reported previously on Friday, a decline of 22,307 cases. Meanwhile, 42,444 people were discharged on the day as the total recoveries reached 2,189,064 and the recovery rate reached 85.26 per cent.Today's Media Bulletin 29/05/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/B4UYxNcOte @CMofKarnataka @BSYBJP @mla_sudhakar @drashwathcn @RAshokaBJP @BSBommai @CPBlr @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe @PIBBengaluru @BBMPCOMM @BlrCityPolice @blrcitytraffic pic.twitter.com/FM23eKpuYdKarnataka witnessed the unabated spread of Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic and was reporting over 40,000 new cases earlier in the month. Also, the state emerged as the new hub of Covid-19 and the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday red-flagged the state for having the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases among all other states.While the number of new cases detected in the state have been receding along with the active caseload, the daily fatalities have continued to remain a concern for the state. In the week, the daily new deaths have remained above the 500-mark for three days earlier on Monday (529 deaths), Tuesday (588 deaths) and Wednesday (530 deaths) and above the 400-mark for the past three days with 476 deaths on Thursday and 401 deaths on Friday.Also, the death toll in the state has more than doubled in the past two months. It was recorded at 12,585 according to the medical bulletin on April 1 and is currently at 28,298. On May 1, the death toll was at 15,794.Bengaluru Urban, the worst affected district in the state, added 12,891 to the overall death toll which is the highest among all districts. Only Mysuru (1,604 deaths) and Ballari (1,337 deaths) are the other two districts to have reported more than 1,000 deaths so far.The state is currently under strict Covid-19 related restrictions and chief minister BS Yediyurappa, earlier in the day, said that the state government has no plans of extending the lockdown. The administration will also “think about it on June 5,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying. He also tweeted that he reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Mysuru, Hassan, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts with state officials and asked them to ensure that hospital beds and medicines are available in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-daily-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-dip-but-fatalities-continue-to-remain-high-101622307343487.html
29-05-2021||Other||UP CM orders quick verification of papers for timely payment of salaries to 69,000 assistant teachers||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered expediting the verification of documents of 69,000 newly appointed assistant teachers of primary and upper primary schools of the basic education department to ensure timely payment of salaries to them.He has also warned of strict action against officials responsible for a delay in the verification process. The CM issued the directive following a demand by teachers’ organisations regarding the payment of salaries to all the newly appointed teachers as only 60% of those whose documents have already been verified are being paid their salaries.The state government had recruited 69,000 teachers in the basic education department last year to overcome the shortage of teachers in the state.The chief minister has also instructed the senior officials to conduct a district-wise review of the verification work being done and ensure timely completion of the exercise. Additional chief secretary (basic education) Renuka Kumar on May 19 directed the director general (school education) Vijay Kiran Anand regarding speedy disbursement of salary.The relief was given keeping in mind the ongoing Covid-19 crisis in the state because of which administrative work in several universities was hampered, making it impossible to carry out verification of degrees.The order said that the department should take written undertaking stating that all marksheets and proof of educational qualifications submitted by the newly appointed teachers at the time of their recruitment are true.The order further warned the newly appointed teachers of legal consequences if the proof of their educational qualifications was found fake during verification later. If found guilty of fraudulent practices, the errant teachers will be required to return the salary and perks to the state treasury without initiating legal action against the department, Kumar said in her missive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-orders-quick-verification-of-papers-for-timely-payment-of-salaries-to-69-000-assistant-teachers-101622307812223.html
29-05-2021||Pune||19 arrested for gambling in Market Yard area||The Pune city police arrested 19 people during a raid on a gambling den in the Market Yard area of Saturday morning. The police sensed the presence of 15-20 people who later said that they were there on invitation of a man named Harshal Parekh. However, under the guise of bringing food for the men gathered for gambling, Parekh locked them inside the house, according to a statement issued by Market yard police station. The police staff was on hold until Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5 granted permission to break open the padlock on the door and free the men before arresting them. The arrested people were identified as Bhushan Satish Runwal (39) a resident of Gokulnagar, Katraj-Kondhwa Road; Chetan Satish Rajput (32) a resident of Shukravar Peth; Vasant Parab (58) a resident of Vidyasagar colony of Market Yard; Dawood Shabuddin Dlavi (36) a resident of Mahadevnagar in Pune; Balaji Bhagwat Dongre (39) a resident of Gokulnagar in Katraj--Kondhwa Road; Surah Jagannath Paasi (41) a resident of Shantinagar in YErawada; Ravindra Babu Jadhav (39) a resident of Gultekdi area of Hadapsar, Pune; Vaibhav Ashok Mantri (48) a resident of of Budhwar Peth; Abinash Krushna Jadhav (59) a resident of Ghorpadi Peth; PRasad Shankar Shetty (48) a resident of of Pradhikaran, Nigdi; Rakesh Arun Kondhare (40) a resident of Sainagar in Kondhwa; Javed Mohammad Shaikh (45) a resident of Katraj gaon; Vishal Jalinder NArsale (26) a resident of Bibwewadi; Bhanudas Pandhurang Survase (44) a resident of of Boravkar nagar in Hadapsar; Sachin Shivaji Jadhav (24) a resident of Bhosari; Rajendra Swaminath Hanchate (40) a resident of Dhankawadi; Akash Sunil Kandare (29) a resident of Tadiwala road area; Nitin Ranjeet Shinde (29) a resident of Fursungi area, according to the police. The police have recovered ₹53,900 and four motorbikes from the spot, according to the police statement. A case under Sections 4 and 5 of Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act’ Section 342, 188, and 269 of Indian Penal Code; Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act and Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulation, 2020 was registered at the Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/19-arrested-for-gambling-in-market-yard-area-101622307452169.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man nabbed for assaulting dentist over long waiting period||Greater Noida: A 21-year-old man was nabbed on Saturday for allegedly attacking a dentist with a knife in Dadri following an argument over a long waiting time. The dentist is undergoing treatment at a hospital, police said.The suspect was identified as Mohammad Kumail, a Jarcha native. According to police officials, he was visiting a local dentist, Ajay Ghosh Sharma (45), at Dadri’s Railway Road. “Kumail was allegedly having a toothache and had gone to see the doctor around 11 am. There was a waiting period. After a while, he got fed up and got into an argument with Sharma,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.The officials said that the argument soon escalated and resulted in the suspect assaulting Sharma with a vegetable knife. Locals immediately alerted police about the incident.“The victim was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Sharma sustained minor injuries as the knife was blunt,” said Pandey.The suspect was taken into custody from the spot itself, said police. He was booked under Section 307(attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the Dadri police station. He will be produced before a magistrate after questioning, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-nabbed-for-assaulting-dentist-over-long-waiting-period-101622307393695.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Man booked for dragging traffic cop at check post while attempting escape||A 42-year-old man was remanded to judicial custody by a local court in Pimpri for dragging a traffic policeman on his two-wheeler while attempting to escape a nakabandi checkpost.The traffic cop’s hand was stuck on the arrested man’s motorbike on Friday evening while he was on duty in front of an Indian Oil petrol pump along Wakad-Hinjewadi roadThe injured policeman was identified as constable Shankar Tukaram Ingale (47) working at Hinjewadi traffic division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The arrested man was identified as Sanjay Eknath Shedge (42), a resident of Adhale Khurd area of Maval in Pune, according to the police. He was remanded to judicial custody of 14 days for his crime by a local court. Shedge was riding on a Hero Honda Pleasure around 5:30pm on Friday when Ingale stopped him in order to check his papers at the nakabandi check-post that he was manning, according to his complaint. The man stopped and started his vehicle immediately after being asked to show registration; constable Ingale recorded in his complaint. “Ingale’s hand got stuck in the fibre carrier attached to the back of the vehicle when the accused tried to run away. He ran away but he was chased and arrested,” said police sub inspector Jitendra Girnar of Wakad police station who is investigating the case. In the CCTV of the crime that emerged on Saturday, it can be seen that, Shedge dragged the policeman to about 50 feet distance before he was stopped. Ingale has sustained injuries on his left knee, right heel, and other parts of his body. A case under Sections 353 and 332 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 132(1) with179 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-for-dragging-traffic-cop-at-check-post-while-attempting-escape-101622307393038.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Max Hospital asked to vaccinate 5k beneficiaries per day||In order to vaccinate more people falling in the 18-45 years age bracket, the district administration has asked the officials of Max Hospital in Vaishali to take up vaccination of about 5,000 beneficiaries per day, said officials aware of the matter. The target is quite high given that for the past five days, the 45 government centres and the vaccination sites at two private hospitals have been collectively able to vaccinate about 13,000 beneficiaries per day on an average. District magistrate of Ghaziabad Ajay Shankar Pandey said he held meeting with officials of Max Hospital, Vaishali, and asked them to vaccinate about 5,000 beneficiaries per day, primarily to inoculate people of the 18-45 age group. “The target is high but is the need of the hour. We need to scale up vaccination before another wave of the pandemic arrives. We held a meeting with officials of Max Hospital and suggested them that apart from in-house vaccination taken up at the hospital, they can conduct the inoculation drive at centralised locations like a school, mall or community halls,” said Pandey. “We have also directed that from now onwards, the vaccine stocks will only be given to the government vaccination centres while the private hospitals will have to arrange vaccines on their own,” he added. According to health department officials, Max Hospital is one of the two private hospitals which are taking up vaccination for the 18-45 and 45+ age groups, by charging a fee for the vaccine dose administered. Officials of Max Hospital said they will put in all efforts to meet the target set by the district administration. “To benefit the residents and safeguard them against Covid-19, we met the district magistrate and discussed ways to scale up the overall vaccination drive. We are currently conducting almost 1,000 vaccination per day, and these are all pre-booked through the CoWIN app. We have requested the district magistrate for approval to organise vaccination drive in RWAs as many Ghaziabad residents are not able to get slots through the app,” Dr Gaurav Aggarwal, senior vice-president (operations) of the hospital, said in a statement. “We are also looking to explore additional sites like community halls, schools for mass vaccination where residents can walk in and get vaccine shots,” read the statement. Starting June 1, the vaccination drive for people in the 18-45 age group will be extended to all districts as per directions from the UP government. At present, the vaccination drive for the said group is being undertaken in 23 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the latest government order of May 26, the UP government has also issued directions for vaccination at the workplace for judicial officers, media persons, officials of the information department and other government workplace. A maximum of 50 beneficiaries falling in the 18-45 age group can be inoculated per day at the workplaces by facilitating on-the-spot registration. The government has also directed that 50 slots for inoculation also be reserved for people in the 45+ age group at workplaces. The UP government has also directed that vaccine centres be opened for parents having one or more children above the age of 12 years. “Currently, we have 45 government centres conducting 85 sessions per day. Last week, we vaccinated around 10,000 beneficiaries on average. This week, we scaled it up to an average of about 15000-16000 per day as vaccine stock was available,” said an officer from district health department, who wished not to be identified. “Now, we have to start eight workplace centres for government teachers, postal staff and two other centres for parents of children below 12 years of age. One of the two centres will be at a private school at Meerut Road while the other one will be at Kailash Mansarowar Bhawan at Indirapuram,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-max-hospital-asked-to-vaccinate-5k-beneficiaries-per-day-101622307392210.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Rains likely in next two days, to bring mercury down||Noida: The combined effect of cyclone Yaas and western disturbances may bring light rains in Noida and adjoining areas over the next two days, weather experts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.According to IMD, while easterly winds already brought the mercury down by two notches in the past 24 hours, there are high chances of rains between May 31 and June 2 that would drop the mercury by three to four degrees Celsius (°C).“As a combined effect of cyclone Yaas and back-to-back western disturbances, the region (NCR) may see rain, light to moderate, between May 31 and June 2. The temperature will be around 36°C. There had been no incidents of heat wave in Delhi-NCR, including Noida, so far and June 15 onwards marks the beginning of pre-monsoon rainfall. So there are no chances of heat waves so far. As an effect of Yaas, strong easterly winds will keep bringing the strong moist winds in the region that will also keep the air quality under check,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.The average wind speed in the region for the past three days has been 25 kmph, IMD said. According to IMD, Noida saw maximum and minimum temperatures of 37.4°C and 27.4°C on Saturday against 39.6 and 26.1°C a day earlier. At Safdarjung, considered average for NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 37.5°C and 26.6°C, respectively.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was 92 or ‘satisfactory’ against 118 (‘moderate’) a day earlier, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. While AQI of Greater Noida was 78 against 87 on Friday, Ghaziabad recorded an AQI at 103 against 128 (both under ‘moderate’ category) a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidarains-likely-in-next-two-days-to-bring-mercury-down-101622307332216.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Shivajinagar reports 24mm rain, Lohegaon records 36.6mm : IMD||Shivajinagar on Saturday reported 24 millimetre rainfall and Lohegaon reported 36.6 mm rainfall. It was the second highest rainfall in 24 hours since 2010, the highest was in 2015 at 102.8 mm rainfall as per IMD.on Saturday.The maximum day temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius and 24.2 degrees Celsius at night. Meteorologists now believe that Maharashtra may witness the onset of monsoon by mid-June. Pune until May 31 will experience light rainfall and cloudy skies towards the afternoon, said IMD officials. They added that since this is a pre-monsoon shower, rainfall will be accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning. As the monsoon onset is likely in Kerala on May 31, the wait for monsoon over Maharashtra is likely to continue till mid-June, said a meteorologist from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). As per the IMD, first stage Long Range Forecast (LRF), the onset of Southwest Monsoon is likely on May 31. Conditions for further advancement of Monsoon are favourable. OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG) at IMD Pune said as of now the monsoon progress is as per predictions made by the IMD. “In the first week of June, there are chances of cyclogenesis which will help the southwest monsoon advance. Previous cyclones did not affect the monsoon flow. Now the circulation will be stronger. In the next few days, there will be a cyclonic circulation over the southern hemisphere. So the monsoon may not be active these days. After this monsoon will regain strength,” said Sreejith. He said that the side over Bay of Bengal will strengthen in the first week of June, helping the monsoon advance. “Models are showing another cyclone circulation is likely over Bay of Bengal which will help the monsoon advance. At present, the IMD has forecasted the onset of monsoon until May 31 over Kerala. For Maharashtra, the onset is likely till Mid-June. The second LRF will be issued soon by IMD giving details about the rainfall scenario in June,” said Sreejith. He added that at present the depth of westerly has increased. So conditions are favourable for the monsoon advancement. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that Arabian Sea side of the monsoon is likely to get active. “The Arabian Sea in the next few days will be favourable for the onset of monsoon over Kerala,” said Kashyapi. Rainfall for the next few days Kashyapi said that there is no strong active system seen over the state. “But due to moderately strong westerly winds all four subdivisions of Maharashtra will experience isolated rainfall. Many parts of the state will be partly cloudy and chances of light to very light rain are likely,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivajinagar-reports-24mm-rain-lohegaon-records-36-6mm-imd-101622307272263.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Nearly 500 prisoners released to decongest Luksar jail||Noida: Nearly 500 inmates have been released from Luksar jail on interim bail following the Supreme Court guidelines to avoid the transmission of Covid-19 in the prisons. From Monday onwards, even juveniles will start getting bail and will be released from the observation homes. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, the Supreme Court had ordered that all prisons and observation homes release the inmates in order to avoid the spread of infection in close quarters. During the second wave, the apex court issued a similar order for prisons. The release of inmates from Luksar jail started on May 5 and till Saturday afternoon, 496 prisoners have been released on interim bail. Of these, 469 are undertrials and 27 convicted.“Any new prisoner is first tested and placed in the temporary jail adjacent to the main block for 14 days. Another test is conducted before they are put in the main prison,” said jail superintendent Bhim Sen Mukund.Currently, there are 2,520 prisoners lodged in Luksar jail, of which 104 inmates are putting up in the temporary jail. “We have medical staff round the clock to monitor the health of the prisoners. A doctor has been stationed at the temporary block also. We have nine oxygen concentrators, several cylinders, medicines, etc. to handle emergencies. An L-1 facility is also operating here to take care of infected inmates. In fact, all the inmates who are 45 and above have been vaccinated while the rest are in the process of getting the jab,” said Mukund. Ever since the pandemic began, the inmates have made 60,374 masks in the prison, of which 3,780 masks have been manufactured this year. While most of these were distributed among prisoners and staff, some were also given to institutions outside.Similar release orders are awaited for the observation homes as well.“We have now received the necessary orders and the juveniles will be released on interim bail from Monday onwards. Orders have also come for the staff vaccination,” said Aneet Bhagel, member, Juvenile Justice Board, Gautam Budh Nagar.The observation home currently has 130 juveniles, in addition to 15 full-time staff members.No Covid cases have been reported from among the inmates of the observation home or the staff members. Since April this year, 103 inmates have tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, seven asymptomatic patients are under isolation in the jail’s L-1 facility while the remaining infected prisoners have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-500-prisoners-released-to-decongest-luksar-jail-101622307212184.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Mandai metro station work to begin after PMC clears encroachments||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) removed 63 commercial establishments from the Mandai area and cleared the roadblock of the Pune metro project. For the last two years, the Maharashtra Metrorailway Corporation Company Limited (MahaMetro) was pursuing the issue with the authorities to clear the encroached area reserved for the Mandai metro station. Madhav Jagtap, head of anti-encroachment department of the PMC said, “It was a pending issue due to relocation of commercial establishments. The civic body completed the relocation process, and the PMC gave an alternative land to people to rehabilitate them. We started action in the morning at 7.00 and completed in the evening at 6.00. We cleared the structure spread over almost 5,000 square feet of area. The underground stretch between Agriculture College and Swargate is part of the 16-kilometre Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate corridor. There are five underground stations and Mandai is one of them. Mandai underground station was pending for want of land which was occupied by commercial establishments such as shops of different food items. The MahaMetro plans to sink vertical shafts to extract the tunnel boring machines that are excavating the underground tunnels for the Metro rail. Atul Gadgil, MahaMetro said, “We were waiting to want this piece of land for Mandai underground station. Finally, we got the land. Now, we will clear the debris and start work as early as possible. We have already been together for two years. The Mandai is the only underground station site where work has not started yet due to relocation issues of the commercial establishment.” He further said, “The land is important as it is the entry point of the station. We will construct two shifts which will be used for entry and exit points of the station. The PMC has done good work.” Till date, the Mahametro has completed pre-tunnelling work such as shifting utilities and drainage lines in this area. The MahaMetro has already begun the work at the Shivajinagar, Civil court, Kasba peth and Swargate underground stations and it has achieved 30 per cent completion so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mandai-metro-station-work-to-begin-after-pmc-clears-encroachments-101622307092234.html
29-05-2021||Pune||90.65 students in Class nine have passed in 2019-2020: SCERT||A total of 90.65 percent Class nine students have passed in Pune district in the 2019-2020 academic year, according to the data submitted at the Systematic Administrative Reforms for Achieving Learning by Student (SARAL) portal. Overall, 94.69 percent students have passed in this academic year in Maharashtra. On Friday, the state government announced the evaluation criteria for the state board students of Class 10, the examinations of which have been cancelled this year due to the pandemic. Marks will be given on the basis of the internal assessment of the performance of students this year and that of Class nine. Speaking about the evaluation, Vikas Garad, deputy director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) said that the results of students of Class nine are available. “There are 94.69 percent students from 9th standard who were promoted to Class 10 in the state. The total number of students who have passed class nine were 18,31,344 and those who failed were 24,107. The students who failed were 1.25 per cent. This part of evaluation is ready with the schools,” said Garad. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said that the decision by the state is welcome. “Class nine results are ready with the schools. Now, the schools have to focus on class 10 assessment of the students. Of the 50 marks for Class 10, 30 will be based on tests that the schools have conducted and 20 will be for internal assessment for Class 10. Schools have already started the preparation for the same,” said Gaikwad. Varsha Gaikwad, state school education minister, on Friday said that all students who were to appear for Class 10 exams will be promoted and marks will be given on the basis of the internal assessment of their performance this year and that of Class nine. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Apte Prashala said that there are few students in each class who may not be a part of the assessment.“Some students who went to their village or could not participate in projects due to network issues are who may not have been evaluated. Teachers would have to follow up thoroughly with these students. Otherwise, the result can be prepared easily. Some schools like ours have already conducted an examination so preparing the results will be easier,” said Sinnarkar.Box District wise Class nine result for 2019-2020 Pune district Pass percent - 90.65 Failed percent-- 2.48 Not entered-- 6.87 Maharashtra Pass percent--94.69 Failed percent-- 1.25 Not entered--4.07 Source: SCERT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9065-students-in-class-nine-have-passed-in-2019-2020-scert-101622306792112.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Man booked for driving fiancée to suicide||A man and five others were booked for driving his betrothed to suicide by delaying the wedding, according to the Pune city police. The deceased was identified as a 23-year-old girl who lived in a paying guest facility in Kharadi area of Pune. The family members of the girl are natives of Madhya Pradesh. The girl had studied until Class 12 and worked as a receptionist in Pune. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 48-year-old father of the girl. “The complainant has said that it had been more than a year since their engagement. However, he says, when he asked the boy’s family why they were not agreeing to a wedding date, they told him that the girl’s horoscope had issues in it,” said police sub-inspector SM Kale of Chandan nagar police station who is investigating the case. The father has claimed in his complaint that the matter that the two were together for the past five years and had recently been engaged in a high-end restaurant in Wagholi. However, on insistence of the others booked in the case, the accused man was refusing to go ahead with the wedding, according to the complaint. “We are looking for the six people. We do not have much information by the way of their social background yet,” said PSI Kale. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chandan nagar police station against the six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-for-driving-fianc-e-to-suicide-101622306672123.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Naval chief asks NDA cadets to carry forward jointmanship||The chief of naval staff admiral Karambir Singh on Saturday emphasised the importance of professional knowledge, honesty, integrity and intellectual curiosity among cadets while in service. Speaking after reviewing the Passing out Parade (POP) at National Defence Academy at Khadakwasla, admiral Singh urged the passing out cadets to carry forward the spirit of jointmanship which is the need of the hour as the nature of warfare continues to evolve in the land, air, sea, space and cyber domains. “The nature of war is changing and it is important to engage the adversary in all domains - land, sea and air, space and cyber and this is for this reason, the jointness among three services is far more important now than in the past. The armed forces are seeing landmark defence reforms with the establishment of department of military affairs, institution of chief of defence staff and soon to-be-formed theatre command,” said admiral Singh The ceremonial Passing out Parade (POP) of 140th Course of NDA was conducted at Khetarpal parade ground on Saturday. The conduct of the parade was modified to ensure adherence of Covid-19 protocols. The reviewing officer conveyed his appreciation to all cadets on parade for their impeccable turnout and smart drill. He also congratulated all the cadets of passing out course, medal winners and the champion squadron. He expressed that NDA is a unique military academy and attracts the best youth from across the nation and friendly foreign countries. A total of 696 cadets participated in the parade of which 311 cadets were from the 140th course. The passing out course comprised 215 Army cadets, 44 naval cadets and 52 Air force cadets including 18 cadets from friendly foreign countries (Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Maldives, Bhutan, Tanzania, Turkmenistan, Fiji, Tajikistan and Myanmar). Unfortunately, the parents of the passing out cadets could not be invited due to the unprecedented situations posed by Covid-19 and travel restrictions imposed across the nation. While the passing out cadets will be moved from NDA to their respective pre-commissioning training academies, the junior courses will resume their training of ensuing terms on June 7, 2021. The awardees during the parade include battalion cadet adjutant Mausam Vats winning the president’s gold medal for standing first in the overall order of merit, divisional cadet captain Jaywant Tamrakar winning the president’s silver medal for standing second in the overall order of merit and battalion cadet captain Niraj Singh Papola winning the president’s bronze medal for standing third in the overall order of merit. Golf squadron bagged the prestigious ‘chiefs of staff banner’, for being the champion squadron of the spring term 2021. Earlier on Friday during the convocation ceremony at NDA, admiral Singh decided to push the envelope a little further when he did push-ups with cadets. The pictures of the navy chief doing push-ups with cadets soon went viral on social media, wowing netizens. “It was the CNS who initiated the push-ups with cadets and we all joined in,” said NDA commandant Lt Gen Asit Mistry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/naval-chief-asks-nda-cadets-to-carry-forward-jointmanship-101622306552180.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Hospital staffer among two booked for robbing dead Covid-19 patients||Two people - a woman working at a hospital in Baner, and her friend - were arrested by the Pune police for stealing valuable belongings from as many as eight dead Covid-19 patients and their relatives. The two arrested were identified as Anil Tukaram Sangme (35) a resident of Ganganagar in Rahatnigaon and Sharada Ashok Ambildhage (36) a resident of Rahatni. The woman worked as an aya in the hospital and Sangme is her friend and a bouncer by profession who helped her with the crime, according to the police. “They are in police custody until June 1. The admin started receiving complaints and so, they checked the CCTV footage and found her picking valuables from the bodies. We have been able to recover only 3-gram gold so far. Rest we are working on,” said assistant police inspector Rajesh Malegave of Chaturshringi police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the administration worker at the hospital identified as Ajayshree Maskar (25), a resident of Baner. After their arrest, the police have recovered gold jewellery and mobile phones worth ₹1, 34,000 from the duo, according to the police. A case under Sections 381 and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station. The world is suffering from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the ripple effects of the pandemic are felt in smaller parts of the world through acts of crime that only add to the feeling of loss felt by those who lose loved ones to the virus. In May, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police have received at least five complaints of theft at the jumbo Covid centre in Pimpri. In one case, Pravind Ambadas Sutar (48), a resident of Bhosari, lost his gold ornaments worth ₹21,400 while he was undergoing treatment in the Covid hospital in April. In another case, Mahendra Phanse (51), a resident of Dhanori area of Pune, ldoged a complaint after his father-in-law succumbed to the virus at the facility on April 9. However, his belongings, including ID cards and ₹10,000 cash, were never returned to him. The mother of Ranvir Thakur (31), a resident of Bibwewadi, Pune, died under treatment at the jumbo facility in Pimpri in the first week of May. However, the gold and silver ornaments on her person were never returned to him. The series of thefts started getting reported after two complaints were lodged within a day. Among the two complaints, one was of Vaishnavi Jyotiba Khule (20), a resident of Pimple Nilakh, lost her uncle to the virus on May 1. His phone was never returned to the family. The second complaint was of Sagar Diwakar Gujar (35), a resident of Bopkhle, who lost his mother on April 19. However, her gold and silver ornaments worth more than ₹40,000 were never returned to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospital-staffer-among-two-booked-for-robbing-dead-covid-19-patients-101622306372124.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Army paper leak case: Lt. Col. sent to judicial custody in Yerawada jail||The lieutenant colonel-rank officer, who was arrested in the case of paper leak, was sent to Yerawada central jail on magisterial custody after his police custody ended on Friday. The police are now on a lookout for two other people in the case who paid a major chunk of the money that exchanged hands before and after the raid. The arrested officer lieutenant colonel Bhagatpreetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) has, therefore, joined major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47); major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41) from Delhi cantonment, Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Centre in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki - all in Wanowrie case - and Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37) - in Vishrantwadi case - in the central jail of Pune. “The two phones which were used for transmitting the questions were destroyed and disposed of by the two. However, we have the call detail record (CDR) of the two numbers and enough evidence in all to see the investigation through. Now, they’re all in magisterial custody. Our crime branch officers and complete co-ordination of the army authorities had led to this investigation. The crime DCP (Srinivas Ghadage) maintained personal contact and follow-up with the army authorities to ensure access,” said Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police, crime, Pune police. The public prosecutor in the case was Premkumar Agarwal while the defence lawyer was Sudhir Shah. Advocate Shah had said that the accused had agreed to extended custody. He was arrested in the cheating and paper leak case registered at Wanowrie police station which is one of the two cases that were registered after the initial raids. The other case is registered at Vishrantwadi police station. A case under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Wanowrie police station. Narnepati had allegedly received ₹7, 00,000 and had paid ₹3, 00,000 from it to Lt Col Bedi for the paper and returned ₹4, 00,000 to the two others wanted in the case, according to ACP Borate. The investigation had led to a statement of support from the commander of Indian Army’s Southern Command, Lt Gen JS Nain on May 26. “Lt Gen JS Nain, army commander, Southern Command has issued strict instructions to all the station commanders in the area of responsibility to assist in the ongoing investigations. He has instituted proactive measures to enable early completion of the investigations,” read a statement from the defence spokesperson. The statement also pointed out that the investigation began due to an initial tip-off by the sources inside Indian Army about leak of question paper for soldier recruitment entrance test that was to be held at 40 centres across the country for 30,000 aspirants on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-paper-leak-case-lt-col-sent-to-judicial-custody-in-yerawada-jail-101622306312183.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Mother attempts suicide, two minors lose life||Two minors aged four and two lost their lives at Pimpli in Baramati during the wee hours on Saturday when they’d gone to find their mother who was attempted suicide near a well. The deceased identified as Divya Suryavanshi (4) and Shaurya Suryavanshi (2) were looking inside the well where their mother Anjali had attempted suicide. They were followed by their father Atul who also came to their rescue but by that time the minors had died, Baramati police said. According to the police, there was a fight between Anjali and her husband after which she rushed out of the house and went towards the well and jumped into it. She was followed by the two kids and later by her husband but it was too late as the two lives had been lost at that time, police said. Atul however managed to pull her out of the well but the two children could not be saved. Police station in charge Nagdev Shinde said that an accidental death related case has been lodged. The kids were taken out of water and brought to Silver Jubilee hospital where the post mortem was conducted and their bodies were handed over to the family for last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mother-attempts-suicide-two-minors-lose-life-101622306192073.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi extends lockdown, allows construction and manufacturing. Conditions apply||The Delhi government on Saturday further extended the lockdown-like measures in the national capital till June 7 and allowed industries within the industrial estate to operate under certain conditions. The Delhi government said that the decision to extend the measures have been taken to arrest the positivity rate and break the chain of the transmission of the virus.Covid-19: Delhi traders demand opening of markets in phased mannerThe Delhi government allowed operations of manufacturing or production units within closed premises in approved industrial areas along with construction activities within their work sites. It also said that the owners of these manufacturing or production units as well as the owners, contractors and employers of these construction activities shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of the directives mentioned in the order."The situation of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi has again been reviewed and observed that, though the number of Covid-19 patients and positivity rate is declining, the situation is still precarious, therefore, in order to contain the spread of virus and to further break the transmission chain, curfew needs to be extended for another week in the territory of NCT of Delhi (except for essential activities / services), permitting reopening of certain prohibited activities in a phased manner in areas outside the containment zones for overall well-being of the people of NCT of Delhi," the order said.The Delhi government said that it will gradually reopen the national capital in a phased manner in order to avoid another outbreak. The curfew will continue till 5am morning June 7. During the lockdown-like measures, unnecessary movement of people and vehicles are barred. All essential activities which were previously allowed in the earlier weeks of lockdown will be allowed in the latest phase as well.Delhi's positivity rate is currently at 1.19% as the Capital recorded 956 fresh cases on Covid-19. It is the lowest number of cases Delhi has recorded in the last two months. The last time Delhi recorded less than 1,000 cases was March 22 when the Capital reported 888 cases.The death toll in the city reached 24,073 with 122 fresh fatalities. Delhi has recorded 1,424,646 cases so far and currently has 13,035 active cases. The Capital tested 80,473 people in the last 24 hours out of which 56,559 tests conducted were RT-PCR. Delhi's tally of recovered people has reached 1.38 million-mark.Despite the fall in the number of cases, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday asked people not to lower their guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-7-allows-construction-and-manufacturing-101622303975713.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||443 Covid-19 fatalities in Maharashtra take death toll to 94,030; state records 20,295 new cases||With 20,295 new Covid-19 cases and 443 fatalities on Saturday, Maharashtra's tally reached 5,713,215 while the death toll climbed to 94,030. On the other hand, as many as 31,964 people recovered from the infection in a single day, taking the cumulative recovery in the state to 5,339,838.Meanwhile, the capital city of Mumbai reported 1,038 new cases and 25 related deaths in the 24-hour period, as the city's cases tally reached 703,560 and the death toll climbed to 14,775.While the number of new infections marginally dipped from the previous day's tally, the daily new deaths witnessed a slight increase. Earlier on Friday, there where 20,740 new Covid-19 cases and 424 new fatalities detected in the state.Medical workers in the state tested 258,799 new samples to deetct the disease on the day while 34,608,985 samples have been tested in the state so far, the latest data from the state government showed.Active cases of Covid-19 currently stands at 276,573 and Mumbai added 28,606 to the state's tally. Daily positivity rate was recorded as 7.84 per cent and the cumulative positivity rate stood at 16.51 per cent.Among major cities, Mumbai (with 1,038 cases) reported the maximum new cases on the day followed by Pune with 589 cases and Nagpur with 243 new cases. Total positive cases detected so far reached 483,787 in Pune and 361,372 in Nagpur, the latest data showed. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) reported 195 new cases, Thane logged 137 new cases and Navi Mumbai 107 new cases in the day, data also showed.According to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 21,913,849 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been delivered to the beneficiaries in the state. Of these, 17,426,603 first doses and 4,487,246 second doses have administered as of 8am on Saturday, the ministry's dashboard showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/443-covid-19-fatalities-in-maharashtra-take-death-toll-to-94-030-state-records-20-295-new-cases-101622299274263.html
29-05-2021||Ranchi||False ceiling caves in at state Assembly building, no one hurt||A portion of false ceiling on first floor of newly constructed Jharkhand assembly building collapsed on Friday evening reportedly due to leakage in the roof, raising questions over quality of construction of the building. No one was hurt in the incident, officials said. Speaker Mahendra Prasad said he has written to the building construction department in this regard. “The issue of quality of construction is for the concerned construction agencies of the state government to look into. I have brought the recent incident into their notice. They need to look into the causes and do repair work. I have also asked them to look into other possibly damaged locations and fix them,” said Prasad. The capital city received record rainfall due to the recently passed cyclone Yaas, and the false ceiling at the assembly building collapsed on Friday. The incident has once again brought the issue of construction quality of the iconic building, with the latest incident being a second such event within a year. In August last year, false ceiling collapsed in the library of the Assembly building. Standing on 39 acres in HEC area, the new Assembly building inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run up to the 2019 Jharkhand assembly elections was constructed at a cost of ₹465 crore. It was constructed over a span of four years.The building has been courting controversy from the beginning, as the JMM, the opposition party at the time, boycotted the inauguration ceremony and one-day special session called in 2019 by the then Raghubar Das government, alleging that it was getting an incomplete building inaugurated in haste.At the time of inauguration, only the central hall of the Assembly was ready, while the west and east wings of the three-storey building were completed later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/false-ceiling-caves-in-at-state-assembly-building-no-one-hurt-101622299771507.html
29-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid spread in rural areas restricted to few districts; positivity rate low: Survey||In what would come as a relief for the state, an analysis of initial data collected during ongoing door-to-door rural public health survey shows that spread of coronavirus infection is restricted in few districts, besides low positivity rate being registered in villages across the state. The 10-day intensive public health survey (IPHS), that targets to reach each and every household across panchayats in the state, began on May 25. Till Friday, as many as 1,633,417 households comprising 8,207,751 persons were covered under it. “Out of the total surveyed persons so far, Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) was recommended for 53,793 suspect cases. The test has been done for 51,605 cases. Out of it, 762 cases turned out Covid-19 positive, including 21 children in the age group 0-18,” said Sidhartha Tripathi, officer on special duty of IEC wing in health department. With the numbers being on lower side, the positivity rate stood at 1.47%, indicating a restricted spread of the pandemic in rural areas. However, those who showed symptoms but tested negative in RAT, were recommended for RT-PCR or TruNat tests for confirmation, officials said. Besides, as per initial data analysis, the spread of pandemic in rural areas was mostly concentrated in nine of the 24 districts. “As per initial data, it seems about 80% per cent of our villages are safe. Some of the districts where the most cases have been detected are Ranchi, Sahibganj, Bokaro and Giridih,” said Tripathi. However, the health survey showed a disturbing trend of several people showing signs of critical diseases such as diabetes, tuberculosis (TB) and abnormal blood pressure. While 5,990 persons showed TB symptoms in the first four days of the survey, 43,766 persons showed symptoms of diabetes and 46,400 showed signs of abnormal blood pressure, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid-spread-in-rural-areas-restricted-to-few-districts-positivity-rate-low-survey-101622299711519.html
29-05-2021||Other||Panchayat polls on hold, a Council crisis in sight||PATNAThe delay in panchayat polls in the state due to the deadly second wave of coronavirus has cast its shadow on the election of new members from 24 “local authorities’’ constituencies in the state’s 75-member Legislative Council whose term is set to end on July 17.In all likelihood, the election for the 24 Council seats will have be deferred. Reason: the electoral college to elect the new MLCs would cease to exist after June 15 when term of panchayat bodies comes to an end. Sources said the state election department has already sent a report to the Election Commission of India (ECI), which will take a final decision on the matter. “At least two weeks’ time is required for preparations before the polls are announced. But chances are dim because 97% of the voters to elect MLCs from ‘local authorities’ constituencies will be non-existent from June 15. One cannot have election without voters. Hence, the election will have to be deferred,” said a senior official in the state election department. MLCs from “local authorities” constituencies are elected by ward members of all the three panchayati raj institutions, the gram panchayat, district boards and urban local bodies. The elected members of panchayati raj institutions ( PRIs) constitute 97% of the electoral college to elect MLCs from 24 “local authorities” constituencies. Given the scenario, all MLCs from this constituency would cease to be legislators from July 18 onwards, after the expiry of their six-year term. At preset, there are 19 MLCs now in the Council from “local authorities” constituency. Five seats fell vacant when two MLCs died while three were elected MLAs in the 2020 Assembly polls. The current strength of the Legislative Council is 69, with five vacancies from “local authorities” constituency and one from the Legislative Assembly quota. Once 19 more seats fall vacant on July 18, the strength would come down to 50. On panchayat polls, which were to begin in the state in mid-March, the state poll panel is yet to take a decision. There is speculation that the government would be taking over the charge of PRIs and run it through administrators after the expiry of the term of current panchayat bodies on June 15. Bihar’s chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa said they had sent a detailed report about the term of sitting MLCs from local authorities constituency and other aspects of holding the election to ECI.The contagion effectFate uncertain for 24 seatsBihar’s Legislative Council has a total of 75 seats, of which 24 are from ‘local authorities’ constituencies. The six-year term for these 24 MLCs ends on July 17.Electoral college Elected members of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) — the gram panchayat, district boards and urban local bodies — constitute 97% of the electoral college for these 24 seats.Problem at handTerm of current gram panchayat, district boards and urban local bodies ends on June 15 and so there won’t be any voters for the 24 seats in question, unless their term is extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-polls-on-hold-a-council-crisis-in-sight-101622299591480.html
29-05-2021||Other||DMCH turns a ‘floating hospital’ in a day’s rain, patient Pappu takes a dig||DARBHANGAThe Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), north Bihar’s largest government hospital, remained submerged in knee-deep water while various parts of twin cities of Darbhanga and Laheriasarai were waterlogged following heavy rains that lashed the region on Friday night.As many as 19 municipal wards were worse hit in Darbhanga. “In last two days, 160 mm rains have been recorded in the town,” said an official.DMCH principal Dr K N Mishra said rain waters had inundated the premises of administrative building, pathology unit, besides medicine and paediatric ward and approach road to Covid Care Hospital situated in the newly constructed nursing college. Rain waters had entered the official chamber of DMCH principal as well, he said.A high power pump has been put to use to flush out rain waters from the DMCH campus, which has been facing waterlogging problem for years. It is a low lying area, said the principal.Meanwhile, Jan Adhikar Party president Pappu Yadav, who is currently undergoing treatment in medicine ICU at the hospital after his arrest in an old kidnapping case recently, posted a tweet along with photographs showing pictures of waterlogged medicine ward and the campus and took a swipe at the administration. “The wonder of development. The floating hospital of Bihar, Darbhanga Medical College submerged in one day’s rain. Not handful of water, there is enough water for shameless health department to drown and die. Am I right Mangal Pandey ji,” Yadav tweeted.Patients, their attendants and doctors faced much hardship in reaching different wards. The problem can be resolved only after a multistoried building with allied units will be constructed on the campus, said a doctor.Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM, meanwhile, has convened a meeting of officials on the waterlogging issue. He asked civic authorities to deploy teams for getting rid of rain waters from the medicine ward and around Covid ward within six hours. He also directed to flush out water from badly affected municipal wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmch-turns-a-floating-hospital-in-a-day-s-rain-patient-pappu-takes-a-dig-101622299472355.html
29-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas weakens, no heavy rain in Bihar||PATNA/MuzaffarpurResidents can expect relief from heavy rains Sunday onwards as cyclone Yaas has further weakened into low pressure area and moved to neighbouring state Uttar Pradesh, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Saturday.Meteorologists said a few places in northwest parts of the state experienced extremely heavy rain for the second consecutive day on Saturday while light to moderate rain lashed most of places.As per daily bulletin issued, Triveniganj received the highest rainfall (220 mm), followed by Darbhanga (180) and Muzaffarpur (120).The capital city received 17.8 mm rainfall. Patna has received an average rainfall of 246.9 mm against the normal rainfall of 24.55 mm between May 1 and May 29. Meteorologist at Patna MeT Centre Amit Sinha, said, “Under the influence of cyclone Yaas, mercury has plummeted by 9°C to 12°C in the state.”“Remnant of cyclone Yaas has shifted to east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining areas but Bihar will continue to receive rain but intensity is likely to significantly decline,” he said.Meanwhile, officials of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) claimed that stormwater was cleared within few hours of rain. “Our team is working in multiple shifts to drain rainwater. We have cleared waterlogging from different areas of Gandhi Maidan, Exhibition Road, Patliputra and Kankarbagh.”, said Harshita, public relation officer of PMC. In Muzaffarpur, which has seen incesant rain for the last three days, laregscale water logging exposed claims of the Muzaffarpur Municipal Morporation (MMC).“Not only the callous attitude of officials, but also their unplanned execution of construction works of roads and sewerage has made our lives hell,” said advocate Ashok Kumar, a resident of Aghoria Bazar.Residents had to wade through ankle-deep water in localities such as Gola Bandh road, Subhasnagar, railway station road, Jawahar Lal Raod, Motijheel, Kalyani Chauk and Islampur.Municipal commissioner Vivek Ranjan Maitreyay they did not have enough equipment. “I have sent a proposal to the officials concerned i Patna for purchasing new equipment,” he said, while conceding that the drainage system of the town is was indeed in a shambles.“Our focus is to fortifying the drainage system in smart city projects. Residents will see the results very soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-yaas-weakens-no-heavy-rain-in-bihar-101622299471495.html
29-05-2021||City||Arunachal court remands Punjab YouTuber to six days in jail in racial slur case||A court in Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday remanded Punjab-based YouTuber Paras Singh to six days in judicial custody, a senior police officer said.Singh, a social media influencer, was produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court at Yupia near Itanagar."The court remanded him to six days in judicial custody. He will be lodged at Jully jail during the period. Further action, whatever is to be taken, will be decided by the court," said SP of Special Investigating Team (SIT) Rohit Rajbir Singh.The court on Friday sent the YouTuber to one-day police custody to investigate the matter of racial remarks he had made against senior Congress MLA Ninong Ering and the people of Arunachal Pradesh.Singh was brought to Itanagar from Ludhiana in Punjab by the police's SIT late on Thursday.The three-member team that brought him to the state was led by inspector Techi Vijay and consisted of constables GL Ray and Aman Kumar Meena.The superintendent of police said that during interrogation, Singh revealed that he has two accounts in YouTube, both of which were created to "generate quick money"."The account with the channel name 'Paras Official', having 4.68 lakh subscribers, is used for showing tips, tricks, and informing his subscribers about the new skins of games like Call Of Duty (COD) mobile and PUBG un-boxing videos. The other channel -- 'Paras Gamers' with 3.94 lakh subscribers is used to live stream PUBG on YouTube," the police officer said.Both the accounts are monetised by YouTube and he earns ₹20,000-25,000 a month."The YouTuber also disclosed that the controversial video, against which a case has now been registered, was made by him to gain widespread attention and views, so that his monetary income could be maximised," the SP said.The SIT has seized a laptop, a tablet and three mobile phones from the YouTuber's possession for further investigation, the officer added.The Arunachal Pradesh government on Monday filed a case against Singh for making racial remarks against Ering and inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of the state.Paras made the comments while reacting to a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by Ering wherein the MLA had asked the PM to ban the re-launch of PUBG Mobile India's new avatar -- Battlegrounds Mobile India.Ering had reasoned that the game was aimed at deceiving the government and citizens and should be banned in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arunachal-court-remands-punjab-youtuber-to-six-days-in-jail-in-racial-slur-case-101622298586835.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Pune walk-in vaccination drive for students flying abroad||The Pune Municipal Corporation will start a special Covid-19 vaccination drive for students who have to travel abroad for educational purposes, Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said on Saturday.In a tweet, he said such students can walk into vaccination centres with supporting documents and get inoculated on two days of the week, though this can be extended to all days if the need arises.Incidentally, on Friday, the Mumbai civic body had announced that students in the 18 to 44 years age group in the metropolis heading to foreign universities can walk in at three dedicated centres on May 31, June 1 and 2 to get vaccinated.Earlier, Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray had tweeted that he had requested civic chiefs of Pune, Nagpur and Thane to "make vaccination arrangements for students due to fly abroad for studies".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-walk-in-vaccination-drive-for-students-flying-abroad-101622297202921.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: SIT ‘picks up’ two dera followers from Covid ward||The defence alleged wrongful confinement after the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases picked up two Dera Sacha Sauda followers from the Covid ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, in a case relating to pasting of derogatory posters near the gurdwara in Bargari village. According to official sources, the SIT detained Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, of Kotkapura and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village on Friday and took them to the Bajakhana police station. The SIT, led by inspector general of police, border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, had on May 17 arrested the duo along with Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, Pardeep Kumar and Shakti Singh in a case registered in connection with a sacrilege incident wherein torn pages of “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered at Bargari village in Faridkot district in 2015. The court had sent them to police custody till May 21. However, Sukhjinder, Baljit and Nishan tested positive for Covid-19 on May 19, after which they were admitted to the Faridkot hospital. A complaint was filed in the court of chief judicial magistrate Sanjeev Kundi on Saturday alleging that the SIT has violated the court orders, dated May 21, by wrongfully confining Sukhjinder and Baljit. Defence counsel Vinod Monga alleged that inspectors Dalbir Singh and Iqbal Hussain of the SIT had wrongfully taken the two from the Covid ward on Friday. “So, the necessary intimation is being given with request for the release of the accused from the wrongful police confinement and to get them in judicial custody,” the petition stated. The defence also requested for a report along with CCTV footage of the Bajakhana police station on the relevant dates and hospital records of the duo. The court has directed the SIT to file a reply by May 31. However, the SIT sought production warrants of Sukhjinder and Baljit, which the court issued for May 31.Faridkot judicial magistrate Tarjini in the order dated May 21 had said that since the accused are admitted at the Covid ward, they cannot be sent to further police remand and “are hereby remanded to judicial custody till June 1”. She had also directed the investigation officer to get their Covid tests conducted and produce the results on the fixed date.Meanwhile, a Faridkot court on Saturday sent their two co-accused, Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh, to judicial custody till June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-sit-picks-up-two-dera-followers-from-covid-ward-101622297373825.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Both PM, CM failed to fulfil their duty: Sukhbir on vax shortage in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday inaugurated a free Covid-19 vaccination camp at Golden Temple, which was organised by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.Announcing that the service will be extended to other Takhts, including Damdama Sahib and Kesgarh Sahib in the coming days, he said: “Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had failed to fulfil their duty to provide vaccines to the people.”Accompanied by SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, the SAD president said he was surprised as to why the Union government was dragging its feet on allowing companies such as Pfizer and Moderna to export their vaccines to India and said the process should be expedited. He also asked Capt Amarinder Singh to place direct orders with companies that are supplying vaccines in the country instead of waiting for the Centre’s “meagre” supply.“The Punjab government should follow the example of the Mumbai municipal corporation, which used ₹600 crore to purchase vaccines,” said Sukhbir, while demanding that vaccines worth ₹1,000 crore be purchased immediately. He also sought GST waiver on purchase of vaccines and life-saving medicines.Bibi Jagir Kaur said that while earlier the sangat, including NRIs, had donated oxygen concentrators, the SGPC hoped to receive 100 ventilators from abroad soon. She said since the people were not getting vaccines and the Punjab government had also failed to purchase them directly from companies, the Centre should allow the SGPC to import them.Meanwhile, the SGPC also launched its tenth Covid Care Centre at Gurdwara Janam Asthan Baba Buddha at Kathunangal village in Amritsar with a capacity of 25 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/both-pm-cm-failed-to-fulfil-their-duty-sukhbir-on-vax-shortage-in-punjab-101622297313367.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal weapon racket busted in Punjab’s Batala||With the arrest of two men, Punjab Police on Saturday busted an illegal weapon racket at Batala in Gurdaspur district. The accused have been identified as Sandeep Kumar and Sarwan Singh of Batala. Besides the kingpin, Joginder Singh, alias Jagga, who is already behind bars, four of their accomplices — Amrinder Singh, Lukas Masih, Robinpreet Singh and Sarabjit Singh — have also been identified.“We received a tip off that Sandeep and Sarwan were roaming at Dhir village in Batala with illegal arms. Led by sub-inspector Daljit Singh, the CIA team raided the spot and arrested the duo,” said senior superintendent of police Rachhpal Singh. Eight weapons, including two countrymade 32 bore pistols and a 30 bore pistol, were also recovered, he said. The SSP said Sandeep Kumar used to repair the gang’s illegal weapons at his father’s gun shop. Investigations also revealed that the racket was being run by Joginder Singh, who is a notorious heroin smuggler based in Batala and is presently lodged in the Amritsar jail. “Joginder Singh has 16 FIRs against him, of which 10 are related to drug smuggling. His properties worth ₹1.17 crore have already been forfeited,” said the SSP, adding that the gang had been procuring weapons along with heroin consignment from across the border and Uttar Pradesh. A case has been registered against the seven men under the Arms Act at the Civil Lines police station. Efforts are on to nab the four remaining gang members, said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-weapon-racket-busted-in-punjab-s-batala-101622297312121.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Four rescued, one dead in Saket Court Residential Complex fire||A fire broke out at Delhi's Saket Court Residential Complex on Saturday leading to the death of a 82-year-old. Seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot to bring the fire under control. The firemen rescued four other people. Delhi Fire Services director Atul Garg said that the call was received around 5.23 pm on Friday evening that a fire broke out in the fourth floor of the building in Saket Court Residential Complex. He said that the fire started in store room which housed an inverter, book shelf and almirah. "Four persons were rescued by Delhi Fire Service personnel and a 82-year-old person died due to smoke inhalation. He has been taken to Safdarjung Hospital," Garg said. DCP South Atul Thakur said that a CAT Ambulance, personnel from DDMA South, BSES and IGL staff were also present at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-delhi-s-saket-residential-complex-1-dead-101622296432666.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata's 20k-crore demand for cyclone relief unrealistic: Dilip Ghosh||Asserting that Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's demand of ₹20,000-crore for cyclone relief was "unrealistic", state BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said she skipped the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to avoid giving a detailed account of the claims that she has made.Ghosh also pointed out that the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), which called the review meeting on Friday, is entitled to decide on the list of invitees."Odisha faced the brunt of the cyclone while Bengal was largely spared, but she is asking for ₹20,000 crore. She did not attend the review meeting with the Prime Minister at Kalaikunda as she did not want to elaborate on this unrealistic demand," Ghosh said.The CM had on Friday said that she, in separate proposals submitted to Prime Minister Modi, sought ₹10,000 crore each for rebuilding the seaside tourist town of Digha and the ravaged parts of the Sunderbans region.Banerjee, however, skipped a review meeting on cyclone devastation with Modi, seeking to know why opposition BJP leaders were present at the session.Ghosh further contended that the presence of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the Assembly, was another reason that prompted Banerjee to skip the meeting."Adhikari will be attending assembly sessions, too. Will Banerjee stop going to the House? Instead of politicising the calamity, she should work with everyone for the welfare of people," Ghosh said, in a dig at the TMC supremo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamatas-20k-crore-demand-for-cyclone-relief-unrealistic-dilip-ghosh-101622293995506.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi traders demand opening of markets in phased manner||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Saturday demanded reopening of shops and markets by following the same yardstick applied for resumption of construction activities and factories on a day Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal assured unlocking more activities in the coming days.The traders' body said it will approach Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and the chief minister to review the decision.Kejriwal had on Friday said the process of lifting the lockdown gradually in the capital will begin from Monday, starting with resumption of construction activities and reopening of factories for a week."The yardstick applied for the opening of construction activities and factories could be applied more judiciously for opening the markets and particularly when the trade associations all over Delhi are more inclined to extend full support of the government," Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general CAIT, said in a statement.On Saturday, the chief minister noted the national capital recorded around 900 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, and said if new infections continue to decline, more activities will be allowed to open up in the city.Addressing the traders' concerns on Saturday, the chief minister said when the situation will ease, everything will be opened up."I can understand the troubles of the traders and I can understand their anxiety. I read in the newspapers that they are a bit upset. I want to tell them that it was with great difficulty that we were able to control the situation by imposing a lockdown."I can understand their difficulty but they should be patient and should not rush. We also want their markets and shops to open up and as and when the situation comes under control, we will open up everything," he said.The group of traders held a virtual meeting where they suggested reopening of shops and markets "in a phased manner while segregating the working time for different verticals of Delhi trade"."The business of Delhi has been completely derailed, how will that business be restored when there is acute financial crunch," Khandelwal said.He suggested that business activities can be restored in a manner which "may certainly curb any more spreading of coronavirus"."Working hours can be reduced, Delhi can be divided into different zones, night curfew can be imposed, weekend lockdowns and several other options can be considered but the fundamental is to have a will to open the shops and markets," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-traders-demand-opening-of-markets-in-phased-manner-101622291005167.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Wrestler murder case: Sushil Kumar's police remand extended for 4 days||A Delhi court on Saturday extended two-time Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar's police remand for four days in connection with the murder of 23-year-old Sagar Rana at Chhatrasal Stadium, reported news agency ANI.The Delhi police on Friday arrested two more people in connection with the wrestler’s murder case in which Rana died and his two friends were injured, officials said. The incident took place late on May 4 over a dispute related to a property located in Delhi's Model Town.The accused, Rohit Karoria and Bijender, were arrested from the national capital, they said. The police said that a total of nine people, including Kumar, have been arrested so far in the incident.Kumar, a prime suspect in the case, and his associate Ajay Bakkarwala were arrested by a team of Special Cell of the Delhi Police on May 23 from the Mundka area of the national capital, following which a Delhi court granted six days of police custody to Kumar. The Delhi Police's crime branch is investigating the case.Earlier on Wednesday, the police said four associates of Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of Rana, were arrested by the Rohini district police and handed over to the crime branch.Several teams, including the Crime Branch and four teams of the Special cell, had conducted raids in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wrestler-murder-case-sushil-kumar-s-police-remand-extended-for-4-days-101622287951638.html
29-05-2021||Other||IIIT-A scientists develop faster, cheaper Covid test kit||Trial of nanotech-based kit prototype begins at KGMU-Lucknow, may replace costlyRT-PCR testA team of scientists of Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad, (IIIT-A) has developed a nanotechnology-based rapid testing kit for Covid-19. The kit could pave way for quicker and cheaper testing to detect Covid positive patients in the country and even prove to be a replacement for the widely being used RT-PCR tests which cost more and also require a costly lab set-up, say IIIT-A experts.“The rapid diagnostic kit for novel coronavirus is being developed as part of a Government of India’s department of biotechnology (DBT) funded one year project ‘Development of rapid detection kit for novel Coronavirus’. We have already developed a prototype of the kit and its trial for proper validation is now under way at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow,” said Amaresh Kumar Sahoo, assistant professor at department of applied sciences, IIIT-A, who is leading the efforts as the project’s principal investigator.Other IIIT-A scientists actively involved in the project include prof Pritish Varadwaj, prof Krishna Misra and Sintu K Samanta. Tayyaba Afshan is working on this mission as a junior research fellow. “Prof Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, KGMU, Lucknow is collaborating with us on this project,” he said. Sahoo said the kit being developed by them involves use of luminescent gold nanoparticle-based diagnosis of Covid that is performed within 15 minutes. “The viral RNA sample is detected by luminescent nanoparticles under UV-light illumination,” he said. Sahoo said it will be a low-cost diagnosis kit as compared to available RT-PCR-based and antibody-based tests. “Each test using our kit would cost one-fifth of the cost of a RT-PCR test. It a RT-PCR test costs around ₹1000, a test by our kit would cost mere ₹200 or so. While a RT-PCR test takes around 4 hours or more for the result, using our kit the result would come within 15 minutes. Moreover, against a set-up needing machines costing ₹25-30 lakh for RT-PCR tests, our kit requires a set-up that costs just around ₹5 lakh,” he added.Sahoo said the economical, effective and faster kit developed by the team had shown great results in the lab. “Now we are waiting for the validation results of the trial that should come in the next two months,” he said.Director, IIIT-A, prof P Nagabhushan said the validation of the test kit developed by IIIT-A team being carried out at KGMU-Lucknow was under an MoU existing between the two institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iiita-scientists-develop-faster-cheaper-covid-test-kit-101622288370408.html
29-05-2021||Other||UPRTOU to offer free education to Covid orphans, widows||UP’s lone State Open University—Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) has decided to offer free education to Covid-19 orphans and widows of the state. Following an in-principle decision, a proposal in this regard has already been finalised and will soon be put before the appropriate sanctioning bodies of the university, university officials said.The move comes close on the heels of some prominent schools and colleges of Prayagraj also deciding to help students who have lost the main earning members of their family or both parents to Covid-19 pandemic. UPRTOU officials said that the university’s move will benefit any student who has lost their parents or for that matter any woman who has lost her husband to the Coronavirus, and who wishes to pursue any course from the university. They will be able to do so free of cost.“We have decided that the university will impart free education to anyone who has lost the earning member of the family because of Coronavirus. Likewise, any woman who has lost her husband or a student who has become an orphan because of the pandemic, will also be able to pursue any course of his/ her choice without any fee,” said UPRTOU vice-chancellor Seema Singh.She further said that the university is equally sensitive towards the students presently enrolled and will also come up with a decision if the student has faced similar unfortunate circumstances. “The student could be facing a problem of how to manage the fee for next semester or year. We will help such students too,” said Singh. The V-C further said that soon a proposal in this regard will be put before the academic council and then the executive council of the Open University and then be implemented. “Once this is approved by the two decision-making bodies of the university, anyone who falls in the category and wants to pursue any academic course from the university, will be able to take admission free of cost,” said the V-C.The university runs 105 courses with the help of 1,200 study centres and 12 regional centres spread across the state. The V-C also informed that teachers and employees of the university will also be encouraged to voluntarily give a day’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to help fight Coronavirus. It has also been decided that a health centre will soon be opened on the UPRTOU campus at Phaphamau for the benefit of the university’s teachers, staff and students. An experienced doctor will soon be appointed for this.PHOTO CAPTION: UPRTOU campus in Phaphamau, Prayagraj (HT Photo)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprtou-to-offer-free-education-to-covid-orphans-widows-101622288250473.html
29-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman claims receiving two jabs of vaccine on same day, doctors deny||In a one of its kind case in Rajasthan, a 43-year-old woman in Dausa alleged she was jabbed with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccination simultaneously, HT has learnt.“We had gone to the public health centre (PHC) at 9 am, got vaccinated at about 11 am. We returned home and I ventured out to attend to some work. Later in the evening, I found that my wife (Kiran) looked worried and had a slight fever. It was only in the evening that she revealed about being vaccinated with two doses in quick succession,” Ram Charan Sharma, the woman’s wife said, adding that he immediately contacted the vaccination centre.Sharma went to a primary health centre near Nangal for a vaccination with his family, including his wife Kiran, on Friday where the medical staff allegedly vaccinated her wife twice.“The staff at the centre denied that she was administrated two doses and said it was not possible as per the rules. I then consulted another doctor who prescribed some paracetamol medicine and advised her to get rest,” he said, adding that his wife also complained of pain in the arm where she got the shots.Chief medical health officer (CMHO) Dausa, Dr Manish Chodhary, repudiated claims of simultaneous double doses.“The first attempt to vaccinate her was withdrawn when some blood began to pop put. It is called a prick. The nursing staff then located another spot on her arm and vaccinated her with the first dose. She (Kiran) presumed that she was vaccinated twice, which is not true at all,” Chodhary said, adding that proper vaccination protocol was followed.Dr Chodhary said that a team of doctors was also sent to Kiran’s house in Khairwal village to check on her health. “The doctors found her medical condition to be absolutely normal. No side-effect was reported either,” he said.When asked about the matter, district collector Peeyush Samariya concurred with the CMHO and said the woman was only given the first dose of the vaccine.Dr Raman Sharma, a senior professor at the SMS medical college and the hospital said that usually there is no major side effect even if both doses were to be given in a single day.“During the phase two of the vaccination trials, this possibility is also tested. And there is normally no side effect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-woman-claims-receiving-two-jabs-of-vaccine-on-same-day-doctors-deny-101622287050939.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 2,502 new Covid cases, 41 deaths||On Friday, as per the state health department, Pune district reported 2,502 new Covid-19 cases and 41 deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count in the district to 1,011,632 of which 956,772 have recovered, 12,310 deaths and 42,550 active cases. On Friday, Pune rural reported 1,406 new Covid cases which took the progressive counts to 285,823, and with 26 deaths the death toll went to 3,912. Pune city reported 604 new cases which took the progressive count to 483,198 and with 15 more deaths the toll went up to 6,650, while PCMC reported 492 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 242,611 and, with zero deaths, the toll went stood at 1,687. The state reported that 31,671 patients discharged on Friday and 5,307,874 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 93.24%. Also, 20,740 new cases were reported in the state on Friday and 424 Covid deaths were reported in the state. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.64%. Of 34,350,186 laboratory samples 5,692,920 have been tested positive (16.57%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 2,154,976 people are in home quarantine and 16,078 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-2-502-new-covid-cases-41-deaths-101622286692894.html
29-05-2021||Other||Goa government extends Covid-19 curfew till June 7||The Goa government has yet again extended the current ‘curfew’ that has been in place since May 10 until June 7, the Goa Chief Minister’s Office announced on Saturday. “The Government of Goa has decided to extend the curfew till 7 am of 7th June 2021. The orders regarding the same shall be issued by respective District Collectors,” the Chief Minister said via a tweet. The announcement, while on expected lines - owing to Goa’s high positivity rate, which stands at over 20% despite having fallen from over 50% a few weeks ago - comes amid growing resentment among traders, especially those miffed at having to keep their businesses shut for what was intended to be a two-week curfew but will now last a total of four weeks. Under Goa’s ‘curfew’ rules only essentials and alcohol will be sold between 7 am and 1 pm while vehicle repair shops, hardware stores, etc, are allowed to remain open. Restaurants are allowed to open only for takeaways. Goa is recording more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases each day which is way off the gnarly 4,000 cases it was recording toward the peak in mid-May. Covid-19 fatalities continue to remain at over 30 each day. The active cases stand at a shade over 15,000 which is around 1% of the state’s resident population but way below the 32,000 active cases that were being reported during the peak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-government-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-7-101622286691259.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Decision on Wari processions to be taken by CM next week: Ajit Pawar||Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that the decision on the annual “Ashadhi Wari” processions will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackery next week.Pawar held a meeting on Friday along with various representatives of the Warkari community and temple trustees of Sant Dnyaneshwar Alandi Devsthan and Sant Tukaram Deu Devsthan. The meeting was held at the Vidhan Bhavan, Pune and state home minister Dilip Walse Patil along with other ministers and senior government officials were present.“There is a significant importance to the Wari tradition in our state, but due to Covid-19 pandemic, it couldn’t happen last year. The current situation of Covid is also not good and in such extreme conditions we need to be extra cautious about the safety of people,” said Pawar.“I am taking forward all the suggestions and expectations given by the Warkari community to the state ministry and the final decision will be taken by the chief minister,” he said.Advocate Vikas Dhage Patil, the trustee of the Alandi temple committee, said, “Warkari community is ready to follow all the rules and regulations. State government can decide how many people can attend the procession.”This year’s Ashadhi Wari first prasthan from Dehu of Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi is scheduled on June 14 and a day later the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi will move towards Pandharpur. Whereas the Ashadhi Ekadashi the day when both the Palkhis reaches Pandharpur is on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decision-on-wari-processions-to-be-taken-by-cm-next-week-ajit-pawar-101622286451533.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Four wards have no micro-containment zones in Pune city||Out of the 15 wards in the city, four have zero micron-containment zones, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department. As of Thursday, the four wards that have zero micro-containment zones include Warje-Karvenagar, Kothrud-Bawdhan, Dhole Patil road and Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori.The city has a total of 56 micro-containment zones, out of which 12 are buildings, 28 are societies and 16 others. The highest zones are present in Dhankawadi- Sahakarnagar with 15 zones and at the second spot, Bibwewadi has 11 zones.Also, Bhawani peth and Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri wards have only one micro containment zone, a society and a building while Aundh-Baner and Kondhwa-Yewlewadi both have two zones each.Micron-containment zones are essential to curb the spread of the virus as restricts the movement of the people living in the same building, society or chawl where more than five active Covid-19 cases are present.The city has seen a drastic fall in the number of cases resulting in the fall of positivity rate as well which was 20.99% between April 29 and May 5 and has now fallen to 7.86% between May 20 May and May 26.Sachin Tamkhade, Kothrud-Bawdhan ward officer, said, “The number of cases has been falling drastically in the ward. Due to early detection, early treatment and early isolation we could break the chain of infection. We also ramped up vaccination and we have vaccinated about 70,000 people in our ward at the five vaccination centres.”“In the second wave we saw that most of the societies were reporting a maximum number of cases and so to control it whenever we found more than five active cases in any society, we declared it a micro containment zone and spoke to the chairperson to ensure that there is no unnecessary movement in the society. We also screened the neighbouring homes and anyone symptomatic was tested at the PMC centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-wards-have-no-micro-containment-zones-in-pune-city-101622286270883.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Weekend restrictions on essential services eased in Pune||State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday announced that the restrictions have been extended by 15 days in the state, but the rules may differ for the districts where the Covid-19 situation has improved.He also declared that the weekend curbs on essential services in Pune, such as vegetable shops, grocery shops have been lifted from Saturday (May 29). Essential shops will remain open from 7am-11am on all days in the week.“All representatives and also the administration seemed to be in favour of easing the weekend curbs in Pune and keeping essential services open on weekends. So it has been decided that weekend restrictions on essential services will be eased,” Tope said.While talking about easing the curbs in the state Tope clarified that the districts which have the situation under control may get some relief in the curbs.“Lockdown has been extended by 15 days, but the detailed rules for this phase will be issued on June 1,” he said.“In the districts where the number of patients is more, the positivity rate is higher and the availability of the bed is still a challenge, in such places curbs will not be eased. Detailed guidelines will be issued for the places which have situations under control,” Tope said.After Tope’s announcement Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued an order to allow the essential shops such as groceries, vegetables, fruits, bakery, meat products, agricultural-related goods, and pet shops to remain open from 7 am- 11 am on all days. This order will be effect from Saturday (May 29).Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol expressed relief after the decision. “In the Covid review meeting, we had demanded to ease the restrictions on the weekends. Now essential shops will remain open from 7 am-11 am for all seven days,” he said.“The situation in Pune is satisfactory. There is a declining curve in Pune and cases are decreasing. Compared to last week the cases have reduced this week. But the positivity of Pune is still above the state average,” Tope said.“The situation is not the same in all the state. At least 18 districts have higher average positivity than the state. Considering all the factors a decision will be taken by the chief minister and the guidelines will be issued. As the cases are dropping it is understandable for traders to make demands, but the situation is not the same throughout the state,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/weekend-restrictions-on-essential-services-eased-in-pune-101622286091329.html
29-05-2021||Pune||SSC exams: Mixed reactions to evaluation criteria by state||The state government’s decision to declare Secondary School Certificate (SSC) results based on evaluation criteria saw mixed reactions from various stakeholders.On Friday, the state government announced the evaluation criteria for the state board students of Class 10, the examinations of which have been cancelled this year due to the pandemic.Varsha Gaikwad, state school education minister, said, all students who were to appear for Class 10 exams will be promoted, and marks will be given on the basis of the internal assessment of their performance this year and that of Class 9.Shruti Mehta, a Class 10 student, said, “The decision to cancel the exams is not right, as we had put in a lot of hard work and prepared for the examination and were hoping to get good marks.”“I had got fewer marks in Class 9 exams and if I get assessed on those numbers then obviously I would get fewer marks in Class 10. This will impact on my further Class 11 admissions, so exams should be conducted,” she said.Another student Devaj Padhye said, “More than conducting the exams safety of students is more important during such health crisis. It is good that the state government has cancelled the exams, the only concern is that our assessment of marks should be done properly.”Last month the state government declared to cancel the Class 10 exams due to the increase in the number of Covid cases. After which a petition was filed at the Bombay High Court by professor Dhananjay Kulkarni challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision to cancel the board exams.“The decision declared today by the state education minister to cancel the Class 10 exams and through internal assessment method results will be declared doesn’t have exact clarification. It has again created confusion among the students. There are several unanswered questions and it will impact the career of students,” said Kulkarni.“On one hand state government is planning to carry out result process through internal marks assessment, then will conduct Common Entrance Test (CET) for Class 11 admissions and if any student is not satisfied with his/her results then a separate examination will be conducted for those students once Covid cases are in control. This entire process is all uncertain and this case is in HC now,” said Kulkarni.Bandopant Bhuyar, state president of Coaching Classes Teachers Federation and Social Forum of Maharashtra State, said, “The state government has backed off from their responsibility and simply cancelled the Class 10 exams. The evaluation criteria are baseless, and we strongly oppose this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-exams-mixed-reactions-to-evaluation-criteria-by-state-101622285910904.html
29-05-2021||Pune||All private hospital Covid bills will be audited, says Rajesh Tope||The bills of Covid-19 treatment at all private hospitals will be audited said state health minister Rajesh Tope. He was speaking at Council Hall after conducting the weekly Covid-19 review meeting for the Pune district.He said that instructions have been given to the concerned officials to appoint auditors for every hospital and bills will be audited irrespective of the amount.“Until now, an audit was done of the bills which were above Rs1.5 lakh. Now, every bill of Covid-19 treatment will be audited. Many hospitals break up the bills into multiple parts with small amounts. This should not be done. For every hospital a separate auditor should be assigned by the administration,” he said.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been conducting pre-audits and the post-audits of bills worth ₹1.5 lakh or more at private hospitals. The civic body has also appointed official persons in the private hospitals to check the bills in this range. Whereas, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had appointed a team of auditors to check the excessive bill amounts.Tope added that efforts are being taken by the charity commissioner and district administration to add more private hospitals such as Ruby Hall, Jehangir Hospital under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana for the treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus.“We have instructed the administration to bring more private hospitals under the scheme which are treating mucormycosis patients. There is a cover of 1.5 lakh, but there should not be any upper limit for the treatment. Medicines will be given free and the rest of the treatment cost will be paid by the government,” he said.Tope announced that the corporates will be asked to vaccinate their staff by tying up with private hospitals. “Industries should vaccinate their staff and the workers at their expense by tying up with a private hospital. They should take this responsibility of vaccinating the staff,” he said.On the complaints of different rates charged by private hospitals for vaccination Tope clarified that the state government does not have direct control over it.“Many MLAs said that the vaccine prices should be capped. The Government of India has allotted 25 per cent to private hospitals. They are procuring on their own and vaccinating people. But I would like to ask these private hospitals to keep affordable rates for vaccines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-private-hospital-covid-bills-will-be-audited-says-rajesh-tope-101622285490807.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to Navneet Kalra, bars him from contacting people he sold oxygen concentrators||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with a case relating to alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators and barred him from contacting people to whom he sold concentrators.Releasing him on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh, Judge Arun Kumar Garg said that Kalra would not contact anyone to whom he sold the concentrators.The bail was granted to Kalra on conditions such as he will not tamper with evidence, he will not influence the witnesses and that he will join the investigations as and when required. The Delhi police had opposed the bail plea of Kalra in the court.Earlier, the court had dismissed the Delhi Police's plea seeking five-day police custody of Kalra in connection with a case relating to the alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators in some restaurant in South Delhi.Kalra was arrested after the Delhi Police has registered a case under various offenses dealing with cheating, disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant, criminal conspiracy, and violating provisions of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 followed by seizing of oxygen concentrators from restaurants in South Delhi.The Delhi police had busted an alleged oxygen concentrator black-marketing racket during a raid and recovered 105 concentrators from two upscale restaurants in South Delhi's Khan Market area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-navneet-kalra-bars-him-from-contacting-people-to-whom-he-sold-oxygen-concentrators-101622285050491.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Industries, private hospitals in Pimpri-Chinchwad await vaccine supply||The Covid-19 vaccination drive is yet to pick up the pace at corporate offices and private hospitals in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) due to the non-availability of doses. Industries are waiting to get doses from the civic administration, while private hospitals have placed their demands but are awaiting a response from the Serum Institute of India (SII).On April 11, the government allowed to hold vaccination camps at corporate campuses, and all private stakeholders in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad and rural Pune had shown keen interest in conducting the drive. However, with the shortage of doses, many people between the 18-45 age group are waiting to get the jabs.Prashant Girbane, director-general, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), said, “Most companies are ready to conduct the vaccination camps, but things did not pick up as we were expecting. The civic bodies have provided us full-fledged support, but due to the unavailability of doses, the drive has slowed down. All the companies are ready to invest in vaccination drives as they want their employees to be safe.”In Pimpri Chinchwad, so far, 7,0597, people in the 18-45 age group have got the jabs. With the shortage of doses, the civic body is only providing doses of Covaxin and Covishield to those in the 45+ age group.As Covishield doses were available on Friday, PCMC conducted vaccination drive at 65 centres.Abhay Bhor, president of Forum of Small Scale Industries Association, said, “Our association will be conducting ‘vaccination on wheels’ at 8,000 companies. Our team of doctors and management staff are on standby and we have put our demands of doses before PCMC. Due to shortage, they are not able to provide doses.”“As 70 per cent of the population working in the industries fall in the 18 -45 age group all the industries have registered their employees’ names with us. Once the supply of doses starts, we will start the drive in the industrial area,” added Bhor.A few PMC residents who travel to the industrial town have already taken jabs after the vaccination drive started at the private hospitals.Sumant Jha, a resident of Kothrud who works in MIDC Bhosari, said, “I got myself vaccinated at a private hospital on Dhole Patil road. We were told that a drive will be conducted in the industry campus, but it is on halt due to non-availability of doses.”Meanwhile, private hospitals in PMC limits are getting a good response to vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group, and so many private hospitals from PCMC have also approached SII to supply doses.“We have placed the order of 3,000 doses with SII, we are yet to receive them. We also had a plan to conduct vaccination camps in the various housing societies, but we have put it on halt after the direction from the civic administration,” said Dr Sapana Sagare, Lifepoint Multispeciality Hospital, Wakad.“Our hospital has asked for 10,000 doses from SII, once we receive some number of doses then drive will start on priority,” said Dr Parag Hatnaikar, Orion Hospital, Wakad.Tejaswini Sawai, chairperson, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation, said, “Vaccination at private hospitals will help increase the outreach.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/industries-private-hospitals-in-pimpri-chinchwad-await-vaccine-supply-101622285071157.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||Four charred bodies recovered from gutted West Bengal factory||Four charred bodies were recovered from a factory gutted in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas near Kolkata on Saturday after the flames, which raging since early Thursday, were finally doused.At least four people, all security guards at the factory, remained untraceable after the fire broke out. Their mobiles were found to be switched off and their bicycles were also found to be damaged by the fire. Police said the bodies recovered probably belong to the guards. On Saturday morning, when police and fire brigade personnel finally managed to enter the factory, they recovered the bodies from a staircase that led to the terrace. The door of the terrace was locked. The four are believed to have tried to reach the terrace to escape when the fire broke out. But as the door was locked, they got trapped. “We had an apprehension that the four persons, who were missing, might have been trapped. The family members would identify the bodies and then the state government would... help them in every possible way,” said Sujit Bose, a state minister. A complaint against the owner of the factory has been lodged by a family member of one of the four. A forensic team and structural engineers would visit the building on Sunday. “Four charred bodies have been recovered. The family members of the persons who were reported missing have been called for identification,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named. The fire broke out in a garment factory at Bilkanda, an industrial estate in New Barrackpore, in the early hours of Thursday. At least 17 fire tenders were pressed into action. The efforts to douse it continued for over two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/four-charred-bodies-recovered-from-gutted-west-bengal-factory-101622284470550.html
29-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand rolls out heavy fines for noise pollution||The Uttarakhand government on Friday decided to levy heavy fines on noise pollution."Heavy fines will be levied on noise pollution caused at religious places, wedding ceremonies and/or by vehicles," the state government informed.The decision came about in the state cabinet meeting held in the secretariat on late Friday evening.State government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal told ANI, "The state has taken decisions under the Central Government's Noise Pollution Regulation Control Act, 2000, If a person violates the specified 'decibel' for the first time, he/she will be fined ₹1,000, for the second time, the fine levied will be ₹2,500 and for the third time, the fine levied will be ₹5,000."At religious places, if the noise exceeds the specified decibel for the first time, the fine levied will be ₹5,000, the second time - ₹10,000 and the third time will be ₹15,000. Similarly, for hotels/restaurants, if noise pollution case is reported for the first time, the fine will be of ₹10,000, the second time-- ₹15,000 and the third time will be ₹20,000.While carrying out industrial activities, the fine for violating noise pollution rules for the first time is ₹20,000, for the second time - ₹30,000 and for the third time will be ₹40,000.The government will also confiscate noise-making devices if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-rolls-out-heavy-fines-for-noise-pollution-101622284301228.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 956 fresh Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 2 months||Delhi on Saturday recorded 956 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over two months, and 122 more fatalities while the positivity rate slipped to 1.19 per cent, according to health department data.This is the first time since March 22, when 888 infections were recorded, that daily cases in Delhi have fallen below 1,000.The 122 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll in Delhi to 24,073, the health department bulletin stated.On Thursday, 1,072 Covid-19 cases and 117 deaths were recorded while the positivity rate was 1.53 per cent. On Friday, 1,141 cases and 139 fatalities were recorded while the positivity rate stood at 1.59 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-956-fresh-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-2-months-101622282046885.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Is it because we have won by a landslide?’: Mamata asks after row over skipping meeting with PM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she has been hurt by the continuous insults hurled at her by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) following her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in her state. Mamata also said that Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandhopadhyay was recalled by the Centre as the BJP could not digest the landslide victory secured by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the recently-concluded assembly elections. She also charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi of creating “confusion and confrontation” every time he visited Bengal.Mamata’s comments came a day after a political controversy erupted as several Union ministers and BJP leaders slammed the Bengal chief minister for making PM Modi wait during a meeting and then leaving minutes after giving him a report on the impact of the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas, which hit the state and neighbouring Odisha on Wednesday. On her part, Mamata said he took the Prime Minister’s permission before leaving.Mamata harshly criticised the BJP and said that a one-sided story has been peddled regarding her absence from the review meet. "The meeting was supposed to be held between the Prime Minister and the chief ministers of the states affected. I had to wait for a very long time and despite that, I met the Prime Minister and I did take his permission before leaving," she said."The plans were changed and the meeting now had the leader of the opposition, MLAs from the BJP. I want to ask the PM that when he visited Gujarat last week did he call the leader of opposition in that state for the meeting. Every time the PM visits Bengal why is there such confrontation and confusion. Why should I sit in the meeting when there are political parties who are not entitled to be a part of that meeting present there?" Banerjee asked during a press conference at Nabanna, the state secretariat.Mamata Banerjee said that the Centre was humiliating her and she is ready to beg at the Prime Minister's feet but demanded that this political vendetta should stop. Defending Alapan Bandopadhyay, Mamata Banerjee said that the chief secretary has no fault and it was improper to treat him in this manner despite his service to the nation as well as Bengal."Do you have any courtesy? (You have recalled him on) on his last day?" Mamata Banerjee asked. She also said that the BJP is unable to accept its defeat in Bengal. "You are not only disturbing me, but you are also disturbing my secretariat. Why are you behaving like this? We have won by a landslide. Is that your worry?" Banerjee slammed the Centre.Alapan Bandopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, due to retire on May 31 got an extension due to his experience in handling the Covid-19 pandemic in Bengal. His transfer order on late Saturday evening led to a war of words between the BJP and the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/is-it-because-we-have-won-by-a-landslide-mamata-asks-bjp-101622282283013.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi has now 22,701 Covid-19 containment zones||Of the total 22,701 containment zones in the national capital, central Delhi accounts for the maximum 6,523 red zones, according to official figures.Delhi had 31,570 containment zones on April 27. The number, due to a significant drop in Covid-19 cases, has now come down to 22,701 -- a decrease of over 28 per cent – by Thursday.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the national capital recorded around 900 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours and stressed that if new infections continue to decline, more activities will be allowed to open up in the city.This is the fourth consecutive day when the daily cases count have stood below the 1500-mark.According to data from the Delhi government's revenue department, central Delhi has the maximum number of 6,523 containment zones -- accounting for nearly 29 per cent of the total zones -- followed by New Delhi (4,229), southwest Delhi (2,313), south Delhi (2,308) and north Delhi (1,848).East Delhi (197) has the lowest number of containment zones. Shahdara has 262 zones and northeast Delhi 326.Of the 11 districts in the city, seven have less than 2,000 containment zones -- north Delhi (1,848), northwest Delhi (1,608), southeast Delhi (1,604), west Delhi (1,483), northeast Delhi (326), Shahdara (262) and east Delhi (197), as per the data.Since the beginning of the pandemic, Delhi has had a total of 85,908 containment zones, with south Delhi recording 32,383, the highest in the city. Of these, 63,207 have been de-contained so far.There are 14,253 active containment zones in the city.In compliance with the Union Health Ministry regulations, an area or building is marked as a containment zone when three or more COVID-19 positive cases are reported there. To prevent further contamination, more stringent restrictions are imposed in these areas.The process of lifting the lockdown gradually in the national capital will begin from Monday, starting with resumption of construction activities and reopening of factories for a week, Kejriwal had announced on Friday.The phase-wise unlocking process in Delhi will begin after over six weeks of lockdown enforced in view of the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-now-22-701-covid-19-containment-zones-101622281476633.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's health condition 'stable'||The health condition of former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital here after being diagnosed with Covid-19, is stable, a statement issued by the medical facility said on Saturday.Bhattacharjee, however, continued to have shortness of breath and is in a state of drowsiness, it said.The 77-year-old politician is presently conscious, alert and talking, the hospital authorities said."Mr Bhattacharjee is stable. He is, however, having drowsiness and shortness of breath and is on intermittent BiPAP with 3 litres of oxygen, and his oxygen saturation is maintaining at 92 per cent," the statement said.Bhattacharjee tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18."He has mild dry cough and a heart rate of 60 per minute. His blood pressure is stable and urine output is satisfactory. His capillary blood glucose levels are normal now," the statement of the hospital said.Doctors are continuing to inject Remdesivir and taking other supportive measures, it added.The health condition of Bhattacharjee's wife Mira is also stable, an official of the hospital said.Bhattacharjee's wife had recovered from the coronavirus infection and was discharged from the medical facility earlier this week, but she was readmitted, following a panic attack, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-s-health-condition-stable-101622279562766.html
29-05-2021||Other||Hyderabad couple raises ₹16 cr for son battling rare disease||In a record of sorts, a Hyderabad-based couple mobilised ₹16 crore in three-and-a-half months from 65,000 donors through crowd-funding to buy medicine, supposed to be the world’s costliest, for treating their three-year-old son suffering from a rare disease called Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), HT has learnt.Yogesh Gupta from Chhattisgarh, who has been working in a private firm in Hyderabad for the last 10 years, and his wife Rupal Gupta, were clueless when the doctors at Rainbow Children’s Hospital in the city told them that the only way to save their son Ayaansh was to procure Zolgensma - the only medicine that can cure SMA.“When we made enquiries, we came to know that Zolgensma, manufactured by Novartis, costs around ₹16 crore and has to be imported from the USA or the European countries. Added to this, one has to pay import duty and GST on the medicine,” Gupta told HT.The couple tried a few options to mobilise money for the medicine but realised that they won’t be able to do it because it was too huge a sum. “But my wife was confident that we could definitely raise the money. She was reading about fund-raising or crowd-funding campaigns that regularly take place in countries like the USA and the UK. So, she suggested we too could start such a campaign,” Gupta said.On February 4, the couple posted a request on social media platforms and began the campaign. “Our friends, about 150 of them, also pitched in and made the campaign viral. The response was overwhelming. Though the flow of funds slowed down a bit later, we did not give up hope. Our friends intensified the campaign and finally, by May 23, we could mobilise all the money we required for our son’s treatment. We closed the campaign on the same day,” Gupta said.He said nearly 65,000 donors responded to the fund-raising campaign and donated money in small or big amounts. The donors included celebrities like Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli actors Anushka Sharma, Emraan Hashmi, Dia Miza, Javeed Jaafri, Rajkumar Rao, Arjun Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan, among others.“We have completed all the required documentation and placed the order with the US firm for the purchase of the medicine. We are expecting it to be delivered by June 10. We are thankful to everyone, the donors and our friends who made relentless efforts to mobilise money to save my son,” Gupta said.Their son, Ayaansh, who turned three on Thursday, showed the signs of the rare disease when he was just six months old. “He had very limited movement of his muscles. He couldn’t even cough and when there was congestion in his chest, we had to use a suction pump to remove phlegm from his lungs,” Gupta said.The couple took the child to various doctors, including paediatricians and neuro-physicians. “Though they diagnosed it as Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), they had no idea about the treatment. They told me it is a progressive disease and my son might not survive beyond four years,” he said.Luckily, Ayaansh can speak and that was the only solace for the couple. “Finally, the doctors at Rainbow Hospital in Hyderabad recommended this drug and said it was available abroad. That raised our hopes,” Gupta said.The couple is now trying for exemption of the import duty and GST on Zolgensma.On March 17, Ayaansh’s issue was raised in the Rajya Sabha by a Congress member from Madhya Pradesh Vivek K Tankha.Replying to his query, finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman said imported life-saving drugs, including those for SMA for personal use, are exempted from basic customs duty but they attract five per cent GST. She, however, assured that ad hoc exemption from GST on imported life-saving drugs could be given on a case-to-case basis during exceptional nature.“We have made the request for exemption of the GST as well and are hopeful of getting the approval by next week,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-couple-mobilises-rs-16-cr-for-son-battling-rare-disease-101622279790167.html
29-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid cases down, UP govt shifts focus back on completing four expressways||After the decline in the Covid cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to give momentum to the construction of Purvanchal, Ganga Expressway, Bundelkhand and Gorakhpur Link expressways.The plan was to complete the construction of 340 km long Purvanchal Expressway by April but the second wave of the Covid pandemic slowed down the construction activities as the state government shifted focus on strengthening the health facilities in the hospitals, maintaining oxygen supply, increasing sample test, vaccination, surveillance in the rural areas.With the active Covid cases coming down to 52,244 on Friday from 3.10 lakh active cases on April 30, the construction activities have been expedited.Chief executive officer, UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, 90% of the physical work on the Purvanchal expressway has been completed despite obstruction caused by the second wave of Covid-19.The construction agencies are working overtime to achieve the pre-pandemic progress rate on all the eight packages.The state government plans to open the expressway for traffic on June 30, the schedule date for the completion of this project is October 2021, he said.The six-lane Purvanchal expressway originates from Chandsarai village located on Lucknow-Sultanpur highway.It will pass through Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau, it will terminate 18 km before UP-Bihar border at village Haideria in Ghazipur district.An airstrip is being developed on the expressway in Sultanpur district for the emergency landing of the Air force planes. The estimated cost of the projects is ₹22,496.93 crore (including land cost), he said.A consortium of the banks formed for the projects gave full support with sanctioning the loan on the priority basis. The support of the banks has accelerated the construction works during the pandemic, he said.The construction work on the four-lane 296 km Bundelkhand expressway has also picked up.Till Friday, 59% of the physical work has been completed. The estimated cost of the project, including land acquisition is ₹14,709 crore. The state government has decided to complete the construction of the main carriageway of the expressway by end of 2021 whereas the schedule for the completion of the project is March 2022.To give thrust to the project, the state government on Thursday released ₹500 crore for the construction work of the Bundelkhand expressway. Starting from Chitrakoot, the expressway will pass through Banda, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Auraiya, Etawah to merge with Agra–Lucknow expressway.Along with tourism, the expressway will give boost to development in the backward Bundelkhand region with connecting it with central and west UP, he said.The state government plans to acquire 7,800-hectare land for the 594 km six-lane Ganga expressway, the acquisition of land has been launched on war footing and till Friday 3,100 hectares land has been acquired. The state government on Thursday released ₹327 crore for acquisition of land in Hapur and Bulandshahar districts.The state government has sanctioned ₹37,350 crore for the project of which ₹9,500 crore will be spent on the acquisition of the land and ₹24,091 on the construction works. The expressway will commence near Bijauli village in Meerut district, it will pass through Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh districts to and at Judapur Dando village in Prayagraj, he said.The state government has completed 22.18% physical work on the four-lane 91 km Gorakhpur Link Expressway.Commencing from Jaitpur village in Gorakhpur district it will end at Salarpur village in Azamgarh district passing through Ambedkar Nagar and Sant Kabir Nagar districts. The scheduled completion of the project is April 2022, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-cases-down-up-govt-shifts-focus-back-on-completing-four-expressways-101622278169399.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||‘High prevalence of antibodies among Dharavi residents prevented surge in Covid-19 cases’: Study||There has been no surge in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s densely populated Dharavi, a slum of at least 850,000 people with a population density of 354,167 per square km, during the second wave of the pandemic because of the high prevalence of antibodies from natural infections among residents, said a research paper published in European Journal of Medical and Health Sciences on Saturday.Only seven cases were being reported per million population in Dharavi in April. It was the time when Maharashtra was reporting 507 cases per million and India 257 cases per million as the second wave overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of medical supplies and hospital beds.Last May, Dharavi was a hotspot of infections reporting 48 cases per million on average. Up to 80 cases per million were reported on some days last year when India was reporting only 1 to 3 cases per million.Researchers said there is high seropositivity in Dharavi. The first round of serosurvey in the area in July 2020 found seropositivity of 57% there. This reduced to 45% in the October round of the survey, which the researchers have attributed to diminishing levels of antibodies. “The serosurvey conducted in October 2020 for Cuffe Parade slums showed the antibodies presence in 75% population. Dharavi residents too might have seropositivity of 70-80%, enough to develop herd immunity,” the paper said.The research was conducted by Food and Energy Security Research and Product Centre, Japan, along with Deepali Bharadwaj, a Delhi-based doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-prevalence-of-antibodies-among-dharavi-residents-prevented-surge-in-covid-19-cases-study-101622277270091.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get 5.5 lakh Covid vaccine doses for 18-44 age group in June: Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the city government will receive 5.5 lakh Covid-19 jabs for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group from the Centre in June.Addressing a press conference here, Sisodia accused the central government of "sitting over" the vaccine distribution system.The deputy chief minister also alleged "mismanagement" by the central government and sought to know how private hospitals were getting vaccines while states were being told that there are no stocks.As against a requirement of 1.84 crore doses to vaccinate 92 lakh people in the 18-44 age group in Delhi, Centre provided 4.5 lakh doses in April and 3.67 lakh doses in May, he said."Now the Centre has informed us that a limited stock of 5.5 lakh doses will be provided, that too after June 10," Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-5-5-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-for-18-44-age-group-in-june-sisodia-101622277083869.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi police opposes businessman Navneet Kalra's bail plea in Court||A Delhi Court on Saturday heard the bail plea of businessman Navneet Kalra, in connection with a case relating to the alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators in which Additional Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava submitted that Kalra and other co-accused have tampered with the evidence.The Delhi police have opposed the bail plea of Kalra in the Court.Mentioning the AIIMS report, Shrivastava said, "Oxygen concentrator was neither premium nor of Germany. The concentrator may not be suitable for use of Covid-19 patients. Oxygen concentrators are useless."Denying the fact that Kalra was doing charity, Prosecutor Shrivastava submitted that charity is not done for money and Kalra was not doing charity."Had he sold it at a cost price, it would have been charity. But they sold it at a much higher price," he pointed out.The Delhi Court noted that Oxygen Concentrator has no margins fixed on cost.To this, Shrivastava said that the government has liberalised the policy for 'needy persons' and not for 'greedy persons'.The Prosecutor stated, "Their intention was to cheat and make a profit and this is a white-collar crime. They have also tampered with evidence and other co accused are not yet to be arrested and police have served them notice."The Prosecutor urged the court to reject Kalra's bail plea.Earlier, the court had dismissed the Delhi Police's plea seeking five days police custody of Navneet Kalra in connection with a case relating to the alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators in some restaurant in South Delhi.Kalra was arrested after Delhi Police has registered a case under various offenses dealing with cheating, disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant, criminal conspiracy, and violating provisions of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 followed by seizing of oxygen concentrators from restaurants in South Delhi.The police have busted an alleged oxygen concentrators black-marketing racket during a raid and recovered 105 concentrators from two upscale restaurants in the Khan Market area. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-opposes-businessman-navneet-kalra-s-bail-plea-in-court-101622276882001.html
29-05-2021||Lucknow||Death toll in Aligarh hooch tragedy rises to 22||The death toll in Aligarh’s hooch tragedy rose to 22 on Saturday and 12 more people are being treated after they drank spurious liquor bought from two government-authorised alcohol shops in at least three villages, district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said on Saturday. Officials also said the death toll could rise as autopsy of more bodies are yet to be conducted.Six people, including two licensees, have been arrested, the officials added. On Friday, a vendor, manager, salesman and helper, were arrested in Karsua village and three officials of the excise department were suspended for laxity leading to such a tragedy.The police have booked 12 people in three different cases till now, according to news agency PTI. Several raids were carried out in various parts of the district throughout the night and are still continuing, the news agency reported.All the accused have been booked under Gangster Act and National Security Act (NSA) will be invoked against them, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/death-toll-in-aligarh-hooch-tragedy-rises-to-22-101622276374866.html
29-05-2021||Other||Assam govt decides to increase daily wage of tea-garden workers by ₹38||Assam’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government on Friday decided to increase the daily wage of tea garden workers in the state by ₹38. The decision was taken at a meeting of representatives of various tea bodies, including Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha, with chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in Guwahati. As per the move, workers in the Brahmaputra Valley region of the state who were getting ₹167 daily as wages would now get ₹205. The daily wage of workers in Barak Valley would be hiked from ₹145 to ₹183. In February this year, ahead of the assembly polls in the state, the previous BJP government had hiked daily wages of tea-garden workers by ₹50 taking it to ₹217 in Brahmaputra Valley and ₹195 in Barak Valley. The move was stayed by the Gauhati High Court in March following a petition by the Indian Tea Association, the biggest organization of tea producers in India, and 17 others. The new government committed that it would increase the wages by another ₹12, taking it to ₹217 in Brahmaputra Valley and ₹195 in Barak Valley, as done vide the earlier order, after consulting all stakeholders. The promise of the hike in the daily wages of tea-garden workers was an important poll issue in Assam this time. While the BJP proposed an additional ₹101 for daily ration taking it to ₹318 in Brahmaputra Valley, the Congress had promised to hike the daily wages to ₹365 if they came to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-govt-decides-to-increase-daily-wage-of-tea-garden-workers-by-rs-38-101622274869698.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi dip below 1000-mark: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed on Saturday the national capital reported less than 1000 daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the first time since the second wave of pandemic grappled the country. “Over the last 24 hours, around 900 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi,” news agency ANI quoted Kejriwal as saying.Both new cases of Covid-19 and single-day death count in Delhi started spiralling since April 19 when the number of daily infections neared the 30,000-mark. There were 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 2, the city registered a record 407 deaths, according to official data.Also Read | Covid-19 active cases down, lowest new infections in over 3 months: GovtOver the last few days, the numbers have fallen significantly and the positivity rate too has been shrinking below record levels. On Friday, the city recorded 1141 new cases of Covid-19—it was the third consecutive day when the number was 1500. On Thursday, 1072 cases of the coronavirus disease and 117 related deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate dipped to 1.53 per cent. On Friday, the positivity rate stood at 1.59 per cent.The national capital recorded 1491 cases and 130 fatalities on Wednesday, 1568 cases and 156 deaths on Tuesday, 1,550 cases and 207 fatalities on Monday.Also Read | Covid-19: 65-yr-old is first to get antibody cocktail therapyAs the cases are abating, Delhi will begin the process of reopening from Monday as the government allowed construction sites and factories to resume work, Kejriwal announced on Friday. Other commercial establishments will continue to remain shut and will be open in a graded manner. He also warned that if the cases start to rise again, the unlock exercise will immediately be stopped and appealed to people not to step out unless it is necessary.Meanwhile, the city government floated a Global Expression of Interest (EOI) for the procurement of 10 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines on an urgent basis. In tender, the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) stated that the offered vaccine must be duly approved by a competent authority of the government of India.As per figures updated till Friday, Delhi has vaccinated 52,64,232 people and is left with 265,010 doses of Covishield for health care workers, frontline workers and those above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/daily-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-dip-below-1000-mark-cm-kejriwal-101622274541489.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||DU students to get together online: Sing, dance for Covid relief||Juggling online classes and pressure of pending exams, battling anxiety for future and fulfilling responsibilities at home, a group of Delhi University students are channelising their energy positively, to organise an online fundraiser event, to donate to Covid-relief initiatives. Titled Show for Cause, this event, scheduled for May 30, will have performances by students of across DU and even some artistes from Delhi-NCR. The two hour event, which is set to start at 6pm, will have around a dozen young performers who are keen to do their bit to support Covid relief work. The entry fee to the event is ₹100, but people can donate in excess, as per their choice. Post donation, an online link to the fundraiser will be shared with those attending the show. “Youngsters from DU and a few other performers will present songs, poetry and dance at the event. The proceeds from this will go to distribution of ration kits to children and street vendors in North Campus who have lost their livelihoods, which we will personally undertake. Those attending can also donate to AeSha for Friendships Foundation, which is catering to the needs of single mothers and women waste pickers in north east Delhi, New Seemapuri and Bhati Mines,” says Paripoorna Baxi, a student of Kirori Mal College, who heads the Girl Up – It’s Time, the Delhi chapter of the UN Foundation initiative Girl Up, which is organising this e-meet.Kashish Soni, a student of Lady Shri Ram College, who is looking forward to performing her original compositions on her ukulele and guitar, says, “In these rather difficult Covid-19 circumstances, being able to use my music to support fundraisers and help people in need has brought me close to my music, and has allowed me to contribute my tiny bit, alongside other artists from so many different backgrounds. It is a humbling experience.” “As a professional classical dancer, I have always believed that art spreads happiness and peace, but more than anything, brings one out of their ignorance,” says Annaika Ahuja, another performer at the event, adding, “Being a dancer is synonymous to who I am, my true identity. And I’m pleased to be a part of this initiative by GirlUp, raising not just funds but spreading joy and the magic of art in such dark times. I am grateful that I can showcase a piece of our culture through my performance, and I hope India will recover and stand tall, once again!” Baxi adds: “The major brunt of the pandemic has been taken by the poor, who have lost their livelihoods and have no way of providing for themselves or their families. Through this event, we hope to raise funds for those in need.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-students-to-get-together-online-sing-dance-for-covid-relief-101622273970465.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Navneet Kalra committed white-collar crime: Delhi Police to court in oxygen concentrator black marketing case||Businessman Navneet Kalra, accused in a oxygen concentrator black marketing case, committed a white-collar crime and earned profits by selling medical devices at exorbitant prices to those on death beds, the Delhi Police told a court on Saturday.During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators, which are crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 patients, were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Kalra. The restaurateur is in judicial custody till June 3.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg heard the bail application filed by the businessman who was arrested on May 17 for allegedly hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices."His intention was to cheat people and make profit. This is a white-collar crime. He sold oxygen concentrators to needy people lying on death beds," additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, representing the Delhi Police, told the court and sought rejection of Kalra's bail plea.The remarks by the Delhi Police come a day after Kalra, through senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, told the court that he had no criminal intent to cheat people and cannot be kept in pre-trial detention.During the course of the proceedings on Saturday, the prosecutor showed Kalra's oxygen concentrator brochures to the court, and said they were not premium or from Germany as claimed by the accused."Its flow was also below 35 per cent, and he sold it for more than ₹70,000 as against the MRP of ₹27,999," he added.On Kalra's contentions that he was merely helping those in need, the prosecutor said, "He was not doing any charity. If he had sold them at the cost price, it would have been a charity but he took a margin."The police further relied on a report by the Sriram Institute for Industrial Research on the oxygen concentrators' efficacy and submissions of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Shrivastava said the doctors opined that the oxygen concentrators were not suitable for treatment of Covid-19 patients due to their low efficacy."It is useless and as good as a box. Using them for even mild and moderate patients would cause harm. It will accelerate death," the additional public prosecutor said.He further apprised the court about the gravity of the offence and sought rejection of bail on the grounds that the businessman tampered with evidence, deleted material from the device and gave a bad name to the society.The police have claimed that the concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of ₹50,000 to 70,000 a piece against its cost of ₹16,000 to ₹22,000.On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under sections 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, the Essential Commodities Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also registered a money laundering case against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/navneet-kalra-committed-white-collar-crime-delhi-police-to-court-in-o2-concentrator-black-marketing-case-101622272964827.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Petrol price in Mumbai crosses ₹100 per litre, fuel rates rise for 15th time||Petrol price crossed ₹100 per litre-mark in Mumbai on Saturday as state-run retailers raised fuel rates for the fifteenth time in 26 days, raising petrol rates by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise.The latest hike made petrol ₹3.54 a litre costlier and diesel ₹4.16 since May 4, a day after the results of the five assembly polls was declared.While prices of auto fuels are at record levels across the country, diesel is currently sold at ₹92.17 a litre in the financial capital, the highest among metro cities. Pump prices of petrol and diesel in Delhi on Saturday also made a new record of ₹93.94 per litre and ₹84.89 a litre, respectively.While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Consumers in several cities, particularly in states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, are paying more than ₹100 for one litre of petrol. Some of the cities selling fuel over ₹100 per litre are Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Banswara.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps. Benchmark Brent crude rose marginally by 0.24% to $69.63 a barrel on Friday. Indian fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their international benchmark rates of the previous day. Even as international oil prices saw both upward and downward movements this month, pump rates of fuels in India moved only in the upward direction.Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 35.5% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23%, according to official data of May 16. On diesel, central taxes are over 38.2% while state taxes are about 14.6%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.During the 66-day pause on the rate hike, state-run retailers had also reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010, and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-price-in-mumbai-crosses-rs-100-per-litre-fuel-rates-rise-for-15th-time-101622272859047.html
29-05-2021||Bhopal||125 tiger cubs spotted in Madhya Pradesh over last 11 months||As many as 125 tiger cubs, aged between 5 to 11 months, have been spotted in six tiger reserves of Madhya Pradesh over the last 11 months, said a forest official. The highest number of cubs was spotted in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (41) followed by Kanha Tiger Reserve (20) and Pench Tiger Reserve (13). Principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), wildlife, Alok Kumar said, “It is good news that the population of cubs has been increased in the past 11 months. The counting of cubs was done by field officers posted at different tiger reserves.” He added the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve is still the best habitat for tigers in Madhya Pradesh. “As many as 124 tigers are already residing in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Umaria. After BTR, Kanha is one of the finest tiger reserves in India.”Kumar said their teams are closely monitoring the movement of cubs and their health. According to the details of a census released in 2018, Madhya Pradesh had the highest tiger population in India--526--followed by Karnataka (524). Wildlife activist Ajay Dubey said the state government was not doing much for space management in the reserves. “The human-animal conflict at Kanha and BTR has increased in the past few years which resulted in many tigers dying of electrocution after they came in contact with live electric wire laid by villagers. Many reports of the forest department suggested that BTR and Kanha Tiger Reserves do not have enough space for tigers. The tigers are moving out in a search of their territory and dying.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/125-tiger-cubs-spotted-in-madhya-pradesh-over-last-11-months-101622270789503.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Officials resolve to make Noida India's first fully-vaccinated district||Top officers of Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday resolved to make it India's first fully-vaccinated district against coronavirus, according to officials.A clarion call towards the resolution was given by District Magistrate Suhas L Y during a virtual meeting with top health and administration officials of the district with Police Commissioner Alok Singh also in attendance, they said."DM Suhas L Y called on all officials to get totally committed toward ensuring the objective of getting Gautam Buddh Nagar fully vaccinated against Covid-19," District Information Officer Rakesh Chauhan said in a statement to the press.Currently, Gautam Buddh Nagar is second after state capital Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh in terms of vaccination but is first in terms of population ratio inoculated, according to the statement.Gautam Buddh Nagar has an estimated population of 21 lakh of which around 15 lakh to 16 lakh people are to be vaccinated. As on Friday, 5.71 lakh people in the district have been vaccinated, which is around 30 per cent of the total targeted population for vaccination, it added.The press statement did not share any timeline for the objective and PTI's phone call to the district magistrate remained unanswered till the time this story was filed.The district, adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh, has so far recorded 439 deaths and has 1,930 active cases of Covid-19, according to official figures updated till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-officials-resolve-to-make-noida-india-s-first-fully-vaccinated-district-101622268813285.html
29-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand sends letter to Centre seeking rectification of vaccine wastage data||At loggerheads with the Centre over vaccine wastage data, the Jharkhand government has shot off a letter to the union government seeking rectification of wastage figures, saying CoWIN portal till May 27 erroneously showed state's wastage data at "38.45 per cent",a top official said on Friday. The state sent the letter on Thursday night to set the record right close on the heels of Chief Minister Hemant Soren trashing the centre's vaccine wastage data for Jharkhand. "If wastage figures are rectified on the basis of data attached with the letter sent by us to the centre, the wastage figure will come below 4.63 per cent," A Dodde, state's nodal office for vaccination told PTI, Union Health Ministry in a statement on May 25 had said despite urging states repeatedly to keep vaccine wastage below 1 per cent, many states such as Jharkhand (37.3 pc) were reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3 pc). In return, Jharkhand had contested, saying it is wrong to project vaccine wastage proportion is as high as 37.3 per cent in the state whereas the fact remained that it is much below the national average and currently stands at 4.63 per cent. Chief minister Soren had lashed out at the centre, saying how can one imagine that Jharkhand will allow its "suraksha kavach" (protective gear) to go waste? CoWIN portal developed by the central government for the vaccination programme displays the vaccine wastage data for Jharkhand at 38.45 per cent till May 27. "Jharkhand's total wastage of doses is projected as 38.45 per cent on CoWIN portal till May 27...A list of session sites with actual data is attached with the letter so that after rectification of CoWIN portal correct status could be projected," Project Director, National Health Mission wrote to the Health and Family Welfare Ministry on May 27 night. A review at state level assessed that human errors and typo by certain vaccinators in the course of data entry on CoWIN portal combined with certain glitches during wastage calculation on CoWIN software resulted in portrayal of higher wastage than actual, the letter mentioned. "Whereas states have been urged repeatedly to keep vaccine wastage below 1 per cent, many states such as Jharkhand (37.3 pc), Chhattisgarh (30.2 pc), Tamil Nadu (15.5 pc), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8 pc), Madhya Pradesh (10.7 pc) are reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3 pc)," the union health ministry had said on Tuesday. Meanwhile, retweeting his party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha's (JMM) tweet, Soren said only 48 lakh vaccine jabs have been made available to the state against 3.25 crore eligible population while Gujarat could get 1.62 crore jabs so far for 6.2 crore population. Chattissgarh too has rejected the centre's claim about high vaccine wastage claiming wastage of COVID-19 shots below one per cent in the state. The union government created CoWIN portal and said all immunisations will be part of the National Vaccination Programme and it will be captured on CoWIN platform along with stocks and price per vaccination applicable in all inoculation centres. The platform sees immunization management and reporting. Contining with his tirade against the union government on vaccination issue, Soren has slammed the centre for "launching vaccination drive without preparedness". Soren Thursday said the state is facing an acute shortage of vaccines with jabs for 18-44 age group almost over and hardly two to three days vaccines left for the people above the age of 45 years. Accusing the centre of "no transparency in vaccine allocation", he said under the circumstance he was left with no other option than to appeal to the companies operating in the state to come forward for vaccination of communities in their areas. "We are facing acute shortages of vaccines. The vaccine stock for the 18-44 age group is almost over and there is hardly two to three days stock for people above 45 years."We have raised the demand for vaccines but there is no clarity...There is no transparency in vaccine allocation," Soren had said. Earlier,opposition BJP had attacked the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government and sought to know as who is responsible for such a high wastage of vaccine in the state. Asserting how can a state allow about 18 lakh of doses go waste, Soren had said it was explained to the centre that poor connectivity in forest areas and lack of network issues are behind slow updation of data. "However, the centre seems hell-bent to project things in a poor light which is causing problem to poor states like Jharkhand. This is why the state had gone to the Supreme Court for allowing its platform for vaccination," Soren had said. Officials had said total vaccines supplied to all districts was 48.63 lakh while total vaccines utilised was 40.12 lakh and the wastage percentage comes to 4.63 per cent. The state had said it had 6.56 lakh doses of vaccines available with it. Fearing exclusion of a large chunk of the tribal people in the ongoing vaccination drive against Covid-19 due to non- availability of smartphones among many of them and access to internet in remote areas, the Jharkhand government had earlier filed a plea with the Supreme Court for directions to use its own "more user-friendly" JHAR-WIN app for registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-sends-letter-to-centre-seeking-rectification-of-vaccine-wastage-data-101622269064724.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Under debt, three women of family end life in Sangrur village||Driven by poverty, three women members of a family committed suicide by consuming poison at Kuthala village near Malerkotla on Saturday, police said. The police recovered the bodies of a 42-year-old widow, her elderly mother and 19-year-old daughter from their house in the morning. The woman’s husband, who was a soldier, died a few years after his retirement. Also read: Bharatpur doctor couple killed for revenge, accused identified: PoliceThe woman, who was the village nambardar, is survived by a daughter and a son, aged 14 and 15 years. “Preliminary investigation shows that the two women and the 19-year-old committed suicide due to poverty. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and investigation is on,” said Yadwinder Singh, the station house officer (SHO) at Sandaur. Villagers said that the family, which was surviving on the soldier’s pension, was under debt as he had sold off their farmland. According to sources, the 19-year-old had done well in the IELTS test, and the mother was keen to send her abroad, but the Covid-19 lockdown had added to their problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/under-debt-three-women-of-family-end-life-in-sangrur-village-101622268989837.html
29-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid +ve Azam Khan on oxygen support as condition deteriorates: Hospital||Senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan is in critical condition and on oxygen support, said a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow, where he is undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency reported on Saturday.Also Read | Azam Khan's condition deteriorates, shifted to ICU againAzam Khan and his son Mohammad Abdullah Khan tested positive for Covid-19 on April 30 and were admitted to Lucknow's Medanta Hospital. The hospital authorities said on May 26 that 30-year-old Abdullah is stable and is still being observed by an expert team of doctors.The 72-year-old leader underwent Covid-19 tests after complaining of fever and cough, RS Yadav, the jailer of Sitapur prison, said earlier. "Initially, the rapid antigen was done and later the samples were sent for the RT-PCR test, the reports of which came positive," Yadav said in a statement.Khan, along with his son and wife Tazeen Fatma, has been in jail since February last year in connection with various cases of land grabbing, encroachment and others. In December last year, the Allahabad High Court granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all 34 cases registered against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-ve-azam-khan-on-oxygen-support-as-condition-deteriorates-hospital-101622266762431.html
29-05-2021||Other||Odisha extends deadline for its global tender for Covid-19 vaccines||Odisha government on Friday extended the deadline of the global tender floated for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines by a week in view of requests from many prospective vendors, cyclone Yaas and also for greater participation, as per an official state notification.The notification by Odisha State Medical Corporation Ltd (OSMCL), which floated the tender for procurement of 3.80 crores of Covid-19 vaccine doses on May 14 to inoculate its 18-44 population, said the bid submission date has been extended till June 4. The technical bid will open at 11.30 am and the price bid by 5 pm on that day.The bids have been invited from the world’s leading vaccine manufacturers and they have been offered advance payment of 30 per cent of the value of each purchase order. The OSMCL expects 75 lakh doses in 30 days of the purchase order, 2.25 crore doses within 60 days, 3.75 crore doses by 90 days and 3.8 crore doses by 120 days.To facilitate the participation of vaccine manufacturers, the state government recently revised storage conditions up to minus 20 degree Celsius, subject to the condition that the vaccines will remain stable and maintain their potency at 2 degree Celsius to 8 degree Celsius for at least 12 hours.Though it was previously stipulated that 50 per cent of the total tender quantity would be allocated to the lowest bidder and the balance 50 per cent to be split among the second, third and fourth lowest bidders and so on at negotiated rates, the revised terms and conditions allows a potential bidder to apply for any quantity.The OSMCL has offered advance payment of 30 per cent of the value of each purchase order. It expects 75 lakh doses in 30 days of the purchase order, 2.25 crore doses within 60 days, 3.75 crore doses by 90 days and 3.8 crore doses by 120 days.Odisha’s additional chief secretary of health PK Mohapatra said it would be difficult to tell how many companies have bid for Odisha’s global tender so far as the NIC portal does not allow that.Odisha’s global tender comes in the wake of the failure of Maharashtra in getting any response from original vaccine manufacturers for its similar offers. While Maharashtra received responses from eight companies, none of them are vaccine manufacturers.Doubts are being expressed over Odisha getting any offer from vaccine manufacturers as existing ones like the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are struggling to supply vaccines to the Centre. Meanwhile, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which would distribute Sputnik V vaccines in India, said it has not authorised any third party to supply the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine on its behalf in India.“Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is the brand custodian of the Sputnik V vaccine in India and has the sole distribution rights of the first 250 million doses (first and second dose components included) of the vaccine in India,” the pharma major and Russian Direct Investment Fund(RDIF) said in a joint statement.Till May 28, Odisha managed to vaccinate 74,99,728 people, around 20 per cent of its total number of people who are eligible for vaccination. Odisha has now 9.66 lakh doses of vaccines left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-extends-deadline-for-its-global-tender-for-covid-19-vaccines-101622266168936.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Capital adds 1,141 Covid cases, positivity rate stays below 2%||The Capital on Friday recorded 1,141 new infections of Covid-19 and 139 more deaths, with the positivity rate remaining low at 1.6%, as city’s numbers continued its downward trend.This is the third consecutive day when the cases have remained below the 1,500 mark. With this, the seven-day average of new cases in the Capital, a statistic that denotes a region’s Covid curve, dropped to 1,533 cases a day the lowest in nearly two months, or since March 30 – highlighting Delhi’s remarkable turnaround from the massive fourth wave of infections.At its peak a little over a month ago, the seven-day average of new cases soared to a peak of 25,294 a day.As per the Delhi government’s health bulletin on Friday, there were 1,141 fresh cases detected in the past 24 hours from the 71,853 samples tested in the city, taking the total number of confirmed infections to 1,423,690. A total of 139 new deaths pushed the death toll from the deadly virus in the city to 23,951.On Thursday, 1,072 cases and 117 deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate had dipped to 1.5%. On Friday, the positivity rate stood at 1.6%. The test positivity rate had soared to 36% in the last week of April, coming down to around 1.5% now.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when a dropping positivity rate is coupled with decreasing new cases, it indicates that the spread of the virus is reducing within the community. Tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. In Delhi, this number has been below the threshold for eight days now.With a view on dropping cases, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said it was time to start the unlock process, but warned that if the coronavirus cases start rising again, “we will have to stop the unlock exercise”, and appealed to people not to step out unless it is absolutely necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-adds-1-141-covid-cases-positivity-rate-stays-below-2-101622249958570.html
29-05-2021||Lucknow||Hooch tragedy: At least 12 dead in Aligarh, four held||At least 12 people died and 14 took ill in three villages in Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district after allegedly having spurious liquor bought from two government-authorised alcohol shops on Friday, a senior official said. Four people, including a vendor, manager, salesman and helper, were arrested in Karsua village while three officials of the excise department were suspended for laxity leading to such a tragedy. Aligarh district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said a police team has been constituted to nab those involved in supplying the liquor. He said two liquor shops of the same licensee in Kursua and Andla villages were sealed as those who died purchased alcohol from there. “All the accused have been booked under Gangster Act and National Security Act (NSA) will be invoked against them,” Aligarh superintendent of police Kalanidhi Nathani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hooch-tragedy-at-least-12-dead-in-aligarh-four-held-101622249183182.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: 65-yr-old is first to get antibody cocktail therapy||A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient received an antibody cocktail at Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo hospital on Thursday, becoming the first person in the city to have been treated using the therapy.It uses a cocktail of two monoclonal antibodies -- laboratory-made proteins that mimic the body’s immune cells -- called casirivimab and imdevimab marketed by Roche. The monoclonal antibodies attach with the spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and prevent the entry of the virus into the human cell.The therapy is administered to those at high risk of developing severe disease before the disease progresses on from mild or moderate category with no need for oxygen support. “The treatment is administered so that those at a high risk of developing severe disease and of mortality do not progress to that stage,” said Dr Rajesh Chawala of Indraprastha Apollo hospital.The therapy should not be administered to those who have a history of allergies or those who are dependent on oxygen because of other lung diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-65-yr-old-is-first-to-get-antibody-cocktail-therapy-101622246709333.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||IIT-D study on oxygen submitted to Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the state government to implement the recommendations of a study by IIT-Delhi to streamline the oxygen supply chain in the capital. The study was commissioned by the Delhi government on the suggestions of the court on May 5, to prepare for a possible third wave of Covid-19. Delhi government standing counsel (civil) Satyakam submitted the report to the high court on Friday.The report, curated by IIT-Delhi’s Professor Sanjay Dhir, is based on information provided by the Delhi government on various aspects of the issue. It illustrates nine challenges that the Delhi government has to overcome in order to improve the oxygen infrastructure in the Capital -- oxygen storage capacity, supply of oxygen from outside Delhi, GNCTD IT portal for oxygen management & ICCC (Delhi) dashboard, compatibility of nozzles, re-fillers’ capacity evaluation, pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, planning to set up of manufacturing units for oxygen production, shortage of cryogenic oxygen tankers, and scenario-building to plan infrastructure requirements for Covid-19 third wave.Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra said a 13-member task force is already working on preparations for the third wave. “On instructions, broadly, we are all on the same page. We will surely implement to the extent possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iitd-study-on-oxygen-submitted-to-delhi-hc-101622244916669.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Jabs shortage ‘artificial’, says AAP over supply running low||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokespersons Raghav Chadha and Atishi on Friday accused the central government of creating an “artificial scarcity” of vaccines in India by favouring supplies to private sector facilities over state governments, including Delhi.Alleging that the state was choking state governments of vaccine supplies and diverting stocks to private facilities — which charge for doses, unlike public centres, forcing people to pay for vaccines.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called these allegations “unfounded.”“The Delhi government has run out of vaccines, forcing centres for the 18-45 age group to be suspended. These centres offered vaccines for free. But the private centres, which charge between ₹1,000 and ₹1,500 for a dose, have adequate stocks. How are they getting the supplies? It’s because the central government is favouring the private sector over the state governments when it comes to ensuring supply of vaccines. It also looks like doses meant for the state governments are being diverted to the private sector,” said AAP spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha.Union health ministry spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive follows two tracks: the Centre offers free doses meant for those 45 and above; then there is the acquisition by state governments and private health care institutions to give doses for any group they choose to cater to.The Union government has made it mandatory for vaccine makers in India to keep 50% of their doses for the central supply, while the remaining will be evenly split between private procurers and state governments.The BJP hit back at the AAP’s allegations.“The Centre has not caused any scarcity of vaccines,” said BJP spokesperson Kapoor.“AAP leaders should know that creating scarcity and putting people at discomfort is the chief minister’s speciality,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jabs-shortage-artificial-says-aap-over-supply-running-low-101622242927851.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A Miranda House poet||This Delhi University (DU) student hasn’t been to her college yet. “I belong to the cursed 2020 batch,” says Rangoli Sharma on phone, blaming the pandemic that has forced her campus life to be substituted by online classes. In fact, she is far from Delhi, at her home in Churu, Rajasthan.Also read: High daily testing allowed isolation of Covid patientsIn her early 20s, Ms Sharma is a post-grad student in Miranda House, a college for women. Having spent all her life in places other than Delhi, she was looking forward to the experience of being a DU student. Especially because she always viewed its women colleges as “cradles of feminism” where “women can choose to be more of themselves than they can be at any other place; they become kind, opinionated and confident, and I always wished to be one.” With the unpredictability of the ongoing pandemic, there is a possibility of Ms Sharma ending up as a Miranda House alumnus without any personal memories of its canteen and corridors.She wrote a poem last month, “after seeing requests for oxygens, injections, ventilators and life on social media.”This is not a love poemWorld is always sufferingand people are always dyingbut it is only in the times of warthat we are more scared and kinderfor ‘people’ can be usmore than ever this timeas children in 6th gradewe used to discuss world warsand guessed what the third one would be formany of us would say “water”little did we knowit could be on the air we breatheand dying in the arms of a loved onecould be a fearful act in itselfI can never understandhow does one attempt to write love poemsor one dreams of world peaceor one thinks of building houseswhen there is a war going ona war no one deserveda war everyone has to be a part ofso, this, is everything but a love poemfor all those who are a part of this warthis, is a poem of rage and helplessnessof suffering and tearsof shattered dreams and smilesof undone last rituals and unsaid goodbyesand no, it should not end on a note of hopefor it would have lost its similes and personificationtill the time it comes to an endso, this poem, doesn’t completely rhymeit rather chooses to be blurry and uncertainlike the times it has been written inlike the person it has been written bylike the world it has been written forand the only comfort it can offer youis in the fact that you are not alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-miranda-house-poet-101622242446360.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||High daily testing allowed isolation of Covid patients||With vaccines in short supply, testing and isolating people quickly is the best way to keep infections under control. Experts say more testing helps trace and isolate Covid patients, set up containment zones, and track the size and spread of an outbreak.Delhi is the runaway leader in testing among the country’s 20 most populous regions, shows an HT analysis, highlighting another important factor that helped the city get control over its deadliest Covid wave. The Capital tested 955,849 samples per million people till Wednesday, nearly four times the national average of 252,809. Jammu & Kashmir, in second, tested 633,133 per million.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Delhi has tested twice the proportion of its population compared to other states with good testing strategies, such as Kerala, Karnataka, and Telangana.In all, the city has conducted over 19 million tests till Friday.What turned out to be crucial was that even at the height of the fourth wave, when every third person was testing positive and labs were overwhelmed, the city administration did not let the number of daily tests drop below 60,000. Moreover, the city kept conducting a high number of the more accurate RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test.At least 65% of the over 257,000 tests in April and 76% of the 193,000 in May were RT PCR, considered the gold standard in testing, even as nationally the proportion of the less accurate rapid antigen tests (RAT) increased as governments ramped up testing during the second wave of infection. At the peak of the infection, when the positivity rate was 36% and about 25,000 new cases were emerging every day, it also meant that the 25,000 people were being isolated from the rest of the population every day to break the chain of transmission.“Delhi has been a model state nationally in terms of testing since the first Covid wave. Against the national average of 1,500 tests per million population per day, Delhi has consistently been doing 4,000 tests for several months now, which is the highest nationally and among the highest globally.”Experts said this played a role in Delhi controlling the wave.“The rapid antigen tests are known to miss one out of every two positive cases. Once a person gets a negative report, albeit using an RAT, they are likely to go out in the society and infect others if they are asymptomatic carriers of the infection. Ideally, all tests should be conducted using RT-PCR but it is not possible to do so in such a populous country,” said Dr Harsh Mahajan, president of healthcare association NatHealth and founder of Mahajan Imaging that does RT-PCR tests in Delhi.“What is good though is that Delhi maintained the 70:30 ratio for RT-PCR tests. Had that not been the case, more people with the infection would have been out and about and infected others,” he added.RT-PCR and other molecular tests amplify the genetic material of the virus extracted from the swab sample to detect an infection. They are, therefore, more accurate than the rapid antigen tests that detect the presence of viral proteins without any amplification.When Delhi first imposed a weekend lockdown on April 17, the seven-day average of daily samples had touched a peak of 99,776 – the most recorded in the city. The number of samples tested crossed the 100,000-mark on five occasions in the first two weeks of April.However, the imposition of the lockdown brought down the number of tests, which Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain attributed to a stop in testing at transit points like railway stations and interstate bus terminals. Still, the city on average tested over 70,000 samples daily, including in the city’s rural areas.“During this wave, we have seen a high number of cases being reported from the rural areas of Delhi as well. This was not the case during the last wave. To ensure all cases get detected quickly, a high number of tests – nearly 10,000 to 12,000 a day – is being conducted in districts with rural pockets such as Southwest,” Jain said last week.Another challenge the city faced as cases rose in April was lab technicians getting infected, leading to long delays in sample collection and results, resulting a crucial lag period in which people could unknowingly infect others. The government, on April 22, reiterated its May 2020 order asking labs to release reports within 48 hours of collection to check the delay in infected patients getting isolated.Also read: GST Council forms GoM for tax slabs of Covid essentials“Testing has to be done aggressively even when the number of cases is low. And, this is not just from the government’s point of view, people should also be willing to come out and get tested. If that happens, then the government will know in which locations the number of cases are on the rise and localised lockdowns can be implemented to stop the spread of the infection to the rest of the city,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.In addition to tests, experts have suggested the government boost genomic sequencing in view of the looming threat of new variants. So far, Delhi has sequenced the third highest number of samples after Kerala and Maharashtra, both states with a much higher population. Of the 19,000 samples sequenced by Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), 1,605 are from Delhi.With only 10 institutes across India sequencing genomes, the numbers, however, are low as compared to the recommended 5% of total positive samples. In April alone, Delhi reported 487,000 positive cases; 5% of this would have translated to over 24,000 samples sequenced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-daily-testing-allowed-isolation-of-covid-patients-101622242065377.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Move to merge 489 rural dispensaries with health dept in Punjab raises eyebrows||The Punjab government’s move to merge 489 of the 1,183 dispensaries run by the state rural development and panchayati raj department with the health department has not gone down well with a section of doctors and other healthcare workers who are raising questions about the decision at a time when the pandemic threat is looming large in non-urban areas. The decision was implemented earlier this month. According to an order, these subsidiary facilities will now be run by the health department as health and wellness centres and won’t have MBBS doctors. Every centre will now be headed by a community health officer (CHO), a newly created post. A nurse, who has been given special training for the purpose, or a holder of bachelor of ayurvedic medicine and surgery (BAMS) degree will be posted as CHO, officials said. The government’s rationale behind the merger is that these centres, meant to serve far-flung and backward rural areas, were not having MBBS doctors (rural medical officers) and other staff for the past few years. Punjab Rural Medical Services Association president Dr Aslum Parvez said red tape has taken a toll on the rural healthcare system which has been systematically eroded amid the pandemic. “These dispensaries were without doctors for the past 9 years. When there was a need to fill the vacancies, the government decided to abolish the posts. We urge that chief minister to take back the decision and fill the vacancies of doctors in permanent rural health cadre under the rural development department,” he said. Now, these dispensaries will be run by nurses working as community health officers, Dr Parvez added. On Thursday, protests were held against the move in Patiala and Gurdaspur districts. “Our dispensary used to cater to a population of over 12,000,” said Jatinder Singh Mattu, convener of the Independent Labour Union, who led the protests in Ghagga village of Patiala. These centres were without permanent doctors as the last recruitment in the rural department was done in 2016. Doctors serving in the rural areas say a CHO won’t be authorised to prescribe any drugs. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal said the posting of doctors in these centres is under consideration of the government. Health minister Balbir Sidhu and his rural development and panchayati raj counterpart Tript Rajinder Bajwa were not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/move-to-merge-489-rural-dispensaries-with-health-dept-in-punjab-raises-eyebrows-101622233105448.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal sale of assets: Pearls Group owner Bhangu’s son-in-law held||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) on Friday arrested Har Satinder Singh Hayer, prime accused in the case involving alleged illegal sale of properties of PACL India Limited, also known as Pearls Group, worth hundreds of crores despite a Supreme Court ban. Officials said Hayer, son-in-law of Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangu who is in jail in connection with a ponzi scam involving over ₹48,000 crore, was arrested from Mohali with some property-related documents. A SIT member said he will be produced in a court in Ferozepur district’s Zira town on Saturday. The SIT, constituted by Ferozepur range deputy inspector general (DIG) Hardial Singh Mann, comprises Tarn Taran superintendent of police (headquarters) and deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) of Zira and Jalalabad in Fazilka. In April this year, the SIT filed a chargesheet against multiple accused in a Ferozepur court, saying despite the SC’s 2016 ban order, the PACL and its associated companies started disposing of land worth hundreds of crores in and outside India. As many as 57 people, including company officials and family members of Bhangu, were booked on charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Zira police station in July last year. Several arrests were made by the police on the complaint of one Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district. In December 2015, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had ordered attachment of all assets of PACL and its nine promoters and directors for their failure to refund money to investors. A panel headed by Justice RM Lodha (retired) had initiated the process of refund to the investors. The SIT chargesheet The SIT in its chargesheet claimed that Hayer and his wife Barinder Kaur had given multiple powers of attorney to Australia-based Sarabjit Singh, alias Sebby Sanghera, a trusted aide of Hayer, to sell the company properties in Australia that were purchased through the money invested by the public. One of the powers of attorney was for a property worth 6-crore Australian dollars. These papers were prepared in Zira. Financial transactions were also detected between Hayer and Sanghera. Hayer along with other family members also sold illegally many PACL properties outside Punjab by giving power of attorney, it was found. It is also alleged that Hayer allegedly sold a prime company property in Banur town of Mohali district. According to the chargesheet, financial transactions were also made between Manoj Kumar, one the 57 accused in the property sale case who was arrested in April this year, and Barinder Kaur and others. Also, Dhillon Empire, an associate company of PACL, kept operating its accounts, it is alleged. “Another accused Munish Jakhar got registered land deeds of 112 flats of Nirmal Chhaya project despite the court ban and gave power of attorney of many commercial properties,” reads the chargesheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-sale-of-assets-pearls-group-owner-bhangu-s-son-in-law-held-101622232985295.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cash-strapped Punjabi University increases ‘transcript fee’ 40 times||The fund-starved Punjabi University, Patiala, has increased the ‘transcript fee’ for students residing in India by 40 times from ₹500 to ₹20,000. The decision will be effective from June 1.Required at the time of applying for work permit or permanent residence (PR) abroad, an academic transcript is a set of documents pertaining to an applicant’s educational records, including details of course, degree, subjects studied and marks obtained. It is issued by the parent university from where an applicant pursued their course. Besides ₹20,000, the applicant will have to pay 18% Goods and Services Tax (GST). Moreover, if a student requires additional transcripts, they will have to pay additional ₹5,000 per set.For applicants residing outside India, the varsity is charging $294 ( ₹21,700).Panjab University, Chandigarh, charges ₹525 as transcript fee each from those residing in India and $304 ( ₹22,000) from those based out of the country. The Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, charges between ₹800 and ₹1,200, excluding 18% GST, per document. “It is open loot by the Punjabi University administration which is trying to fleece students to fill its empty coffers. For instance, a student requiring transcripts for immigration purposes for two-year MBA degree earlier paid nearly ₹3,000 but now the varsity will charge ₹20,000 besides GST for the same,” said Rashpinder Singh, an activist of the Punjab Students Radical Union. “The union will protest against such fleecing of students and will raise the issue with varsity high-ups next week,” he added. Vice-chancellor Prof Arvind said the decision was taken to bring uniformity in issuing and sending transcripts for students residing in and outside India. “As per the present system, many of those applying for transcripts from outside India used fraudulent means to get their transcripts at cheaper rates. The decision will end corruption in sending transcripts and streamlining the whole process,” Prof Arvind said. A senior faculty member said the varsity is receiving nearly 150 applications for transcripts for immigration purpose on a daily basis and, therefore, has fond it process more lucrative to charge excessive fee from students. “The university completely failed to take note of the fact that most of the applicants residing outside the country are earning in hard currencies, while those in India are either dependent on their families or are working for meagre salaries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cashstrapped-punjabi-university-increases-transcript-fee-40-times-101622232325513.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong rumblings: 3-member panel set up by Sonia to meet today||Chandigarh A three-member committee set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi under senior party leader and Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress will have its first meeting in New Delhi on Saturday. The committee, which has former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat as members, plans to find a solution to the open sparring between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the dissenting group, including former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi, through dialogue. Kharge, who became the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha in February this year, is among the Gandhi family loyalists. The panel has also been asked to look at the party’s strengths and shortcomings and draw the strategy for strengthening the party for the state assembly polls due early next year after listening to the chief minister’s camp and the dissenters, according to sources. Rawat, who had tried hard for a rapprochement between Amarinder and Sidhu after becoming in-charge of Punjab eight months ago, spoke to the chief minister on Friday and sought his opinion on the modalities to be followed. “We will also talk to (Punjab Congress president) Sunil Jakhar, ministers, MPs and MLAs among others and seek their views for early resolution of these issues and draw the strategy for the Congress victory,” said Rawat, a former chief minister of Uttarakhand. The committee does not have any immediate plans to visit the state due to the coronavirus pandemic and is likely to meet the party leaders in the national capital. The committee has been constituted by the Congress leadership due to the internecine infighting among senior party leaders, particularly Amarinder and Sidhu, who are hitting out at each other over delay in giving justice in sacrilege cases ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the special investigation report (SIT) report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. The politically sensitive issue has seen attempts by 9-10 ministers, MPs and MLAs to band together and take on the chief minister. Sidhu blamed Amarinder for the legal setback and failure to deliver on some key poll promises whereas the CM accused him of fuelling dissent, suggesting that he (former minister) may jump the ship. Also, seven ministers have demanded the cricketer-turned-politician’s suspension from the party. While Sidhu is said to be counting on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the two-time CM, who has led the party to a string of electoral successes in the state since the 2017 election win, seems confident that the Congress high command will listen to him on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-rumblings-3-member-panel-set-up-by-sonia-to-meet-today-101622232145352.html
29-05-2021||Other||Army repairs ventilators at Faridkot medical college||A team of army personnel from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) at the Western Command headquarters on Friday took over the repair work of inoperative medical equipment, including ventilators, at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) here.The army has stepped in to mend the life-saving machines as GGSMCH was unable to get technical support to make all ventilators functional at the Covid-19 care facility. A team led by Colonel Divanshu from the Corps of EME reached Faridkot on Friday.Colonel Divanshu, nodal officer, EME medical equipment workshop at Ferozepur, said that they have started repairing the broken ventilators and are also conducting inspections of other medical equipment to check their condition. As per the officials, two ventilators have been repaired by the army engineers so far.A 450-bed isolation facility, GGSMCH is providing care to critical Covid patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. Of the total 119 ventilators, 82 were working on Friday while 37 (30%) still remained out of order.The Western Command officials have also offered technical support to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Patiala.GMCH Patiala principal Dr Rajan Singla said, “I have called for checking of all medical equipment and a report on those needing repairs.”Major General Vijay Deshmukh, MGEME, Western Command, said, “A team has reached Faridkot to resolve the issues with ventilators. We have also reached out to Patiala GMCH.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-repairs-ventilators-at-faridkot-medical-college-101622231545210.html
29-05-2021||Other||Two sacrilege cases reported in Moga, Bathinda||Two cases of sacrilege of sacred religious texts were reported from Moga and Bathinda districts, police said on Friday.In the first case, the Moga police arrested Ram Singh of Jhanduke village, Mansa, for allegedly committing sacrilege of Sikh holy text Sri Gutka Sahib at Sukhanand village in the district. Based on the complaint of Jaswinder Singh of Sahoke village, the cops registered a case against the accused under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Samalsar police station.The complainant stated that the accused, who lives at a nearby ‘dera’, late on Tuesday night tore and threw three copies of the sacred text on the ground. “We immediately informed the police, and a case was lodged against him,” he said.In the second case, police found scriptures revered by the Sikh and Hindu communities lying in a garbage dump in Bathinda on Friday.Bathinda SSP BS Virk said the holy texts, including Sri Gutka Sahib, Hanuman Chalisa and Shiv Chalisa, were not torn or damaged. He said a few idols of Hindu deities and photographs of Sikh gurus were also found near National Colony.The religious material was found in a plastic sack, he said adding that a case has been registered under Section 295-A of the IPC against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-sacrilege-cases-reported-in-moga-bathinda-101622231485041.html
29-05-2021||Other||Farmers launch 3-day stir at Patiala, say govt failed in tackling Covid crisis||Farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugarahan here on Friday started a three-day protest against the state government for its alleged failure in tackling the Covid-19 crisis and imposing restrictions across Punjab.Over 1,500 farmers gathered at the PUDA ground near the Tripuri police station. The farmers sat in straight lines ensuring social distancing, wore face masks, carried sanitisers and water bottles.BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the main agenda of the protest was to list out failures of both central and state governments in tackling the Covid situation in Punjab.“People are dying of lack of beds and oxygen. The authorities have completely failed to provide the required medical facilities to people, who are left to make arrangements of their own,” said Singh.He added that the union has demand the state government to take control of the private hospitals during the pandemic in order to provide treatment at capped rates.“Instead of instilling fear among people with challans, police force and curfew-like restrictions, the government should initiate awareness drives in rural areas to sensitise people about the virus. Moreover, rather than labelling farmers as superspreaders, the government should arrange vaccines to be administered to the rural population on priority,” he said.BKU members demanded that the government make required arrangements for beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders in order to tackle the situation in a streamlined manner in the near future besides carrying out a recruitment drive in the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-launch-3-day-stir-at-patiala-say-govt-failed-in-tackling-covid-crisis-101622231305837.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar slab collapse kills 7||Seven people were killed and one was injured as the slab of a five-storey structure in Ulhasnagar collapsed on Friday night.According to the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) fire brigade, the slab of the fifth floor of the 27-year-old Sai Shakti building collapsed on the floors below.As per the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) regional disaster management cell (RDMC), seven bodies were pulled out of the debris.At the time of going to press, the rescue operation was called off, confirmed Santosh Kadam, chief, RDMC- TMC.UMC public relations officer Yuvraj Badhane said, “The building was not on this year’s dangerous buildings list. It was built in 1994-95. We are checking other details and also if there were any illegalities.”On May 15, five people were killed, while 10 others suffered minor injuries after the slab of a ground-plus-five-storey residential building Mohini Palace at Ulhasnagar’s Charandas Chowk collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-slab-collapse-kills-7-101622231304484.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 20,740 cases, lowest in 73 days; lockdown to be extended||Maharashtra is set to extend the current lockdown for a fortnight from June 1, even as it reported 20,740 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday— the lowest in 73 days. The curbs, however, would be relaxed in places where the Covid-19 case growth rate or positivity rate has reduced. The state government, according to health minister Rajesh Tope, will finalise the parameters and issue guidelines soon. Senior government officials said the timings for shops selling non-essential commodities could be relaxed in areas where the cases have reduced. Currently, under the existing restrictions till 7am of June 1, citizens of the state are disallowed to step out unless they need medical attention, or are working in an essential sector, or want to buy essential commodities. That too within restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. Tope, who held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Pune on Friday, said the government will decide criteria for unlocking. “It can be positivity rate or growth rate,” he said. “We have decided to extend the lockdown for 15 days, but the guidelines will be issued soon. Wherever the positivity rate is high, there is a challenge of bed availability. In such places, the lockdown will not be relaxed. However, for places where the situation is not bad, guidelines will be issued by June 1… With regards to unlocking of non-essential shops, we are preparing guidelines for them. We will discuss with chief minister and finalise it,” Tope added. State officials said they are working on relaxing the curbs, including for shops selling non-essential commodities. They added that certain restrictions including travel on suburban trains, inter-district travel, etc will continue to be regulated. Currently, only work force engaged in essential services and those with medical urgency are allowed to use local trains in Mumbai. Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded under-1,000 fresh cases on Friday. It added 924 new cases, taking its tally to 702,522. Mumbai also added 30 fatalities, pushing death toll to 14,750. Maharashtra on Friday added 424 fatalities, taking the death toll over 93,000, to 93,198. The overall positivity rate in the rate stood at 16.57%, while the daily positivity rate was 7.85%. Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 3.14% on Friday. Officials said parameters including weekly growth rate and weekly positivity rate will be considered while giving relaxation in certain areas. “The general idea is to go slow with the unlocking as many districts have high positivity rate. The chief minister does not want to open activities in one go as it would waste the effort to control the spread of coronavirus in the state. As unlocking will be gradual, he wants more people to get at least one shot of the Covid vaccine. Many options are being looked into. Travel of people will continue to be regulated and work from home will continue to be encouraged,” said the official who did not wish to be named. Dr Rahul Pandit, state Covid task force member and Director-Critical Care, Fortis Hospitals, Mumbai, said, “The overall situation in the state has improved, however, there are some districts that continue to show red flags. So, the unlocking will have to be done accordingly.” He added that the task force cannot recommend unlocking guidelines, but it has conveyed the assessment of the situation by “pointing out the red flags and green zones”. Meanwhile, Tope said the state government is looking to augment Covid care centres in rural areas after the state’s decision to disallow home quarantine to Covid-positive patients where the dwellings are small. He also said all district collectors and municipal commissioners have been told to carry out tracing and testing in a “scientific manner” as opposed to random testing. He said the latter would ensure low positivity rate on paper, but reality would be different. “Across Maharashtra, the tracking and testing has to be done in a scientific manner. We have conveyed it to district collectors and commissioners. We do not want to test randomly and get a low positivity rate. Therefore, tests of only high-risk and low-risk contacts will be done… Tope said the department has given “targets” to districts to bring down the home isolation tally to around 30%. He however clarified that it is not 100% mandated, but only in places where isolation is not possible due to small houses. “We have taken decisions on home isolation which has brought down its numbers from 80% to 56%. We are working toward bringing it down to 25%-30%. We want to reduce home isolation and give preference to institutional quarantine. It should especially increase in rural areas because there have been cases of late admissions which have resulted in deaths. People [in CCC] will be treated as per protocol, which will ensure they recover as well as reduce spread in rural areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-20-740-cases-lowest-in-73-days-lockdown-to-be-extended-101622231247231.html
29-05-2021||Other||Punjab police seize opioid pills haul from HP factory, owner held||The Punjab Police on Friday busted an illegal pharmaceutical factory and recovered 30 lakh opiod pills in Paonta Sahib town of Sirmaur district in Himachal Pradesh.The seizure of the drugs, including tramadol and alprax, was made during a raid at Unique Formulations, whose owner, Munish Mohan of Devi Nagar, Paonta Sahib, has also been arrested.Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the raid was conducted under the supervision of Amritsar-rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya.He said that as part of investigations into an earlier recovery of 50,000 tramadol tablets from three persons on May 18, 2021, a police team led by Mattewal station house officer (SHO) Lovepreet Singh and sub-inspector Gurwinder Singh conducted a raid at the factory in the presence of Himachal Pradesh policemen and Sirmaur drug inspector. Two drug inspectors, Sukhdeep Singh and Amarpal Malli, from Amritsar also accompanied the police team.The DGP said the team recovered 30,16,332 intoxicant tablets, including 12.45 lakh tramadol capsules, 7.72 lakh tramadol tablets, 9.99 lakh alprax (alprazolam) tablets — approximately valued at ₹15 crore — from the illegal unit.He said that the factory has been sealed and the arrested person will be brought to Punjab after completing the legal formalities. He said Majitha ASP Abhimanyu Rana and DSP (detective) Gurinder Nagra played a vital role in the execution of this operation.Earlier in 2020, the Punjab Police had unearthed an illegal pharma trade after a big haul of 2.8 crore tablets and capsules of opioids, including tramadol and clovidol, from Neutec Pharma godown at Narela (Delhi) and arrested the owners, Krishan Arora and his son Gaurav Arora, from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-police-seize-opioid-pills-haul-from-hp-factory-owner-held-101622231246734.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: Fearing arrest in Red Fort case, Lakha Sidhana cancels rallies for 10 days||Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana has postponed all protests and rallies for 10 days amid fear of arrest in the Red Fort violence, confirmed his team members on Friday.On Thursday, Sidhana had launched a village-to-village campaign to mobilise people against three farm laws.One of the core members of Sidhana’s team Sukh Jagraon said over phone that the Punjab government was hand in glove with the central government and police could arrest Sidhana during protests in the state.“We have decided to cancel all programs for the next 10 days in the state. However, the campaign against black laws and mobilization of people for massive protests at Delhi borders will continue on social media and other platforms,” added Jagraon.Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted by Delhi Police in the Red Fort violence case, kicked off his campaign on Thursday from Sangrur district. Sidhana had to participate in protests at Shadihari, Chhajli, Daula Singhwala, Jakhepal and Ratta Khera villages in the district but his supporters alleged that a heavy police force was deployed to arrest him. They also claimed that Delhi Police was present in the area in civvies. However, Sangrur police denied the presence of Delhi cops or any orders to arrest Sidhana.“The state government tried to stop our campaign. We are waiting for Lakha Sidhana’s bail from the Delhi incident. If he gets bail, the campaign will be escalated. As of now, we will use social media to continue our campaign,” added Jagraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-fearing-arrest-in-red-fort-case-lakha-sidhana-cancels-rallies-for-10-days-101622231065244.html
29-05-2021||Other||Mumbai Police book Royal Palms owner for giving Triple Talaq to 67-year-old wife||Aarey Milk Colony police on Wednesday booked 71-year-old Amir Nency alias Delavar Nency, the owner of Royal Palms estate, for allegedly harassing his wife and giving her Triple Talaq. Nency was unavailable for comment. According to the statement given by Nency’s wife Rahat, 67, the accused had been harassing her since last April for the power of attorney of her 30% share at Royal Palms estate, spread over 240 acres of land in Goregaon East. Rahat in her statement to the police alleged that Nency had also assaulted her over a period of three months. The couple got married in 1971 and stay at a bungalow inside Royal Palms. Rahat said that Nency has 25% shares at the estate and a hotel owned by the family, while their two sons and grandson own the remaining shares. According to the police, in April 2020 Nency asked Rahat for the power of attorney. When she refused, he sacked their domestic help. Rahat said that Nency wanted to harass her as she suffers from high blood pressure and the staffers used to take care of her. Two months later, Nency again asked Rahat to transfer the power of attorney. But when she refused, he gave her Triple Talaq. Over the next two months, when Rahat did not budge, Nency abused her and again gave her Triple Talaq and declared that she was no longer his wife. Disturbed by the abuse, Rahat later signed the power of attorney and asked him to leave the house. On May 9, Nency arrived at the house with two women. When Rahat objected, Nency pushed her. She then told her sons about the incident and approached the police on Wednesday to file a case against Nency for harassment and torture. “We have registered the case based on Rahat’s statement. We are now investigating the case and are in the process of recording the statements of the family members,” said senior inspector Jitendra Gole of Aarey Milk Colony police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-book-royal-palms-owner-for-giving-triple-talaq-to-67-year-old-wife-101622230764438.html
29-05-2021||Other||17 major coal fly ash incidents in India last year: Report||A new report by the Legal Initiative for Forests and Environment (LIFE) and Health Energy Initiative (HEI), India, has found that pollution from coal fly ash was rampant across the country between April 2020 and March this year. The report “Coal Ash in India – Vol II: An environmental, social and legal compendium of coal ash mismanagement in India, 2020-21” documents 17 major incidents related to fly ash pollution which occurred in Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Maharashtra. “Ash pond collapse, air pollution from ash ponds and discharge of coal fly ash into rivers, streams and other water bodies were the most prevalent incidents, indicating the dismal state of coal fly ash management in the country. Most of these locations are regions where coal fly ash disposal is a perennial problem and leaks, and accidents are routine,” the authors stated. The newly published report builds on a similar research published last year, which documented 76 coal fly ash-related incidents that occurred in the country between 2010 and 2020. LIFE and HEI have also scrutinised media reporting around such incidents, noting the presence of detailed reportage, which took into account the impacts of such incidents on the environment and communities that live around fly ash ponds. “Media coverage of research studies and reports published by leading universities and think tanks present a multidisciplinary approach in understanding the impacts of coal fly ash. Similarly, coverage of the people’s struggles around coal-based industries, seeking remediation of contaminated sites, clean up, reduction of pollution and compensation for loss of quality of life and livelihood were also prevalent,” the authors said. More importantly, the authors pointed out that coal fly ash-based pollution remained prevalent through the Covid-induced lockdown in localities away from big cities, which celebrated “clean air and blue skies”. Regions such as Chhattisgarh’s Korba, and north Chennai’s Seppakkam and Ennore, witnessed multiple accidents related to fly ash mismanagement. For instance, the report points out that wanton dumping of fly ash took place along arterial roads and near habited villages. The authors also noted how residents from coal hotspots were reporting that many power companies used the Covid-19 lockdown to dump waste indiscriminately in water bodies. “Korba has witnessed unprecedented coal fly ash pollution in the past one year. We have been living here for decades, but have never seen a sight like this before. Power companies have used Covid-19 restrictions to dump coal fly ash wherever they could. Piles of fly ash can be found everywhere – along the entire highway and ring roads and in villages. With summer winds, we are seeing the entire city covered in fly ash and we are breathing it. Despite several complaints no action has been taken on the errant companies”, said Shri Laxmi Chauhan, an activist from Korba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17-major-coal-fly-ash-incidents-in-india-last-year-report-101622230704477.html
29-05-2021||Other||NGT raps Maharashtra EIA authority over violations during infra works||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has expressed concerns over the functioning of the Maharashtra State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), calling into question the manner in which the latter has allowed “continuous violation of environment norms in construction projects”. NGT has raised contention over multiple construction projects in Maharashtra that have been executed without prior environmental clearance (EC), which is granted by SEIAA. Though ECs were granted initially, multiple projects have expanded the scope of construction work in variance with the original terms of clearance, and subsequently applied for ex-post facto EC. In at least two cases, SEIAA has proceeded to grant fresh EC without levying any monetary compensation for environmental damage caused by the project proponent, the NGT’s order, dated May 24, reveal. A four-judge bench of the green court, headed by chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, made the observation while hearing two matters filed by an appellant, Tanaji Gambhire, concerning the ex-post facto environmental clearances granted by SEIAA last March to two projects in Pune. Though NGT’s orders do not specify the total number of such violations that have come to its notice in Maharashtra, the court observed, “We are coming across the grievance of continuous violation of environment norms in construction projects being completed without prior EC and SEIAA Maharashtra is neither requiring demolition nor payment of assessed compensation.” As such, “it will be appropriate to require SEIAA, Maharashtra, to review its working in the light of violations frequently being alleged, including the present case,” NGT noted. The court also “directed the constitution of a joint committee comprising the Union environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), SEIAA and state pollution control body to review their functioning... and also to suggest remedial action, including the quantum of compensation in the individual case.” The court also directed that “a proper standard operating procedure be laid down for grant of EC in such cases so as to address the gaps in binding law and practice being currently followed. Experts were reluctant to back NGT’s move. “It may seem like the tribunal has taken the right step, but really it is shrugging off its own responsibility. If there is a violation, the court can easily decide on either demolition or levying environmental compensation. It can also serve a notice to SEIAA for dereliction of duty. Instead, it has instated a committee, which includes members of SEIAA, to review the authority’s functioning. This is against the principle of natural justice,” said Mumbai-based independent environmental lawyer Zaman Ali. Vijay Shantilal Nahata, chairperson of Maharashtra SEIAA, did not respond to HT. However, a senior official in the environment department, currently serving as an SEIAA member, said, “We are aware of the NGT order and SOPs that will be framed by the committee established by the NGT will be observed and complied with fully.” “Post-facto clearances make a mockery of the law. It seems that statutory bodies meant to protect the environment are more interested in facilitating ease of doing business for developers, and violators are in fact encouraged to go ahead without environment clearances in such a scenario. This farce of processing applications without application of mind has been brought to light by NGT,” said Stalin D, director of non-governmental organisation Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-raps-maharashtra-eia-authority-over-violations-during-infra-works-101622230645620.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cops witness to Kotkapura firing appear before new SIT||Top police officials who were present on the spot during the firing incident at Kokapura on October 14, 2015, appeared before the newly constituted three-member special investigation team (SIT) led additional director-general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav on Friday.Then Ferozepur range inspector general of police (IGP) (now ADGP) Jatinder Jain, then Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sukhmander Singh Mann, then Kotkapura DSP (now SP) Baljit Singh Sidhu, DSP Maninder Singh Bedi and some junior cops appeared before the SIT at its camp office at Faridkot. United Akali Dal leader Gurdeep Singh Bathinda also recorded his statement before the SIT. Officials privy to the development said 16 persons, including top cops, appeared before the SIT on Friday, while 25 persons recorded their statement on Thursday. The SIT had summoned 42 persons, who had recorded statements to previous SIT in Kotkapura firing case as witnesses.Officials of the Faridkot medical college said a copy of the medical record of IG Jatinder Jain was also issued, which was sought by the SIT. The SIT has also summoned doctors of private hospitals, who provided initial medical assistance to the persons injured in Kotkapura firing incident. The Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 had quashed all the reports filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the Kotkapura firing. The state government constituted the new three-member SIT that has been directed to complete the investigation within six months. Expediting the investigation SIT head Yadav, along with other two members, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh has been camping in Faridkot. While recording fresh statements of the witnesses, SIT is checking all the legal fact on record of the probe conducted by the previous probe team. SP Baljit Sidhu appeared before SIT on Friday after he was summoned. He was nominated as accused in Kotkapura firing case by Kunwar Vijay’s SIT. However, SIT has not summoned any other accused nominated by previous SIT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cops-witness-to-kotkapura-firing-appear-before-new-sit-101622230645072.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 148 Covid deaths, 3,724 fresh cases||Chandigarh The daily Covid caseload further dipped in Punjab on Friday with the state registering 3,724 fresh cases as against 3,914 reported on Thursday. With this, the state’s infections tally reached 5,59,795, according to a media bulletin released by the state government.The positivity rate also dropped from 5.43% recorded a day earlier to 5.12% on Friday, while the death toll reached 14,180 with 148 more fatalities, the bulletin said. The number of active cases declined to 44,964 from 48,231 on Thursday, the bulletin stated. Twenty deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 19 from Amritsar, 13 from Sangrur and 10 from Jalandhar. According to the bulletin, a maximum of 497 cases were detected in Jalandhar, followed by 416 in Ludhiana, 278 in Fazilka, 247 in Bathinda, 223 in Patiala, 215 in Mansa, 200 in SAS Nagar, 192 in Amritsar, 192 in Ferozepur, 178 in Muktsar, 166 in Pathankot, 160 in Sangrur, 157 in Faridkot, 117 in Hoshiarpur, 111 in Gurdaspur, 85 in Kapurthala, 66 in Moga, 58 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 50 in Taran Taran, 36 in SBS Nagar and 31 in Barnala. With 6,797 recoveries, the number of those who recuperated reached 5,00,651, the bulletin said. There are 369 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 920 other critical patients and 5,302 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 90,74,280 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-148-covid-deaths-3-724-fresh-cases-101622230525666.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Pune journey to get more scenic with Vistadome coach||Passengers travelling on the Mumbai-Pune route will now have a panoramic view of the ghats through the Vistadome coach. The Central Railway (CR) will be introducing a Vistadome coach on the outstation train Deccan Express that operates between the two cities daily.The Vistadome coach is a 40 seater 360-degree view coach that is glass-roofed. The glass roof lets passengers enjoy the outside view. The coaches have wide window panes, and seats that rotate to 360 degrees to provide passengers with a better sightseeing experience.The coaches also have 12 LCD television screens for entertainment, a mini-fridge, automatic sliding compartment doors, an oven, juicer grinder and toilets fitted with ceramic tiles. The fare structure of the coach in the Deccan Express has not yet been decided but will be higher than the fare of a regular ticket.Initially, the coach was introduced on the Mumbai-Goa route in 2017 for passengers to get the view of the Western Ghat in the Jan Shatabdi Express.“The rake of Dadar-Madgaon express will be shifted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and will be integrated with the rake of Deccan Express that operates between CSMT and Pune. The Vistadome coach will enable passengers to enjoy the view of the ghats section,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.However, the Deccan Express is not operational currently as the train has been cancelled due to low occupancy, owing to the travel restrictions in Maharashtra to curb the spread of coronavirus.Passengers associations have welcomed the move and have said the Vistadome coach will become popular on the railway route.“There are people who travel daily between Mumbai and Pune for work and post the opening up of train services the coach will become extremely popular among them. The Lonavala and Khandala section of the railway line is scenic and this would also attract many tourists who come to Maharashtra and travel by outstation trains. The railways should further introduce the Vistadome coach in other trains including the iconic Deccan Queen. The coaches will become a good source of income for the Central Railway.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaipune-journey-to-get-more-scenic-with-vistadome-coach-101622230524449.html
29-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: Outfits led by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s descendant present 3 demands||A group of Maratha outfits led by Rajya Sabha member Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has warned of an “aggressive agitation” from June 6 if the Maharashtra government fails to take immediate steps to ensure that the community gets reservation in government jobs and admissions to educational courses. Community leaders have demanded a review petition in the top court followed by a curative petition, if the former fails, as well as a petition before the President for the inclusion of the community in the Centre’s list of ‘backward castes’. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendent of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, in a press conference on Friday, said, “We are putting forward three demands that should immediately be met. The state government should immediately move a review petition before the five-judge bench which had struck down the reservation earlier this month. A curative petition should also be filed, if the review petition fails. Thirdly, a proposal should be sent to the President under Article 341 (A) of the Constitution for the inclusion of the community in the Central list of backward classes. These demands should be fulfilled by June 6 – the day the coronation ceremony of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had taken place. Failing this, we will launch protests.” Before announcing the community stand, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati had visited many parts of the state and met various political leaders across party lines, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party Devendra Fadnavis, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray.Various Maratha outfits have backed Sambhajiraje’s stand and have decided to fight under his leadership. “We have decided to take up this battle under his guidance. We will show our strength at Fort Raigad [that was once Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s capital] on June 6 and an aggressive protest will begin from there if the demands are not met,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha.Sambhaji Chhatrapati also demanded the immediate appointment of 6,000 Maratha community youth whose recruitments had been stalled following the Supreme Court’s decision to scrap the Maratha quota on May 5. He has demanded for the budgetary allocation for Annasaheb Patil Financial Development Corporation, which finances the entrepreneurial ventures of the community members; strengthening of SARTHI (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute), meant to help community youth for the preparations in civil services, by giving it ₹1,000 crore; construction of hostels in all districts, among other demands.Deputy chief minister and state finance minister Ajit Pawar said that the government will consider the demands positively. “We still have time of eight to 10 days to act on the demands and a way out will be found out,” he said.According to leaders of the ruling parties, the demands raised by the parliamentarian are reasonable. “We have been working on the same lines as demanded by him for the legal battle. The report of the committee under retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale is expected by May 31, and the decision over the petitioning the top court will be taken accordingly. The implementation of the other administrative demands has already started,” said a Congress leader.Contrary to the position of his party BJP, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has taken a stand favourable to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government by appealing to the community members against resorting to agitations. BJP had called for protests for reservation to Marathas.“If the Maratha community fails to get on the streets and stage agitations for reservation now, it will be too late [to safeguard their rights]. Life has not stopped because of Covid-19. The state has got time till June 4 to file a review petition against the SC verdict. This deadline will not be extended due to the pandemic,” state BJP president Chandrakant Patil had said in Kolhapur on Thursday. According to insiders, the Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati is inclining towards the ruling Congress. Ruling party leaders feel that his stand will help them to pacify the Maratha community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-outfits-led-by-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-s-descendant-present-3-demands-101622230404475.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Police remand of 2 dera men extended||A Faridkot court on Friday extended the police custody of two dera followers ---- Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh --- for pasting derogatory posters near a gurdwara at Bargari village in 2015.After arrest in Bargari sacrilege, the SIT had arrested them in another sacrilege case, in which two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24-25, 2015. They were presented before the court of CJM Sanjeev Kundi, who sent them in one-day police custody. 6 dera followers file bail pleas Six followers of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda, who were arrested for Bargari sacrilege, filed a joint application in a court seeking bail.The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, had arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in a case registered in connection with a sacrilege incident at Bargari village in Faridkot district in 2015.The SIT probe has found that the accused had scattered the torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on October 12, 2015, at Bargari. The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Sanjeev Kundi has sought report from jail superintendent regarding number of cases pending against accused and matter was adjourned to May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-police-remand-of-2-dera-men-extended-101622230225148.html
29-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt’s share of woes over court rulings on quotas||Even as the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is facing the ire of the Marathas over the Supreme Court’s (SC) decision to scrap quota in jobs and education meant for the community, there is more trouble brewing for the three-party coalition government over another reservation issue. The state’s decision to scrap the 33% reservation given to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes (ST) and other reserved categories for promotions in its administration has irked the employees from these communities, with politicians threatening to agitate over the issue. This has also led to a tussle between the ruling Congress and Nationalist Congress Party, as the latter appears to be in favour of scrapping the 33% reservation to woo the Marathas.In accordance with a Bombay high court (HC) order issued in 2017, the state has stopped the promotions of about 40,000 employees in its administration. The community is also apprehensive about losing the promotions given to them since 2004, when the decision to introduce such a reservation had been taken. The Congress has taken an aggressive stand on the issue. As far as the Maratha community is concerned, the government will have to take a call deciding the future of 6,000 candidates who were to be recruited under the quota for the community, but were not given appointment letters due to the pending court cases. Their future is now uncertain owing to the SC verdict. Maratha outfits are demanding an immediate decision on the issue.The promotion riddle On May 7, the general administration department (GAD) issued a government resolution (GR) announcing to scrap the reservation in promotion in government service for the communities which together get 33% quota in government jobs. The decision to provide quota in promotion to employees in reserved categories had been taken by the Congress-NCP government in 2004. On April 20, GAD had issued a GR allowing promotions of open category employees by keeping the 33% reserved posts vacant. While the government said the decision to scrap the quota was taken as per a 2017 HC order, unions and leaders representing SC, ST employees alleged that it had been taken as a knee-jerk reaction to appease the Maratha community after their reservations was scrapped by SC. The unions also said that the quota in promotion was safeguarded by subsequent SC orders. The May 7 order has now become a headache for the Uddhav Thackeray government as the unions and Dalit leaders are demanding its reversal. The issue has also led to friction between the Congress and NCP. Last week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar from NCP, and energy minister Nitin Raut from the Congress, had an argument during a meeting of the cabinet sub-committee on the issue. The sub-committee is headed by Pawar, while Raut and other ministers from Scheduled Caste and ST communities are its members. Raut posed many questions in the meeting and asked how can a GR be issued without the knowledge of the committee, why was it issued when the minutes of the last meeting was not prepared and how can the decision to scrap the reservation in promotion come immediately after the Maratha quota was scrapped.“We are not against the Maratha reservation. In fact, we had supported it. But there should not be any suppression of the rights of people from other communities. The scrapping of the quota in reservation will affect the right of promotion of around 75,000 people,” said Raut, a Dalit leader, who also heads the Congress’s SC cell. A section of the council of ministers are hell-bent on the implementation of the 33% quota saying that at least 20,000 employees from these communities retired without a promotion in the past four years. A section of the Congress leaders also feel that it will have to face the consequences as backward communities form the party’s traditional voter base. “The sub-committee constituted to deliberate upon the reservation in promotions is dominated by Maratha ministers and the decision to scrap the 33% quota was taken without taking it into confidence,” said a senior Congress leader. He added that the state Congress has decided to take the issue to its logical end and may not hesitate to issue an ultimatum to its partners. Raut is requesting party president Sonia Gandhi’s intervention, said the leader. The state Congress organised a virtual meeting of over 500 people representing employees’ organisations of the affected categories on Tuesday and announced to compel the government to revoke the May 7 order.Meanwhile, minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said that there was no infighting within MVA and the CM will find a way out. “Instead of making statements on public forums, Raut should approach CM who controls GAD. Raut has been pursuing the issue for the past one year and has been insisting to begin the process of promotions which was halted for four years. The decision was taken as per his demand, but now he is blaming others for the decision taken according to the court orders. He should resolve it amicably instead of talking publicly against the government decision. This issue, albeit, is not going to affect MVA government,” he said.However, to make matters worse for MVA, Maratha outfits have taken a strong stand against the reservation in promotions and have also threatened to boycott the Congress in the forthcoming elections. “The Congress has taken a casteist approach by supporting only some communities over reservations. Like Raut, other Congress ministers such as Vijay Wadettiwar, Varsha Gaikwad, too, had taken an anti-Maratha approach over the reservation issue. If this continues, we will have to take a firm stand to show the party its place,” said Maratha Kranti Morcha outfit in a statement.Recruiting Marathas under scrapped quota At least 6,000 youth from the Maratha community have been facing uncertainty over their recruitment in government jobs after the SC verdict. The court has safeguarded recruitments before September 9 under the Maratha quota. But none of them were given an appointment letter then.Virendra Pawar of the Maratha Kranti Morcha said, “Only a few Maratha youth were appointed under the quota before SC scrapped it. It was just because of the inefficiency of the government that the recruitment process was not completed within time. Now it’s the responsibility of the government to see that they are given the appointments on posts they would have got under the quota.” “There are 11 problems before us in recruiting these Maratha candidates and we are finding ways to ensure that they do not lose the quota benefits,” said an official from GAD.The state government has appointed a high-level committee under retired HC judge Dilip Bhosale to study the order and recommend a way forward for Maratha reservations.Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the issue of reservation in promotions may become crucial and add to the challenges for the government. “For the first time since the government formation, the Congress has taken an aggressive stand on the issue of reservation in promotions and it may lead to a serious face-off between the ruling parties. The tussle is because NCP wants to woo the Marathas, while Congress does not want to lose its traditional vote bank. Also, it is a task before the government to recruit Maratha candidates who have been selected in government jobs and then to make it stand legally. These issues will haunt the MVA government, especially when the BJP is determined to corner them,” he said.Subhash Gangurde, general secretary, Maharashtra government employees unions’ federation, said, “We do not believe in the caste system within the administration, but the reservation in promotions should be given as per Constitutional provisions. It is the responsibility of the government to protect it. It is beyond comprehension as to why the state failed to submit quantifiable data in the court in the past four years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-s-share-of-woes-over-court-rulings-on-quotas-101622230164504.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Grain gain: Punjab beats MP, regains top wheat producing state tag||Madhya Pradesh will lose the tag of top wheat procurer state in India to Punjab due to lesser procurement this year as compared to 2020, said an official of food and civil supplies department.Punjab has emerged as the biggest wheat producer state after a year, and it came amid farmers protesting against three central laws at borders of Delhi since November last year.Madhya Pradesh procured only 125.6 lakh tonnes wheat sown on 49 lakh hectare in 2021 while in 2020, it had procured 129.4 lakh tonnes of the grain sown on 45 lakh hectares, the food and civil supplies department data shows.MP had pushed Punjab to the second spot for the first time in 2020 with northern state producing 128.5 lakh tonnes of wheat. This year, the MP government set a higher target of wheat procurement after 27% increase in the registration of farmers for selling the rabi crop to the government.After an increase in registration of farmers, the food and civil supplies department arranged for extra space, gunny bags and transportation to procure over 135 lakh tonnes wheat. But, MP failed to achieve the target, whereas the Punjab government procured over 132 lakh tonnes of against the target of 130 lakh tonnes, officials said. “Over 16 lakh farmers sold their crop at MSP of ₹1,925 per quintal. This year, the yielding of crop has been decreased by 10-15% due to extreme weather condition. The average maximum temperature of winter was higher than last year and untimely rainfall led to low yielding of wheat. We were expecting procurement of wheat lesser than 100 lakh tonne but 125 lakh tonne is quite satisfactory for us,” said an official of the MP food and civil supplies department, who is not wished to be named. MP food and civil supplies corporation principal secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai said: “This target of procurement is just to support farmers, if they don’t get any seller in the market.” The farmers’ associations also admitted to the fact that it happened due to less yield of crop, but with weather, they also blamed the poor quality of seeds and fertilizers for that. Bhartiya Kisan Union MP president Anil Yadav said: “This year, farmers suffered a loss of 10-15% per hectare due to extreme weather condition and poor quality of seeds and fertilisers. With the decrease in production, procurement of wheat has also dipped. The state government needs to come up with better seeds and fertilizers to compete with Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grain-gain-punjab-beats-mp-regains-top-wheat-producing-state-tag-101622230045277.html
29-05-2021||Other||Yogi hits out at Mamata, says she should work for relief to people of Bengal||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a Twitter attack on his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee and said she should rise above “petty politics” amid cyclone Yaas and work with the nation to provide relief to people.In a set of two tweets, he said : “Honorable PM @narendramodi ji and the entire nation stand with the people of Bengal. @MamataOfficial should rise above petty politics, shed her ego and work with the nation to provide relief to the people of Bengal.He further said: “Non-cooperation by @MamataOfficial with Centre is blatant violation of constitutional norms & against the ethos of cooperative federalism. Absence from PM’s meeting shows her insensitivity towards welfare and betterment of people of Bengal at difficult times due to Cyclone Yaas.”Earlier in the day, Banerjee skipped a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi where West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, and Raiganj MP Debasree Chaudhuri were also present.She did, however, meet Modi to give a report of the damage caused by the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-hits-out-at-mamata-says-she-should-work-for-relief-to-people-of-bengal-101622229264327.html
29-05-2021||Other||Ramakrishna Mission starts Covid medical relief||LUCKNOW Ramakrishna Mission Sevashram, Vivekananda Polyclinic and Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow started Covid medical relief work on the occasion of the 2458th birth anniversary of Lord Buddha on May 26. The relief work includes oxygen supply, free tele-consultation and collection of test samples from home etc. Swami Muktinathananda, secretary, Ramakrishna Math, Lucknow said, “It has been observed that the key to check the spread of coronavirus is isolation of patients. In order that the suspected as well as confirmed corona patients may be able to remain isolated wherever they are, a number of services are being provided in and around Lucknow, either free of charge or at subsidized rates, with immediate effect.” Covid oxygen relief Swami Muktinathananda said, “It has been observed that most of the Covid patients require oxygen for which hospitalization becomes necessary. The hospital is arranging to supply oxygen to them free of charge through a set of oxygen concentrators with a capacity of 5 litres per minute or 10 litres per minute, as per requirement. However, caution money has to be given as a refundable security deposit for the use of this costly equipment till recovery.” Medical consultation relief Free medical consultation will be provided every day from 1 pm to 2 pm by a team of competent doctors comprising intensivist, anesthesiologist, pulmonologist and other medical consultants. The prescribed drugs would be communicated to the patients at their respective Whatsapp numbers, he said. “The patients may approach the consultants by calling 9453207748. The prescribed drugs may be directly procured by the patients from their local drug stores. However, if necessary, the drugs may also be delivered to them from the hospital at concessional rates,” he said. Covid investigation relief Samples of Covid tests as well as other pathological investigations may be collected from the patients wherever they are, on calling mobile number 6387002969. The results will be communicated to them over Whatsapp/email directly from NABL accredited medical laboratory within 24 hours, Muktinathananda said. Covid AYUSH relief The alternate therapy wing of Vivekananda Polyclinic and Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow is extending free consultation and advice to Covid as well as general patients by competent AYUSH doctors over internet daily from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. for which the mobile no. is 9450714457.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ramakrishna-mission-starts-covid-medical-relief-101622229024764.html
29-05-2021||Other||Black fungus on the rise in Meerut division, drugs scarce||MEERUT Cases of black fungus are on the rise in different districts of Meerut division, even as efforts to ensure supply of injections for treatment of this disease appear inadequate. Meerut division comprises Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat districts and so far 312 patients of black fungus have been admitted in Meerut, Noida and Ghaziabad districts. Saharanpur division (Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar and Shamli) has also been pooled with Meerut division for treatment of black fungus. Therefore patients from these three districts are also referred to LLRM Medical College in Meerut where a special ward has been set up. So far, 103 patients have been discharged after treatment while 22 died in the division. As many as 191 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals of Noida, Meerut and Ghaziabad. Out of these 312 cases, 166 were diagnosed and treated in LLRM Medical College and 13 in other private hospitals of Meerut. Of these, 52 patients were discharged while 14 succumbed during treatment and 100 patients are still under treatment out of which 76 are in Medical College and remaining 24 in other private hospitals. Experts say that black fungus is a rare disease and it can be most effectively treated with Amphotericin-B injection. This injection is also not easily available and so there was an acute shortage after cases of black fungus exponentially increased. The state government formulated a mechanism and made additional director of health nodal officer at divisional level for ensuring distribution of available injections as per demand from hospitals. But insufficient supply of these injections has turned the situation worrisome. Dr Rajkumar, additional director, health, Meerut division, shared that his office received 280 vials of life saving Amphotericin- B injections. He made no bones in admitting shortage of injections and said“We are trying to handle the situation with available vials”. Amid shortage of the injections, hospitals need to send their requirement for injections to AD ( health) office, which distributes them Amphotericin- B injection as per availability. Many patients of black fungus were treated in Anand Hospital here and a few are still under treatment. Director of the hospital Dr Subhash Yadav shared,“We are facing acute shortage of the injection and now alternate medicines are being used to treat the patients”. Dr Pradeep Kumar of Meerut kidney hospital has treated many patients of black fungus and three are still undergoing treatment. He reiterated that injection Amphotericin-B injection was the most effective, so it was prescribed for treatment of black fungus but was scarce now. He said that some patients even required 4 to 5 doses of the injection everyday, depending upon their condition. Dr Kumar said that medicine Posacinazole was being used as an alternative but it was also in short supply. He said that the hospital requested the attendants of a patient on Wednesday to shift him to some other hospital where the medicines were available. “ We sometime feel helpless,” he said and added that attendants of patients were also passing through a difficult time. A farmer of Baghat area, Karanpal, is undergoing treatment for black fungus since May 14. His son Shailesh Kumar said that he received only two injections from the office of AD ( health) and were trying hard for more injections even from the open market but without luck. Shailesh, whose father has undergone surgery, explained, “ Surgery cures 40 per cent and medicines are required for cure of the remaining 60 per cent disease”. He said presently his father was being treated through alternate medicine, which they luckily purchased in good number in the middle of the month. Now these medicines are also not available in the market. Shailesh said that attendants of almost every patient were facing difficulties in arranging injections and medicines to keep their family members alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-fungus-on-the-rise-in-meerut-division-drugs-scarce-101622228666427.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Mayo Hospital booked for black-marketing remdesivir||Following subdivisional magistrate’s report finding Mayo Hospital (now Mount Star Hospital) in Mohali’s Sector 69 guilty of black-marketing 83 remdesivir injections and fleecing at least 100 Covid-19 patients, police have registered a case against its management, including the chief executive officer and eight directors.The case has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Acts at the Phase-8 police station. Hindustan Times had first reported irregularities at the hospital on May 22.It is the second hospital in the district that has been booked for malpractices in the past couple of weeks. Earlier, on May 18, a case was registered against the management of New Lifeline Hospital of Zirakpur for overcharging and medical negligence. The four-member committee, comprising subdivisional magistrate Jadgeep Sehgal, deputy superintendent of Police Deep Kamal, senior medical officer Dr Vijay Bhagat, and drug inspector Jai Jai Singh, found that the Mayo Hospital had sold 83 remdesivir injections, which are used for treating Covid-19 patients, for ₹40,000 each in the black market after procuring them from the state government for ₹1,800 each.The committee found that bills for the injection were issued in the name of a prominent cement manufacturing firm besides the chief financial officer and a few doctors of the hospital. One bill was also issued in the name of a woman on March 17 even as she was admitted on March 18.Later, during the investigation, the district administration detected around 100 instances of overcharging of Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said it had come to the fore that the hospital had been charging around ₹20,000 a day from Covid patients. According to rates approved by the Punjab government, a private hospital can charge ₹16,500 a day from a patient requiring ventilator support while for a bed without ventilator, the charges are capped at ₹14,500 a day. These include all expenses, such as room rent, visiting charges and PPE kits. “Mayo Hospital was found to be offering a package of ₹40,000 for the entire span of hospitalisation, but was adding ₹6,000 a day as visiting charges, which is illegal,” said Dayalan. The deputy commissioner said directions have also been issued to other private hospitals not to indulge in unethical practices. “Otherwise, strict action will be taken, which may even lead to the closure of the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-mayo-hospital-booked-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-101622228665926.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC again stays Chandigarh admn’s power privatisation move||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday once again stayed the Chandigarh administration’s move to privatise the power department. Multiple lawyers associated with the case confirmed the development. However, the detailed order from the HC bench of justice Jitendra Chauhan and justice Vivek Puri is awaited.The order was passed on a fresh plea from the UT Powermen Union, which had approached court stating that opening and finalisation of the tender bids be stopped. It was argued that the administration is not justified in hurrying through the process amid the pandemic. “State being a ‘welfare state’ is expected to concentrate on the ways and means of saving citizens from the havoc being played by the Covid-19 pandemic,” the plea said, further underlining that the department has been revenue surplus for many years and is supplying 24x7 electricity to the satisfaction of the consumers.Earlier, on December 1, too, the HC had applied brakes on the privatisation process. However, the UT had approached the Supreme Court, which stayed the HC order and remanded back the case to it. When asked whether the administration would approach the SC again, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “Yes we will. We have enough ground.”The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. The administration has assured the Centre to complete the process by the end of 2020. As many as 17 firms has expressed interest after the administration invited the bids in November. TimelineMay 12, 2020: UT decides to privatise the electricity departmentNovember 9: The bids for privatisation invitedDecember 1: HC orders stay on privatisation processJanuary 12, 2021: SC stays HC order paving way for privatisation processFebruary 9: SC remands back matter to HCApril 19: UT announces it will fast-track privatisation processMay 28: HC stays the process again||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-again-stays-chandigarh-admn-s-power-privatisation-move-101622228484973.html
29-05-2021||Other||Civic bodies testing potable water in Lko, all samples found safe till now||Lucknow The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and Jal Sansthan are conducting tests of potable water at three levels to ensure 100 per cent safe supply in the state capital. More than 100 samples from various localities of the city have been tested recently and all of them have been found safe. To note, recently there were reports of a study confirming presence of Covid contamination in sewer water near Khadra. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The LMC came to know about Covid contamination in sewage through several reports. There is no official confirmation on the matter, but as a protective measure we’ve tested samples of drinking water from more 100 places. All samples have been found safe and no bacterial or virus contamination has been detected till now .Testing will continue in the days to come. The effort is to ensure safe water supply to the residents of the city.” Acting GM Jal Sansthan Ram Kailash said, “The teams of LMC and Jal Sansthan are going to target Alambagh, Aliganj , Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar for testing of water samples. These areas have reported maximum Covid cases in the past. Till now, over 100 samples of potable water have been found safe for drinking.” “Keeping the safety of residents in mind, we are conducting tests of water at three levels. At the first level, our junior engineer tests the water supply along with the supervisor. Next comes testing with the team of CMO in the presence of our executive engineers. At the third level the samples are sent to the state lab in Aliganj,” he said. The Jal Sansthan has also identified more than 150 spots where leakages are reported, as there is a possibility of water getting contaminated if the leakages are not repaired. Corporator Girish Mishra said, “There has been talk of ashes of Covid positive bodies being immersed in Gomti and virus traces have reportedly been found in a sewer near Khadra. So testing of water samples is very important. The repairs of leakages, especially near sewer lines, must be carried out on war footing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-bodies-testing-potable-water-in-lko-all-samples-found-safe-till-now-101622228424253.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools to make balance sheets public||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday upheld the Chandigarh administration’s law mandating private unaided schools to upload balance sheets on their websites. Independent Schools’ Association Chandigarh, a body of 78 private schools, and Kabir Education Society, Chandigarh, had moved the high court last year, challenging various provisions of Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to the Union Territory of Chandigarh. The law was adopted by the UT in 2018. The plea was filed after the UT administration issued show-cause notices to schools, asking as to why penalties should not be imposed against them for not uploading balance sheets for the last financial year. The schools had also challenged the constitution of Fee Regulatory Authority. Schools had argued that asking schools for uploading balance sheets violated their rights. “The right to privacy is primarily for the individuals. Though the right to privacy is also available to artificial entities, but since the field of education is a charitable occupation, we do not find any reason to hold that uploading of the financial statements on the websites of the private educational institutions in any manner will breach the right to privacy,” the bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Parkash said in its 107-page judgment on Friday. ‘Will help in achieving transparency’The court also wondered as to why schools are afraid of uploading the financial statements on their websites. “The intention of the institutions to not/resist upload(ing) the financial statements create(s) more suspicion. If the private institutes upload their financial statements on the websites, it will help in achieving the goal of transparency and accountability, which are essential features of a reasonable fee structure and it will also generate confidence in the parents,” the bench said, adding that the fee structure has to be disclosed in advance, at the beginning of the session, as it would help parents make appropriate arrangements or to look for alternative institutions. The court further observed that provisions of the law in no manner infringe upon the autonomy or day-to-day functioning of the institution and same can’t be termed as “restrictive” or unreasonable. “...occupation of education is not a business, but profession involving charitable activities. Therefore, it is well permissible to promulgate regulatory measures aimed for protecting the student community as the whole, and as well as to ensure maintenance of required standards of education, which are non-exploitative,” the bench observed, adding that educational institutions are vested with right to establish and administer an institution. However, the right is not absolute and such regulations are permissible. ‘Penal provisions not remediless’As of schools’ reservations on penal provisions, the HC said that the same is attracted only in case of violation and not otherwise and also is not remediless. “... if no penal clause is incorporated in enactment, the purpose to be achieved by such enactment will be lost. The enactment would be nothing but a toothless tiger. It is only with the sword of penalty that the mechanism provided under the Act for regulating fee of unaided educational institutions can be implemented,” the bench asserted. The court also said that no prejudice has been caused by not inducting members from schools in the regulatory body. Reacting to the judgment, Independent School Association (ISA) president HS Mamik said: “We will go through the detailed judgment and decide on the next course of action.” He maintained that uploading balance sheets will affect the governance of schools and compromise their privacy.Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association, said: “The education department should give schools a week or two to upload their balance sheets online, and take strict action against those who don’t comply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-private-schools-to-make-balance-sheets-public-101622228364832.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC panel wants plan for lifting horticulture waste||The sanitation committee of the municipal corporation (MC) on Friday directed officials concerned to get dry leaves and other horticulture waste removed from the road berms at the earliest.The committee was apprised that the MC has already ordered to hire tractor trailers for lifting of dry leaves and horticulture waste throughout the city and the backlog will be cleared within 15 days. The committee asked the medical officer of the health department to prepare a proper plan to lift horticulture waste from households and road berms in city. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma requested all the councillors to participate in the month-long Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, launched on May 20, and get their respective areas waste and malba-free by June 19.Directing the chief sanitary inspectors to submit the manpower requirement and current strength in their areas, the committee members said a balance of manpower should maintained throughout the city. The committee also discussed the issue of door-to-door waste collection in Sector 21 and asked the officials to bring agenda about this after seeking legal opinion into the matter. The committee decided that chairman of the sanitation committee and medical officer of health will hold meeting with the representatives of door-to-door waste collectors of Sector 21 and sort out the issue at the earliest. The committee members pointed out that the sub-inspectors of sanitation department will ensure waste collection from the first, second, third and fourth floors of households by waste collectors to avoid complaints of citizens. Road committee A meeting of MC’s road committee was also held on Friday. The committee members asked the officials concerned to check feasibility of parking in Sector 51 green belt. The committee asked the officials concerned to bring an agenda item regarding shortage of junior engineers and other officials required at the field-level. Rough cost estimate for construction of approach roads in Sector 29-A at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.32 lakh was approved. The committee also approved rough cost estimate for providing and fixing GI guard railing in front of the market in Sector 40 C&D, at an estimated cost of Rs. 5.74 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-panels-wants-plan-for-lifting-horticulture-waste-101622228004837.html
29-05-2021||Other||Panel indicts two Panchkula hospitals in five cases of overcharging Covid patients||The committee looking into complaints of overcharging has indicted two private hospitals in Panchkula and recommended action against them in the report submitted to the district’s chief medical officer. The eight-member committee, which comprised additional deputy commissioner Mohd Imran Raza among others, submitted its report after examining five complaints submitted by Covid-19 patients against Paras Hospital and Alchemist Hospital. The committee, which was set up by the deputy commissioner on May 25, found that the hospitals had not raise the bills according to rates fixed by the state government. In the case of Panchkula resident Man Singh, who got a bill of ₹4.99 lakh after being admitted to Paras Hospital on April 21 and being discharged on April 25, the committee said: “The hospital failed to comply with the instructions of Haryana government. The hospital charged 50% excess as compared to the market rate...” In another case of Chandigarh resident Vijay Kumar Goel, the committee held the patient was charged 199.6% in excess “of the legitimate bill amount”. The committee also pointed out “marked difference in charges of lab tests” while the oxygen supply had been charged extra in the case of Panchkula’s Suresh Kumar Sud. Meanwhile, Alchemist Hospital was found guilty of overcharging two patients. Milan Singh of Panchkula was admitted to the hospital on April 27 and had expired on May 12. The hospital had raised a bill of ₹3,62,864. The committee pointed out that the billing was not strictly as per government instructions and was 34% higher that the legitimate amount. The committee also examined the case of Rakesh Kumar Saini, a resident of Delhi, who had insurance cover and was allegedly charged 97.5% extra. The two hospitals were not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panel-indicts-two-panchkula-hospitals-in-five-cases-of-overcharging-covid-patients-101622227405539.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||95% of black fungus patients in PGIMER have severe diabetes||Doctors treating cases of black fungus at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Chandigarh on Friday have observed that around 95% of the patients being treated here also have severe diabetes.The tertiary care hospital is witnessing a spike in the number of mucormycosis cases (black fungus) with 116 being reported in May alone, official data shows. Explaining the reasons, Dr Naresh Panda, head of otolaryngology department said that patients with compromised immunity are at high risk of developing these fungal infections due to a number of reasons and the recent one being excessive use of steroids among the Covid-19 patients. “We have observed that around 95% of patients having fungal infection also have uncontrolled diabetes and a few have a history of being administered steroids excessively. Covid-19 also impacts the immunity of a person which makes them susceptible for this infection as well,” said Dr Panda.Seeing the uptick in cases, PGIMER is also running a dedicated OT bed for black fungus cases where at least eight such patients undergo a surgery in a day. The treatment requires removal of the part infected with fungus. The dead tissues need to be removed so that antifungal drugs work better on such patients.“In around 50% of the patients, the infection reaches a level where it impacts the eyes after nose. If it reaches the brain through the eyes, then the chances of survival are less. Also up to 75% patients come with features of mucormycosis and when they are tested for Covid-19, they are found positive for the virus. Meanwhile, roughly around 15% are Covid cured patients,” doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/95-of-black-fungus-patients-in-pgimer-have-severe-diabetes-101622227045905.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||MCDs respond to plea on mosquito menace||The three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD) filed their status reports before the Delhi high court on Friday on the action taken by them to contain the mosquito menace in the city. The reports were a response to a plea initiated by the court, which stated that with the current Covid-19 situation, the efforts to contain the vector borne diseases have taken a backseat.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said beat officers have been assigned to carry regular checks and till date, visits have been paid to 15,55,247 households till May 22.“Out of these, 1,979 houses were found breeding Aedes mosquito. The breeding has been treated followed by health education message to the house/building owners,” read the SDMC’s status report.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation has said the department is taking efforts for behavioural change among citizens through regular RWA meetings, school rallies, community awareness campaigns in all municipal wards, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mosquito-menace-mcds-submit-status-report-in-delhi-hc-101622225965700.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar murder case: HC junks plea seeking restraint on ‘media trial’||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea to restrain the alleged media trial of wrestler and Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar for his involvement in the death of a 23-year old man. The plea has also sought issuance of rules for reporting criminal cases.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said a PIL cannot be filed for an individual, who is a “vigilant person”. It said the petition has been filed on behalf of a “vigilant person” (Kumar), claiming that media has defamed him by its reportage of the murder case in which he is an accused.“You cannot file a PIL for an individual. We see no reason to entertain litigation on behalf of a vigilant person,” the court said and disposed of the plea filed by a law student, Shrikant Prasad.Prasad had alleged that Kumar’s career and reputation have been damaged by the media’s reporting of the case registered against him in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl that led to the death of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankar.On May 23, a Delhi court sent Kumar to six-days’ police custody for interrogation in connection with the killing of a fellow wrestler, saying the allegations against him are serious in nature and that no one is above the law.Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Dhankar and two of his friends, Sonu and Amit Kumar, at the Chhatrasal stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Later, Sagar succumbed to the injuries. Kumar was arrested along with co-accused Ajay from outer Delhi’s Mundka on May 23. The two-time Olympic medallist was on the run for nearly three weeks.Delhi Police has lodged an FIR in the case under Sections 302 (murder), 308 (culpable homicide), 365 (kidnapping), 325 (causing grievous hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.The FIR was also registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushil-kumar-case-hc-rejects-plea-seeking-restraint-on-media-coverage-101622225965126.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||‘Everyone is living this hell’: Delhi high court on antifungal shortage||“We are living this hell. Everyone is living this hell. It’s a situation where we want to help but we are helpless,” the Delhi high court said on Friday while showing its helplessness in not being able to help anyone approaching the court for supply of Amphotericin-B, a medicine used for treatment of mucormycosis, commonly referred to as the black fungus infection.“This is a problem we all are facing. We are living this hell. All of us are living this hell where, despite our wanting to help everyone, we are not able to help,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh remarked while hearing a plea by a man who had moved to the court seeking adequate supply of Amphotericin-B.The bench, while asking the Centre to give the status of import of the medicine, said it cannot give preferential treatment to anyone while denying it to others.“The Union of India shall place a report giving the detailed current status of the said imports. It will be considered on Monday. It has to indicate how the figure of 2.3 lakh vials was arrived at, and whether there is a greater availability of the drug which could be imported,” the bench ordered after the Centre told the court that steps are being taken to procure 230,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B from six countries.The court asked the Centre to return on May 31 with a “definite statement” on the status of these 230,000 vials. It also said that the order should have reached the country from Australia, Russia, Germany, Argentina, Belgium and China, after a submission by the Centre’s counsel that the requisition was placed on May 24.“We are running against time. If you placed the order on May 24, today it should have been here… We are only expressing our anxiety because... every hour, it is assuming a new proportion,” the bench said, adding that “the effort here is to save lives and every hour matters”.Also read: Jabs shortage ‘artificial’, says AAP over supply running lowThe court was hearing two petitions seeking medicine vials for two patients admitted in Delhi hospitals. On Friday, advocate Rizwan, appearing for one of the petitioners, told the court his client’s eye had to be removed due to the shortage of the drug.The issue of shortage was first raised by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra in a batch of petitions seeking better facilities on Covid-19 for the residents of the city.The Centre, during the proceedings, informed the court that there are 14,872 patients under treatment for black fungus in the country. It said that Delhi had 423 patients, even as the city government has put the figure above 600.“Out of the sources that have been presently identified abroad, the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on May 24 has called upon ministry of external affairs (MEA) to take steps to procure 230,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B from Australia, Russia, Germany, Argentina, Belgium and China.“MEA has also been called upon to procure 50,000 tablets of Isavuconazole. Steps in this regard are being taken by the MEA,” the Centre told the court.It said that the domestic production of Amphotericin-B has gone up from 62,000 vials per month in April to 140,000 vials in May. It is expected to reach 325,114 vials in June, the Centre said. It said the main impediment in granting more licences for manufacture of Amphotericin-B injection is the worldwide shortage of the raw materials.The Centre submitted that 400 vials were allocated to Delhi government on May 24, 300 vials on May 26, and 1,920 vials on May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/living-hell-hc-remarks-on-shortage-of-black-fungus-medicine-101622225844631.html
29-05-2021||Delhi||2 mn without ration cards in Delhi eligible for state govt’s free ration scheme||The Delhi government has estimated that a maximum of two million people who don’t have ration cards will be eligible for 5kg food grain at 100% subsidy, as part of its lockdown relief measures. The distribution will be done at 280 government schools, said Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain on Friday.“Needy people who don’t possess ration cards, including unorganised workers, migrant workers, building and construction workers, domestic helps are eligible to receive food grains under this relief initiative. Ration will be provided to a maximum of ₹2 lakh beneficiaries in the initial phase. Later, as per demand and need assessment from the field, the initiative can be extended up to 20 lakh beneficiaries,” said Hussain in a press statement.He further said, “The non- PDS (public distribution system) ration shall be distributed from designated schools from 10am to 4pm, with weekly off on Sunday. Each school identified for distribution of non-PDS ration will be provided a login ID and password for entering the stock received.” He added that the details entered will help in keeping a proper record for the purpose of registration and distribution.Government documents seen by HT showed that the 280 schools will be identified to ensure four distribution points in each of the 70 assembly constituencies in the city.The government has also started looking for transporters for carrying the ration from the three designated godowns in Narela, Mayapuri and Gheora to the schools.Senior government officials, however, said they are yet to decide the exact date of starting the ration distribution system under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-million-who-don-t-have-ration-card-to-get-free-food-grains-in-delhi-101622225724613.html
29-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas: State begins damage assessment, CM orders probe in bridge collapse||Districts affected by the recently passed cyclone Yaas have began assessment of damage caused by it, while chief minister Hemant Soren has ordered a high-level probe into collapse of a five-year old bridge due to heavy rains, officials said on Friday.State disaster management minister Banna Gupta said, “All districts have been asked to begin assessment of damage caused by heavy rains at the earliest and send report to the department. We will take decision on the basis of their reports.”Besides, the state agriculture department was also carrying out a separate crop damage assessment in order to provide compensation to farmers who faced loss due to heavy rains, agriculture department director Nisha Oraon Singhmar said .State disaster management minister Banna Gupta said, “All districts have been asked to begin assessment of damage caused by heavy rains at the earliest and send report to the department. We will take decision on the basis of their reports.”Incessant rains triggered by cyclone Yaas for past two days caused heavy damage in the state. Hundreds of people were displaced after their houses were damaged, while and thousands of acres of vegetable crops were also destroyed. However, weather improved in Jharkhand on Friday with the depression moving out of the state.Meanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday ordered a probe into collapse of a bridge in Ranchi’s Tamar block due to heavy rains on Thursday. He said in a tweet, “Corruption and loot of public money will not be tolerated during my tenure.”A three-member probe team was set up in this regard, rural department officials said.The bridge was constructed at a cost of ₹8 crore on Kanchi river, known as Haradih-Buradih bridge, that connects Ranchi’s Tamar block to Bundu and Sonahatu. The foundation of the bridge was laid in 2011. The 500m-long bridge with 25 pillars was operational for past five years without any official inauguration, officials said.However, village residents said sand mining from the bridge area was the reason behind its collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-state-begins-damage-assessment-cm-orders-probe-in-bridge-collapse-101622217383131.html
29-05-2021||Other||Alumni of Fergusson College’s psychology department offer free counselling||PUNE A group of alumni from Fergusson College’s psychology department has banded together for a cause. The collective goal is to offer free counselling to those in need. Helmed by arts-based therapist Gauri Kaulgud, and actor Parna Pethe, both former Fergusson College students, and post graduates in clinical psychology, this stint involves the participation of 20-odd highly qualified, practising and experienced counsellors. Speaking about what prompted her to spearhead this activity, Pethe explains, “The second wave of the pandemic hit the city, and wreaked tremendous havoc. There has been constant news about a lot of people being hospitalised, some losing their loved ones, quite a few going through unemployment, and the others trying to come to terms with the anxiety and uncertainty around. I felt in these harsh times, there is an immense need for people to find a place to express, grieve, vent, and seek help, without worrying about money.”To put her ideas into action, and to launch a free emotional support intervention, Pethe joined hands with Kaulgud, a counsellor at the city-based Avasara academy, a school. Kaulgud’s work spans a range of demographics, and includes young adults, children with special needs, primary caregivers, and children from lower socio-economic and vulnerable backgrounds. Speaking about how the initiative works, Kaulgud said that they have been circulating flyers on social media, so the ones who need to connect with them, are able to find them. Throwing light on the modus operandi, she said, “When we get a call, either Parna or I take it; we are the first points of contact. Then, based on the nature of the caller’s concerns, we direct them to the most relevant counsellor from our group. That counsellor takes it forward from there.”Pethe added that all counsellors who are a part of this initiative have dedicated a fixed set of time slots for taking calls. This helps keep the process organised. “We also arrange follow-up sessions, if need be. And after a counselling session, we take feedback from the callers about their experiences,” said Pethe.So far, their group has counselled at least 100 people. These people can broadly be put into two categories; first, those in a quandary either because they’re Covid positive, or someone from their families has succumbed to the infection. The second category is people who are unsettled due to prevailing circumstances. Their issues are typically about feeling fretful due to constantly being confined at home with family members, or they’re anxious about getting infected, and losing jobs, among other concerns. Pethe said, “The concerns surrounding the pandemic are not just about physical or mental health; they’re also largely social, political, and administrative. Unemployment is a pressing concern. Another big segment of disturbed callers is students, who think that if the situation doesn’t improve, their future is bleak.”For this group of counsellors, the way forward is still taking shape. “This group came to life rather spontaneously, but we’re functioning in a very organised manner. The response has been overwhelming, and only reaffirms the need for such an intervention in the long run. We are planning to conduct group sessions for frontline workers. We are also open to collaborations, or any new ideas that will help us better doing our bit,” concluded the duo.Counselling service hotlinePlease call: 7414948259; timing: 10am to 5pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alumni-of-fergusson-college-s-psychology-department-offer-free-counselling-101622215702894.html
29-05-2021||Other||Welfare schemes, tussle with rivals mark 2 years of Jagan tenure||It was a year of consolidation of power and controversies for Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who will complete two years in office on Sunday.The Navaratnalu (nine jewels) welfare schemes and a slew of other populist schemes that began during the first year of the YSRCP coming to power picked up pace during the second year of Reddy’s rule, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic notwithstanding, consolidating his vote bank and fetching him tremendous mileage in the local body elections.Apart from direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes like Amma Vodi (cash incentive to women who send their children to schools), enhanced pensions, fee reimbursement scheme, YSR Zero Interest Scheme, etc .that were introduced in the first year, Reddy came up with a calendar of various other welfare schemes for farmers, weavers, lawyers, autorickshaw drivers, hawkers, fishermen etc., covering every section of the population, to increase the YSRCP’s votebank.The distribution of 2,500,000 housing sites for economically weaker sections of the population on December 25 last year brought Reddy massive goodwill.“It was a sort of social engineering by Reddy, who ensured that not a single section of people is left out in the implementation of welfare schemes. He even covered upper castes like Brahmins, Kapus and Reddys, besides minorities,” said political analyst Sangem Ramakrishna.The establishment of village and ward secretariats to bring the administration to the villages and towns firmly entrenched the YSRCP at the grassroots level. Over 300,000 village and ward volunteers, who were appointed to deliver the benefits of various government schemes, be it pensions or ration, directly to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps, proved a masterstroke for him.But in his eagerness to implement his welfare agenda, Reddy has not focussed much on industrial and infrastructure development. Though his government came up with an industrial policy seeking to provide a lot of incentives to the sector, no major industries have been grounded in the state. No new infrastructure projects have come up in the last two years.“We had several grandiose plans for the development of Vizag-Chennai industrial corridor and Kakinada special economic zone. But the pandemic has virtually stalled everything,” a YSRCP leader, who asked not to be named, said.The indiscriminate borrowing by the Reddy government to implement its welfare schemes has also left the state exchequer virtually bankrupt. “The state is totally dependent on loans. As of today [Friday], the total outstanding debt of the state stands at ₹4.47 lakh crore and in the last two years, the Reddy government borrowed ₹1.60 lakh crore,” former finance minister and TDP lawmaker Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said.State finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, however, said during the recent budget presentation that the state had to borrow enormous amounts of money because of the crippling of state finances because of the Covid-19 pandemic.What marred the otherwise welfare-oriented rule of Reddy were his acts of vengeance against his political rivals and confrontation with constitutional institutions, including judiciary. Many of his decisions taken in a hurry – such as creating three capitals for the state in place of existing capital Amaravati, introducing English medium in all government schools, removing the state election commissioner by promulgating an ordinance, acquiring land for house site schemes and painting of government buildings with YSRCP colours have come under the scanner of the judiciary.This led to Reddy launching a tirade against the judiciary, going to the extent of lodging a complaint with former Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, accusing second-most senior Supreme Court NV Ramana of colluding with TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and a few judges of the state high court to dislodge his government. He even attributed the land scam in Amaravati to justice Ramana, but the CJI dismissed his petition after due inquiry.“It appears Reddy has crossed all limits in acting with vengeance against his political rivals, aimed at finishing them politically and financially. The closure of Amara Raja firms owned by TDP MP Galla Jayadev and seizure of Sangam Dairy from ex-MLA Dhulipalla Narendra are classic examples of his vengeance politics. This has never been heard of in any other state,” said senior journalist and political analyst Suresh Dharur. His prolonged legal battle over the sudden postponement of local body elections in March 2020 due to the outbreak of Covid-19 with previous state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, which Reddy lost, also showed his aggressive approach to whoever had opposed his decisions. Reddy was displeased with the announcement postponing the elections.In the last one year, many TDP leaders, including state unit president K Atchannaidu, Kollu Ravindra, Dhulipalla Narendra, Chintamaneni Prabhakar, JC Prabhakar Reddy, JC Asmith Reddy and BC Janardhan Reddy were arrested in various cases. Even TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu was booked by the CID for his alleged role in the acquisition of assigned lands in Amaravati.Reddy ordered several inquiries, alleging insider trading on part of rival political leaders during the land acquisition process for Amaravati, but the cases are still being heard in court. The filing of a sedition case against his own party MP from Narasapuram K Raghurama Krishnam Raju for questioning his government policies clearly displayed his intolerant attitude.Dharur said Reddy appeared to be of the view that he was above any criticism after receiving a huge mandate with 151 of his party MLAs in the 175-member assembly. “The way he fixed even two Telugu television channels [the TV channels regularly telecast Raju’s press conferences] in the sedition case along with Raju shows he cannot tolerate any negative talk about him,” he said. In the last one year, the chief minster made several attempts to shift the administrative capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam, but it did not work out due to court litigations and the pandemic.“The two-year rule of Reddy is marked by corruption, political victimisation and hatred for his rivals. There is no job creation and dreams of the youth are shattered. The economy in shambles,” TDP chief Naidu said.The Reddy government, however, claimed that it could fulfil over 90% promises he had made in the party manifesto.“It [the government] has implemented several revolutionary programmes which were never heard of in the past, covering all sections of people,” an official note from the government, listing its achievements in various sectors, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ap-cm-reddy-s-2-yr-rule-marked-by-welfare-schemes-fights-with-political-rivals-101622211803220.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on polls, Punjab cuts power tariff up to 20% for marginal consumers||Patiala Months ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) on Friday reduced the power tariff for domestic consumers with monthly consumption of less than 300 units by up to 20%. According to the PSERC order, the per unit tariff for domestic consumers with load up to 2kW and consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units has been reduced by ₹1 and 50 paise, respectively. For domestic consumers having a load between 2kW and 7kW and for consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units, the rates have been reduced by 75 paise and 50 paise, respectively. Initially, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had demanded a 9% tariff hike only to revise the petition, seeking a slash in the rate reportedly at government’s insistence. “This shall result in financial relief to the tune of ₹682 crore to these consumers. The new slabs will come into force from June 1,” reads the order issued by PSERC chairman Viswajeet Khanna. To provide respite to domestic consumers, the PSERC has passed on the burden on other segments of consumers. The non-domestic consumers will pay almost 24% of the subsidy. The tariff for above 7kW of load has been increased by almost 5%, which also includes a hike in fixed charges. Now, the average per unit power cost in Punjab is ₹6.41, the pooled purchase cost is ₹4.54. “The decision will bring relief to 69-lakh domestic consumers in the state,” chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said in a press release.“Once again the political face of the PSERC is out. The commission has given relief to the lower sections and put the burden on other sections including residential and industry,” said Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations. No change for small, medium industries Small and medium industrial consumers and non-residential supply (NRS) consumers have not been burdened with any increase. The tariff for agricultural power (AP) consumers has been increased marginally by 9 paise. With this, the agriculture cross-subsidy has been reduced from (-) 14.41% to (-) 12.05%. The commission has worked out a power subsidy of ₹10,668 crore for the current fiscal. There is a shortfall of ₹7,117.8 crore of subsidy amount paid by the Punjab government by March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-poll-year-power-tariff-reduced-by-20-in-punjab-101622200692602.html
29-05-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru rape case: 2 accused shot in leg ‘while trying to escape’, say police||Two of the four men arrested for allegedly raping and torturing a woman, suspected to have been trafficked from Bangladesh, were injured on Friday when they were fired at as they allegedly tried to flee after attacking a police party that took them to the crime scene in Bengaluru, officials said.Six people, including two women, were arrested from Bengaluru’s Ramamurthy Nagaron on Thursday after a video circulating online purportedly showed the men raping and torturing the woman, who is believed to be in her early 20s. Two other women, also named as accused, were purportedly seen in the video.A police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the 3.5 minute-video appeared to be at least 10 days old. “They used bottles to assault her (the woman), and they were shooting the entire ordeal,” the officer said.The incident took place in Bengaluru last week.The rape survivor was traced to Kerala after the alleged incident and brought back to the city by the police on Friday. Her condition is stable and she is undergoing tests in Bengaluru.Bengaluru police said the two accused, aged 25 and 23, were shot in their legs by the security team in self-defence when the four men -- also believed to be Bangladeshi immigrants -- were taken to a house for recreation of the crime scene on Friday morning. The two who were injured -- Ridoy Babu and Sagar -- are admitted to a government-run hospital in Bengaluru and their condition is stable, police said.Also Read | ‘No template of apt behaviour after assault’: Experts on Tarun Tejpal verdictThe other two arrested men were identified as Mohammed Baba Sheikh and Hakeel. Police did not identify the two women arrested in the case as they are suspected to be victims of human trafficking as well.In a statement late on Thursday, Bengaluru Police said the six arrests were made based on the images of the suspects from the video shared by the Assam Police earlier this week.“On the basis of the contents of the video clip and facts as disclosed during preliminary interrogation of the secured persons, a case of rape, assault and under other relevant provisions of law has been registered against the accused...” the statement added.Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said on Thursday that all the accused and the survivor are believed to be from Bangladesh. “Due to financial differences, the culprits brutalised the victim, who is also said to be a Bangladeshi, brought to India for human trafficking.”The incident was flagged by Assam Police first on Thursday morning, and later redirected to the Bengaluru police after they received information about a possible suspect in the city.“So we formed our teams to follow these leads and were able to detain one of them and based on the information provided we arrested the rest of the accused,” Pant said.Another police officer said on the condition of anonymity that the Bangladesh Police helped identify one of the suspects -- Ridoy Babu, of Tejgaon in Dhaka -- based on his TikTok account and the video circulating online.“The cops tracked down his (Babu’s) family and made his uncle call him on WhatsApp. On the call, Ridoy admitted that he was one of those seen in the video. He (Babu) also identified the victim. This was what we have been told (by Bangladesh police),” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/two-accused-in-bengaluru-rape-shot-in-the-leg-while-trying-to-escape-police-101622188391644.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: HC grants interim bail to senior Trinamool leaders||The Calcutta high court granted interim bail to four senior West Bengal politicians on Friday in connection with the 2016 Narada corruption case, ending their eight-day-long house arrest.A five-judge bench directed the four accused leaders to furnish bail bonds of ₹2 lakh with two sureties of similar amounts. The court directed that the accused - ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee - will not give any press interview or make any public comment in connection with the cases pending in the high court or trial court.“The court has granted interim bail. They will have to abide by certain conditions imposed by the court,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Mukherjee’s lawyer.The leaders were sent in judicial custody on May 17 after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested them and the high court stayed the bail order by a lower court. On May 21, they were placed under house arrest.Also Read | SC denies stay on TMC leaders’ house arrest in Narada caseMitra’s lawyer, Niladri Bhattacharya, said the court directed the four to join the investigation by video conference and restrained them from speaking about the pending trial. “The interim bail will, however, be subject to final outcome of the case,” he said.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing CBI, objected to interim bail and said the leaders could use their influence to tamper with evidence, make public statements regarding this case, or gather a mob whenever they are called for further investigation or the case is taken up for hearing.Mitra is under treatment at a state-run hospital, while the remaining three have returned home.The case against the four leaders pertains to news portal Narada News’s two-year-long sting operation.The videos of the operation were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 West Bengal assembly elections and purportedly showed some TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.TMC has linked the arrests to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s loss in the assembly polls. It has questioned why CBI did not arrest Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting videos, but have since defected from TMC to BJP.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court had refused to interfere with the house arrest order, prompting the agency to withdraw its petition.CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the high court. It has named West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the case. It has claimed TMC’s protests against the arrests hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.Banerjee staged a six-hour sit-in at the CBI’s office in Kolkata after the four were arrested.Ghatak led nearly 3,000 workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside CBI’s office, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest and threw bricks, bottles, and shoes at central forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-grants-interim-bail-to-four-political-leaders-101622188211496.html
