30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs eased in J&K but schools, colleges to stay closed till June 15||With coronavirus cases dipping across the Union Territory, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has started easing restrictions in a staggered manner, though the weekend and night curfew will continue till further orders. Outgoing chief secretary and chairperson of the state executive committee BVR Subrahmanyam, in an order, said weekend curfew will continue in all 20 districts from Friday 8pm to Monday 7am and the daily curfew will remain in force from 8pm and 7am. However, all stand-alone shops, liquor shops and saloons will open on alternate days, three days a week, except the weekend.Though malls will also open at 25% capacity, the government has not allowed gyms, spas, cinema halls, swimming pools, massage centres and bars to resume their businesses. Schools, colleges, coaching centres and universities will remain closed till June 15. Schools, colleges, technical education and skill development Institutes been asked to continue with online classes and not insist on in-person attendence for both staff and students. However, universities have been permitted to seek in-person attendance of minimal staff only for research, lab and thesis work. “Staff of educational institutions needed by the district disaster management authorities for official duties shall not be exempted from duties on account of this order,” the directions clarified. In the five districts of Kashmir — Pulwama, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam and Kupwara — that have been put in red category, public transport and malls will remain shut. However, auto-rickshaws will follow odd-even system.In the remaining 15 districts, which have been placed under orange category, outdoor bazaars and shopping areas will open on alternate days.“Restaurants can open on all weekdays but only for home delivery. No takeaways allowed,” says the order. Similarly, outdoor sports stadiums can open but indoor stadiums will remain closed. Public transport has been permitted to ply only at 50% of the authorised seating capacity. Taxis and cab aggregators are also permitted to operate at 50% capacity while auto-rickshaws are permitted to ply without any restrictions.Religious places and places of worship shall continue to remain open for public, subject to compliance to standard operating procedures already issued in this regard, read the order.The ceiling on the number of people permitted at social gatherings will be 20 in case of funerals and 25 for all other gatherings, be it indoors or outdoors. Canteens and eateries at bus stands, railway stations and airports are permitted to open on all days, it said.The existing guidelines and SOPs in place for compulsory testing of all incoming passengers and travellers to J&K will be strictly enforced, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/curbs-eased-in-j-k-but-schools-colleges-to-stay-closed-till-june-15-101622399384220.html
30-05-2021||Other||Hooch tragedy: Liquor mafioso, 10 others arrested||Agra Eleven people, liquor mafioso Anil Chaudhary, named in the cases registered at five police stations of Aligarh district in connection with the recent hooch tragedy were arrested on Sunday. However, two people carrying a reward of Rs. 50,000 each are still at large. Chaudhary has political connections and is said to be the kingpin of the spurious liquor trade in the area. To note, dozens of people died, and many were hospitalised after allegedly consuming spurious liquor purchased from a government-run liquor shop in Karsua, Andla, Chairath and Jawan villages of Aligarh on Friday. “Cases have been registered at five police stations of Aligarh district and of those named, 11 have been arrested. Police are in hot pursuit of two absconders, Rishi Pal Sharma and Bipin Yadav, on whom reward of Rs. 50,000 each has been declared,” said DIG Aligarh range Deepak Kumar. Confusion prevailed over the number of deaths as the district administration claimed that there were 25 confirmed deaths. Chief medical officer of Aligarh Dr BPS Kalyani said that postmortem examination reports of 25 victims indicated death due to alcohol poisoning while viscera of 26 others had been preserved for further testing. Postmortem examination had been conducted on 51 bodies from the affected area, he added. Aligarh district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh has ordered a magisterial probe by ADM (execution) and the report is to be submitted within 15 days. On Saturday, the district magistrate had said that a probe into the matter was initiated, and National Security Act (NSA) would be invoked against those found guilty in the inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hooch-tragedy-liquor-mafioso-10-others-arrested-101622399203236.html
30-05-2021||Other||Corona curfew curbs, rain help improve air quality of UP cities||Lucknow: The cyclone –induced rain and the curbs during the period of corona curfew in Uttar Pradesh helped better the Air Quality Index (AQI) of many cities in May as per data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The average AQI of Uttar Pradesh in May was recorded below 150 , similar to that recorded last year and one of the lowest since 2000.The average AQI recorded in Lucknow between May 1 to May 30 this year, was around 150. In 2020, when country-wide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, the city had recorded a similar AQI. However, in 2019 the average AQI in Lucknow was recorded at around 300 in the month of May. According to CPCB classification, AQI between 101 to 200 is categorised as moderate with very little impact on human health and AQI between 201 and 300 as poor. AQI between 301 and 400 is categorised as very poor and that above 400 as severe. According to experts, beside corona curfew curbs, the above average rainfall across the state also led to improvement of air quality. The state recorded more than 60 mm of rainfall in May, almost double than the normal rainfall “The state recorded around 12 days of rainfall caused by western disturbances or conditions caused first by Tauktae and Yaas cyclones. There were rain, thunderstorms and strong winds in most parts of the state,” said state MeT department director JP Gupta. These weather conditions helped AQI of major UP cities to improve considerably. Cities like Lucknow, Agra, Noida, Moradabad, Kanpur and Baghpat which record the worst AQI in the country showed considerable improvement in their AQI this month. Meanwhile, experts warn that the improvement is temporary which will subside as the curbs are relaxed in the state. “The improvement in AQI of UP cities in May is a positive sign but these changes are temporary that will subside quickly with relaxation of corona curfew norms. The citizens and decision-makers must try to make arrangements so that we can have cleaner air all around the year,” said senior environmentalist Devesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corona-curfew-curbs-rain-help-improve-air-quality-of-up-cities-101622398962764.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 25% of all Covid-19 cases reported in May||Ghaziabad: Both April and May have become the months with the heaviest caseload since the pandemic first hit the district in March last year, with the health department data showing that while the cases reported in April accounted for 23% of all the cases, May accounted for nearly 25% of cases. According to the records of the district health department, the data indicates that April this year recorded 12,859 positive cases, while the month of May saw 14077 fresh cases. Upto May 30 this year, the district recorded a total of 55,010 cases so far.“The cases started to rise considerably from the middle of April, and there were occasions when the daily new case count crossed 1,000. However, the strategy of aggressive tracing, testing and treatment paid off and we were able to control the spike within a month. The daily cases nowadays have fallen below 200,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.The spike has been the highest since March last year when first Covid-19 cases started to come in. Earlier, the highest cases recorded in a month were in September last year when the city observed its peak and the district saw 5,915 new cases.“The first wave which started March last year peaked gradually till about September, and then went on a gradual decline. This year, the second wave spiked considerably and also declined at a fast pace. But all this happened within one month, starting from April-mid to May-mid. So, April and May have higher cases which come in at a very fast pace,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.“The complications in patients this year were more due to severity of infection and hospitals admitted L2 and L3 category patients. Last year, most patients had mild symptoms and were admitted to L1 category hospitals,” Dr Jindal added. The L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals were created in UP under the government’s three-tier Covid healthcare infrastructure. While L1 category hospitals admitted patients with mild symptoms, patients having moderate symptoms were admitted to L2 category hospitals. The L3 category hospitals admitted patients having severe symptoms. As of now, fresh case counts have slowed down and the sample positivity rate is also on a decline. The district registered its peak positivity rate on May 6 when the positivity rate was 19.3% while it declined to a monthly minimum level of 9.09% on May 27 and further declined to 8.66% on May 28 and 7.85% on May 30, as per district health department data.The same was 2.8% as on April 15, which further peaked to 8.84% on April 30.“With a decline in positivity, our discharge rate is also increasing. It is about 96% at present and registered a decline when cases started to rise in April. It is an encouraging trend that more patients are recovering,” the DM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-25-of-all-covid-19-cases-reported-in-may-101622398663018.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal clocks 861 fresh infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 861 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday, pushing the state’s tally to 1,89,465, while the death toll mounted to 3,111 after 41 more patients succumbed. Of the new cases, 158 were reported in Kangra, 125 in Sirmaur, 102 in Hamirpur, 99 in SOlan, 91 in Una, 86 in Shimla, 80 in Chamba, 43 in Mandi, 29 in Bilaspur, 21 in Kinnaur, 19 in Kullu and 11 in Lahaul-Spiti. The highest 16 fatalities were reported in Kangra, six in Solan, four in Sirmaur, three in Hamirpur, two each in Chamba and Shimla and one each Bilaspur, Kullu and Solan. Recoveries reached 1,71,393 after 2,869 people recuperated. The active cases have now come down to 14,940. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 43,195 infections. It is followed by Mandi with 25,279 cases and Shimla with 23,756 cases. Solan has 21,487 cases, Sirmaur 14,573 , Hamirpur 13,416, Una 12,324, Bilaspur 11,937, Chamba 9,748 , Kullu 8,262, Kinnaur 2,926 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,562. CM inaugurates oxygen plants at IGMC, KNH
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC intervention clears way for laying pipeline to reduce flooding at Hindmata||Following an assurance from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that the problems faced by Tata Mills (NTCL) at Parel would be taken care of by the authorities if the laying of a 325-meter-long stormwater pipeline through their property was allowed, the Bombay high court (HC) permitted the BMC to start work after an agreement between Tata Mills and the civic body was completed.Tata Mills had approached the HC after members of the ruling Shiv Sena government had barged onto the property in April 2021 along with the contractor to start the pipeline work forcefully.The vacation bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing two petitions filed by Tata Mills and BMC, respectively, was informed that both petitions dealt with the laying of a stormwater pipeline, 1,200mm in diameter, to drain the rainwater which flooded both the Hindmata junction and the mill compound during the monsoons.Senior advocate RS Apte for the general manager Tata Mills informed the bench that the head office had received a letter from BMC through the F-South ward office in March seeking permission to lay the SWD through the mill premise. The petition submitted that while the correspondence was going on between the two, on April 28 the local corporator along with a member of parliament from Shiv Sena barged into the premise along with the contractor and equipment to commence the pipe laying work.Apte submitted that earlier on April 19 the Disaster Management Authority had issued the mill a notice under the Act and even Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar had visited the mill premise on April 30 and had given an oral order to commence the work. Aggrieved by the notice and high-handedness of the politicians who were not willing to wait for the correspondence to come to its logical conclusion Tata Mills had approached the HC seeking a restraint on the authorities from taking action against the mill or entering their premise forcefully.The BMC has undertaken the building of silos and underground water tanks at the Hindmata junction as every year there is waterlogging due to the monsoons and brings traffic to a halt due to the three feet of water that gets collected there. The SWD pipeline proposed by the BMC is meant to drain away from the water that is collected in these underground water tanks. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh for the Union of India informed the bench that the Centre had cleared the proposal of BMC and had no problem with the pipeline being laid through the mill land.In an earlier hearing, the HC had directed the BMC to file an affidavit and work on a solution to resolve the problem amicably.On May 28, senior advocate NV Walawalkar for BMC submitted an affidavit stating that on May 26 the NTC head office had conveyed its agreement to the pipe laying on certain terms and conditions and the agreement between the mill and BMC was being finalised, wherein the civic authority would compensate the mill for the losses it would suffer while work on the pipe laying was on.After hearing the submissions, the HC permitted commencement of the work after the agreement was in place and said, “We expect that after taking possession of the plot, the municipal corporation will start the work immediately under the agreement being entered into between the parties,” and disposed of both petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hc-intervention-clears-way-for-laying-pipeline-to-reduce-flooding-at-hindmata-101622398002632.html
30-05-2021||Other||After two slab collapses, panel to survey Ulhasnagar’s old structures||The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) commissioner has formed a ward level committee to survey buildings that were built between 1994-1998, using inferior quality sand in Ulhasnagar.The committee was formed after a meeting held with the deputy commissioner and ward officers. “We have asked all our four ward officers to form a committee and conduct a house-to-house survey. The committee members will visit such buildings, check their status and make a list,” said Raja Dayanidhi, commissioner, UMC. This move by the UMC comes after the two slab collapse incidents in the past 15 days, killing 12 residents. Both the Mohini Palace building that killed five and Sai Shakti building that killed seven residents were built in 1995 using inferior quality sand. The civic body will also put up the ward level helpline numbers for the resident’s to raise their grievances regarding such buildings. “These buildings were built during 1994-95 before the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation was established, in 1996. This is the reason why there are no proper records of such buildings. After Mohini Palace building collapse, we had initiated checks on such buildings. Now the committee formed will be inspecting them,” added Dayanidhi.The civic body will also form a fresh panel of structural auditors. They will conduct audits of buildings at the request of the residents.The civic body claimed that it has vacated all the extremely dangerous buildings within its limits. Those buildings which are dangerous, have been served with notices to take necessary steps. There are 23 extremely dangerous building in Ulhasnagar.Meanwhile, the civic body has also identified 80 possible places where the tenants who are vacated from these buildings, can be relocated for at least 10 days.“We have identified community temples and school which can be used as temporary rehabilitation. Meanwhile, we have also asked the all party elected representatives to help in finding such places where they can be relocated temporarily,” added Dayanidhi.The challenges faced civic body while identifying such buildings in Ulhasnagar, are that such buildings are not visibly dangerous, there are no proper records of these buildings and some have ongoing court cases.“We will closely work with the electricity board to find out when a particular building was built. This will give us an idea of its history. Based on that the committee will visit the entire building because from outside these buildings look perfectly fine. Internally, there are a lot of slab cuttings done and reconstruction made. We will take advice from the legal experts to figure out the court cases of these buildings,” said UMC chief.The civic body chief will be submitting a proposal with necessary changes to the state government to speed up the process among the residents and get it imposed without further delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-two-slab-collapses-panel-to-survey-ulhasnagar-s-old-structures-101622397944106.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Transporters threaten strike over fuel prices||In a bid to opposes the steep fuel price hike over the past one year, the transporters’ body has threatened to stage a protest by halting operations, if the price hike does not stop.The transporters said that with an increase in diesel prices, the prices of operational cost of transportation of products, including essential commodities, have also hiked more than 30% in the last one year.All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), a body of transporters pan India has stated that apart from the fuel prices; toll, insurance, taxes, maintenance cost, on-road expenses, salaries of employees-drivers have impacted small and medium scale transporters a lot.“If the fuel prices go on increasing in this manner, there will be no option left before us but to go on strike. The government is just not ready to listen to us. We have requested them multiple times. We have decided internally if this continues then our transporters will park their vehicles and protest.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.Singh also stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the drivers for the first time but did not announce any relief or social security for them.“PM spoke to drivers for the first time sans announcement of any relief or social security for them. Drivers were not recognised as Covid frontline warriors. These Covid warriors who transported essentials commodities, medicines and oxygen by risking their lives still await incentives and social security from the government.” he added.The hike in diesel price by around 39%, from ₹66.21 a litre on May 29 last year to ₹92.17 on May 29 this year, has majorly impacted transportation, the bodies of transporters said. The petrol price has crossed ₹100-mark in Mumbai, while the diesel is sold at over ₹92 a litre.Meanwhile, fuel price on Sunday remained stable in the city. One litre of petrol was available at ₹100.19, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹92.17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/transporters-threaten-strike-over-fuel-prices-101622397882474.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bomb hoax at Mantralaya; caller was angry over relief||Mumbai Police and Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) officials searched the premises of Mantralaya in South Mumbai on Sunday afternoon, after a bomb threat call at state secretariat. After a four-hour search, it was found to be a hoax and the caller was found to be Sagar Mandhare, a man who was irked about not getting compensation for his land that was acquired allegedly for a government project, said police.According to the disaster management cell at Mantralaya, the administrative headquarters of the state government received a call from an unidentified man at 12.40pm on Sunday, stating a bomb has been planted on the premises. The BDDS and Marine Drive Police officers rushed to the spot along with search equipment, while the building was evacuated. The search operation was completed around 5pm. “It was a hoax call,” confirmed Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order).In the evening, the Marine Drive police registered a first information report (FIR) against Mandhare. The police officers said Mandhare has been protesting for compensation and hence made the call. The police have booked Mandhare under sections 182, 505 (1) (b), 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibomb-hoax-at-mantralaya-caller-was-angry-over-relief-101622397822471.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Fr Stan Swamy tests positive for Covid-19, condition stable||Elgar Parishad accused and octogenarian Fr Stan Swamy has tested positive for Covid-19. The 84-year-old who was shifted from Taloja jail to Holy Family Hospital at Bandra following an order of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday night was tested for coronavirus on Saturday. While sources said that Fr Swamy’s report that was received on Sunday had come positive, Fr Frazer Mascarenhas, Fr Swamy’s friend said he was unable to confirm the same and said that he was awaiting an update from the hospital. However, jail authorities confirmed the same and said that Fr Swamy’s lawyer had informed them about his test result coming positive on Sunday morning.According to Kaustubh Kurlekar, jail superintendent of Taloja jail, Dr Swamy’s lawyers had communicated his positive status on Sunday morning. He added that jail officials have also sought an update on the health status of Fr Swamy from the private hospital.Kurlekar added that two inmates including co-accused Arun Ferreira, who were Swamy’s attendants in prison, had tested negative for Covid. Fr Swamy was given the first vaccination jab at an in-house prison vaccination camp on May 18. The jail official also said that Covid tests had been conducted on Fr Swamy earlier in the prison hospital from time to time.Meanwhile, Fr Frazer Mascarenhas, a friend of Fr Swamy said, “We are very relieved after Fr Swamy was shifted to Holy Family Hospital as his condition had deteriorated at Taloja jail. His condition is stable now. I was informed by the hospital that Fr Swamy was tested for Covid-19 on Saturday but I am unaware of the result as I am awaiting an update from the hospital director.”Fr Swamy was arrested in October 2020 in connection with the Elgar Parishad violence incident in 2018 and for his alleged Maoist links. He had been kept at Taloja jail with the other accused which included P Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira, Hany Babu and others since then.On May 21, while addressing through video conferencing from the jail the HC bench of justice S J Kathawalla which was hearing Fr Swamy’s appeal against the rejection of his bail application by a special NIA court, Fr Swamy told the bench that when he was brought to the jail he could walk, bathe and stand on his own. However, over the past eight months, his health had deteriorated and he could not do these things without any help anymore. He told the court that in light of his deteriorating health he wanted to go back to Ranchi but did not want to be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital and would prefer to stay in Taloja jail and die there. Fr Swamy’s lawyer senior advocate Mihir Desai had informed the bench that Fr Swamy was in an advanced stage of Parkinson and had developed cough and fever over a week and hence his application for interim bail should be granted or he should be shifted to a private hospital to monitor his health.On May 28, the bench of justice SS Shinde permitted Fr Swamy to be shifted to Holy Family Hospital provided he paid the cost of treatment there himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-fr-stan-swamy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-condition-stable-101622397642540.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Alert motorman halts train in time, saves life||An alert motorman saved the life of a man lying on track on the suburban railway tracks on Saturday. Motorman PK Ratnakar who was piloting a local train on the Central Railway’s (CR) Harbour line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Panvel railway stations noticed a man lying on the railway track between Tilak Nagar and Chembur railway stations. He applied emergency brakes and halted the local train 12 meters ahead of the spot where the man was lying.Even after blowing the horns, the person did not move away from the track. Passengers of the local train got down and approached the man, who then got up and ran away towards Chembur railway station.According to the passengers, the man had possibly come on the railway tracks to kill himself.“The passengers informed the motorman that it could be a case of attempt to suicide as he ran away after passengers approached him,” said a senior CR official.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR, said, “The quick thinking by motorman PK Ratnakar averted any untoward mishap. The work done by him is highly commendable. Guard of the local train was also informed to apprise the same to the railway control room. Due to his alertness and timely prompt action by the motorman, the man was saved. He will be awarded suitably.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-alert-motorman-halts-train-in-time-saves-life-101622397641906.html
30-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar launches crackdown on spurious liquor, smuggling of alcohol; 30 held||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar excise department, with the help of the district police, has launched a special drive to check for spurious liquor and to monitor illicit supply of alcohol in the district, officials said on Sunday. Over 30 bootleggers have been arrested in the district during the weekend, police said.The district excise department’s action comes after the Aligarh hooch tragedy in which more than 30 people have died last week allegedly after consuming adulterated liquor. “In light of the Aligarh incident, teams from the excise, police and administration are conducting inspections at shops to check the current stock and verify the barcodes. The teams were active on Saturday and Sunday, and so far we have not found any issues of adulteration in the current stock,” said RB Singh, district excise officer.Singh said that the department will run the drive till June 12 and conduct the regular checks at the 524 liquor shops in the district. “We also plan to take public feedback specially in rural belts about the local liquor supply. Movement of history sheeters and excise defaulters will also be monitored,” he said.Meanwhile, the district police nabbed at least 30 bootleggers over the weekend for allegedly smuggling liquor bottles into the district.Police said that most of these arrests were from the Greater Noida zone (areas under Jewar and Dadri police jurisdictions), followed by the Noida area (sectors 39 and 20 police jurisdictions). Most of these cases involve smuggling of alcohol from states like Haryana, police said, adding that several cartons of liquor have been seized so far. “There are orders to ensure that illicit liquor is not in circulation in the district. Our teams are working constantly to monitor the situation,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police also said that manufacturing of spurious liquor in the district is non-existent but smuggling is still an issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-launches-crackdown-on-spurious-liquor-smuggling-of-alcohol-30-held-101622397401824.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Illegal party raided in Noida, 15 booked for violating Covid norms||Fifteen people were booked for violating Covid-19 norms and holding a party in a Sector 93 high-rise on Saturday night.Police said they were informed of the party by the occupants of a neighbouring apartment.“The tenant, M B Malik (32), was celebrating his birthday. There were 15 people, including a foreign national,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Ankur Aggarwal.“We found several empty and a few filled hard.liquor bottles. There was marijuana and a yet unidentified narcotic there as well which is being examined. Action is being taken against all offenders,” said DCP, Harish Chander.All were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, which are bailable offences, while the organisers were also booked under the Excise, NDPS and Noise Pollution Acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-party-raided-in-noida-15-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-101622397281836.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Noida to expedite completion of civic and infrastructure projects||NOIDA: The Noida authority said that it has decided to expedite work on all projects, disrupted due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari earlier in the week held a review of projects in multiple departments, including horticulture, property, electrical and water, via videoconferencing and directed staff and private agencies to expedite the work. The CEO also reviewed progress of projects online with departmental heads. Currently there are 172 projects, including repair of drains, footpaths and roads, across Noida. Apart from these, at least 177 new maintenance projects of civic services are proposed. The CEO directed that the maintenance work should be done on priority, before the monsoon season begins.“The staff has been directed to repair all potholes in city roads within 24 hours. If the potholes are repaired in 24 hours then concerned work circle will face disciplinary action,” said Maheshwari.The authority is resurfacing the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, and building underpasses between sectors 154 and 150, a 5.5-km elevated road at Dadri road, an underpass at Parthala and an indoor stadium in Sector 21, among other works.“The progress on these projects is unsatisfactory and the work should be expedited so that these can be delivered at earliest,” said Maheshwari.She also directed the horticulture department to expedite the work on its projects. She asked the work on Dog Park in Sector 137 and ‘Waste to Wonder Park’ to be fast-tracked.“If the private company engaged to prepare terms and conditions for these two parks will not ready the report on terms in next 3 days then the action should be initiated against the firm,” said Maheshwari.The CEO directed the computer department to address work applications of residents online without further delay. She directed to address all complaints filed in the last one month on priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-expedite-completion-of-civic-and-infrastructure-projects-101622396261772.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Curfew to stay in Noida, Ghaziabad for now||Even as the Uttar Pradesh government ordered the lifting of the partial corona curfew across the state, it said that it will continue in 20 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. The curfew will be lifted if active Covid-19 cases fell below 600, it added.The other districts that will continue to be under the partial curfew are Lucknow, Meerut, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, GB Nagar, Bulandshahr, Baghpat and Moradabad, among others. The curfew had been imposed since April 30. “In these 20 districts there will be no relaxation as of now. If the number of daily active cases falls below 600 on the basis of report by district health department, then relaxations mentioned in the order will automatically apply. In case any district has relaxed, but the number of active cases move more than 600, then the relaxations will cease to exist for it,” the order issued by UP chief secretary on Sunday, read. Under the relaxations, shops/markets can open from 7am to 7pm outside the containment zones but will have to close on Saturdays and Sundays to sanitise their areas; restaurants can only home deliver food; religious places will open up but can allow only a maximum of five people at a time, while banks, insurance companies, among others, have also been allowed to open up while maintaining all precautions.According to state control room figures of May 30, Ghaziabad had 1,760 active cases while GB Nagar had 1,184 active cases. An officer from the Ghaziabad health department estimates that it will take another 15-20 days for the active cases to fall below 600. “During the past one month we had been having more than 1,000 daily cases and now these have declined to about 50-150. This may increase or decrease on some days,” said the officer who wished not to be identified. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We will meet with traders, bus operators, auto unions beside RWAs and will seek their active participation to ensure that protocols are adhered to. If the cases rise, everyone will get affected as partial curfew will come into effect. So, we have now directed for strict surveillance, regular monitoring of patients in hospitals so that they recover fast and even strict adherence to containment protocols.”GB Nagar did not make any estimates and said it would depend on recoveries. “It is generally seen that patients in home isolation (mild cases) recover within 10 days while there are other patients (moderate and severe cases) who take longer recover. So, it depends on recoveries,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. Experts said that bringing down the number of active cases will be a major challenge. “People have to ensure social distancing and wearing of masks besides maintaining personal hygiene. Enforcement against offenders must continue strictly otherwise there is every possibility that cases may rise. Further, testing should also be maintained at the same level and tracing should be expedited,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/curfew-to-stay-in-noida-ghaziabad-for-now-101622396202760.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||With 2nd wave on the wane, HP ups paediatric preparedness||With the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic subsiding in Himachal Pradesh, the hill-state is bracing for the predicted third wave, which may affect more children as per experts, by focusing on paediatric Covid management. Special newborn care units (SNCUs) ), paediatric high dependency units (PHDUs), newborn intensive care units (NICUs), and paediatric intensive care unit (PICUs) are being made functional on priority basis.National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said protocol for management of the paediatric group had been shared with districts and medical colleges on May 3. “All chief medical officers, medical college principals and medical superintendents have been directed to ensure the availability of paediatric ward and newborn units in dedicated Covid hospitals either by augmentation of existing facilities or earmarking beds in existing facilities,” he said, adding that the beds will be preferably supported by central oxygen supply.At present, there are 224 SNCU beds in 16 facilities across the state. Four newborn stabilisation units will be upgraded to sick newborn care units at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Hospital in Shimla, Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, community health centre (CHC) Nalagarh and CHC Nurpur, shortly.Also, there are seven paediatric high-dependency units in the state, which have 34 beds, he said, adding that directions have been given to make an appropriate emergency triage and treatment services available for newborn and paediatric patients at all levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-2nd-wave-on-the-wane-hp-ups-paediatric-preparedness-101622396202309.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana records 89 Covid-19 deaths, 1,452 fresh cases||Haryana on Sunday reported 89 coronavirus deaths as 1,452 fresh infections pushed the state’s case count to 7,55,389, according to a Health Department bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 8,221 people in the state.Ten deaths were reported from Hisar, eight each from Gurgaon and Panipat, and seven each from Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Hisar reported the maximum 140 cases, Sirsa 117 while 110 infections surfaced in Gurgaon.Currently, the state has 21,087 active cases.So far, 7,26,081 people have recovered from the infection in the state with the recovery rate hovering around 96.12 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.41 per cent, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said nearly 58 lakh anti-Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far.“We plan to increase vaccinations to 2 lakh per day from present 50,000 to 55,000,” he said at a press conference here.Police vehicles and state roadways buses, which are being used as ambulances amid the pandemic, will be used to bring the elderly to the vaccination sites and later drop them back home, he said.He said recruitment of doctors, nurses and technicians will be carried out shortly to further strengthen the health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-records-89-covid-19-deaths-1-452-fresh-cases-101622395279072.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Corruption allegations against officer: Srinagar mayor, corporators end protest||The mayor and corporators of Srinagar municipal corporation (SMC) ended their indefinite hunger on Saturday after assurance from Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole that their demand for removal of joint commissioner, planning, in the wake of corruption allegations, will be looked into.The corporators led by mayor Junaid Azim Mattu had staged a protest and launched an indefinite hunger strike on Thursday.The mayor alleged that SMC’s joint commissioner planning Ghulam Hassan Mir, who is also the head of the task force against illegal constructions and deals with building permissions, was involved in corruption.Mattu, a leader of Apni Party, had written to the government seeking the removal of Mir and his repatriation to his parent department housing and urban development department (HUDD).On Saturday, the divisional commissioner had met the mayor, deputy mayor and corporators and assured to look into the matter.“Div Comm Kashmir, Pole visited SMC on behalf of chief secretary, J&K, and assured us the issues of the people we have raised would be addressed fairly and expeditiously. As we end our protest, I extend my humble gratitude to all fellow corporators for being so resolute,” Mattu said in a tweet on Saturday evening.The divisional commissioner’s office, meanwhile, tweeted, “On the assurance, mayor, deputy mayor and councillors have called off the protest.” Mattu said that in a special session of the general council of the Srinagar municipal corporation, a 3/4th majority of the corporation had unanimously passed a resolution seeking the removal of Mir and his replacement as deemed fit by the government.Denying the allegations, Mir had said that he will file a defamation suit against Mattu after speaking to his lawyers. “I will file a ₹5 crore defamation suit against Mattu. He can stage a protest seeking a person’s transfer but he cannot resort to character assassination,” said Mir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corruption-allegations-against-officer-srinagar-mayor-corporators-end-protest-101622395662168.html
30-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 13 new Covid-19 deaths, lowest in a single day in May||Jharkhand reported 13 COVID-19 fatalities in the last 24-hours, the lowest in a single day in May, pushing the death toll to 4,958, a health department bulletin said on Sunday.The total active COVID-19 cases in the state plunged to 10,946, it said.The state had on May 2 registered a high of 159 fatalities due to COVID-19, the highest in a single day in the current month.Chief Minister Hemant Soren has earlier ordered a death audit to be conducted in five districts witnessing high deaths to assess in a transparent manner the ground reality.The COVID-19 deaths in state capital Ranchi and East Singhbhum which were witnessing high casualties dipped to four and three respectively.Since the advent of the second wave of COVID, the death rate in the state increased from 0.9 per cent to 1.46 per cent with Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Hazaribag districts reporting high deaths.The state recorded 823 new coronavirus cases, which took the tally to 3,36,240, the health bulletin said.One death each was reported from Dhanbad, Gumla, Latehar, Palamu, Ramgarh and Simdega.No one succumbed to the virus during the period in 16 of 24 districts of the state - Bokaro, Chatra, Deoghar, Dumka, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Hazaribag, Jamtara, Khunti, Koderma, Lohardaga, Pakur, Sahebganj, Saraikela and West Singhbhum.However, the mortality rate in the state remained at 1.47 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent.The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in the state has improved to 95.27 per cent, better than the national average of 90.80 per cent.A total of 3,20,336 patients have recovered from the infection, the bulletin said.Altogether, 83,89,935 samples have been tested for COVID-19 in Jharkhand, including 54,289 since Saturday, it added.In a bid to combat the second wave of COVID-19, the government has extended the lockdown till June 3 in the state.Several other restrictions, including seven-day mandatory quarantine for people visiting the state, have been in place.The state has also suspended the operation of the intra and inter-city bus services and restricted the maximum number of attendees in a wedding event to 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-13-new-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-a-single-day-in-may-101622394943366.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar hits out at Hooda for not appealing to farmers to call off stir amid Covid crisis||Stating that the farmers’ agitation was one of the reasons behind the spread of Covid-19 in villages, Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday hit out at former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda for not appealing to farmers to suspend the stir in view of the prevailing situation. Addressing a press conference through the virtual mode, the CM said the movement of those connected with the agitation to and from dharna sites had led to the spread of the infection in villages, some of which have seen “more deaths than the average” number. He said that though Hooda is seeking an all-party meeting on Covid, not once had he appealed to farmers to suspend their stir. Referring to Hooda’s open letter to the people of Haryana, Khattar asked why could he not make a similar appeal to farmers. “Can the dangers posed by Covid be ignored,” he asked. The CM Khattar said in the letter written to him by Hooda, it was apparent that his attitude was only to criticise the state government’s handling of the situation rather than extending cooperation. “I thought his letter did not deserve even a reply, I just ignored it. He wants to do politics more rather than extend cooperation,” said Khattar, hitting out at the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-hits-out-at-hooda-for-not-appealing-to-farmers-to-call-off-stir-amid-covid-crisis-101622395245437.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Hry govt adopts 16-yr-old specially abled boy who lost parents to Covid, others alike||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced on Sunday that the state government has adopted a 16-year-old specially abled boy in Gurugram who lost his parents to Covid-19.During a surprise visit to a child shelter home, Deep Ashram, in Gurugram on Sunday, CM Khattar was apprised that earlier the boy was adopted by a Faridabad-based couple when he was a child, but his parents died of Covid-19 recently. The boy’s father died of Covid-19 on May 14, while his mother died of the virus on May 21.After learning about the boy’s condition, the CM decided to adopt him.“I learnt about this boy through party workers, that he lost both this parents to Covid-19 recently. He was adopted by them when he was a child. He has been orphaned once again... Now, the Haryana government will take care of his upbringing, and others who lost their parents to Covid-19 and are living at Deep Ashram shelter home. All of them have lost their parents to Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also planned to take care of such children till the age of 23 years, through PM Cares Fund,” said Khattar.Upasana Sachdeva, a member of child welfare committee (CWC) in Gurugram, said that both the CWC and the district administration have launched helpline numbers to gather information such children. On Friday, the district administration issued helpline numbers: 0124-2328288, 9717846669, and 8700454307 where people can share information about such children. The administration will provide lodging facilities to such children at Children’s Home in Sector 15, till further arrangements are being made.“At present, we have five children who lost their parents to Covid-19 in the past two months,and are staying at three shelter homes in the district, who have lost their parents to Covid-19 in the past few months. We have released helpline numbers where either neighbours or guardians of such children are informing us, if they are not able to take care of them. Firstly, we take these children to shelter homes where they are kept for a minimum of three months, after which the next course of action is being decided,” said Sachdeva.She added that Gurugram, at present, can provide shelter to 100 such orphans for which staff recruitments are also being done, so that the children are taken care off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hry-govt-adopts-16-yr-old-specially-abled-boy-who-lost-parents-to-covid-others-alike-101622395246071.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Palwal is only Haryana district to fully screen population||Strapped without modern health facilities, Palwal managed to become the only district in Haryana to screen all its people in both rural and urban areas for Covid-19, according to district officials.The district has just over a million people and had reported 10,047 cases and 133 deaths, including three on Sunday. According to covid19india.org data till May 29, the case fatality rate (CFR, number of deaths per 100 cases) of the district was 1.26%, higher than the national average of 1.17% and the state average of 1.07%.The higher-than-average CFR could be attributed to Palwal, around 54 kilometres from Gurugram, not having large private or public hospitals.“The district is not equipped with modern ultra-modern facilities. The health infrastructure right now is one government hospital, two sub-divisional level hospitals, three community health centres and nearly 15 private hospitals,” said Palwal deputy commissioner Naresh Narwal. The district had only 350 oxygen beds.This meant that Palwal had to act early.The strategy was to contain the spread with a proactive approach of the minimum crowd with maximum utilization of mask and sanitization in April when the second wave hit.Rural areas were divided into different segments and incident commanders were deputed to have first-hand information. A weekly survey was conducted parallelly through patwaris and village secretaries of villages twice a week—Tuesday and Friday—with details of symptomatic persons under the supervision of concerned sub-divisional magistrates. The youth committees kept tab on all villages on daily basis.Narwal said a caseload of 50 was enough to place a village under strict lockdown.“A meeting of all market associations was convened, and all were persuaded to close the market on Sunday to avoid overcrowding and get the area sanitized, this worked well and all three cities Palwal, Hathin, and Hodal agreed to the proposal,” he said.On Friday, they commenced a door-to-door screening drive.“We covered 183,166 households with 920 dedicated teams and 3,000 youth committees constituted from various departments and volunteers,” said Narwal. The survey helped in shifting people to hospitals before their condition worsened.The screening involved deploying rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests and those who tested positive were immediately home isolated. Ayurvedic medicines were distributed and Ayush doctors provided counselling.Narwal said the supplies were ensured in the village itself and complete barricading with police deployment was ensured. Similarly, five macro-containment zones were declared in urban areas, where the surge was observed. The positivity rate, which was observed as 40% in some villages and urban colonies at the beginning started reducing with the macros containment strategy. “The tele-counselling and telemedicine dedicated four phone lines with 24X 7 service pressed into service with the deployment of MBBS doctors at Civil Hospital. The cases started reducing after May 20,” he said.The rural health survey (HVGHCS) which started on May 15 with 920 dedicated teams has covered the entire population and the district was the first to be screened across the state.The district has redressed 15781 people through Arogya Setu App and 150056 people were provided with psychological services through helplines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/palwal-is-only-haryana-district-to-fully-screen-population-101622395243058.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Daily spike at 110, lowest since March||The district on Sunday reported 110 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest single-day spike since March, officials of the health department said on Sunday.According to the district health department data, the number of active cases in Gurugram was 1,727 as of Sunday evening, of whom 244 patients are hospitalised, 1,478 are in home isolation and five are admitted to district Covid care centres. On Sunday, 346 patients also recovered in the district. However, Covid-19 related deaths continued to be reported, with nine reported on Sunday. The total toll due to the pandemic in the district reached 810, as per the health department data. On the testing front, the health department collected 5,446 samples on Sunday, with the results of 2,498 patients still awaited. Even as the number of cases continued to decline, the district administration urged citizens to continue to follow Covid-19 safety protocols. The deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, said, “We have been able to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases in the district with the help of residents. The only mantra to defeat Covid-19 is to always wear a mask, covering one’s nose and mouth, while leaving the house. Along with that, people must ensure that social distancing norms are followed, along with regular washing or sanitisation of hands.” Meanwhile, 5,265 people were vaccinated on Sunday with 4,814 receiving the first dose of vaccine and 451 receiving the second dose. So far, over 675,000 people have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-spike-at-110-lowest-since-march-101622395241722.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Slum residents find it hard to get vaccinated due to lack of smartphones, digital illiteracy||Lack of digital literacy and unavailability of smartphones are proving major obstacles for slum residents, mostly domestic workers and daily wagers, to get vaccinated.The district health department earlier held walk-in vaccination camps in slums but suspended the process due to a shortage of vaccines and asked residents to register on the Co-WIN app to book vaccination slots. However, many said that they do not know how to access the portals and complained that the process is complicated.Hasina Bibi, who lives in Tigra village and works as a domestic help, said that until she gets the jab, she will not be allowed to enter the residential societies where she works. This, she said, has made her family’s survival in the city difficult.Bibi visited three primary health centres in the last 15 days but could not get vaccinated. “The officers at the primary health centre (PHC) asked me to register online, but I don’t have valid documents to upload. I will lose my job if I didn’t get my first vaccine dose as the resident welfare associations have strictly passed orders to produce vaccination certificate for entering the premises,” she said.Many of the slum residents who are migrants and are working in the city, said they do not have Aadhaar cards and that their ration cards were issued in other states, due to which they were facing problems.Regina Mandal, who lives in Badshahpur and works as a domestic help, said she was not able to get vaccinated despite making efforts on multiple occasions and is planning to return to her home town of Bagdogra in Siliguri of West Bengal to get vaccinated. “Firstly, the registration process is difficult and secondly, only limited people get vaccinated. Each time, they ask us to come back again, so we have dropped the plan,” she said.Officials of the administration and health department said they are working on a plan to inoculate slum residents.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The government has been formulating guidelines for covering domestic helps and those who have no access to mobile and internet. It is likely that by the next week, guidelines will be issued.”Yash Garg, Gurugram’s deputy commissioner, said that the access issues as well as vaccine shortage were raised with the state government and are likely to be resolved soon. “Due to shortage of vaccines, many people are unable to get vaccinated. The issues are not only at the state level but at the central level too and all are aware of the situation. We can’t make changes on the portal but can try to resolve the issue at the earliest,” he said.However, in some slum clusters in Wazirabad, Bajghera, Chauma and Mullahera, the initial hurdle of vaccine hesitancy has not been overcome yet. “Most people here are not willing to get vaccinated because they have heard that there are side effects from the vaccines. My neighbour was vaccinated but still died due to Covid-19. Two more people who got their first dose were unwell for almost a week. We cannot take chances as all our family members are back in the village and we can’t risk our lives here,” said Bhure Lal, a Wazirabad resident who works at a construction site.Domestic workers and support staff also sought help from their employers but to no avail as camps are yet to resume in residential areas. “It is important to get domestic helps, car cleaners and security guards vaccinated at the earliest as they could also be carriers and cause the transmission to residents or other staff in the area. We are trying to tie up with private hospitals to organise a camp for domestic helps and support staff,” said Rajeev Asthana, general secretary, Orchid Petals residents’ welfare association.Amit Jind, the president of Vipul Greens RWA on Sohna Road, said that their security guards, domestic helps and ground staff is yet not vaccinated. “We have registered them on Co-WIN but they are yet to get a slot due to shortage of vaccines. We have restricted entries of help, drivers and other support staff in our society. The guards are delivering groceries which are brought by delivery boys to ensure minimum contact with outsiders,” he said, adding that the society is now Covid-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/slum-residents-find-it-hard-to-get-vaccinated-due-to-lack-of-smartphones-digital-illiteracy-101622395181716.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends lockdown till June 15: Highlights of CM Uddhav's address||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address on Sunday warned the people of Maharashtra against becoming careless despite the fall in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. He also announced the extension of lockdown till June 15, adding that the state is taking adequate measures ahead of the expected third wave of Covid-19.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extends lockdown-like curbs in state by 15 days, pitches for Covid-free villagesThackeray said the decision to extend the lockdown has been taken to ramp up the healthcare infrastructure in order to better prepare in case of a third wave. He also said that the infected people are taking more time to recover as new strains of Covid-19 have a higher transmission rate. Thackeray expressed concern and said the reduction in cases is not enough for lifting the lockdown-like measures.Following are the major announcements made by the Maharashtra chief minister -||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-june-15-highlights-of-cm-uddhav-s-address-101622393701118.html
30-05-2021||City||Bengal records 11,284 new coronavirus cases, 142 more fatalities||West Bengal on Sunday registered 11,284 new COVID-19 cases, pushing the caseload to 13,66,240, while the death toll rose to 15,410 with 142 more fatalities, according to a bulletin issued by the health department.As many as 18,642 patients have recovered from the infection, improving the discharge rate to 91.93 per cent.The total number of people cured of the disease has gone up to 12,55,932.The number of active cases has slipped to 94,898.North 24 Parganas accounted for 49 deaths while Kolkata registered 33 COVID-19fatalities. The rest of the deaths were reported from several other districts, including 14 from Howrah.North 24 Parganas district recorded 2,482 new cases while Kolkata accounted for 1,830 fresh cases, the bulletin said.Since Saturday, 70,315 samples were tested for coronavirus taking the total number of such examinations in the state to 1,23,72,134.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengal-records-11-284-new-coronavirus-cases-142-more-fatalities-101622393407301.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to resume Covid-19 vaccine drive for 18-44 age group soon: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday spoke about the issue of shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the state, as he announced an extension of lockdown-like norms by 15 days, starting June 1.Also Read | Thackeray extends Maharashtra curbs by 15 days, pitches for Covid-free villages“We have to vaccinate all our eligible people but the availability of jabs is a challenge for us,” Thackeray said in an address to the state on Sunday night, in which he also addressed a range of other Covid-19-related issues, such as examinations for class 10th and 12th students.The inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group, which was suspended earlier this month, would be resumed soon, the chief minister said further. The Maharashtra government put on hold vaccination for everyone below the age of 45, citing a shortage of vaccine doses. Jabs of both Covid-19 vaccines currently in use in the country -- Covishield and Covaxin -- were diverted to be used as second doses for beneficiaries above the age of 45.Also Read | Vax for 18-45 age group to resume in June, says state, with pvt hospitals vaccinating thousandsMaharashtra has frequently complained about shortage of vaccine doses to the central government, which, in turn, has rejected the charge and claimed that the highest number of doses have been made available to the western state. At 5,731,815, Maharashtra’s infection tally is the highest among all states and Union territories, though the number of daily cases has witnessed a decline in recent days. It is also among six states with more than 100,000 active casesAlso Read | Only 6 states left with over 100k active Covid-19 cases, says CentreAccording to the state health department’s latest bulletin, there was an addition of 18,600 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, while 462 related deaths were recorded as well. This was the lowest single-day rise in cases since March 16, when 17,864 people tested positive. The death toll due to the infection, meanwhile, reached 94,844, Sunday’s bulletin showed.Also Read | Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 2 monthsAcross India, 212,066,614 vaccine doses have been administered since the beginning of the nationwide vaccine drive on January 16, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed at 8am on Sunday. Of these, 3,035,749 doses were administered in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-resume-covid-19-vaccine-drive-for-18-44-age-group-soon-uddhav-thackeray-101622392075115.html
30-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19: Jharkhand to inoculate 22 high-risk categories on priority basis||Jharkhand has decided to inoculate 22 categories of high-risk population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on priority basis, officials said on Sunday.The state health department shot off a letter in this regard to all district administrations, asking them to identify the section of population, who, on a daily basis, come in direct interaction or contact with other people due to their nature of jobs, and inoculate them on priority basis.Among others, the various class of people under these 22 categories include those working at oxygen manufacturing plants and involved in its distribution, persons with disabilities, field railway staff, Railways TTE, drivers, field journalists, court staff, lawyers and their clerks, inmates and staff in jail and correctional homes, newspaper hawkers, vendors at vegetable markets, petrol pump staff, transport workers, those engaged in home delivery, milk distribution, check posts and toll booths.“It has been noticed that people coming under these 22 categories can be superspreaders of the disease due to their high interaction with common mass on a daily basis. It has been, therefore, decided to inoculate these persons on priority basis as early as possible. A letter was sent on Saturday to all deputy commissioners for taking swift measures in this regard, “ said Sidhartha Tripathi, officer on special duty of IEC wing in health department.The deputy commissioners concerned have been asked to set up special camps to increase vaccination coverage of this group. According to health department’s bulletin on May 29 , Jharkhand has so far inoculated 3,426,606 people with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. This includes 2,380,542 beneficiaries above the age of 45 years, 339,316 frontline workers, 203,030 health care workers, and 503,718 people aged between 18-45 years.Intensive health survey covers 1.15 crore peopleMeanwhile, as many as 22.89 lakh households comprising 1.15 crore people have been screened under the ongoing intensive public health survey across the state between May 25-29, officials said on Sunday. According to health department’s bulletin, the survey found 8,073 people with symptoms of tuberculosis, 58,929 with diabetes and 62,030 with blood pressure and heart-related ailments.Besides, as many as 78,088 people were found as suspect cases of Covid-19. Out of this, 71,757 underwent Rapid Antigen Test. “Test reports of 771 people turned positive. This includes 27 children below the age of 18 years. Six of them were referred to Covid care centre, and rest were asked to observe home quarantine,” Tripathi said.The survey will conclude on June 3.State registers 77 cases of black fungusJharkhand has so far reported a total of 77 cases of Mucormycosis (black fungus), including 33 confirmed cases. The state has reported 10 deaths due to the fugal infection, and eight recoveries, according to the health department.Capital city Ranchi has maximum 23 cases of Mucormycosis, including 11 suspect cases. Ranchi is followed by East Singhbhum, that reported 15 cases, including three suspect cases.New RT-PCR labs coming up in 7 districtsIn order to increase the Covid-19 testing capacity, the state was setting up seven Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) laboratories in different districts across the state, officials said on Sunday.These laboratories are coming up in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Deoghar, Chaibasa, Gumla and Godda.According to a health department official, the new laboratory in Ranchi will start functioning in a fortnight.Besides, the department has also proposed to set up seven more RT-PCR laboratories in Giridih, Chatra, Khunti, Garhwa, Pakur, Ramgarh and Simdega.BOXCategories of high risk population1. All workers in Oxygen manufacturing plants, Oxygen Distribution Centers,Oxygen filling centers, drivers of Oxygen tankers2. People with disabilities3. Field staff of Indian Railways4. Railway TTE and Drivers5. Airport field and ground staff6. Field journalist of India7. Vendors at vegetable markets/haat bazaarvillage level vendor in rural area8. Petrol pump workers9. Home delivery agents10.Newspaper distributors11.Milk distributors12.Staff at check post13.Staff at toll booth14.Hotels and restaurants staff15.Staff of shop providing essential supplies16.Ration shop staff17.Field officer of labour department18.Transport worker including taxi, auto and rickshaw pullers19.Lawyers, law clerks and court staff20.Transgender21.COVID volunteers22.Inmatesof social and correctional homes/ Jails||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19jharkhand-to-inoculate-22-high-risk-categories-on-priority-basis-101622391701504.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Private hospital doctors booked for overcharging deceased Covid-19 patient’s kin||Four doctors working at a hospital in Chakan were booked for overcharging the kin of a deceased Covid-19 patient despite warnings and a cap on the bill amount by the state government. The four were identified as Dr Smita Ghatkar, Dr Rahul Sonawane, Dr Seema Gawli, and Dr Ramesh Ghatkar. The accused doctors work at Chakan Criticare hospital. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Nanda Ganpat Dhawale (58), medical superintendent at Maharashtra state government rural hospital, Chakan, Khed. The doctors and their hospital charged the relatives of a man named Vijay Lakshman Pokharkar form Ozar, Pune, ₹2, 53,300 for Covid-19 treatment between September 2, 2020, and September 16, 2020. Pokharkar was on ventilator and succumbed to the infection at the end of his term at the hospital. The deceased person’s wife Pushpa Pokharkar had cleared the hospital bill after her husband’s death. However, in accordance with the state government rules, she had approached the district collector office machinery with the bill for an audit. “The woman had complained to the collector’s office. The collector’s office informed it to Aundh district hospital. The Aundh hospital authorities asked the Chakan rural government hospital to look into the matter and get an audit done. Whatever excess amount was found, that was to be returned. Two notices have been sent to the hospital in that regard by Chakan government hospital. Copies of both the notices have ‘received’ stamp from the accused persons’ hospital,” said assistant police inspector (API) Prakash Rathod of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. When asked about the amount of excess money levied through the bill upon the Pokharkar family, the complainant was not forthcoming. “We have no information about the patient. We had received orders of audit from our seniors. A court case was done in the matter and as per further orders, a police complaint was lodged. Since the matter is subjudice, I cannot comment on the specifics of the case,” said Dr Dhawale. In May 2020, the state government had announced a cap on the private hospital bill for Covid-19 treatment. Every bill over ₹1.5 lakh was audited by local authorities. However, on Saturday, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that all Covid-19 treatment bills by private hospitals will be audited to avoid trickery by private hospitals. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 34 (common intention) and 188 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station against the four doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospital-doctors-booked-for-overcharging-deceased-covid-19-patient-s-kin-101622391221449.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Two in police custody for selling Remdesivir on black market||Two men were remanded to police custody by a local court on Sunday for selling vials of Remdesivir on the black market in Pune for ₹15,000 each. Two vials of Remdesivir injection, used for treatment of Covid-19 infection, were recovered from a man in Vadgaon Budrukh area of Pune on Saturday. The arrested man was identified as Vishal Anant More (28), a resident of Jadhavnagar in Vadgaon-Budrukh area of Pune. He led the police to the arrested of another person. The second arrested person was identified as Shambhuraj Lal, Kothrud.“He is a worker at a pharmacy for the past 4-5 years. He was well versed with the medicines. He charged ₹15,000 per vial. Investigation for a possible past sale is on. He has named another medical store worker who supplied him with the vials. We have arrested him as well. They are both in police custody,” said senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of anti-narcotic cell-1 of Pune police crime branch. Assistant police inspector Lakshman Dhengale is investigating the case. A case under Sections 420 and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 26 of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Essential Commodities Act, 1955; and Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 was registered at Sinhagad road police station against More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-in-police-custody-for-selling-remdesivir-on-black-market-101622391041452.html
30-05-2021||Patna||Bihar CM directs officials to complete all flood protection works by June 15||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday directed the officials of four key departments to complete the flood protection work and strengthen the communication network by June 15. The CM issued instructions to the officials of water resources, minor irrigation, road construction and rural works department to carry out anti-erosion and flood protection works, as suggested by the members of the state legislature and parliament in their respective area, before the outbreak of monsoon. As the state is still under lockdown phase, the CM held the meeting with ministers and officials of various departments through video conferencing and said that the scheme to heighten the embankments and fortify them with proper quality should be finished within the set deadline. “Small bridges and culverts, which serve as a passage to the floodwater, must be cleared to minimise the risk of washing away of roads,” the CM said. WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, who briefed the CM about the state of preparedness of different departments, said that majority of anti-erosion schemes have been completed and residual work would be done by the first week of June. “All embankments are being monitored for minimal damages during the cyclonic rains and unprecedented release of water in rivers from Nepal,” said the minister, adding that the flood protection work got slightly delayed owing to lockdown and spread of Corona pandemic. The CM also asked road construction department (RCD) minister Nitin Navin to ensure repair of all roads, bridges and culverts within the deadline, so that road communication remained smooth during the rains. Jha said that it was for the first time that the department was carrying out anti-erosion work and strengthening embankment following the suggestions from elected leaders cutting across the party lines. WRD Secretary Sanjeev Hans, while making presentations about the department’s activities, informed that opinions of MPs, MLAs and MLCs were sought during the division-level review meeting held between May 13 and 21. However, the opposition parties questioned the departments’ claim of having sought the views of elected leaders regarding the anti-erosion work and said that they were not consulted by any department in this regard. RJD leader and Maner MLA Bhai Birendra and MLC Ram Chandra Purbe categorically said that they were not consulted. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief and MLC Madan Mohan Jha and Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma also countered the government’s claim. Sharma said that the government’s scheme runs on paper only. “Officials might have misled the CM and ministers regarding the opposition parties’ consultation on flood preparations,” said Sharma. Deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, minor irrigation minister Santosh Kumar Suman, rural works minister Jayant Raj, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, development commissioner Amir Subhani, additional chief secretaries Amrit Lal Meena and Pratyay Amrit, principal secretary to CM Deepak Kumar, also joined the video conferencing from their respective places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-directs-officials-to-complete-all-flood-protection-works-by-june-15-101622390981466.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Mula-Mutha river anti-encroachment action only on paper: activists||Despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order and letters send by the Pune irrigation division since the past decade, the Mula-Mutha river anti-encroachment action is still on paper. On one side, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has claimed that there is regular action against encroachments, however, environment activists and the Pune irrigation division is not satisfied and demands a proper action plan rather than limited pre-monsoon activity. In 2019, Yadwadkar had filed a petition in the NGT and mentioned the 12 dumping spots in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The NGT had taken serious note of the issue and appointed a five-member committee with the MPCB as the nodal agency. NGT had also warned the municipal commissioners of PMC and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) that they should ensure that no further dumping of debris or any other waste, including the construction of waste, is disposed of in the river. However, the Pune irrigation division wrote letters to all agencies (PMC, PCMC and PMRDA) before monsoon and instructed to remove all encroachment which creates obstacles to the river flow and avoid flooding and agencies carried out minor actions. This exercise has been carried out since the last one decade. Anti-encroachment drive is only on paper Yadwadkar, said, “All agencies are carrying out cosmetic work on the issue of removal of encroachments along the river side and bed. There should be proper planning and a time bound program. In 2019, we had handed over 12 spot lists of encroachment in the riverside and bed. Most of the encroachments still exist like the Sangamwadi area, Shivane, Deccan Gymkhana area.” He further stated, “The state government had issued an order to carry out high resolution satellite images on a regular basis of corporation areas with the help of Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC), Nagpur and identify encroachments, remove it and stop it. But nothing substantial happened from any of the agencies.” Avinash Surve, former secretary of state water resource department and who was also former chief engineer of Pune irrigation division said, “Pune city had faced a flood situation in 2005. After that, we had started sending letters to PMC to remove encroachment from Mula-Mutha river. Every year, we send letters to agencies and remind them about encroachment. But, noting substantial has happened till date. It has become only a formality.” H V Gunale, chief engineer of water resource department, Pune division said, “Agencies are not responding to our letter. We provide the location of encroachments or dumping of debris. They removed encroachments partially. Lack of drainage system is also responsible for inundation. We have decided to conduct a meeting of the PMC, PMRDA, Metro and PCMC and instructed them to clear the carriageway and submit a report. At present, they don’t give any report to us. The cleaning exercise should be carried out regularly and throughout the year. It should not be limited or considered as only pre-monsoon work.” Suhas Divase, chief executive officer of PMRDA said, “Since last year, encroachment action was stopped due to a court order. Now, we will start removing encroachments from the river side. However, since the PMRDA is a planning authority and agencies such as civic bodies, gram panchyat should have to conduct a drive on a regular basis. Irrigation also has a duty to remove and track encroachment in the riverside and bed.” PMC starts work to remove encroachments Kunal Khemnar, PMC additional municipal commissioner said, “We have started removing debris from the riverside as well as garbage dumping. We have 10 JCBs to remove encroachments. The building permission department is also carrying out encroachment drives. We have also sent a letter to the Metro to remove debris from the river. We have started visiting encroachment spots along with the concerned ward officers along the riverside. We are also serving notices to private landowners along the riverside for dumping waste or debris in their premises.” “In most of the river sites, owners have dumped debris and level the areas and it has settled down now. Right now, we have decided to stop fresh dumping and after that, we will also remove old riverside dumping with the help of our machinery,” he added. ================================= BOX Total length of Mula, Mutha in PMC jurisdiction- 44 km. Mula River: Mumbai-Pune Bypass to Sangam Bridge (22.2 km). Mutha River: Mumbai-Pune Bypass to Mula-Mutha Sangam (10 km). Mula-Mutha River: Mula-Mutha Sangam to Kharadi (11.8 km). ======================================== Encroachments causes flood like Sangli and Kolhapur Sangli and Kolhapur districts in particular were the worst affected due to the floods and waterlogging in the first week of August 2019. State government set an expert committee which observed that encroachments and construction in the river basin were the key factors responsible for these floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulamutha-river-anti-encroachment-action-only-on-paper-activists-101622390921568.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Pune rural police arrest 13 for partying, granted bail||The Pune rural police arrested 13 people dancing in a party at a farmhouse in Kelwade village of Bhor in Pune on Sunday. The arrested men were identified as Sagar Ramesh Jadhav (32), Sunil Nivrutti Pathak (33), Vicky Vasant Shelar (22), Ganesh Vijay Kadam (33), Avinash SAnjay Sakharkar (24), Vishal Ganesh Pasalkar (38), and Sachin Lakshman Shinde (37), according to the police. The names of the women, however, were not revealed by the police. “It is a farmhouse and the owner had called for a party and people were dancing with really loud music. We are desisting from revealing the women’s names. The sections are bailable, so they were all granted bail,” said API Manojkumar Navsare of Rajgad police station. The police raided the place based on calls made by citizens living in the area. The case was registered after the people were found flouting multiple Covid-19 regulations implemented by the state government as well as the Pune district collector. A case in the matter is being registered at Rajgad police station under Sections 188, 269, 270, 144 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-arrest-13-for-partying-granted-bail-101622390861463.html
30-05-2021||Pune||PMC to remove at least 50 dangerous gantries||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has identified and decided to remove around 50 old and dangerous gantries across the city to avoid any calamity. Last year, the PMC sky and sign department conducted a survey of gantries across the city as an overhead gantry near Sancheti hospital collapsed due to the gusty wind and rain. However, there was no causality since there was no vehicular movement on that road when the incident took place due to lockdown. According to the PMC sky and sign department statistics, there are more than 2,000 traffic sign gantries, billboards and advertising hoardings in the city area. Of that, the civic body has found around 50 gantries which are as old as 10 to 15 years. Vijay Landge, deputy commissioner of PMC sky and sign department said, “During a survey, we found that there are 50 gantries old and weak in the structure. There are chances of collapse. Therefore, we have floated a tender to demolish such old gantries and remove them, collect material and store them in the PMC godown.” He further said, “We have already removed around 26 gantries and now we want to remove another 23 gantries.” One of the officials of the sky and sign department said, “Most of the dangerous and old gantries belong to the PMC and were raised during the Commonwealth Games in 2008 which are located on the main city roads such as Nagar road, Satara road, Paud road, Baner-Balewadi, Fergusson college road, Jangali Maharaj road, Shivaji road, old Mumbai-Pune road, Airport road.” In 2018, four people were killed and seven suffered injuries after a large hoarding frame collapsed in Managalwar peth area near the Pune railway station. The incident led to action against the contractor. According to the rules and regulations of the PMC before October 2018, the hoarding owners had to submit these audit reports once every two years. However, post the incident of the hoarding collapse near the Regional Transport Office (RTO) chowk last year, the decision to submit such reports every six months was made mandatory by the civic body. ------------------------------------------------------------- Name of ward office Number of hoardings and billboards Aundh 285 Bhavani peth- 24 Bibvewadi- 54 Dhankwadi- 35 Dhole patil- 304 Hadapsar- 87 Kondwa- 92 Kothrud- 111 Nagar road- 276 Sahakarnagar- 91 Shivajinagar- 356 Tilak road- 135 Visharambaugwada- 156 Warje- 74 Yerawada- 64||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-remove-at-least-50-dangerous-gantries-101622390741468.html
30-05-2021||Other||2,187 positive cases reported on Sunday with 26 deaths||PUNE Pune district, on Sunday, reported 2,187 fresh Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department.Pune district has reported 10,16,109 progressive cases, of which 9,64,169 have recovered. The death toll stands at 12,474 and 39,466 is the active number of cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 1,276 new cases taking the total to 2,88,358. With 18 deaths on Sunday, the rural death toll went up to 3,982.Pune city reported 526 new Covid-19 cases, which takes its total count to 4,84,313. Eight deaths were reported on Sunday, which puts the city death toll at 6,727. PCMC reported 385 new Covid-19 cases. With no deaths reported on Sunday, the PCMC toll stands at 1,704.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2187-positive-cases-reported-on-sunday-with-26-deaths-101622390742199.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Retired professor who filed petition for Class 10 exam gets death threats||In an attempt to stop him from raising his voice against the demand to conduct Class 10 exams, retired professor Dhananjay Kulkarni has received life threats through social media platforms. After the threats, Kulkarni lodged a police complaint at Kothrud police station, and police has lodged a non-cognisable complaint against two persons in this case. 61-year-old Kulkarni is a retired professor from SNDT College in Pune, he was also a senate member of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) for 10 years and is currently working as an education activist about various education related issues. Last month, the state government declared to cancel the Class 10 exams due to the increase in the number of Covid cases. After which a petition was filed at the Bombay High Court by professor Kulkarni challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision cancelling the Class 10 board exams this year due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. “I got a threat message from two persons through my Facebook account against the demand which we have raised to conduct Class 10 exams in the high court. They have said that if the exams are held and anything happens to children then I would be held responsible and have threatened me. Also, I am getting personal messages and calls through some students and parents threatening me to take back the petition,” said Kulkarni. On Friday, May 28 Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad held a press conference and announced that SSC results for this year will be declared on the basis of marks obtained by the students in their Class nine and 10 internal exams in the absence of physical board exams. “The decision taken by the state government about assessment of Class 10 students is confusing and on June 1 the state government is going to submit their affidavit in the court. Also, they are going to demand two weeks extension and we are going to oppose it as well as the new GR about the Class 10 exams assessment. Then as per the further orders given by the HC, we will follow up the case, but I think it will go in the Supreme Court and then some firm order will come over this issue,” added Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-professor-who-filed-petition-for-class-10-exam-gets-death-threats-101622390681300.html
30-05-2021||Other||PMC meeting on June 1 to ensure contact tracing reumes and is effective||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is gearing up to revive its contract tracing system. The process had gone bust due to various reasons, including unprofessional conduct of PMC staffers and also non co-operation of citizens in giving correct names, addresses and phone numbers.“The health department has come to know that names, incomplete and wrong addresses and a lack of noting down of the nearest relatives’ contact numbers by staffers had emerged to be major impediments to the contact tracing.It was becoming difficult to track down Covid-19 patients and trace contacts. A meeting of private labs, policy makers and private hospitals has been organised on June 1 to chalk out a detailed strategy,” said Dr Kalpana Baliwant, assistant head of the PMC health department.“We have been taking series measures aimed at streamlining our work and making contact tracing effective for prevention of spread of Covid-19. A number of changes are being make to tackle the third wave,” Dr Baliwant added. “Contact tracing is a tool for slowing down the transmission of infectious. By tracing the interactions the civic body can quickly identify infected persons in case of an outbreak in the workplace. With the right information on hand, one can take the necessary preventive measures, like asking infected persons to self-isolate and not come to work. This meeting will ensure all shortcomings are addressed,” said Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol.The PMC has deployed 300 teams to contact trace. At least 21 teams are on the ground in every ward. The PMC has stated that many cases with mild symptoms have been found during the contact tracing exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-meeting-on-june-1-to-ensure-contact-tracing-reumes-and-is-effective-101622387320931.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana allows people with property on rent over 20 yrs from civic bodies to become owners||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that people, who have shops or houses on lease or rent from the municipalities for over 20 years, can become owners of the property by paying a price below the collector rate.He also said that for this, a scheme, which will be applicable for urban areas, will be notified on Monday.Collector or circle rate is the minimum designated price for land or property fixed for a locality, at which transactions have to be registered."We have formulated a scheme under which those who are in possession of such properties, be it houses or shops, for more than 20 years, all such will be given ownership rights," Khattar said while addressing a virtual news conference."Once the eligible people apply, they will be given relaxation in collector rate—if they are in possession of the property for more than 50 years, they will get a rebate of 50 per cent on collector rate," he said.Likewise, if it is under possession for 40 years, the rebate will be 40 per cent, 30 per cent in case of 30 years, and 20 per cent for 20 years, which is the minimum period required to avail the scheme, Khattar said.However, the upper ceiling for rebate on collector rate is 50 per cent, he said.The person should have completed 20 years of being in possession of the property as of December 31, 2020 to avail the scheme, according to a policy.The chief minister said after applying under the scheme, the applicant will have to deposit 25 per cent of the collector rate charge within 15 days and the remaining 75 per cent in the next 45 days."Once full payment is made and subject to fulfilment of all laid down conditions, the ownership of the property, which is the house/shop, will be transferred in their name," Khattar said.He said if a municipality has leased or rented any house or shop to one or more persons, then the amount will have to be paid as per the fixed floor-wise formula under the scheme.While announcing another scheme, he said in cities, there are small chunks of land belonging to civic bodies, which have been unused or their way has been blocked by an adjacent piece of plot belonging to a private person.The chief minister said that "a provision has been made where municipalities can now sell such unused land to either the adjoining plot holders or to anyone else who is willing to buy such land".This will also reduce the possibility of illegal encroachment of such property, Khattar said.The money earned by the municpalities against sale of such land will kept in a separate account for the purpose of asset creation, he said.The chief minister said that the state government has restructured and redesignated the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) as Micro Irrigation and Command Area Development Authority (MICADA).This has been done to promote micro-irrigation and for effective implementation of the works pertaining to canals, he said.The main objective of MICADA is to ensure maximum use of available water in irrigation and an amount of ₹3,700 crore will be spent on pavement of canals, Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-introduces-new-ownership-rights-for-civic-body-leased-properties-101622385626966.html
30-05-2021||Jaipur||Churu hottest place in Rajasthan at 45.6 degree Celsius||Churu was recorded as the hottest place in Rajasthan with a maximum of 45.6 degree Celsius on Sunday.Bikaner and Phalodi recorded 45.4 degree Celsius while the maximum temperature in Ganganagar, Sawaimadhopur, Pilani, Kota recorded 45, 43.7, 43.1 and 42.2 degrees, respectively, according to the Meteorological (MeT) Department here.Meanwhile, Ganganagar and Churu received 5.2 mm and 1.6 mm rains till evening.The department has forecast thunderstorm and dust storm in north western parts of the state over the next four-five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/churu-hottest-place-in-rajasthan-at-45-6-degree-celsius-101622385661500.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 2 months||Maharashtra’s daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fell to 18,600 on Sunday, taking the state’s infection tally to 5,731,815, a health department bulletin showed. Also on the day, 402 people succumbed to the viral disease, taking Maharashtra’s related death toll to 94,844, the bulletin showed further.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesThis is for the first time in more than two months when Maharashtra has added less than 20,000 fresh Covid-19 infections in a single-day. On March 16, the western state saw 17,864 new cases. This also for the eleventh straight day when there were less than 30,000 fresh cases; on May 19, Maharashtra logged 34,031 cases as well as 594 related deaths.According to Sunday’s data, the latest positive cases were out of 252,623 samples tested for the disease, down from 258,799 tests on May 29. The latest test positivity rate stood at 7.36%, the lowest since February 22, when a positivity rate of 7.12% was recorded. Total 34,861,608 tests have been conducted in Maharashtra till now, as per the data.Also, 22,532 more people recovered from Covid-19 on Sunday, as against 31,964 on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,362,370, with the recovery rate reaching 93.55%.These latest numbers come on a day chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the people on the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, extending lockdown-like norms by 15 days. The norms were first announced in mid-April to break the chain of transmission, and were, on May 13, extended till June 1, two days before these were scheduled to end. On May 27, state health minister Rajesh Tope hinted at an extension of the norms, at least in places with a high positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-18-600-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-2-months-101622384927870.html
30-05-2021||Other||Living by the rules, PCMC slum with population of 6K Covid free in second wave||PUNE Following the strict Covid norms laid down by the authorities, anecdotal evidence suggests that the Rajiv Gandhi slum in Pimple Gurav has had no Covid-19 cases since March. In the first Covid wave in 2020, the slum had 300 confirmed cases. While the district authorities are yet to sift through the numbers to confirm this, corporators from the area and social workers believe the slum has been Covid-free in the second wave.Ambarnath Kamble, corporator, from ward 31, Pimple Gurav, the area under which the slum exists, said, “There are zero cases in the Rajiv Gandhi slum.”Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) said, “The cases in slum areas reported have been fewer than the first wave, but we are yet to compare the data.”Dr Viajya Ambedkar, medical health officer, PCMC, said, “The cases in Pimple Gurav have been lower, but we are yet to segregate the data area wise.”The slum has a population of 6,000, and residents decided not to break the rules and only ventured out in an emergency.“The people responded to all the rules and regulations. No major steps were taken, but we made sure those going out sanitised themselves completely before entering their homes,” said corporator Kamble.As per data provided by the PCMC’s Covid-19 war room, active cases in the ‘D’ zone currently stand at 669. This includes Punawale, Pimple Gurav, Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Nilakh, Tathawade and Wakad . “Overall, if you look at Pimple Gurav, the cases were fewer as compared to the first wave,” said Kamble.Ashok Dendhe, a resident of Shankar Apartment in the Rajiv Gandhi slum, said, “All essential shops in the area are very prompt about timings and make people maintain a social distance while standing in queue. The mask rule was followed, even by children.”“Public toilets were sanitised twice a day, along with garbage collection on a daily basis. Our focus was to keep the surroundings garbage free and for all residents to maintain respiratory hygiene,” said Uddhav Dawri, health inspector.Social activist Ashwin Khude said, “Lots of awareness campaigns were conducted in the locality during March, which got a positive response. People still maintain Covid rules while coming out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/living-by-the-rules-pcmc-slum-with-population-of-6k-covid-free-in-second-wave-101622384740688.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||In vaccine outreach, Nuh finds a community radio to drive message home||Gurugram Faced with increasing resistance from villagers to its Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Nuh district administration has turned to a community radio programme -- Alfaz-e-Mewat -- to fight the myths and drive their message home. The radio, which reaches 225 villages regularly, relays information about vaccinations from the district administration, chief medical officer and other influencers. Officials claim the initiative, which started 15 days ago, has helped increase the number of villagers reaching the vaccination centres in the district. Officials said that the villagers were reluctant to take the vaccine due to several rumours that it is poisonous and may lead to impotency. “When health workers visited some villages to appeal to the locals to take the vaccine, the villagers emerged with sticks, threatening to attack them. Some even assaulted them and pushed them out of the village, alleging that the vaccine is poisonous,” said a senior official on the condition of anonymity. Only 75,225 people of the 14 lakh population of Nuh have been vaccinated till now, said officials on Friday.Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata admitted that they have been facing stiff resistance from a few villages in the districts. “Many villagers had stopped coming out of their houses and had locked themselves inside after health workers insisted that they take the jabs,” he said. Khadgata said to tackle the reluctance, the administration roped in influencers, political leaders and village sarpanchs to spread awareness. “Our idea was to reach out to maximum villagers and to bust the myths so that more and more people get vaccinated. Radio broadcasting has helped us in a big way and the numbers are increasing. This initiative will play a pro-active role in creating awareness about the pandemic and why vaccination is important,” he said. An official said that in 224 villages, which had seen zero vaccinations till at least two weeks ago, at least 50 people each had turned up for the jabs after the radio outreach commenced.In addition to vaccine awareness, Alfaz-e-Mewat is also keeping its listeners informed about the total number of Covid cases, how the pandemic is shaping, and also local events in the district related to vaccination and testing. Pooja O Murada, principal lead, Alfaz-e-Mewat, said that they have a team of three regular staff and seven broadcasting programmers, in addition to local advisers. “We have faced a challenge in terms of vaccination drives and awareness programmes as people have different myths and were not ready to listen. We started connecting to more and more people and found ‘village heroes’, who introduced themselves on the show and narrated the story of how they were misled and what their experience of vaccination was,” she said. Murada said they invited over a dozen doctors who talked about the myths surrounding the vaccinations. Sanjay Singla, sarpanch of Pinangwan, said that of the nearly 20,000 population in his village, 4,000 have been vaccinated. “The radio has helped us in spreading awareness and motivating people to get vaccinated. It has also helped bust several myths... There are nearly 9,000 people above 45 years and 50% have been covered. The drive is in process and now villagers are coming up to get vaccinated and approaching me. Earlier they had refused and did not even open the doors for us and health workers,” he said, adding that they were against him for joining the drive with administration. Rajender Kumar, sarpanch of Rehpua village, said they had launched regular awareness campaigns with the assistance of district administration to motivate the villagers to take the jabs. “Now the villagers are still listening and getting vaccinated but earlier they used to threaten people and take out weapons if anyone forced them,” he said. Khadgata said the villagers should not believe in misleading information about the vaccine. “We are announcing through loudspeakers that the vaccine is safe and has no side-effects. The vaccine will protect them from coronavirus infection. Also, we are announcing that villagers should follow the Covid protocol even after getting vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/in-vaccine-outreach-nuh-finds-a-community-radio-to-drive-message-home-101622383662050.html
30-05-2021||Other||World No-Tobacco Day: Study infers those directly exposed to tobacco at higher risk of Covid-19 complications||PUNE A Pune-based medical firm, to mark World No-Tobacco Day on May 31, has released results of a sample study of males and females directly exposed to tobacco, either through active use or through passive smoking. Based on its study, Indus Health Plus, infers that persons with tobacco exposure are more likely to suffer Covid19 complications.The study was conducted between April 2018 and January 2021. Of the 29,548 people tested in Maharashtra, 4,124 are from Pune. Across the state, 38% of males and 42% females studied displayed lung abnormalities, while in Pune, 48% of males and 53% of females showed abnormalities. The report suggests that the increase in the female population is due to a trend of smoking or consumption of tobacco amongst women. Besides that, exposure to passive smoking is also a significant reason.Amol Naikawadi, joint managing director, Indus Health Plus, said, “Smoking along with pre-existing lung ailments can exacerbate the conditions significantly. Moreover, in the current Covid-19 scenario, the situation becomes critical as it can have an adverse outcome, especially in terms of the time taken to recover from the disease. When we say passive smokers, all of us constitute that group, however, our study found that those who are directly exposed to smokers either at home or in offices for a prolonged period are more likely to show such abnormalities.” He added, “Consumption of tobacco in any form increases the risk of developing severe Covid-19 outcomes. In addition, it also increases the risk of diseases like COPD, brain stroke, heart attack, asthma, lung cancer, interstitial lung disease (respiratory disease), and diabetes. The younger generation consumes smoke and smokeless tobacco due to peer pressure, to make a style statement and due to stress. A strong will power, medical counselling and oral medication help overcome smoking.”“People consuming tobacco or smoking have a higher risk of being infected with the virus through the mouth. If smokers contract Covid-19, they face a greater risk of a severe infection as their lung health is already compromised. Apart from that, the psychological and economic effects of smoking are also very adverse. Therefore, quitting tobacco consumption in any form will reduce the risk of various ailments and will lead to wellness and a healthy lifestyle,” said Naikawadi.The World Health Organisation (WHO), based on multiple studies, concluded that available evidence suggests that smoking is associated with an increased severity of disease and death in hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Although related to severity, there is no evidence to quantify the risk to smokers of hospitalisation with Covid-19, or of infection by Sars-CoV-2, as per peer-reviewed literature. Indus Health Plus provides preventive healthcare services and is headquartered in Pune. Indus has also partnered with hospitals and diagnostic labs in 78 Indian cities, across more than 122 centres. The company was set up in 2000 and is ISO certified. It mainly deals with diseases caused by environmental changes and sedentary lifestyles, which have resulted in a rising number of non-communicable diseases, affecting all age groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-no-tobacco-day-study-infers-those-directly-exposed-to-tobacco-at-higher-risk-of-covid-19-complications-101622383600660.html
30-05-2021||Lucknow||UP records 95% drop in Covid-19 cases in a month, state govt credits 'Yogi model'||Uttar Pradesh recorded 1,908 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a span of 24 hours, according to the state government on Sunday. This is the first time in the last two months that the state's daily caseload fell below two thousand, the release from the state government said, adding that daily cases have registered a decline of 95 per cent from its peak.It also said that the number of active cases in the state has dropped by 87 per cent from its peak of 3,10,783 on April 30 and currently stands at 41,214.Calling it "remarkable", the Uttar Pradesh government said this signals control over the deadly virus.The state government's release also compared the state's positivity rate with other badly-hit states like Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu during similar time period. It said that while other states failed to control their positivity rate, Uttar Pradesh brought its test positivity rate to 0.5% with the help of the ‘Yogi Model’. “Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra with high number of fresh cases have miserably failed to show any reduction in their positivity rate that stands at 19%, 16.4% and 16.51%, respectively,” the government release said.“The ‘Yogi Model’ of Test-Trace-Treat (T3) testifying its success in curbing the spread of coronavirus resulted in the fall of the positivity rate of Uttar Pradesh to 0.5 per cent, the lowest so far. The positivity rate has been maintained below 1 percent for five straight days now," it further added.The government claimed that due to alertness of government officials coupled with bold decisions and swift measures taken by them, Uttar Pradesh saw its recovery rate shoot up to 96.4%, with more than 6,000 recoveries in the last 24 hours. It also said that due to the implementation of the T3 regime the administration was able to contain the spread of Covid-19. Uttar Pradesh tested 340,096 people on Saturday out of which at least 140,000 of those were RT-PCR tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-95-drop-in-covid-19-cases-in-month-state-govt-credits-yogi-model-101622377275457.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 946 fresh Covid-19 cases; active case tally drops to 12,100||Delhi recorded 946 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, which took the national capital's tally to 1.42 million, the health bulletin from state government showed on Sunday. The positivity rate fell to 1.25% as the government conducted 75,440 tests out of which 53,259 tests were RT-PCR tests, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate was 1.19% on Saturday and 1.59% on Friday.Delhi lockdown extended till June 7. Here’s what’s allowed and what’s notThe national capital recorded 78 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 24,151, according to the bulletin.Delhi reported a slight dip in the number of new cases compared to the number of new cases reported on Saturday. The dip comes amid a drop in the number of Covid-19 tests. Delhi had tested 80,473 people between May 28 and May 29 but conducted 5,033 fewer tests between May 29 and May 30.Delhi records 956 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, lowest in over 2 monthsThis is the second time the daily cases count has fallen below 1,000-mark since March 22 as the national capital recorded 956 fresh cases on Saturday. Delhi recorded 888 fresh cases and 823 fresh cases on March 22 and March 21 respectively.The case fatality rate in Delhi stood at 1.69%. It also recorded 1,803 fresh recoveries which took the tally of recovered people to 1.38 million. The city’s share of active cases also fell by 935 as active cases on Sunday stood at 12,100. Delhi reported 13,035 active cases on Saturday.Delhi vaccinated 53,918 people in the last 24 hours out of which 38,784 people received their first dose while 15,134 people received their second dose taking the tally of vaccinated people to 5.34 million. At least 4.14 million beneficiaries in the national capital received the first dose and 1.20 million people have been fully vaccinated.In a bid to break the chain of transmission, the Delhi government on Saturday extended the lockdown-like measures in the national capital till June 7 as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned citizens against letting their guard down and stated that the battle against the pandemic is not yet over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-946-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-case-tally-drops-to-12100-101622377872353.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor finds Covid-19 vaccines stored in normal fridge at hotel in Andheri||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday conducted an inspection at a hotel in suburban Andheri and found several COVID-19 vaccines stored there in a normal fridge, in violation of the laid down norms.The Covaxin doses found stored there have been sealed and an inquiry has been ordered, she said.The mayor conducted the inspection at The Lalit Hotel in Andheri East, during which some Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials accompanied her.Talking to reporters later, Pednekar said there is a tie-up between the hotel andCriticare Hospital, a local private hospital.The hospital had procured the COVID-19 vaccine doses from the central government, which the civic and the state authorities were not aware of, she said."The Lalit Hotel had received a proposal from the hospital that people can be vaccinated there (at the hotel). As per the proposal, those people, who do not have a family to look after following the vaccination, can stay in the hotel after inoculation...Here 500 people have been vaccinated," the mayor said.The hotel is not to be blamed, but the hospital has not adhered to the norms concerning the cold storage of vaccines, she said."How did they get Covaxin doses when many BMC centres don't have them? I found doses, which were stored in a normal fridge. This can result in side-effects to those vaccinated. The recovered vaccines have been sealed and an inquiry will be carried out," Pedkenar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-finds-covid-19-vaccines-stored-in-normal-fridge-at-hotel-in-andheri-101622377144257.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Amid Covid crisis in cities, air ambulances put far-flung hospitals within reach for many||New Delhi/Mumbai: As a Beechcraft Super King Air B-200 air ambulance touched down in Sahnewal, 7.5 miles southeast of Ludhiana, after a 50-minute flight from Delhi, paramedics hurriedly shifted a Covid patient out of the plane to an ambulance and rushed him to a hospital where his family members reserved a bed for him. With the oxygen saturation of the patient dropping precariously, and no beds available in any Delhi-NCR hospital, the family started exploring options in cities in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. As soon as they managed a bed with oxygen support in Ludhiana, they booked an air ambulance and took the patient there. The fourth Covid wave completely overwhelmed the healthcare system in the national capital with hospitals first running out of beds and then oxygen supply. For a couple of weeks there were no beds available in any hospital, especially in the ICUs. With health care resources stretched to their limits, desperate families did whatever they could to arrange hospital care for their relatives. According to Lakshay Rescue air ambulance services based in New Delhi, when the cases of infection surged many folds recently, at least 70% of the flights they operated were between Delhi and cities such as Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar, Lucknow and Varanasi. “We operated almost one flight every day. The situation was so bad that we even had patients who consumed 5-6 oxygen cylinders in an hour-long flight. Usually, we travel only with one or two oxygen cylinders. Because of the shortage, we had customers wanting to take their patients to tier-2 and tier-3 cities, mainly in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh as they are closer to Delhi. People were ready to take their patients wherever they could arrange an oxygen bed or ventilator,” said Birendra Kumar Mishra, marketing head at Lakshay Rescue. Shaju Kumar, the chief executive officer of air ambulance service AEROMED International Rescue Services Ltd, said when Delhi was reeling under severe oxygen shortage and hospitals were running full, his company operated many fights to cities that would not be people’s first choice when it comes to availing medical facilities. Such a trend was, however, not only limited to Delhi. Accretion Aviation that is based out of Mumbai and Indore witnessed a similar trend. Rahul Mucchal, owner of the firm, said due to the extreme stress on the medical infrastructure and non-availability of hospital beds in metro cities, many families shifted their Covid patients to smaller or less developed cities, wherever they managed to book a bed or medical care, as required. “We transported patients from bigger cities to cities like Indore and Ranchi. Some of these are migrants while others have friends or family members running hospitals in these tier 2 and tier 3 cities. The booking volume too, this year, has been unprecedented,” he said. DEMAND At the time, Mucchal’s Accretion Aviation was completely booked and was committing to bookings only 24 to 28 hours ahead of the departure. “We get 30-35 enquiries per day, sometimes even 50. Of these, only four to five are converted to bookings. The demand is ever increasing April onwards. We operate Covid air ambulances which are bed to bed; implying that we provide an ICCU ambulance to the airport, then isolation pods in the aircraft, along with medical teams and ICCU equipment on board and then ground ambulance at the destination,” he said.AEROMED’s Shaju Kumar said his firm had witnessed a 100% hike in demand. “When there was severe oxygen crisis in Delhi and other places, we were flying three flights a day. Usually we used to fly one flight every day. This is a three-fold rise. All are Covid patients and we have three pods available. Covid patients are only kept in pods which helps us contain the spread when there are others (staff and paramedics) travelling along in the same plane,” he said. At the same time, Lakhsya Rescue also had a tough time dealing with the steep surge in the number of enquiries and calls per day. “From 25 to 30 calls, our daily enquiries had gone up to roughly about 100-120 queries a day. People, most commonly, ask about the charges, facilities included, availability of flights and most importantly safety and precautions taken onboard,” the firm said. However, on the contrary, in the current situation, it has also been observed that bookings of air ambulances for non-Covid patients have drastically fallen. According to Amit Kumar, the founder of Flaps Aviation that runs Book Air Ambulance fleet of aircraft, they receive about 50 enquiries for air lifting only Covid patients daily, whereas the calls for air lifting non-Covid patients have gone down. “The overall demand for air ambulances even in tier II and III cities has gone up for Covid patients, as the relatives of the patients want to shift them to hospitals in other cities for better treatment and as per the bed availability,” he said. COST With increased demand, the cost of hiring air ambulances has also gone up. Operators said factors that have led to a rise in cost are expensive charges of medical team that takes the risk of travelling along a Covid patient, arrangements of pods – in which a Covid patient is kept to contain the spread of the virus and availability – as service providers often pay extra to arrange for an aircraft at a shot notice. Prices also vary depending upon what kind of aircraft is being used, how much crew is needed onboard and how many family members will travel along. According to Accretion Aviation, for a Goa to Mumbai flight, a patient might need to shell out as much as Rs. 1.8 lakh for a twin engine turboprop C 90, whereas a flight from Delhi to Chhattisgarh will cost around ₹8.5 lakh on a Pilatus PC-12 aircraft. Similarly, charges from Indore to Delhi will be aroun dRs 10-12 lakh and between Indore and Mumbai, may go up to Rs. 13.5 lakh for a Super King Air B-200 plane. The isolation pods, which are mandatory to carry Covid patients, also affect the pricing. Shaju Kumar of AEROMED, which has three isolation pods available, said the cost of renting a pod has gone up due to a major spike in demand. “While an air ambulance between Delhi and Mumbai would cost around ₹9 lakh earlier, it is now ₹14-15 lakh. Isolation pods which used to cost ₹50,000 earlier, will cost upwards of ₹1.5 lakh,” he said. AVAILABILITY Even as families may be willing to pay the sky-high rentals, the availability of air ambulances is another challenge amid the rise in demand. Among the reasons cited for shortage include mandatory protocols that need to be followed while ferrying a Covid patient. Besides, industry veterans also point out rostering of crew to be one of the challenges, as they are bound to undergo mandatory quarantine after flying an infected passenger. According to veterans, the country has around a dozen air ambulance operators. “India has 12 to 15 air ambulance operators, and it is important to note that not all air ambulance operators are flying Covid patients due to logistical issues,” said a member of Business Aircraft Operators Association (BAOA). Highlighting the difficulties, he added, “Strict protocols are to be followed while flying a Covid infected person. Currently, the demand is much more. An aircraft needs to be thoroughly sanitised every time after a Covid patient is flown, not allowing more than five operations per day. Moreover, the shortage of isolation pods that is mandatory for carrying Covid patients is also a major drawback.” Accretion Aviation’s Rahul Mucchal said apart from the aircraft, many a times, ground ambulances aren’t available. “Because of the shortage, we try to accommodate the most critical first. We have now started to tie up with various ground ambulance providers, which we use for distances up to 400-500 km to increase our service and ensure availability,” he said. AEROMED also said that the availability is an issue even now. “It depends on aircraft providers. We only provide for medical services and equipment. Whoever needs to book an air ambulance needs to make booking in advance as planes are not available at short notice. Once the booking is made, we arrange for everything and this may take up to a day or two,” said Shaju Kumar, the CEO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-covid-crisis-in-cities-air-ambulances-put-far-flung-hospitals-within-reach-for-many-101622376459956.html
30-05-2021||Jaipur||Bikaner’s oxygen mitra model gets PM Narendra Modi’s praise||Bikaner’s innovative ideas to save oxygen, crucial for treatment of severe Covid-19 cases, and bring delivery of non-Covid healthcare to people’s doorsteps through mobile OPDs (outpatient department) have won praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with the efforts of 12 other district magistrates (DMs) from across the country, according to senior Central government official.In a letter seen by HT, Union secretary health and family welfare, Rajesh Bhushan, has advised all health secretaries of states and Union Territories (UTs) and DMs to include such 14 innovations and best practices suggested by their colleagues in the respective Covid-19 management strategies.Five district collectors in Rajasthan were chosen for the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 18 and 20 to discuss Covid management and share best practices.It was here that Bikaner DC Namit Mehta briefed the PM about his initiative to run 6 mobile OPDs at the block level to provide non-Covid essential treatment. Mehta said also introduced one mobile dental OPD in the district.He also elaborated how a newly-introduced protocol has helped the district save huge amounts of medical oxygen everyday at a time when its shortage was resulting in deaths and panic around the country.“The administration has put in place a combination of best practices, spanning from correct identification of oxygen requirement in patients, monitoring the use of oxygen based on actual need, plugging leakages and irregularities in supply and forecasting the demand,” said the Bikaner collector.He added that 200 Oxygen Mitras were deputed to monitor oxygen usage in wards of Covid care facilities, resulting in saving of over 200 oxygen cylinders out of 18,000 cylinders used daily. Mehta said the practice had reduced the usage of oxygen helping save 6,000 cylinders in a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bikaners-oxygen-mitra-model-gets-pm-narendra-modi-s-praise-101622375922842.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A beacon in the bleakness||Patram Sharma lays no claim to a cultivated interest in bird watching. All he knew were pahari names of common birds and snatches of conversation the affable general-store owner overheard while serving tea and snacks to photographers from the tricity touring the birding hotspot of Chakki Modh in the Solan hills. But beneath Patram’s mofussil modesty, an infectious toothy grin and a balding visage lay a heart of gold. Two birds had died while pecking and banging their heads at the reflective glass windows Patram recently installed in his residential quarters constructed above the store. The razzle-dazzle of the glass was quite a novelty in Patram’s modest neighbourhood. As horrified birders watched, an Indian Golden oriole would go hammer and tongs at the windows, hell-bent on ending up in a sad, crumpled sheaf of feathers in the drain below. A concerned birder, Jatinder Vijh of Chandigarh, was having his customary tea at Patram’s last month. Vijh gently suggested to Patram that he should somehow discard the vanity of his flashy windows and save the suicidal oriole. “Birds peck at windows ferociously mistaking their reflection for a rival bird’s presence in the area during breeding season. Covid curfews kicked in and I could not visit his shop for a month. I got a Covid e-pass and reached his shop last week. Patram had nailed curtains from the outside and covered the windows. The oriole had stopped pecking at the windows, had calmed down and was at a nearby nest. Patram developed an interest in birds and photographed the Indian paradise flycatcher and Asian barred owlet with his cellphone during the April-May lockdown. Birds have begun to excite his curiosity, he engages us passionately and is eager to learn their English names,” an elated Vijh told this writer. It was by no means an easy decision, a ‘charity of convenience’ for Patram to veil his windows from the outside and disfigure the architectural aesthetics. The windows were installed to lend privacy to his family as the reflective surfaces were limited to a one-way view. “My new residential quarters are on the main road, so privacy is an issue. The builder recommended the windows and they cost ₹12,000 for six sheets. But birds started dying and Vijh planted the seed of understanding and compassion in me. I was troubled and cast my thoughts into the future: here I was building a house and if deaths (of birds) occur at the start, it would not be a good omen for my family,” Patram told this writer. Patram’s benevolence for birds can partially be traced to sub-conscious influences exerted by traditional pahari cultures. He vaguely remembers the grannies putting out grains and water for small birds that expressed an accommodation of creatures in human lives. Shopkeepers around him still allow barn and wire-tailed swallows unfettered access to their buildings as they feel a nest serves as a good omen. Grateful swallows construct pot-shaped nests of scraped mud clinging to ceiling corners in shops, where their chicks remain relatively safer. However, environment-friendly structures and cultures of the Himalayas are unravelling at the seams due to allurements such as cement, air-tight buildings and reflective glass. Canny builders hard sell such glitzy, ultra-modern lifestyle choices to the simple, hardy folk. Millions of birds die globally by crashing into windows, especially in glittering cities protruding into the skies like sore thumbs. Various measures (via a Google search) can be adopted by householders —at some sacrifice to their comfort, purse and lifestyle dazzle — to remedy gardens and windows to more bird-friendly modes. The simple, benevolent soul of Patram shines in the hills above us like a beacon of inspiration. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-a-beacon-in-the-bleakness-101622373462474.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Conquering Covid in rural areas||As the coronavirus continues its ravenous march, the infection has started rapidly spreading in rural areas as well. This is a worrisome development as 70% of India’s population of 1.36 billion, lives in 6,64,369 villages, where medical facilities are scarce. The fight against Covid in villages has to be fought on a war-footing since the rural health infrastructure is weak and collecting information is problematic. India has around 23,390 primary health centres (PHCs) and 1,45,894 sub-centres. The disease will be harder to manage in villages as compared to cities. While combating the virus in the villages, the health departments should involve the headman and local panchayats, the five-man committee that administers the village. Villagers have to be briefed sensitively about the dangers of Covid and how to manage it. The panchayat should maintain records of infections and recoveries in the village. Since data collection is weak in the villages, it is possible that we may not know the extent of the problem in the rural areas in time. Doctors will not be easily available in villages even on phones. Thus, the panchayats will have to liaise closely between the villagers and health departments. Local governing bodies should form an auxiliary volunteer force ‘Covid Warriors’, comprising youngsters who will brief people of the precautions to be taken. Medical students from the state should lead this exercise. Social distancing should be practised in weekly markets, which attract hundreds of villagers. Opinion leaders Opinion leaders in villages — school teachers, priests, and doctors — should be roped in to raise awareness. These opinion leaders have credibility and thus should take the responsibility of educating villagers. This awareness is vital for many afflicted persons may not even know they have Covid. They may mistake it for an ordinary cold. The key message should be that the disease is curable and patients should report any symptoms at the earliest. The facilities in the primary health centres in the villages need to be augmented to conduct Covid tests. It will be a challenge to get vaccines, oxygen, oximeters and drugs such as Remdesivir in adequate quantities to primary health centres in the villages due to the current shortages. Nevertheless, district authorities need to establish robust supply chains at the earliest. Doctors and scientists have underscored the importance of face masks in the fight against Covid. Yet, many villagers do not use masks. Some just wear it around the chin. Many people find it inconvenient to wear a mask, because it reduces the oxygen intake. Research is needed to improve the mask, so that it protects and also ensures adequate oxygen. Free distribution of masks by the governments can also help fight Covid. The corporate sector can also produce masks and distribute them free of cost in villages, as part of their corporate social responsibility initiatives. They can print the names of some of their brands on the masks for advertising mileage. One out of every three 4G subscribers lives in villages in India, as per a study by CyberMedia Research. With the use of smart phones and internet leapfrogging in villages, advertising agencies should prepare special Covid rural campaigns for mobile phones. Mobile phones, television and radio can be aggressively deployed by state governments to guide villagers on fighting Covid. Vaccine distribution A major challenge being faced by the authorities is the transportation of vaccines to the 2,36,004 small villages, with a population of 500 or less. It will be an enormous undertaking, to transport the vaccine to tiny villages. Governments should network with companies such as Nestle, Unilever and Colgate to distribute the vaccine. These companies have distribution reach even in villages with a population of 1,500 or less through their vans. Companies engaged in products such as frozen foods and ice-creams can assist in logistics of vaccine distribution in villages. Health departments can deploy vans with freezers to transport the vaccines to villages. It will also be useful to create songs, based on the local folk music, incorporating fight Covid messages. The song can be played during mask distribution and demonstrations on social distancing. There is an urgent need to augment health facilities in primary health centres in terms of beds, health facilities and oxygen. The battle against Covid in villages should commence right now. We should not be caught unawares.(The writer is a Mumbai-based management consultant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-conquering-covid-in-rural-areas-101622373280092.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Pigeon pair or two of a kind?||Change is the only constant. As I transition from the hustle-bustle of my residency in Bangalore to life as a consultant in a government hospital , I see change everywhere. A self-confessed Chandigarh aficionado, a particular pattern ticks me and compels me to write this piece. Recently while on call, I was told that an emergency caesarean section had to be performed and the mother had been diagnosed with postpartum haemorrhage (complication of a placenta position). Being a paediatrician, I reach the scene, that is, the operation theatre, early to take history and ensure safe delivery of the newborn . The mother was a 28-year-old Kharar resident with two healthy daughters and no other complications. Our team, comprising an anaesthetist, a gynecologist and nurses, stabilise the evidently nervous patient. As the baby let out its first cries (the best moment for any paediatrician), the mother even more panic-stricken, kept asking the gender. Her disappointment was palpable when she saw the baby. Even semi-conscious, she kept mumbling that the baby needed to be a boy.Confused, I kept thinking of the incident throughout my rounds. Later, I checked on the baby and ended up asking the inevitable: Why do you not want a girl child? I hear about the pressure she is under to provide her husband with a male heir. Saddened, I finish and head home thinking where are we wrong as a society? A lady gave birth to a healthy female child, in a OT full of female staff still feels vulnerable to these pressures? Born in a home where my mother, an only child, had two daughters, and my elder sister also has two beautiful girls, I do not understand where this school of thought stems from. My mom, the driving force behind us, tells us that we are her entire world and that if there is a place for us with no entry or exit time, it is hers. Is a family not complete with two daughters ? We are the sugar and the salt of our family. My sister is known for her sound advice and literary skills and I for a solid vote, sharing a laugh and lightening the mood. The four of us neatly fit into each other’s lives. Is this the norm in business families? It does not resonate, seeing as my nieces are the darlings of the family and my mother-in-law longs for a daughter. I sit down as a doctor, daughter, granddaughter, wife and daughter-in-law to understand why investment in ‘my clan’ is ‘zero investment’? Why right to breathe, celebrate and educate is a tribulation . Everything today is as an asset or liability but education, values and love to your girl is a long-term investment with 100% return. Equal division of tasks between children, irrespective of gender, in the south is responsible for their high sex ratios. With Punjab’s ratio being 895: 1,000 we are far behind states like Kerala. Blame the government ? Negative stereotypes surrounding the girl child make people do cruel things but organisations such as Nanhi Chhaanprovide basic education, healthcare and livelihood opportunities . With schemes like Mai Bhago for education and Bebe Nanki Ladli to curb female foeticide. Where are we failing? My father says, “No one can love you in this world as much as daughters.” They are a ray of hope and sparkle of sunshine. From miles away, they can tell your mood is off by the way you sound. Carrying your legacy forward, your values to another household, they will make someone’s house a home, while still making yours their home for life. So why stop them? Let them live, give them wings, and allow them footprints in the map of the world. Educate them instead of investing in dowry. Yet to start a family, I do not know whether we will have a pigeon pair or two of a kind, but we will value and cherish the healthy baby not the gender. bubbutir@yahoo.com( The writer is senior resident at civil hospital in Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-pigeon-pair-or-two-of-a-kind-101622372920011.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Lend an ear to Nature’s symphony||Unwrapping a rustic envelop addressed to me, I came upon a white cardboard, nestled within which lay a white-jacketed book: bright as the daylight. The cover was embossed with a green rectangular image of a leaf glistening with beads of dew, like a necklace of peals, adding serenity and grace to the book. The book, Patte, Patte Likhi Ibarat (A Message On Every Leaf), an episodic and illustrated collection intertwined with poetry and pictures, has been co-authored by eminent poet Gurbhajan Singh Gill and ace photographer Tej Partap Singh Sandhu. It echoes Nature’s beauty, bounty, secrets, sublimity, sensitivity, sensibilities and its relationships with humans, mirroring in some ways their emotions, and reflecting their deeds and spiritual needs. Given the hurried pace of our lives, we often miss or ignore the bounties Nature has bestowed upon us. We are forever in pursuit of peace, harmony, happiness and prosperity. However, all these remain elusive, a mirage, because we do not know how to or where to find them. We stand blinded by life’s daily grind. The poetry and snapshots in the book are a gentle reminder, a nudge that there is a beautiful world beyond materialistic wants. If it is so, the book provides enough cues to lead towards peace, harmony and happiness in life, matched, as if it were, by the whiteness of each page that radiates, signifies and amplifies Nature’s purity and simplicity. It is a palette of colours and couplets, which stirs and stimulates emotions and draws us to Nature. Each page speaks out and stands out. Each page is different. It is difficult to decide whether to first look at the picture or to read the juxtaposed couplet. It is not just the leaves’ ibarat, it is the authors’ ibadat to God - the creator. The two have tried to read the lines (veins) of leaves, as one would do in palmistry! All pictures are home-grown, literally, as Sandhu clicked them in his garden: the little world in an oyster that he nurtures and nurses. It is his tribute to the Divine. He seems to have felt, heard the rustle, the whispers, the sighs, and the smiles of the leaves - fresh, young, old, dying or dead; the flowers, the petals and the sepals. He seems to have followed the swaying branches’ shades, and shadows to capture their silence. Gurbhajan seems to have felt their impulse, pulse, anguish, and laughter and, in return, given voice to their feelings of silence, agony and ecstasy. As one softly turns each page, lest one disturbs the tranquillity or leave smudge marks on the pages, one is drawn towards Nature, which is so close, yet we make it seem so far, so distant. Involuntarily, compulsively, one turns to look at the green surroundings, flower beds and plantations: ever smiling, ever beckoning! In our daily run-of-the-mill lives, we miss the sky-kissing trees, the beauty and grace of the majestically swaying multi-shaded foliage in the geometrically-designed leaves of different contours: broad, slender, and conical; some with serrated edges. There are myriad flowers, a riot of colour, and, of course, edible and inedible fruits. It is sheer beauty to see and observe old leaves leave the parent plants, new leaves sprout on bare branches, change colours, flutter in the wind, while the rays of the rising or setting sun give these leaves rainbow hues. Just as blossomed flowers and lush green leaves have their own beauty, so do the wilted, dry fallen flowers and leaves that blow away with every whiff of air. Gurbhajan has explicitly expressed this emotion in one of the couplets accompanying a picture of a wilted rose. The rose plant attributes its wilting to ‘termites’ in the soil. And, with sarcasm, he echoes rose’s agony: I am a habitat of Punjab! Sensitive, informed would know what has been conveyed, so succinctly! One singular feature of the book, apart from its printing, is the use of the handwriting font. It looks as if Gurbhajan has written the lines himself! Each picture and couplet has a unique and matching colour combination as well. A reader or viewer will have a choice of her own to tick a picture or a couplet. The success of the two master craftsmen would be achieved even if one reader or viewer gets inspired while savouring just one of the 103 pages. Maybe, even a generation of readers will be inspired and motivated to pause, observe, think, preserve and protect Nature. The book is a concert of nature, a symphony that reminds us how oblivious we are of its beauty and secrets! (The writer is a veteran journalist and former information commissioner of Punjab)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-lend-an-ear-to-nature-s-symphony-101622372744059.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Curtain call: A story enacted in pauses||So, while we are on the subject of adapting plays, I thought of sharing one more experience before moving on to something different. Though it didn’t run for as long as the other two did, it is very important for me personally. We used to have reading sessions of our old theatre group when we were not rehearsing for plays. I remember that a team member had read this story from a magazine. It was a letter written by a man to his father, who he hasn’t met in the last sixteen years. The father left one day after charges of corruption were filed against him. He had always been a family man, providing well for his wife, and doting on his son and young daughter. After he leaves without informing them, the family goes through a turbulent phase. Not financially as they are well cared for by their relatives, but it leaves a huge vacuum emotionally. Especially in the life of this boy who considered his father as his role-model. It has been sixteen years to this incident and they haven’t heard from his father still. The son is now successful in his career, has a family of his own but this incident still keeps him awake during some nights. The only respite he has is writing about this in his journal. This particular entry is in the form of a letter addressed to his father. After I heard the story, I kept thinking what will happen if the father finally met his son? The story was told from the point of view of only the son. I would have loved to hear what the father had to say about himself. He must have experienced a huge gap in his personal life as well. The letter mentioned that he had an affair with another woman. But there must have been times when he missed his wife and kids. It could not have been all rosy for him. Was there any guilt for his actions? If yes, how did he deal with it? This was one major character that I had to add. And it was interesting to imagine his world and the life that he must have lived for the past sixteen years. There were also many details about the son’s life that we had to imagine as well. But the thing I loved doing the most was their actual confrontation. There were two options – the audience sees the father enter and introduce himself or the father and son have already met. I chose the latter. While choosing the first option was a far easier route in terms of exposition, I thought the second option opened up a possibility of awkwardness. Such extreme awkwardness will cause discomfort to the audience too. And so after the curtain rose and the play started, we showed these two characters sitting in a similar position. A pose that is simple – sitting on a chair with their right leg on their left and hands folded, with their heads slightly tilted to the left – but most certainly imprinted in their genes. It just made the audience believe that these two are related to each other. The actors and I believed that once the father meets his son, there will be more than a few moments of silence, where both of them won’t know what to say to each other! We decided to start our play there. So, right at the beginning, there was absolute silence for about a minute. Where both of them are waiting for the other to speak. And I think we were successful in adapting their relationship from the story to the stage in that one minute. The dialogues were minimal. The script was hardly twenty pages long. But the play was full of awkward pauses and even the information flowed in bits and pieces. I always treat the audience as intelligent and do not believe in spoon-feeding them at every moment. If all their questions are answered by the end of the play, then that should be fine. By the end of the play we have understood both sides. While the father is able to explain why he disappeared, there isn’t and cannot be any excuse for leaving his family and not connecting with them for so many years. While the man helps his father financially and is grateful that he has finally got closure and that he might be able to sleep well at night, he refuses to be available for him emotionally. His decision might change in the future but not right now. The father understands this and leaves. After the man leaves, his son, who has maintained a strong stance in front of him, hugs his own child and breaks down uncontrollably. I had not named the play till the last moment as I could not come up with a suitable name. It was hardly a surprise that my mother suggested the most appropriate name. Later, I borrowed that name for a film of mine, which had a completely different storyline, but dealt with the same relationship. Baapjanma – the birth of a father. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or inperson||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-a-story-enacted-in-pauses-101622371480357.html
30-05-2021||Other||“Overcharged” during first wave, 4 Covid patients still await refund: Panchkula CMO||Four complaints regarding overcharging by private Covid-care hospitals filed last year remain unsettled, confirmed the civil surgeon of Panchkula.This despite the fact that directions were issued by a specially constituted committee to refund the amount overcharged.Last year, when the city was grappling with the first wave of the pandemic, four patients had filed a complaint against two private hospitals, alleging overcharging. One of the patients was “overcharged” ₹2 lakh.A special committee was constituted and it found out that the hospitals had indeed charged more fees from these patients, when compared to the rates fixed by the state government.As per the committee report, in one case, Paras Hospital, Panchkula, had charged ₹8,09,447 from a patient, ₹2,50,962 over the fixed rate. In other two cases, Paras Hospital was found to have charged ₹26,135 and ₹18,100 in excess.The fourth complaint was against Alchemist Hospital, which had charged ₹1,85,600, ₹3,200 was in excess.Hospitals were directed to reimburse excess amountsDr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “To ensure that patients are not fleeced by private hospitals during the pandemic, the state government had fixed rates for Covid treatment. Last year, we got four complaints of overcharging, following which a committee was constituted, which had directed the hospitals to refund the excess amount.”She added: “They have not reimbursed the amount yet.”A spokesperson from Paras Hospital said: “We have refunded all bills and none is pending. One of the patients was Chanderkanta, who was charged over ₹8 lakh, and we have refunded around ₹2 lakh.”Spokesperson of the Alchemist Hospital said: “The excess amount was ambulance charges and it has been refunded.”Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “I have checked with Sanjay Chanderkanta and three other patients. They have not received any reimbursement yet.”Kaur said that this year, they have received at least five complaints of overcharging by various private hospitals including Alchemist, Paras, Wings and others. One patient was charged as high as ₹14 lakh for Covid treatment.Most of the complaints were received by Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta, who also wrote to the chief minister of Haryana. On May 28, a committee headed by additional deputy commissioner Mohd Imran Raza indicted the two private hospitals in five complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/overcharged-during-first-wave-4-covid-patients-still-await-refund-panchkula-cmo-101622370640015.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 7 with some relaxations||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar extended the lockdown in the state till June 7 while allowing relaxations such as reopening of malls with curbs on attendance and a one hour extension of operating hours for retail shops. The corona curfew will remain in place from 10 pm to 5 am.When the government last week extended the lockdown till May 31, it allowed the shops to operate between 7am and 12 pm by following the odd and even formula. Now, from Monday onwards, shops can stay open between 9 am and 3pm.“We had received representations from market associations after which we decided to change the timings. However, the shops will continue to open as per the odd-even system,” Khattar said addressing a virtual press conferenceThe CM said malls in the state will be allowed to open from 10am to 6pm, but only one person per 25 square feet area of space will be allowed in malls and owners will have to prepare a mechanism for implementation of the regulation and get it approved from district authorities.“For example, in a 1,000 square feet mall, 40 people will be allowed at a time, and if it has an area of 2,000 square feet, the number of people allowed at a given time will be 80,” Khattar said. He added that those allowed entry can stay inside for a limited duration, and entry of others will be permitted based on how many are inside the mall at a particular time.The government offices will be allowed to function with the presence of 50% employees. This is the fourth extension of the week-long lockdown which was first imposed in Haryana for a week from May 3 in the face of rising Covid-19 infections in the state.Haryana has 23,094 active Covid-19 cases currently. While the positivity rate and the death count due to the disease have come down significantly following the imposition of the curbs, the cases of black fungus infections continue to cause concern.Khattar said 50 people have died due to black fungus in the state so far, while 650 more are undergoing treatment for the infection in various hospitals.“There have been over 750 cases of black fungus in Haryana so far. Fifty-eight have been cured while 50 people have lost their lives and 650 patients are seeking treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-7-with-some-relaxations-101622369139864.html
30-05-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar announces scheme for children who lost parents to Covid-19||The Bihar government will financially support children, who have lost their parents to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), under the child assistance programme, chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Sunday. “Children, both of whose parents have died, and at least one has died from corona, will be given ₹1500 per month by the state government till the age of 18 under the 'Children's Assistance Scheme’,” Kumar tweeted in Hindi.The Janata Dal (United) chief also announced in another tweet that children orphaned due to Covid-19 and who have no legal guardian to take care of them will be sent to children’s homes. He said girls will be enrolled in Kasturba Gandhi girls’ residential school, a secondary school run by the government of India to educate girls from socio-economically marginalised families, on priority.The states of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and others have also announced similar assistance programs for children affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The Centre also announced on Saturday that children who have lost parents, a surviving parent, legal guardians, or adoptive parents will be provided with financial assistance under the PM CARES for Children scheme.Covid-19 cases in Bihar are showing a declining trend with just 1,491 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Official figures suggest 5,052 people have lost their lives to the viral disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-announces-scheme-for-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid19-101622368020991.html
30-05-2021||City||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 7: Check out details here||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday extended Covid-19 lockdown in the state by another week till June 7.This is the fourth extension of the lockdown which was first imposed in Haryana May 3 for a week amid rising Covid-19 infections in the state.Haryana on Saturday reported 1,868 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of cases to 7,53,937. The total number of active cases in the state is 23,094, while 7,22,711 people have been discharged so far. The death toll in the state has gone up to 8,132.Here's a list of things that are allowed and not allowed according to the latest guidelines:(With inputs from HT Correspondent)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-7-check-out-details-here-101622363187708.html
30-05-2021||Kolkata||Tiger dies while being taken to Sajnekhali camp for treatment||A male Royal Bengal tiger, which had strayed from the core forest area, died on Sunday while being taken to the Sajnekhali camp of Sunderbans for treatment, a senior Forest department official said.The Forest department said the cause of death of the tiger did not appear to be cyclone Yaas and its aftermath but old age while adding that a post-mortem of the carcass would confirm the real reason.The big cat, aged about 11-12 years, was found wobbling around Harikhali camp the day before and the forest staff kept a close watch on it, Chief Wildlife Warden V K Yadav told PTI.As the tiger was later found lying on the banks of a pond, the staff tried to feed it chicken on Sunday morning but it refused the food.The tiger appeared to be very weak even to have water as forest personnel struggled to pour water into its throat and was later being taken to the Sajnekhali forest camp for treatment when it died on way, Yadav said."The death is unfortunate but it appears the tiger died due to old age and weakness. It was dehydrated but the cyclone or the consequent flooding of the forest is not the cause," Yadav said, adding the post-mortem would reveal the exact reason.The last tiger census of Sunderbans (2019-20) put the number of Royal Bengal Tiger population in Sunderbans to 96.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tiger-dies-while-being-taken-to-sajnekhali-camp-for-treatment-101622365013657.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended till June 7. Here’s what’s allowed and what’s not||Lockdown measures in Delhi have been extended by another week and now will be in force till June 7, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) announced on Saturday. Delhi first went under lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on April 19, which has been extended a few times since then.DDMA cautioned citizens to abide by Covid-appropriate norms, adding that though the positivity rate is on the decline, the situation still remains “precarious”. However, restrictions have been eased this time around for certain activities.Here’s what’s allowed and what’s prohibited during this lockdown:1. Restrictions imposed on the movement of individuals not engaged in essential activities have been extended by a week. This has been done to break the chain of transmission, DDMA said in a press release.2. The movement of workers, employees engaged in allowed activities will be allowed only on the basis of availability of e-pass as directed by the Delhi government.3. Construction and manufacturing sector has been allowed to reopen from May 31 to provide economically marginalised individuals a chance at employment. The owners of manufacturing units and those running construction sites have to ensure their employees abide by appropriate Covid-19 protocols.4. Only asymptomatic workers are to be allowed into construction sites and factories. Chewing of tobacco and spitting has been prohibited. Workers have to wear masks and abide by social distancing norms all the time.5. Ban on wedding ceremonies with more than 30 guests, liquor bars, restaurants will continue till June 7. Delhi Metro services will also remain suspended.6. DDMA has also sought community participation in helping break the chain of transmission. The market associations and Residents Welfare Associations have been tasked with ensuring compliance with Covid-19 guidelines for shops and residents in their localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-extended-till-june-7-here-s-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101622362080160.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||High-velocity storm uproots trees, disrupts power supply in Chandigarh||A high-velocity storm swept the Union Territory of Chandigarh and its surrounding areas late Saturday night uprooting trees and disrupting power supply at many places.The storm, with a wind speed exceeding 60 kmph, was accompanied by heavy rains, the weather office said on Sunday.Trees were uprooted and electric poles damaged in some places, officials said.Some residents complained that power supply in many southern sectors of the city remained disrupted for nearly 10 hours. Morning water supply was also disrupted in some parts of the city.In the morning, municipal corporation workers were seen clearing several roads of uprooted trees and branches.There were reports of a few vehicles getting damaged as trees or heavy branches fell on them during the storm.The sudden change in weather was caused by a weather system which had built up due to an upper air cyclonic pressure, a Meteorological Department official said.He said that rains were also reported from Mohali, Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highvelocity-storm-uproots-trees-disrupts-power-supply-in-chandigarh-101622354328203.html
30-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt launches welfare scheme for children who lost parents to Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday launched a welfare scheme for children who have either lost both of their parents to Covid-19 or the earning parent.The move by the UP government comes a day after the Supreme Court observed that it cannot even imagine how many children in this large country have got orphaned due to the devastating pandemic, and directed the state authorities to immediately identify them and provide relief.Elaborating about the scheme, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said, "Children who have lost both of their parents to Covid-19, a surviving parent, legal guardian in case the parents have already died earlier, will be included in this scheme. Children, who have lost the earning parent of their family will also be included in the scheme. The state government is committed to better health, better education and for the bright future of the children."Under the Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana, the state government will provide financial assistance to a child's guardian while those who do not have anyone to look after them will be sent to children's homes, an official spokesperson said.Launching the scheme here, Adityanath said the state government will take care of the upbringing and education of children orphaned by Covid-19.As part of the scheme, the government will provide a monthly financial assistance of ₹4,000 to a child's guardian or caretaker till he or she attains adulthood, the spokesperson said.A senior official said that UP is the first state in the country to come up with a welfare scheme for children who were orphaned due to Covid-19.Children below 10 years who do not have any family member will be taken care of by the state government children's homes. Currently, such homes are functional in Mathura, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Agra and Rampur, he said.A minor girl child will be housed in Kasturba Gandhi Girls (Residential) Schools run by Government of India or children's homes (girls) run by the state government. Currently, there are 13 such children's homes in the state.Apart from this, they will be taken care of in 18 Atal Residential Schools being set up in the state.The state government will also provide an amount of ₹1,01,000 for the marriage of such girls.The spokesperson said there are 197 children in the state who have lost both their parents to Covid-19. As many as 1,799 children have lost either their father or mother to Covid-19 but the annual income of the surviving parents will be evaluated.Around 1,000 children are likely to benefit from the Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana, he said.The state government will also provide tablets or laptops to all such children studying in schools, colleges or pursuing vocational education, according to the spokesperson.The top court had asked state governments to understand the agony of children starving on the streets and directed district authorities that they be immediately taken care of without waiting for any further orders from the courts.A vacation bench of Justices L N Rao and Aniruddha Bose directed district administrations to identify the orphans in their areas and upload their data on the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) website by Saturday evening.The top court's direction came on an application filed by amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal in the pending suo motu case seeking identification of orphaned children due to Covid-19 or otherwise and providing them immediate relief by the state governments.The bench said state governments must inform it of the position of these children and the steps they have taken to provide them immediate relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-launches-welfare-scheme-for-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid19-101622353773158.html
30-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt has set example across India by managing Covid-19 situation well: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday that the state government has set an example across the country by managing the Covid situation well during the first and the second wave of the pandemic.During a late night Covid review meeting, he asked officials to do the master planning of oxygen production, vaccination and medical infrastructure in the state in view of the possibility of a third wave of the infection.Gehlot said that the state government would provide adequate financial resources to strengthen the health facilities in the state.The chief minister directed officials to prepare an effective strategy to counter the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that there are reports about different variants of coronavirus in the country and the third wave is likely to be more deadly."A strategy should be chalked out keeping in mind the research and study going on in the country and the world," Gehlot was quoted as saying in the release.Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said that the number of active cases in the state has come down significantly. He informed that the number of active cases in the state on May 14 was about 2.12 lakh, which has now reduced to about 56,000.In some districts, he said the positivity rate has been reduced to less than 5 per cent."Only seven districts still have the positivity rate above 10 per cent," Mahajan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-has-set-example-across-india-by-managing-covid-19-situation-well-ashok-gehlot-101622351827193.html
30-05-2021||Bangalore||No decision on extending lockdown, says Yediyurappa||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said that no decision has been taken on extending the state-wide lockdown. He added that if people follow the regulations, there will be no need to extend the lockdown. All districts of Karnataka are currently under a lockdown till 6 am on June 7.While lockdown announced initially was supposed to end on May 10, experts insisted to impose lockdown from May 10 to 24, which was later extended till June 7.Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said: “The lockdown will be in effect till June 7 and we will assess the situation and decide what happens next. The strict restrictions will be in place till then and depending on Covid-19 cases reducing, we will take the next decision. If people cooperate, the question of extending the lockdown may not arise but people have to cooperate, that is all.”Yediyurappa on Saturday also announced the CM Baalaseva scheme for children who lost their parents due to Covid-19. Under this scheme, the government will provide ₹3,500 to guardians of the children who lost both their parents in the pandemic. Similarly, for children who have passed standard 10, they will be given laptops and girl students above the age of 21, will be provided ₹1 lakh for marriage, higher education, or entrepreneurship, the government said.“Children who don’t have any guardians will be taken care of in the childcare institutions and to provide then quality education children will be admitted to (government-run) residential schools,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-decision-on-extending-lockdown-saysyediyurappa-101622351325157.html
30-05-2021||Bangalore||'Don’t lower guard': Experts warn against Covid 3rd wave in Karnataka||The daily Covid-19 numbers reported in the past few days in Karnataka point at the downward trend of the second wave of the pandemic, with experts saying the spike in cases would stabilise by mid-June. They, however, warned against lowering the guard, and added that the third wave was inevitable by the end of October. Looking at the experiences of the European countries, experts said, the third wave could be deadlier than the first two.“It is a clear indication that by the third wave, we have to strengthen the medical infrastructure in order to treat higher number of patients than the second wave. The next few months should be used for that,” said Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology and member of the state’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19.However, the preparation for the third wave has to go beyond just medical infrastructure and oxygen supply, experts said, adding that the younger population might be the most vulnerable group in the third wave. Babu said with most senior citizens getting vaccinated by then, those below 18 years, if not vaccinated by then, would be the most vulnerable. He also said that infections among children would be a bigger concern.In Karnataka, during the first wave between March and September 2020, as many as 19,378 children under the age of 10 were infected. From then until May this year, 49,257 in the age group have tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 68,635 children under the age of 10 have been infected till May 20 this year, according to state health department data.The case was similar in the 10-19 age group as 41,895 tested positive for the virus between March and September 2020, while another 131,391 got infected since then, taking the total to 173,286 so far, the state data suggests.State health director Om Prakash Patil, who held consultations with 17 experts and members of the state unit of the Indian Academy of Paediatricians (IAP) on Friday, said Karnataka will come out with guidelines on handling paediatric Covid-19 infections. “We discussed what can be done to prevent spread among children and how we can ramp up our infrastructure and train manpower to handle paediatric cases if at all the projections come true,” Patil said.Shivananda, former director of the state-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, who attended the meeting, said the state needs more manpower trained in handling child cases as the existing number of paediatricians may not be adequate. “Only a fraction of the infected child cases may require ventilators. Most of the new ventilators come with settings that can be adjusted for paediatric use. What the state may require is more paediatric BIPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) machines and paediatric ICU beds,” he said.“Also, as home isolation of infected children is very difficult without parents’ supervision, we have asserted that vaccination of parents should be given priority. If they are immunised, the risk of them getting infected while handling Covid positive children will be minimal,” Shivananda added.Another point of concern has been the deaths among the 30-45 age group, experts said. Compared to the first wave, more deaths were reported in this age category in the second wave. Babu said in many cases undetected comorbidities could have been the reason for deaths. “As we are expected to witness the third wave, it was important that people get themselves tested to understand the various comorbidities they have. In India, people get these comorbidities at least 10 years before other countries,” he said.Babu added that the pace of vaccination will be a key factor in preparing for the third wave. “We are vaccinating elderly, and it is showing results, but it important that we vaccinate the younger population as well. We can’t emphasise this enough,” Babu said.The Karnataka government has formally announced a 13-member committee of medical experts, headed by noted cardiac surgeon Devi Prasad Shetty, to prepare a roadmap to tackle the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced Shetty’s name on May 14, after the Karnataka high court asked the government to submit its plans to tackle the pandemic.Experts also said it was important to increase the number of beds in hospitals and other infrastructure, referring to the countless reports of patients dying without getting a hospital bed. In the second wave of Covid-19, the proportion of people who died without getting a hospital bed increased exponentially. While 3.8% of all deaths in the first wave were reported outside of hospitals, in the second wave, it jumped up to 9.3%, or one in every 10 Covid fatalities in Karnataka, shows the analysis of health bulletins released by the Karnataka state health department on so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dont-lower-guard-experts-warn-against-covid-3rd-wave-in-karnataka-101622351330146.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Rains likely in next two days, to bring mercury down||The combined effect of cyclone Yaas and western disturbances may bring light rains in Noida and adjoining areas over the next two days, weather experts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.According to IMD, while easterly winds already brought the mercury down by two notches in the past 24 hours, there are high chances of rains between May 31 and June 2 that would drop the mercury by three to four degrees Celsius (°C).“As a combined effect of cyclone Yaas and back-to-back western disturbances, the region (NCR) may see rain, light to moderate, between May 31 and June 2. The temperature will be around 36°C. There had been no incidents of heat wave in Delhi-NCR, including Noida, so far and June 15 onwards marks the beginning of pre-monsoon rainfall. So there are no chances of heat waves so far. As an effect of Yaas, strong easterly winds will keep bringing the strong moist winds in the region that will also keep the air quality under check,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.The average wind speed in the region for the past three days has been 25 kmph, IMD said.According to IMD, Noida saw maximum and minimum temperatures of 37.4°C and 27.4°C on Saturday against 39.6 and 26.1°C a day earlier. At Safdarjung, considered average for NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 37.5°C and 26.6°C, respectively.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was 92 or ‘satisfactory’ against 118 (‘moderate’) a day earlier, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. While AQI of Greater Noida was 78 against 87 on Friday, Ghaziabad recorded an AQI at 103 against 128 (both under ‘moderate’ category) a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rains-likely-in-next-two-days-to-bring-mercury-down-101622350663358.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Nearly 500 prisoners released to decongest Luksar jail||Nearly 500 inmates have been released from Luksar jail on interim bail following the Supreme Court guidelines to avoid the transmission of Covid-19 in the prisons. From Monday onwards, even juveniles will start getting bail and will be released from the observation homes.During the first wave of the pandemic last year, the Supreme Court had ordered that all prisons and observation homes release the inmates in order to avoid the spread of infection in close quarters. During the second wave, the apex court issued a similar order for prisons.The release of inmates from Luksar jail started on May 5 and till Saturday afternoon, 496 prisoners have been released on interim bail. Of these, 469 are undertrials and 27 convicted.“Any new prisoner is first tested and placed in the temporary jail adjacent to the main block for 14 days. Another test is conducted before they are put in the main prison,” said jail superintendent Bhim Sen Mukund.Currently, there are 2,520 prisoners lodged in Luksar jail, of which 104 inmates are putting up in the temporary jail.“We have medical staff round the clock to monitor the health of the prisoners. A doctor has been stationed at the temporary block also. We have nine oxygen concentrators, several cylinders, medicines, etc. to handle emergencies. An L-1 facility is also operating here to take care of infected inmates. In fact, all the inmates who are 45 and above have been vaccinated while the rest are in the process of getting the jab,” said Mukund.Ever since the pandemic began, the inmates have made 60,374 masks in the prison, of which 3,780 masks have been manufactured this year. While most of these were distributed among prisoners and staff, some were also given to institutions outside.Similar release orders are awaited for the observation homes as well.“We have now received the necessary orders and the juveniles will be released on interim bail from Monday onwards. Orders have also come for the staff vaccination,” said Aneet Bhagel, member, Juvenile Justice Board, Gautam Budh Nagar.The observation home currently has 130 juveniles, in addition to 15 full-time staff members.No Covid cases have been reported from among the inmates of the observation home or the staff members.Since April this year, 103 inmates have tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, seven asymptomatic patients are under isolation in the jail’s L-1 facility while the remaining infected prisoners have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-500-prisoners-released-to-decongest-luksar-jail-101622350897414.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Vaccination picks up pace in Noida in last 15 days||In the past 15 days, the number of vaccinations administered per day at Gautam Budh Nagar’s Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) for all age groups has almost doubled, with around 7,000 doses being administered daily up to May 14, to over 13,000 from around Thursday onwards.The total number of vaccinations carried out at government CVCs on May 10 was 4,621, with 2,603 inoculated in the 18-45 category. This is in contrast with the figures of May 29, when the total vaccinations carried out in the district were 14,600, including 11,296 in the 18-45 category.By May 14, the average per day vaccinations by the Gautam Budh Nagar health department averaged around 6,000-7000 but since then to around Wednesday, the vaccinations went above 10,000 per day.If vaccinations administered at private centres are taken into account as well then on May 28, a total of 19,206 doses were given in the district, out of which 14,180 were at government centres, according to official data.Narendra Bhooshan, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in GB Nagar, said, “The vaccinations being carried out at workplaces vaccination centres (WVCs) and camps being held by private hospitals in residential areas is helping increase the inoculation numbers”.Moreover, ever since May 10 when vaccinations for the 18-44 category were started in the district, the health department has added 62 new government CVCs. On May 10, the district had 21 centres while on May 29, this figure had increased to 83.The district has an estimated population of 21 lakh, of which around 15 lakh to 16 lakh people are to be vaccinated. As of Saturday, 5,95,122 people in the district had been vaccinated, which is around 30% of the total targeted population for vaccinations, said district magistrate Suhas LY.“I believe the government centres as well as private ones can easily vaccinate 25,000 people in a day, combined. If this goes on at the same pace, within two-three months we shall be able to cover all of the 18+ population in the district with at least the first dose,” said Suhas.Workplace vaccinations kick off in NoidaMultinational firm UFlex kicked off a vaccination drive Saturday at its headquarters in Sector 62. The drive is set to cover 6,000 employees of the firm above the age of 18 working in facilities across Noida, including shop-floor workers and contract staff. Doses will be provided free-of-cost to employees, for which UFlex has tied up with Kailash Hospital in the city. The camps will be set up inside the company premises and plants across different locations. The company plans to complete the vaccination drive by June 5.Earlier, digital and business solutions firm Tech Mahindra Ltd had also rolled-out a vaccination drive for its associates and dependent family members above the age of 18 years at its office campuses at NSEZ in Sector 82. The company is covering the cost of vaccination and has partnered with Fortis Healthcare for the same.Meanwhile, Felix Hospital in Sector 137 launched a 24x7 vaccination drive-through facility at its hospital on Saturday. Here, beneficiaries will need to book their slot on Cowin for ₹900.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-picks-up-pace-in-noida-in-last-15-days-101622350656029.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Over 1 million cases, 19K deaths in 29 days in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday saw its 10th consecutive day of fewer than 30,000 Covid-19 cases.Despite these welcome figures, a sign that the second wave has most likely receded in India’s worst-hit state, this month has already seen more than a million cases and close to 20,000 casualties, with two days to go. The number of casualties recorded in May is the highest tally for a month since the pandemic hit the state last March. Till May 29, the state has reported 1,107,770 cases and 19,738 deaths, according to statistics from the state health department.The state on Saturday recorded 20,295 Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 5,713,215. The tally of active cases dipped to 276,573 with 31,964 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The state saw 443 more Covid-19 casualties, taking the toll to 94,030. Satara reported the highest toll with 51 deaths. Solapur and Kolhapur reported 37 casualties each, followed by Mumbai with 25 deaths.The state government has already decided to extend lockdown restrictions, considering the rise in cases in more than a dozen districts. It, however, will provide a few relaxations in the existing restrictions. It may extend the restricted timings of four hours for buying essential commodities and may also allow shops that become essential during monsoon. An order to this effect is likely to be issued on May 30, officials said. The lockdown is ending on June 1 at 7am. A full lockdown was imposed in the state on April 22.The issue of lockdown extension was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.Currently, people can’t step out unless they need medical attention or are working in an essential sector or want to buy essential commodities, that too within restricted timings — between 7am and 11am.Although the positivity rate of the state is going down, the case fatality rate (CFR) has been one the rise since July 2020. On May 29, the CFR was recorded at 1.65%, up from 1.49% reported on May 1. In the past three months — February, March and April — the CFRs were 2.42%, 1.94% and 1.5%.Previously, April had reported 1,723,249 cases and 12,496 fatalities. Mumbai also clocked 1,038 cases and reported a total of 703,560 cases till date.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 258,799 samples and had a positivity rate of 7.84%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 16.51%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Saturday.“Going by today’s situation, it is very difficult for the state to significantly ease down restrictions. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is also not very much comfortable with the idea. Thus, ‘Mission Begin Again’ is likely to start from June 1, but to a very limited extent. We may extend restricted timings of four hours to six or seven hours for the people to step out for buying essentials and may also allow shops that become essential during the rainy season,” said a senior official privy to the development.Meanwhile, the state government has placed a purchase order for two million vaccine doses, primarily for the inoculation of the people in the 18-45 category. However, a formal decision is yet to be taken when the drive for the people in the age group will recommence. The inoculation for 18-45 category is temporarily suspended since May 13 due to lack of adequate vaccine stock for second doses of people over 45 years.The Maharashtra government is expecting over six million vaccine doses in June. This includes 1,947,550 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre under free quota. Another 2,070,530 doses of both vaccines is to be purchased from the manufacturing companies. Besides that, the state is also expecting another two million doses under the Centre’s free quota in the second half of June.A senior bureaucrat said t the state has not decided on restarting the vaccination drive for 18-45 category, but a decision is expected in a day or two. “We are going to get enough vaccines in June but we also have a backlog of second doses. We have placed a purchase order of 2 million doses as well; whether to use it for 18-45 or for above 45 year category is still to be made. A decision to restart inoculation for 18-45 hasn’t been made yet, but we will evaluate the situation and decide on it in a day or two,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, 296,513 doses were administered till 8pm on Saturday across the state in 4,179 centres. So far, the state has administered 22,226,917 doses, of which 4,520,907 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked doctors to ensure that home-quarantined Covid-19 patients should be closely monitored so that they don’t get serious and hospitals are not burdened unnecessarily. He also said that the patients who need hospitalization should be moved without wasting time.He was speaking while inaugurating a two-day workshop organised by the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). Around 21,000 doctors participated in the workshop. Thackeray said the family doctors have a responsibility to properly identify the patient in time. “We need to see if the patients are getting proper treatment at home, especially in the primary and middle stages when hospitalization is not required. The doctors should also be careful about when the patients need to be shifted to the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-1-million-cases-19k-deaths-in-29-days-in-maharashtra-101622349922315.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||58 more recover from black fungus in Haryana||Haryana has reported complete recovery of 58 patients from mucormycosis (black fungus infection). The state has so far reported 756 cases of mucormycosis, out of which, 648 are under treatment.An official spokesperson said the technical committee appointed to approve and distribute Amphotericin injections to treat black fungus on Saturday approved 975 injections for 515 patients. The spokesperson said that out of 577 patients (442 males and 135 females) whose clinical data has been analysed, 508 were found to be diabetic. It was also found that about 86% had a proven history of infection with Covid-19 virus.The spokesperson said that 498 patients had tested positive for Covid-19, while 79 had no history of Covid infection. There were 462 patients who were administered steroids, 254 had been given oxygen therapy and 61 patients had other immuno-compromised conditions.The spokesperson said that Gurugram has 216 black fungus cases followed by Hisar which has reported 179 cases and Rohtak which has reported 145 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/58-more-recover-from-black-fungus-in-haryana-101622349790523.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana’s positivity rate dips to 3.88%||The Covid infection rate in Haryana came down further on Saturday with the state reporting 1,868 new cases and 3,752 recoveries. The number of active infections stood at 23,094.Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said the seven days moving average of daily new infections during surge was around 14,000 which has come down to around 3,000 cases per day in last week of May. The daily positivity rate had increased to about 25-30% during the peak of second wave which has now declined to 3.88 %, the ACS said.The state on Saturday reported 97 deaths. At 15, Hisar had the highest number of fatalities. The district also has the highest cumulative count of deaths at 850 followed by Gurugram (796) and Faridabad (705). Hisar also continued to have the highest number of active cases at 2,249 followed by Rewari (2,117), Sirsa (2,055), Gurugram (1,976), Karnal (1,610) and Faridabad (1,317).The ACS said the seven-day moving average of the number of Covid-19 deaths has also declined from 160 deaths per day to around 100 deaths a day. Arora said they now have 11,690 isolation beds with oxygen support, 3, 172 intensive care beds with oxygen facility and 1,563 intensive care beds with ventilator facility.“The government has bought 106 ventilators in addition to 430 received from central government under PM Cares Fund,” the ACS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryanas-positivity-rate-dips-to-388-101622349607985.html
30-05-2021||Dehradun||Data proves calling Haridwar Kumbh Covid super-spreader unfair: Mela security incharge||A top Kumbh Mela official Saturday said it was unfair to call it a Covid "super-spreader" as just 0.2 per cent of the total RT-PCR tests conducted in Haridwar from January 1 till the conclusion of the event returned a positive result, while just 0.5 per cent police personnel on mela duty contracted the virus.Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal also said the religious event formally began on April 1 by which time the second wave of Covid was already raging in states like Maharashtra and Haryana."If we scientifically analyse the Covid data of Haridwar district right from January 1 to the conclusion of Kumbh on April 30, attempts to create a perception that Kumbh was a super-spreader of the pandemic look unfair," Gunjyal told PTI.He was in charge of the entire security arrangements in Haridwar and adjoining areas during the Kumbh mela.Reeling off data to make his point, the senior official said 8.91 lakh RT-PCR tests were conducted in the district from January 1 to April 30 out of which only 1,954 (0.2 per cent) were positive.Citing another reason why the Kumbh Mela cannot be considered a super-spreader event, he said out of over 16,000 police personnel deployed in the Kumbh Mela Kshetra only 88 (or just a little above 0.5 per cent) had tested positive for Covid by April 30."It is a fact worth taking note of as the security personnel on duty were directly dealing with the crowds converging at Har ki Pairi and other Ganga ghats for a holy dip in the river. In spite of that, a very low percentage of security personnel tested positive," Gunjyal said.During the noitified period of Kumbh from April 1-April 30, swab samples of 55,55,893 people were tested for Covid out of which 17,333 tested positive, he said.The Kumbh Mela, which is attended by people from different parts of the country in large numbers, drew flak from various quarters as the number of Covid-19 cases rose at a rapid pace during the days coinciding with the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on April 17 appealed that the event in Haridwar be kept symbolic then on due to the Covid-19 crisis.Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said Saturday that devotees had begun to arrive for the event from March itself, and Mahashivratri also witnessed a big turnout of devotees.However, by April 1 Haridwar district had reported only 144 positive cases of Covid-19, he said.Gunjyal also denied making a downward revision of the number of people attending Kumbh Mela on the three major bathing days or Shahi Snan.The three Shahi Snan days fell during the notified period of the one-month Kumbh this year during which over 34.76 lakh people took a holy dip in the river, he said.As many as 21 lakh people bathed in the river on April 12 on Somwati Amavasya, 13.51 lakh on Mesh Sankranti on April 14 and 25,104 people on Chaitra Purnima on April 27, he said.These figures have never been revised or changed, the IG said.When told that an official release quoting Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat had put the number of people bathing in the river on April 12 at 35 lakh, the officer said he may have given the total number of devotees gathering at the ghats from April 1 to April 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/data-proves-calling-haridwar-kumbh-covid-super-spreader-unfair-mela-security-incharge-101622343248460.html
30-05-2021||Kolkata||Call to rename Mt Everest after Radhanath Sikdar, who measured its height||On Saturday, when the world celebrated Everest Day and people in Darjeeling paid homage to Indian-Nepali Sherpa Tenzing Norgay, who on his 39th birthday, scaled the world’s highest peak with New Zealand mountaineer Edmund Hillary on May 29, 1953, veterans recalled the Bengali mathematician who measured the mountain’s actual height a century before the historic climb.Mount Everest should be named after mathematician Radhanath Sikdar, said mountaineers and the authorities at the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) in Darjeeling and the Radhanath Sikdar Himalayan Museum at Chandannagar in Bengal’s Hooghly district, where the almost forgotten genius lived his last years and died in 1870. He was born in Kolkata (then Calcutta) in 1813.Records say that Sikdar, a student and a master in spherical trigonometry from Kolkata’s Hindu College (now Presidency University) was handpicked for the survey department of the British government in the 1830s. He never actually saw the mountain which was recorded in official nomenclature as Peak XV.As part of the team set up for the Great Trigonometric Survey started by George Everest, then surveyor general of India, Sikdar travelled across India to conduct geodetic surveys. Geodetic surveys are done to accurately measure and understand changes in Earth’s geometric shape, orientation and gravity field.In 1852, Sikdar calculated the exact height of Everest. George Everest retired in 1843 but his successor, Colonel Andrew Scott Waugh, named the peak after the man who initiated the survey. The height, 8,848 metres, was officially announced in 1856.If people in Nepal can call the mountain Sagarmatha and the Chinese have named it Qomolangma, why can’t Everest be called Sikdar Parvat (mountain) or Sikdar Sikhar (peak) in India, people asked on Saturday.Hillary, who climbed the peak first, was knighted by the British government immediately after his achievement. He was part of a British team. Recognition came late for Norgay. In 2003, India’s highest award for adventure sports, the National Adventure Awards, was renamed Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award by the Centre.To pay homage to Sikdar, the HMI on Saturday unveiled a library named after him, along with his statue.Group captain Jai Kishan, the HMI principal, said, “Why should not the Indian mountaineering fraternity call the peak Mount Sikdar seven decades after British rule came to an end? We should observe May 29 as Mount Sikdar Day. Let there be a change.”Kalyan Chakraborty, secretary of the Radhanath Sikdar Himalayan Museum, wrote a letter to the HMI principal. It said, “At the order of Colonel Andrew Scott Waugh, then surveyor general of India, Sikdar started measuring the height of mountains. We recall the dichotomy of colonial science. Sikdar had to fit himself into the early colonial scheme of the rulers to self-cultivate his curiosity driven scientific expertise from within that structure. Whenever the latter clashed with the former, Sikdar’s aspirations were thwarted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/call-to-rename-mt-everest-after-radhanath-sikdar-who-measured-its-height-101622341596693.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||One dead after fire at house in Saket court||An 83-year-old man died while four of his family members were rescued, after a fire broke out at the fourth-floor flat allocated to a city judge, in the Saket court residential complex on Saturday evening.The victim has been identified as Ashok, the judge’s father-in-law. He was wheelchair bound.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) officials said a call was received at 5.23pm, reporting that five people were trapped after a flat in the nine-storey C block of the residential complex of Saket court caught fire. Seven fire tenders were sent to the spot.“Our men rescued four members of the family successfully. However, an 83-year-old member of the family was found unconscious. He was rushed to Safdarjung hospital where he was declared dead,” said Atul Garg, director, DFS.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said on receiving the call, the station house officer of Saket police station also reached the spot along with teams from the fire brigade, CAT ambulance, Delhi Disaster Management Authority and BSES.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-after-fire-at-house-in-saket-court-101622332463409.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Kejriwal urges Centre to order vaccines for states||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday asked the Centre not to resort to “petty politics” and urged it to buy vaccines for all states.“The central government should procure the vaccines, and after doing so, they should give them to us and we will administer them to everyone. This is not the time for petty politics. This is not the time to play a blame game. This is not the time for finger-pointing. This is not the time for debate and counter. The country is suffering from a pandemic,” said Kejriwal, who was speaking to reporters after launching a drive-through vaccination centre for the 45+ age group at Chhatrasal Stadium.“We have filed a global tender for vaccines. We are making all the efforts from our side, but till now, all the other governments that filed a global tender have not been able to get any positive result. On a general note, what I have understood is that all the big vaccine manufacturing companies of the world want to deal directly with the central government... So only time will tell as to how successful different state governments will be, but we have filed a global tender from our side,” he said.Kejriwal said the Delhi government has started a drive-in vaccination facility at Chhatrasal stadium. “People can come here in their cars, motorcycles, even on foot, and can get vaccinated here. The vaccination is free at this centre. Right now, this has been initiated for those above the age of 45 because there is no vaccine for younger people. As soon as adequate jabs arrive, vaccination for those below the age of 45 (18-45 years) will also be started,” he said.On black fungus, the CM said there are about 450 cases in Delhi government hospitals. “We have demanded the medicines accordingly... there is a countrywide paucity of medicines. The central government is giving whatever it can. As I understand, more injections of this medicine will be procured and be distributed to all the state governments,” he said.Central government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-order-vaccines-for-states-101622327838568.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s new Covid-19 cases drop below 1,000||Delhi on Saturday added fewer than 1,000 cases for the first time in over two months as the city’s fourth and the worst wave of Covid-19 infections continued to taper, with government authorities now focusing on a phased withdrawal of lockdown restrictions while preparing in advance for another potential outbreak.The Capital recorded 956 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest since March 22, when Delhi added 888 cases, and the test-positivity rate fell to 1.19%, according to the government’s daily health bulletin.The city’s positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested returning positive – was under 2% for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday. This figure has been falling since first reducing to under 5% on May 21. The World Health Organization says a positivity rate under 5% indicates that the outbreak within a population is under control.Saturday’s tally is an encouraging sign for the Capital that only weeks before saw its health care infrastructure buckle under the burden of a massive surge of Covid-19 cases.Also read| Delhi will not get 550k alloted vaccine doses before June 10: Sisodia“Yesterday, we announced that two activities -- construction activities and factories -- can be opened up because the poor such as migrant labourers have faced the most difficult time during the lockdown. Today, around 900 cases have emerged for the first time, I hope that as and when the cases keep on decreasing in the coming weeks, we will continue to unlock further. We want the economic activities to come back on track so that the economy can be revived,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told reporters during a visit to the city’s first drive-through vaccination centre at the Chhatrasal Stadium.In keeping with the declining trend of daily cases and deaths, the Delhi government is lifting lockdown curbs in the city, starting with the construction sector and factories that can resume operations from Monday, June 1. Public health officials, however, say there is a need to remain cautious about unlocking of the city to avoid another flare-up of the pandemic in the next few weeks.A weekend curfew in mid-April paved the way for a full lockdown to be enforced in the Capital from April 19. From then on, the restrictions – which forced Delhi to shut down all but essential services – were extended five times until the pandemic loosened its grip over the city May onwards.At its worst, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and its test-positivity rate soared to a peak of 36.4% on April 22. Tragedy also unfolded in the third week of April that saw hundreds of patients and their families wait outside hospitals short of oxygen supply, and mass cremations at burial grounds that were running out of space.The situation eased in early May as the central and the Delhi governments procured and replenished supplies of critical life-saving drugs and medical equipment.Officials of the Aam Aadmi Party-led city administration say they have used the one-and-a-half-month lockdown to scale up infrastructure to prepare for a potential surge in cases in the months ahead. It has ramped up surveillance system to foresee a spike in cases, added hospital beds, increased oxygen supply and is keeping a stockpile of medicines needed to treat Covid-19 patients.The city has recorded an average of 1,347 daily cases in the last seven days – a fair distance from the 25,294 cases reported in the week ending April 23.Government data released on Saturday also said 122 people succumbed to the viral illness in the previous 24 hours. Fatalities, too, have seen a steady drop in recent days and the seven-day average of daily deaths is 151, the lowest since April 19.Also read: Delhi restaurateur Kalra gets bail in oxygen concentrator caseActive cases are also at their lowest in 57 days, with 13,035 people currently battling the virus.Despite conclusive signs of an outbreak in decline, the government has warned against complacency in lowering the guard. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said in a tweet that although cases had fallen, people “still need to take all precautions and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to beat the virus”.Public health experts, too, stressed on the same but added that the government needs to plan the unlock process and keep in mind particular activities that can trigger crowding and close contacts. These may include re-opening marketplaces, gymnasiums, and even Delhi Metro services.“You cannot open everything up all at once. You have to open up gradually... we should keep places where a lot of people can gather such as gyms, malls, cinemas, markets closed for now,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.“I think the last time we opened up too soon and too much. I understand that the economy suffers, but this is the only measure we have in the absence of vaccines for everyone. It will take some time for doses to become available and for the people to be immunised. We have to maintain restrictions, especially for weddings and all,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Also read: Soon, breeze through immigration ‘e-gates’ at IGI airportThey also pointed out that lockdowns are effective in lowering transmission but these are still stop-gap measures; eventually, vaccination will be key to clamp down on the infectious disease.“Doses are not available as of now, but it seems like more shots may be available June onwards, after which there should be aggressive vaccination. That is the only hope for preventing another surge,” Singh added.A similar stand has been taken by the Delhi government, which has flagged acute shortage of vaccine doses in recent days.On Saturday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the government has run out of shots to inoculate younger adults and it will be given doses by the central government only by June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-new-covid-19-cases-drop-below-1000-101622325856648.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ola subsidiary told to pay ₹10,000 for failing to deliver cab on lease||For failing to provide a cab on lease despite receiving payments, Ola Fleet Technologies Private Limited has been directed to pay ₹10,000 as compensation and litigation expenses to a Kurali resident. The leasing arm of ridesharing company Ola Cabs was penalised by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chandigarh, for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. While disposing of the complaint filed by Deepak Kumar, the consumer forum also directed the firm to refund ₹5,000 paid by him while booking the cab. If the amount is not paid in 30 days from the date of the receipt of the order’s certified copy, the company will have to pay an additional cost of ₹10,000. Deepak in his complaint said that the firm had launched a scheme under which a person could get a cab on lease for four years by depositing ₹21,000. Accordingly, Deepak applied under the scheme and booked a cab on lease by paying ₹4,000 on March 5, 2019, and the balance was to be given after the delivery of the cab. As the firm had assured him the delivery within a week, Deepak also booked a driver for the cab on daily wages of ₹500, starting from March 12, and deposited ₹1,000 for his driving test. He said Ola Fleet Technologies Private Limited on March 20 also got his police verification done, for which he paid ₹50. Despite having made all the payments, the cab was not delivered even though he made repeated visits to the firm’s office in Hallomajra. After making one excuse after the other, the firm ultimately refused to provide the cab, he alleged. Delivery rejected post verification: Firm The firm, seeking dismissal of the complaint, said that Deepak had been told that the cab would be delivered after the clearance of his verification. According to the company’s terms and conditions, which had been shared with him, ₹4,000 was a non-refundable fee for the verification of documents, address and other procedures, the firm said, adding that Deepak’s verification had been rejected due to negative remarks of his references. The firm also admitted that Deepak deposited ₹1,000 for his driver’s test, which is mandatory before handing over the cab. Justification is bald assertion: Forum “The justification put forth by Ola Fleet Technologies Private Limited in its reply for not delivering the cab is a bald assertion and devoid of any document in support. The company only relied upon the verification report briefing negative remarks of the complainant’s references, which has not been made part of the record for the reasons best known to it. Thus, it failed to prove its stand and hence found guilty of resorting to unfair trade practice,” the consumer forum ruled The order further states: “The absence of any verification report itself acclaims that no verification, as alleged, has been carried out by the (firm) and thus no question arises for forfeiting the amount, which remained unutilised by the company for the purpose it was deposited for. Thus, the unfair trade practice adopted by the (firm).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ola-subsidiary-told-to-pay-10-000-for-failing-to-deliver-cab-on-lease-101622322934616.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jaipal’s 2 aides wanted in ASIs’ killing arrested from Gwalior||Police have arrested two of the main accused in the sensational killing of assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh who were gunned down in Jagraon grain market on May 15. The suspects, Baljinder Singh alias Babbi of Moga’s Mahla Khurd village and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village in Ludhiana district, were carrying a cash reward of ₹2 lakh each on their head. They are associates of gangster Jaipal Bhullar, and were nabbed from Dabra in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, on Friday evening. Another associate of theirs, Harcharan Singh, who had allegedly given shelter to them, was also arrested. Giving details, Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta said preliminary questioning of the suspects has revealed that on the fateful day, Baljinder had come to Jagraon grain market in his mini-truck to pick Jaipal and Jassi and drop them at a hideout outside the state. Darshan turned up there with some clothes for the gangster and his associate. Gupta said the ASIs who were on duty confronted Baljinder on suspicion of drug smuggling and Darshan opened fire from his .32 revolver. Darshan, Jaipal and Jassi then fled in their I-10 Hyundai car, while Baljinder drove off in his mini-truck and joined them after some time. They all fled towards Rajasthan. Gupta said intelligence inputs were received that the suspects could be in and around Gwalior. A team from the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) led by inspector Pushpinder Singh was despatched to Gwalior. After much effort, the OCCU team managed to track the suspects and arrested them from Dabra railway station, 40 km from Gwalior, on Friday evening when they were planning to board a train to Maharashtra, Gupta said. He said the arrested duo has a criminal past and both had been convicted in two different murder cases. They had come in contact with each other while serving jail term. Darshan was granted remission while undergoing his sentence, Baljinder was released on bail by the high court. Darshan reportedly has two more criminal cases pending against him and was also involved in opium smuggling, he said. Meanwhile, the accused were produced before a Ludhiana court on Saturday that sent them to 10-day police custody for questioning. Six aides of the gangsters, including Darshan’s wife Satpal Kaur alias Noni, were arrested by Jagraon police on May 20 with a cache of weapons and ammunition. The DGP said Jaipal is one of the few gangsters who has managed to elude arrest, so far. While he remains at large, his close associate, Gavi, was arrested by Punjab Police from Jamshedpur last month. Gavi was wanted in the case of recovery of 11-kg heroin in Jalandhar district. Jaipal’s another associate Jaspreet alias Jassi, who is also absconding since the Jagraon shootout, was earlier arrested for heroin smuggling in Mohali and is also wanted in a kidnapping case. Gupta said a manhunt is still on for the absconding suspects and he was confident that they too will be arrested soon. Jaipal and his aide Jaspreet carry a cash reward of ₹10 lakh and ₹5 lakh, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jaipals-2-aides-wanted-in-asis-killing-arrested-from-gwalior-101622322754266.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases drop to lowest in 74 days||The pandemic’s downward trend continued in the tricity on Saturday as 467 fresh cases were recorded, the lowest in the past 74 days.However, 14 more people lost their lives to the contagion, a still worrisome number.It was on March 16 last when the tricity had logged 435 cases, following which the daily count climbed vigorously, hitting the all-time high of 2,612 on May 10. But, in the 19 days since, the daily cases have dropped by 82%.The daily deaths, however, still remain in the double digits in the absence of a consistent decline.On Saturday, Mohali led the daily case tally with 233 people being found positive, followed by 163 in Chandigarh and 71 in Panchkula, far lower than their peaks of 1,382, 895 and 654, respectively, recorded earlier in May. On the deaths’ front, five people each died in Chandigarh and Mohali, and four in Panchkula.On the bright side, tricity’s active cases came down to 4,418, 38% lesser than Friday’s 7,168. The recovery rate of all three cities also remained over 90%, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 5% in Panchkula, 5.6% in Chandigarh and 6% in Mohali.The latest fatalities pushed Chandigarh’s toll to 740, while the total cases reached 59,740. As many as 56,534 people in the city have successfully beaten the virus.In Mohali, the worst-hit in tricity, total fatalities reached 947. Of the 66,224 people testing positive till date, 3,414 are still under treatment and 61,863 have been cured.Among Saturday’s cases, majority at 78 were from Mohali city, 38 from Dera Bassi, 36 from Kharar, 35 from Dhakoli, 17 from Gharuan, 10 from Lalru, nine from Banur, eight from Boothgarh and two from Kurali. Panchkula’s caseload stands at 29,853, of which 28,508 patients have recovered and 341 have died. At 1,004, its active cases are the lowest in tricity.The fatalities on Saturday include a 68-year old woman from Raipur Rani, a 67-year-old man from Kalka, a 54-year-old woman from Sector 17 and a 48-year-old man from Sector 9.“Moderate to serious patients take more time to recover than those with mild symptoms, which is why the number of fatalities is still high. Now, as there is steep decline in the number of new cases as well as the positivity rate, the fatalities will also come down gradually,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.However, Dr VK Nagpal, UT joint director, health, cautioned residents against lowering their guard. “Even though the restrictions are being eased out, residents should adhere to safety guidelines because with increased movement of people, chances of the case count rising also increase,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-drop-to-lowest-in-74-days-101622322575043.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct practical exams online from June 15||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and interrupted academic activities, Panjab University (PU) will be conducting practical exams of even semesters of undergraduate and postgraduate courses online from June 15.After the practical exams, the semester examinations are scheduled to start on June 28 and are also most likely to be held in online mode again this year. A communication regarding this has been sent to all chairpersons of university teaching departments and principals of affiliated colleges.“The university authorities have allowed to conduct the viva-voce/ presentation of the candidates of UG, PG, vocational, diploma courses from June 15 to 26 through online mode,” stated the communication issued by the office of the controller of examinations, PU.The varsity has directed the chairpersons and principals to make necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of online practical exams. According to the academic calendar, the exams for the ongoing batches will be held from June 28, while the first-year postgraduate students will sit for the exams from July 12. The varsity is also considering to defer the PU-CET (PG) entrance exam, which is scheduled on June 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-conduct-practical-exams-online-from-june-15-101622322454748.html
30-05-2021||Other||Two cadets of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute commissioned as officers||Two cadets of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI) earned their commission as officers in the Armed Forces on Saturday. The total number of AFPI cadets commissioned as officers is now 71; the number is expected to further increase on June 12 when the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy will be held.Gentleman cadet Barjot Singh Dhillon passed out from the Officers Training Academy, Chennai, on completion of his training of the 111 SSC course. Barjot had joined AFPI in 2011 as part of the institute’s first course. He hails from Patiala. His father, Kuldeep Singh, is a technician and mother, Gurpreet Kaur, is a teacher in a government school. He has two sisters. The passing out parade was reviewed by Lt Gen YK Joshi, army commander, Northern Command.Cadet Vishvajit Singh joined AFPI as part of the institute’s fifth course in 2015. On completion, he joined the National Defence Academy as part of the 138 NDA course. Thereafter, he went on to join the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, for one-year final training. His father, Vikram Singh, is a hotelier and mother, Man Mohinder, is a house wife. His grandfather, late Lt Gen Gurinder Singh, was a former army commander of the Northern Command. The parade was reviewed by Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, flag officer commanding-in-chief, Eastern Naval Command.Passing out parade of the 140 NDA course was held at Khadakwasla, Maharashtra, and was reviewed by the Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh. As many as 16 cadets from AFPI passed out from NDA. They will do one more year of training at respective service academies before being commissioned as officers.So far, 162 AFPI cadets have joined NDA and other service academies from the first eight courses. Of these, 71 have become officers. Currently there are three courses underway at AFPI. Cadets of the ninth AFPI course are in Class 12 and are waiting to take final board exams, for which dates are expected to be finalised soon. Cadets of the tenth AFPI course are studying in Class 12 and are now busy preparing for the NDA entrance exam scheduled to be held in September this year. Forty-two boys have been selected as part of the 11th AFPI course which commenced training on May 24. Due to Covid restrictions, however, all training is being carried out online.Notwithstanding the interruption to normal training routine in the period between January 2020 and May 2021, as many as 28 cadets of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh AFPI have joined NDA and other service academies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-cadets-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh-armed-forces-preparatory-institute-commissioned-as-officers-101622322395128.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Road carpeting in Chandigarh: Month before monsoon, only 10% work finished||While city residents continue to suffer because of poor roads, the municipal corporation has completed only 10% of the road carpeting work for the current fiscal. With monsoon expected to hit the city by June end, the road work will be suspended for another couple of months. The civic body manages a road network of around 1,400km, among which V-6 roads (access roads to houses) are in the worst condition, according to residents. Notably, every year 20% roads in the city are to be carpeted on a rotational basis. However, the work was halted for a couple of years due to MC’s inability to pay contractors. After the UT administration dedicated funds for the roads’ maintenance, MC was able finally able to start work in 2020. But, with work from previous years piled up, its pace remains slow. “Pending road carpeting and maintenance work from previous fiscals is nearing completion. For this fiscal, we have so far achieved 10% of the total road work,” said Shailender Singh, chief engineer, MC.A total of ₹80 crore is to be spent this year, including ₹40 crore on last year’s work. Bumpy ride: southern sectors worst affected In a shambles for years, the roads have improved over the last year with MC resuming carpeting. But residents, particularly in the southern sectors, complain that in many areas the ride still remains bumpy. Rajat Malhotra, president, Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 45C, said, “The condition of roads in the sector is very poor. We have repeatedly taken up the matter with MC, but in vain. Though carpeting work has started, improvements have yet to be experienced in our area.” Residents of Sector 56 have a similar complaint. Joginder Singh, general secretary of the sector’s RWA, said, “Some roads have been redone, but internal roads still require attention.” The quality of repair work is also being questioned by residents. SK Khosla, general secretary, RWA, MIG-I houses, Sector 40, said, “We have sought an inquiry into the poor patch work and carpeting of V5 roads (sector circulation roads). But, action is still awaited from MC or the administration. After repeated complaints, patch work is carried out selectively, but the overall condition of the road remains poor.” According to MC commissioner KK Yadav, they had prioritised work, first focusing on stretches which were in very bad shape. “We have set a target to repair all such roads before the onset of monsoon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-carpeting-in-chandigarh-month-before-monsoon-only-10-work-finished-101622322335771.html
30-05-2021||Lucknow||SP leader Azam Khan in critical condition, on oxygen support||Senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 since May 9, is on oxygen support and his condition is critical, said Medanta Hospital Lucknow director Rakesh Kapoor on Saturday.Azam is currently in the intensive care unit of critical care medicine on 5 litre per minute oxygen support, he added.Azam Khan and his son Abdullah Khan tested positive for Covid-19 on April 30.Azam’s health suddenly deteriorated on May 9, following which he along with his son was sent to Lucknow by an ambulance.Azam is being treated in the ICU for fibrosis and cavity in his lungs, said Kapoor.His son’s condition is currently stable.Khan has been lodged in Sitapur jail since February last year with more than a hundred cases registered against him.His son has also been lodged in Sitapur jail in several cases filed against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-leader-azam-khan-in-critical-condition-on-oxygen-support-101622318368099.html
30-05-2021||Other||Drive-through jabbing for 18+ group during weekends in Karnal||Starting this Sunday, Karnal administration will be holding drive-through vaccinations on national highway 44 during the weekends. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the drive-through vaccination will be launched at Ballari bypass on NH 44 in Karnal at 8am on Sunday.He said the vaccination will be done on every Saturday and Sunday to help people get the jab while sitting in their vehicles and avoiding gatherings at vaccination centres. There will be facility of on- the-spot registration. He said people will have to sit in their vehicles for 30 minutes after taking the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drivethrough-jabbing-for-18-group-during-weekends-in-karnal-101622318553908.html
30-05-2021||Other||Rahejas buy 3 duplex flats for ₹427 crore from its development firm in Mumbai||In one of the largest real estate transactions of recent time, the family members of real estate developer Raheja have purchased three duplex apartments spanning across 66,811 square feet at a high-end Worli area for ₹427 crore. The project is being developed by the group’s development firm K Raheja Corp. The 45-storeyed skyscraper Astesia is located near Worli coast and offers a breath-taking view of the Arabian Sea. Owing to the reduction in the stamp duty introduced by the state government to boost the sales, the Rahejas saved a staggering ₹12.75 crore. The group paid ₹8.55 crore (2%) as stamp duty. The Rahejas had purchased the apartments last year on December 31 and registered documents on April 22. In the transaction, the promoters of K Raheja Corp – Ravi, Neel and Jyoti Raheja – have purchased the 41st, 43rd and 44th floors as well as some apartments on the 42nd and 45th floors. Despite repeated attempts, K Raheja Corp refused to respond to the development. The other high-profile buyers in Astesia include Smita D Parekh, the wife of banker Deepak Parekh, who has shelled out ₹50 crore to buy a sea-view flat. HDFC Bank’s vice-chairman and chief executive officer Keki Mistry has also purchased an apartment for ₹41.23 crore. The real estate sector has been facing a downturn for several years owing to economic slowdown, with the pandemic making the situation worse. Last August, the government had announced to reduce stamp duty levied on the sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 to December 31 and then further reduced it to 3% from January 1 to March 31 this year. The move had played a huge role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary markets. The state, however, refused to extend the stamp duty cut further despite several requests from the industry. According to Sandeep Reddy, co-founder of real estate data analytics research firm Zapkey.com, “The stamp duty cuts really had a profound effect on the luxury segment as we witnessed several high-value transactions in south and south-central Mumbai during that time [till March 31],” said Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rahejas-buy-3-duplex-flats-for-427-crore-from-its-development-firm-in-mumbai-101622318313263.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi restaurateur Kalra gets bail in oxygen concentrator case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to restaurateur Navneet Kalra for allegedly hoarding and black-marketing oxygen concentrators on the condition that he would not contact the customers he sold the equipment to.During a recent raid amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Kalra in the national capital.Kalra was held in Gurugram on May 16 and formally arrested the next day.He had been on the run since police raided his restaurants and seized medical devices. A court later sent him to judicial custody till June 3.Chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg said whatever recovery was required to be effected by the investigating officer from the accused has already been done.“….the accused Navneet Kalra is hereby admitted to bail on furnishing of personal bond and two surety bonds of ₹1,00,000/- each…with the condition that the accused shall not directly or indirectly try to influence the witnesses, shall not try to contact the customers to whom he had sold the oxygen concentrators during pendency of the investigation, shall not in any manner tamper with the evidence and shall join the investigation as and when directed by the IO,” the court said.Also read: Delhi extends lockdown, allows construction and manufacturing. Conditions applyThe court said the purpose of bail is neither preventive nor punitive but to secure the appearance of the accused person at his trial by a reasonable amount of bail and the right to bail is not to be denied to the accused merely because the sentiments of the community are against him.It, however, noted that a perusal of the case diary displayed that prima facie there are reasons to believe that Kalra was involved in the commission of an offence under 420 (cheating), relevant sections of the Essential Commodities Act and provisions of the Drug Price Control Order, both of which are punishable with imprisonment of up to seven years.Kalra filed his anticipatory bail application before a trial court on May 8, which was dismissed on May 13. On the same day, he moved the Delhi high court challenging the dismissal, during the pendency of which he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-restaurateur-kalra-gets-bail-in-oxygen-concentrator-case-101622317993385.html
30-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati meets Dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar to’ reduce divide’||Member of Parliament from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati – who has taken an initiative to bring back Maratha reservation after the Apex court scrapped it – met Dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar, who is the great grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, on Saturday to discuss the issue. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who has been meeting several leaders from the state, said that the idea behind meeting Ambedkar was to reduce the “divide” among the two communities. “Our outlook [for the meeting] was to look at reducing the divide between the communities. I belong to the lineage of Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, while he is from the lineage of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar... If Shahu Maharaj and Dr Ambedkar could come together, why can’t Prakash Ambedkar and Sambhaji Chhatrapati,” Sambhajiraje said in a joint press conference with Ambedkar after the meeting. Sambhajiraje is a descendant of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Outlining the connect between the two leaders, he further said, “Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj was the first to give reservation to the Bahujan Samaj. Later, Dr Ambedkar brought it in the Constitution. It was Dr Ambedkar’s wish to provide quota for the Maratha community. Till 1967, Marathas got reservation in the Central list under the OBC (Other Backward Classes) quota. Later, several commissions were set, and Marathas were excluded as forward or dominating class and the quota was removed.” Having deviated from the party line on the issue, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has put forth a three-point demand before the Maharashtra government. He has called for the filing of a review petition in the Supreme Court on it earlier decision to scrap the quota as well as a curative petition, and approaching the President through the Maharashtra Governor. The BJP MP added that the state government will now have to make a “fool-proof” plan again to secure the quota for the community through Article 342 (A) of the Constitution, wherein the President may recommend the reservation for the community. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati expressed confidence that the Raj Bhavan, despite its frosty relations with the state government, will forward the proposal. “He [Governor] will have to do it. According to [Article] 342(A), the Governor will write to the President and, if the latter is inclined, will send the report to the backward class commission, following which it will be kept before the Parliament. For that, a fool-proof planning will be needed again. The shortcoming in the Gaikwad Commission [which recommended the quota earlier] will have to be scrutinised, which will take five-six months. Overall, the situation is quite conducive. Otherwise, there is an alternative of a review petition,” he said. Considering review petitions are usually rejected, there is also an option of a curative petition, said Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati. In an indirect reference to BJP-backed agitations for the quota, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati added that people should not be held hostage by staging protests. and that elected representatives should find a way. “There is no point in holding people hostage on this matter now. Whatever the members of the community wanted to say, they have done it through 58 agitations. Now the matter is legal, and the elected representatives, including myself, will have to find a way out,” Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said when asked about protests planned by BJP legislator Vinayak Mete. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati should meet Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the issue as the Centre can decide on the reservation. Raut said that Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati is a well-respected leader in Maharashtra, and the government has heard him on the issue. “He is meeting prominent leaders including [Nationalist Congress Party chief] Sharad Pawar, [Maharashtra chief minister] Uddhav Thackeray, [state minister from Congress] Ashok Chavan and [leader of Opposition from BJP] Devendra Fadnavis. But he should meet PM Modi because this issue is no longer in the hands of the state, but rests with the Centre. All political parties and its leaders are in sync with the sentiments of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje. We should all go to the PM and Modi must take a decision. PM holds the cards for it,” Raut said. When asked why the PM has not chosen to meet him over the issue, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said, “It could be due to Covid-related reasons or maybe his predicament over the issue. We are MPs and I will attempt to express my sentiments over the issue.” Meanwhile, after the meeting with Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, Ambedkar sought to corner Pawar on the issue. He said the Maratha strongman has not taken a clear stance on the quota issue for the community. “I have seen Pawar’s political journey for the past 40 years. His stand is always narova, kunjarova [a phrase from Mahabharat that loosely translates as non-committal]. On the Maratha reservation, too, he has followed the same. He meets CM without having a stand, but demands the implementation of the quota. On some issues, narova kunjarova is fine. But on issues such as the Maratha reservation, there needs to be a clear stand. We expect that he will take a stand soon either for or against the quota.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-sambhajiraje-chhatrapati-meets-dalit-leader-prakash-ambedkar-to-reduce-divide-101622318193300.html
30-05-2021||Other||Beyond the line of duty: Maharashtra cops pitch in to help kin of deceased colleagues||Twenty-nine-year-old Kavita Mahale was on the brink of slipping into depression. She was not just worried about the futures of her two children, but was also facing difficulties in meeting daily their needs. On March 25, Mahale lost her husband Sanjay – a constable posted with Nardana police station in Dhule – and her father-in-law to Covid-19. Her mother-in-law, too, had died from the virus last year and Mahale thus had no means of finding help. However, to her respite, four policemen arrived at her home one day and gave her a cheque of ₹1.5 lakh for Mahale to meet the household expenses and other daily requirements till the time the family got the solatium from the government. Mahale was overwhelmed by the act of generosity by her husband’s colleagues and batchmatees when she discovered that over a hundred of them had formed a WhatsApp group and collected the amount for the family through crowdfunding. “After losing three members [of the family] within six months, I was completely broken. I was traumatised and worried about the futures of my two children. I lived under tremendous mental stress. But after my husband’s colleagues extended help and arranged some money, I felt that I am not alone. I was moved by their heart-warming gesture, and it certainly boosted the much-needed confidence in me. I got a feeling that there will always be a second family standing beside me,” she said. Like Mahale, many grieving families of personnel who had died of the virus, received help from police groups that came forward during the crisis and are selflessly helping Covid-affected families of cops. The constables from the 2008 batch raised funds for the families of two of their batchmates who had died of the virus. One of them was constable Murad Ali from Mahim police station, who was admitted to SevenHills Hospital on April 26, and succumbed to the virus on May 9. Ali was the sole breadwinner for the family. The other constable for whose family the batch collected money was Satyajeet Pol from Worli local arms division. Soon after news of the Ali and Pol’s deaths spread across the police department, some constables from the batch jumped into action to help the families of the two Covid-19 victims. “On learning about their deaths, a bunch of my batchmates and I decided to help the grieving families. We drafted a message and circulated it in eight WhatsApp groups of our batch, posted across various units in Maharashtra and sought help. There are 1,334 police personnel from our batch, of which hundreds of them transferred around ₹3.4 lakh in a span of 15 days. We will be handing over the cheques of ₹1.7 lakh each to the families on June 1” said constable Bhaghirath Andhale, a member of the batch, who works at the police hospital. “By the time the family gets compensation from the government, this money would help them live with dignity and cut their dependability on others. And most importantly, the grieving families would feel that the friends of their late kin will always be there to look after them,” he added. According to Andhale, the police personnel from their batch were inducted into the force on June 1, 2009, and thus, the group celebrates the day by organising a get-together. “But as there is a health emergency, we all decided to do something to help the needy. We organised a blood donation camp [last year] and 276 constables from our batch donated blood that day,” said Andhale. Another constable from the same group, Sharad Ilag, said, “Our batch members have been very helpful and generous amid the crisis. For a cause like blood donation, our batchmates travelled to Mumbai from towns such as Jalgaon, Sangli, Nashik, Kolhapur and Pune. These days, no one takes the pain to travel for over 500km for donating 300 grams of blood.” Ilag has roped in his wife, a nursing staff from King Edward Memorial Hospital, into the various initiatives of his batch. Cops from this batch also helped fellow batchmates and their families when hit Kolhapur was hit by flood in 2019. At Naigaon’s local arms division, constable Rehana Shaikh, apart from doing her duties as a police personnel, endeavoured to successfully arrange plasma for 54 Covid-19 patients, of which 32 were either cops or their families. “Last year, while helping some colleagues in arranging an injection, I had shared my number with the Covid-19 helpline desk of the police department. Later, the helpdesk staff asked me to arrange injections or plasma for some more Covid-infected cops and I helped them. Later, whenever they would need urgent help, they used to call me. I always responded and used my contacts within and out of the department and ensured timely arrangement of donors and injections. This process worked so well that the helpline desk started calling me regularly, whenever they would exhaust their resources. I, too, felt good to help those in need,” said Shaikh. She said that during this second wave of Covid-19, Twitter was flooded with SOS alerts, with requests for ICU (intensive care unit) beds, oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and other drugs for patients. “Many celebrities or public figures who have vast reach on social media were using their followers’ network to avail help for the needy. But a lower-ranked cop in the police department hardly has any presence on Twitter. But as I developed a network of healthcare activists and NGOs (non-governmental organisations), they made me a common platform and sent SOS alerts for urgent help. I tried helping as many as people as possible,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/beyond-the-line-of-duty-maharashtra-cops-pitch-in-to-help-kin-of-deceased-colleagues-101622318133256.html
30-05-2021||India||Petrol price surges to ₹100/litre in Mumbai||The price of petrol crossed ₹100 per litre in Mumbai on Saturday as state-run retailers raised fuel rates for the 15th time in 26 days, raising petrol rates by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise.The latest hike made petrol ₹3.54 a litre costlier and diesel ₹4.16 since May 4, a day after the results of five assembly polls were declared.Prices of auto fuels are at record levels across the country; diesel was sold at ₹92.17 a litre in the financial capital, the highest among all metro cities. Pump prices of petrol and diesel in Delhi on Saturday also made new records of ₹93.94 per litre and ₹84.89 a litre, respectively.While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Consumers in several cities, particularly in states such as Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, are paying over ₹100 for one litre of petrol. Some of the cities selling the fuel over ₹100/ litre are Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Banswara.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel at pumps. Benchmark Brent crude rose marginally by 0.24% to $69.63 a barrel on Friday. Indian fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their international benchmark rates of the previous day. Even as international oil prices saw both upward and downward movements this month, pump rates of fuels in India moved only in the upward direction.Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 35.5% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23%, according to official data of May 16. On diesel, central taxes are over 38.2% while state taxes are about 14.6%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-prices-breach-the-100-mark-in-mumbai-101622317953170.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialist booked for selling attached property||A city-based industrialist has been booked for allegedly selling a chunk of land which was seized by the Mumbai Enforcement Directorate (ED) in 2014. The accused, identified as Kailash Agarwal of Gurdev Nagar, Ludhiana, had not told the buyer that it was an attached property. The FIR has been lodged on the statement of Ram Dikshit, assistant director, ED, Zonal Office, Mumbai. In his complaint, Dikshit said the ED had seized 19 properties of the accused’s company in 2014 after economic anomalies were detected. The matter is still sub judice. Dikshit said they came to know that the accused had sold a chunk of land, which was seized by the directorate, to someone in 2020. Following this, they filed a complaint with the Ludhiana police commissioner to lodge an FIR. The police chief marked a probe to the additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) who recommended an FIR. Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 421(dishonestly or fraudulently removes, conceals or delivers to any person, or transfer or causes to be transferred to any person), 465 (forgery), 467 (Forgery of a valuable security, will or authority to make or transfer any valuable security, or to receive any money), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any 1[document or electronic record] which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged ) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. The police found that the accused had not only sold the property but also managed to transfer ownership of the property in the name of the buyer even as the ED had already sent information regarding the attached properties to the revenue offices. Police suspect the involvement of revenue department officials. However, the deal has now been cancelled by the authorities. The SI added that police will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialist-booked-for-selling-attached-property-101622317714756.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industry, opposition slam govt over hike in power tariff for commercial units||With the state hiking fixed and energy consumption charges for large scale and power intensive units, pandemic beleaguered industrialists and Opposition parties have slammed the government and Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. The hiked tariff will come into effect from June 1. Terming the announcement anti-industry and the relief to domestic consumers an eyewash ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, industrialists said they are in dire need of relief amid the pandemic. They added that fixed charges for large-scale consumers have been increased by upto ₹20 per KVA and energy consumption charges have been hiked by seven paise. Gurmeet Kular, president, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation, said, “The recently approved power tariff is an election stunt by the state government, for which the industry will have to bear the brunt. As per the new tariff, for a unit with a power connection of 500 KW, an additional ₹15,000 will be charged per month.” Furnace Alliance president Mahesh Gupta, Federation of Punjab Small Industrial Association president Badish Jindal, and Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings general secretary Pankaj Sharma slammed the move. Punjab BJP chief spokesperson Anil Sareen, said, “The government has tried to get votes by announcing ₹ 0.50 to ₹1 relief for residential consumers. But, it has still failed to provide power at ₹5 per unit to industry, which was promised in elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/industry-opposition-slam-govt-over-hike-in-power-tariff-for-commercial-units-101622317713592.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||At 343, Ludhiana clocks lowest new Covid cases in 2 months||The latest novel coronavirus infection figures indicate that the second wave is on a downward trend, with the district clocking 343 new cases — the lowest in two months — and 14 virus-induced casualties on Saturday. The last time the single-day infections in the district were below 350 was March 31 when 328 residents had tested positive. The fatalities also seem to be subsiding as the district had last reported a figure in the ballpark of the day’s tally on April 27 with 13 deaths. After consistently swelling in the beginning of the month, the active cases are also on the decline. The district has 5,226 active infections. Encouragingly, the daily cases have been below the 500-mark for the fifth consecutive day. Nine men and five women lost the battle to the virus on Saturday, the youngest being a 24- year-old man and the oldest a 75-year-old man. Four of the victims were in their 50s, three in their 60s, three in their 70s, two in 30s and one each in the 20 to 40 age bracket.Of the 83,594 people who have contracted the virus till date, 76,389 have successfully beaten the virus. The district’s recovery rate stands at 91.38%. At present, there are 46 patients on ventilator, of which 27 are from Ludhiana and 19 from other districts and states.Two more succumb to black fungus (BOX)Two more patients succumbed to black fungus in the district while five fresh cases were reported on Saturday. So far, the district has logged eight deaths due to mucormycosis, of which six are from other districts. As many as 69 patients are undergoing treatment for the formerly rare fungal disease in different city hospitals, of which 27 are from Ludhiana and 42 from other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-343-ludhiana-clocks-lowest-new-covid-cases-in-2-months-101622317658674.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rumours deterring villagers in Ludhiana from getting tested: Survey||Two days after a man who did not want to be tested for the coronavirus disease attacked a health department staffer, a Mission Fateh-2 survey has revealed that rampant misinformation being spread through social media was hampering the testing and vaccination process in villages. The first six-day long survey, which was conducted by Asha workers, covered 1,65,314 households and 7,66,452 people in the district. Of the 16,564 people tested, 193 were found positive. Mission Fateh kits were provided to all patients in home isolation.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said, “There is a misconception prevalent among villagers that if they were to test positive, they will be sent to the hospital. We are assuring people that a positive diagnosis does not necessarily lead to hospitalisation.” “Efforts are also on to dispel misinformation regarding deaths of Covid patients in hospital. Sadly, social media is doing more harm than good as people are increasingly falling prey to fake news,” Ahluwalia said. With fake news, misinformation and disinformation abound, the matter was raised during the interaction between city-based NGOs with the administration.During the meeting, Congress councillor Mamta Ashu, the wife of Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, urged women volunteers to be harbingers of social change in villages.“Women social activists living in urban areas could mobilise their womenfolk living in rural areas. Once women in rural areas shun hesitancy and come forward to get themselves tested and vaccinated, the men and elderly will also follow suit. If NGOs start adopting two to four villagers, we will get encouraging results in testing as well as in vaccinations,” she said.Dayanand Medical College and Hospital senior cardiologist at Dr Bishav Mohan, who is also a member of the Covid task force, said people living in villages were indulging in self- medication and reaching at a very late stage when the saturation had dropped significantly.Dr Sandeep Kaur, senior medical officer (SMO) of community health centre (CHC), Pakhowal, where the healthcare worker was attacked said that the health staff was facing numerous challenges. “Each day health department teams carrying out the drive have to dispel fake claims linked to tests and vaccination,” said Dr Kaur.Tejpal Singh, state committee member of the multipurpose health employee union, said sampling could not be carried out in the Rachhin village of Pakhowa where the health department team that was carrying out sampling was attacked. “The situation is more or less the same in most of the villages,” said Tejpal Singh.On May 27, a villager had attacked Suraaj Mohammed, 47, a multipurpose health worker, who along with two women employees, was encouraging residents to take Covid tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumours-deterring-villagers-in-ludhiana-from-getting-tested-survey-101622317656433.html
30-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana man arrested for firing in air, thrashing two men||The Sadar police arrested a man for allegedly opening fire in the air and snatching the mobile phone of a Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar resident on Friday before fleeing in his car. Police have recovered the phone and the car used in the crime from the accused.The accused has been identified as Subhash Sharma of Labour Colony of Dugri. His accomplices, including Rajan of Nirmal Nagar of Dugri and two unidentified persons, are yet to be arrested.Complainant Gurdeep Singh said the accused had thrashed one of his friends, Pawan Kumar of Nirmal Nagar, for no reason. On Thursday, he along with Pawan Kumar had gone to meet the accused to resolve the matter. When the duo reached the spot, the accused started thrashing them and opened fire in the air. While fleeing from the spot, the accused also snatched his mobile phone. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ranjeet Singh, Basant Avenue Police Post in-charge, said the case has been registered against Rajan, Shubham and their unidentified accomplice under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 379-B (snatching using force), 506 (criminal intimidation) 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act.A hunt is on for the arrest of the rest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-firing-in-air-thrashing-two-men-101622317655102.html
30-05-2021||Other||Karnal, nearby districts report dip in medical O2 demand||In a positive development, Karnal and its nearby districts are reporting a nearly 30% decline in the demand for liquid medical oxygen (LMO), indicating a fall in the number of critical Covid patients. As per officials, there was an unprecedented spike in the demand for medical oxygen during the peak of the second wave in the beginning of May; but now, the number of patients requiring oxygen support has been consistently dipping. Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “Yes, we are seeing a fall in the demand for medical oxygen as the number of critical patients is coming down. As of now, the per day consumption of LMO in Karnal district is 12 MT as compared to 16 MT in the first week of May.”A senior official of the district administration, who is monitoring the distribution of oxygen cylinders, said the demand of LMO for home isolated patients also dipped from 100 cylinders a day to 50. He said that during the peak of the second wave, demand for home delivery of LMO used to go up to 683.The officials said there was an unprecedented rush for medical oxygen in the last week of April and first week of May as out of 186 ICU beds in government and private hospitals in the district, 181 were occupied and of 443 beds with oxygen support, 406 were taken. But now, out of 479 beds with oxygen support, 244 are unoccupied. Also, 90 out of the total 267 ICU beds in different private and government hospitals in the district are vacant.The demand for LMO has also declined in nearby districts. Kurukshetra DC Sharandeep Kaur Barar said the demand of medical oxygen in the district was around 10MT a day between April 28 and May 3 but now it has declined to 6MT a day. She said 237 cylinders have been delivered to patients for home use.Similarly, officials from Panipat health department said the per-day requirement of LMO has come down to 50 cylinders from 440 cylinders during the peak season. So far, 1, 270 cylinders have been distributed to patients in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-nearby-districts-report-dip-in-medical-o2-demand-101622317653950.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyer shoots man dead, injures 2 over land dispute||A 50-year-old man died and two of his family members were injured after a lawyer opened fire at them following a land dispute at Khokhar village of the district on Saturday morning.Police said the incident took place when Balwinder Singh and his nephew Gurpreet Singh were working in a field. Their relative Amrik Singh, a lawyer, came on a tractor and started ploughing the field to take its possession. When Balwinder and Gurpreet opposed, he fired four gunshots killing Balwinder on the spot. Gurpreet and Balwinder’s wife Manjit Kaur were injured and were rushed to a hospital, said Dalbir Kaur, sister-in-law of the deceased.DSP Sukhpal Singh said: “Balwinder had sold his three kanal of land to Amrik, who wanted to take its possession. But Balwinder was giving him land elsewhere. The dispute turned ugly on Saturday and Amrik shot dead Balwinder.”“A case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered against Amrik, who is on the run,” said Jatinderpal Singh, station house officer, Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawyer-shoots-man-dead-injures-2-over-land-dispute-101622317113809.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal sale of assets: Bhangu’s son-in-law remanded in 3-day police custody||A Ferozepur court on Saturday sent prime accused in the illegal sale of PACL India Limited, also known as Pearls Group, properties, Har Satinder Singh Hayer to three-day police custody. Hayer, son-in-law of Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangu who is in jail in connection with a ponzi scam involving over ₹48,000 crore, was arrested from Mohali with some property-related documents on Friday. Jalalabad deputy superintendent of police Palwinder Singh Sandhu said the SIT will question Hayer during the police remand. In April this year, the SIT filed a chargesheet against multiple accused in a Ferozepur court, saying despite the SC’s 2016 ban order, the PACL and its associated companies started disposing of land worth hundreds of crores in and outside India. As many as 57 people, including company officials and family members of Bhangu, were booked on charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Zira police station in July last year. Several arrests were made by the police on the complaint of one Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district. In December 2015, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had ordered attachment of all assets of PACL and its nine promoters and directors for their failure to refund money to investors. A panel headed by Justice RM Lodha (retired) had initiated the process of refund to the investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-sale-of-assets-bhangu-s-son-in-law-remanded-in-3-day-police-custody-101622316933805.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police ASI, three others held for extortion in Jalandhar||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police and three others, including two women, have been arrested for allegedly trying to extort ₹10 lakh from a Nakodar resident on Saturday. The accused have been identified as ASI Kashmir Singh, head constable Paramjit Singh, Ravi Nahar, Prabhjot Kaur and Gurwinder Kaur of Jalandhar district. Paramjit is yet to be arrested. According to the FIR, Harjinder Singh of Eida village near Nakodar filed a complaint that he received a call from Prabhjot Kaur through one of his acquaintances on May 5. She demanded money for her mother’s treatment. Harjinder met Prabhjot at Lambra bus stand and gave her ₹2,000 in his car. Meanwhile, Kashmir and Paramjit, along with Ravi Nahar and Gurwinder Kaur, forcibly took him out of car and took him to Lohra village gate on the Jalandhar-Nakodar highway. The cops said they will frame him in a criminal case if he fails to pay them ₹10 lakh. The deal was struck at ₹2.5 lakh and Harjinder give them two cheques. “I received calls from Kashmir Singh and Paramjit Singh to collect my cheques and give them money in cash,” added Harjinder. Police said that the complaint was probed and legal action was recommended against the accused. A case under Section 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC was registered at the Sadar police station, Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-asi-three-others-held-for-extortion-in-jalandhar-101622316694596.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rumblings in Cong: Three-member panel to meet Punjab leaders from Monday||The three-member Congress committee headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge will start meeting party leaders from Punjab from Monday to try and resolve factionalism in the state unit. The committee, which includes All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal as members, held its first meeting in Delhi on Saturday and has decided to call all ministers, present and former state unit chiefs, MPs, MLAs and other senior party leaders one by one in the first week of June. The three senior leaders, who have been tasked with finding a solution to squabbling in the state Congress, will start by talking to Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Monday and then meet others over the next one week to comprehend the situation and hear their suggestions and grievances. “The committee will have one-to-one meeting with each one of them to find a solution to their doubts and differences. We have to bring all the state leaders together to present a united face to strengthen the party for the 2022 assembly elections,” Rawat told HT after the meeting. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s detractors, particularly Amritsar East MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, have been suggesting that the party leadership should have one-to-one meetings with party legislators and others so that they can speak freely. On some dissenting leaders’ demand for a change of leadership in the state unit and the government, Rawat said this was not in the purview of the committee. “There is no rebellion. There are differences among some leaders over the sacrilege-related cases and other poll promises. We will see how this can be sorted out, but everything will depend on their feedback and suggestions,” he said, trying to play down the open sparring between Amarinder and Sidhu in recent weeks. While party MLAs have already started getting messages for their audience with the committee at a party office on Gurdwara Rakabganj Road in New Delhi, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi reportedly phoned three party leaders, including one minister, on Saturday for first-hand feedback from them. “Rahul ji spoke to me today and asked about the government and the goings-on in the state party. I told him my views,” Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian said, refusing to divulge the details. Asked about the continued rumblings and meetings of dissenting leaders, Rawat said they were all senior leaders and would express their views before the committee. “I am hopeful that since the Congress president has respected their sentiments and set up a high-level committee, they (party leaders) will display due regard for the committee and the conclusion it arrives at even though not everyone can be satisfied,” he said. The committee was constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi after Sidhu and a few other party leaders in the state targeted the chief minister for the legal setback in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. Amarinder and his loyalists also hit back equally hard. The rift got worse when the state agencies started to dig up dirt on some of the detractors and one of them even alleged a threat call from an aide of the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumblings-in-cong-three-member-panel-to-meet-punjab-leaders-from-monday-101622316274270.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 125 deaths, 3,102 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Saturday recorded 125 Covid-related fatalities taking the death toll to 14,305, while 3,102 new cases took the infection count to 5,62,831.The state’s positivity rate dropped from 5.12% on Friday to 4.56%. The number of active cases dropped to 42,177 from 44,964 on Friday, according to a media bulletin released by the state government. Ludhiana and Bathinda reported 14 deaths each, followed by 12 in Amritsar, 11 in Fazilka and nine in Sangrur, the bulletin said. Ludhiana reported a maximum of 343 cases, followed by 291 in Bathinda, 254 in Jalandhar and 233 in Mohali, it said. With 5,698 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 5,06,349, it said.There are 326 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 4,918 are on oxygen support and 878 other are critical patients, the bulletin said.A total of 91,42,425 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-125-deaths-3-102-fresh-covid-cases-101622316034204.html
30-05-2021||Other||UP govt departments asked to seek approvals for lump sum allocations||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked administrative departments to seek approval from the appropriate levels if they were proposing any amendment to the work plan submitted for a lump sum allocation for 2021-22. The departments have also been asked to explain the propriety of such changes.A lump sum provision is made with regard to certain administrative departments for anticipated expenditures without a specific mention of further details.“Lump sum provisions are made for construction of roads or school buildings etc without giving further details,” said those aware of government budgeting. “I have been directed to say that the administrative departments should seek approval from the appropriate level while explaining propriety if any amendment is felt necessary in the interest of work,” said additional chief secretary (finance) S Radha Chauhan in an order dated May 28, 2021.Chauhan, in her order sent to all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and the secretaries, had quoted directives of state finance department dated March 10, 2021 for finalisation of annual work plan.“Lump sum is an amount that the executive gets from legislature in anticipation of some expenditure which cannot be explained at the time of making provisions in the state budget,” said former finance secretary Arvind Narain Mishra.The state finance department’s order dated March 10, 2021 had asked departments to finalise their annual work plans for lump sum by April 15, 2021. It said proposals for lump sum with estimated expenditure up to ₹10 crore needed to be approved by the department’s minister. For proposal of ₹10 to ₹25 crore, the approval of the finance minister will be required while proposal for ₹25 crore and above approval of the finance minister and the chief minister will be needed. The state finance department will not consider any proposal without necessary approvals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-departments-asked-to-seek-approvals-for-lump-sum-allocations-101622316033060.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Colleges, students grapple with pandemic truths||In the final year of her BSc Botany course, Anisha was supposed to learn how to use a spectrophotometer to measure the amount of photons absorbed by plants. However, the 22-year-old will soon graduate with a degree in Botany from a suburban college in Mumbai without having seen the instrument in person.“I saw a video of my teacher performing the experiment, but never really saw it,” she said.The Covid-19 pandemic shut down almost all campuses across the country. While educational institutes were quick to move to online mode of education, the pandemic deprived students of practical knowledge that students learn on campus. Many will graduate this year without having set foot in a laboratory for more than a year.Faculty members and principals of various colleges in the city highlighted a skill gap that will affect prospects of the graduates in getting admission to higher education institutes as well as job opportunities.“Graduating students, who haven’t been on campus for more than a year, will miss out on the experience of doing a practical experiment. The problem is students will not know how to operate an instrument properly because they have only seen it in pictures or videos,” said principal of a prominent college in the city.Admissions: How to compare apples to orangesAdmission to degree colleges is going to be a tough affair this year, especially with different boards adopting different methodologies to mark students. “For example, state board has cancelled exams. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to decide. That’s apples and oranges. How do you define merit without bringing students from different boards to the same level,” asked principal of a suburban college.Drawing up merit lists is going to be difficult this year, said most principals interviewed by HT. All of them requested anonymity.Unlike professional courses such as medicine, engineering and law where candidates have to take a centralised exam, admission to degree colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU) are based on students’ performance in board exams.“Online exams are not a proper reflection of a students’ understanding of a subject. So to judge the students on online exams is not appropriate,” said a principal.While some colleges conduct entrance exams for some niche courses, holding entrance exams for all subjects would require enormous resources that colleges lack at short notice. “However, it is not impossible. In a meeting with state government officials, we, principals, have suggested ways of conducting online entrance exams,” said Kishore Peshori, principal, MMK College of Commerce, Bandra.“Until last year, even for niche courses, 70% weightage was on entrance exam and 30% on board results. This year, we are planning to make it 100% on entrance exam,” said a principal.Hiring: Bridging an irreparable skill gapEvery year when the Union budget is announced, final year BCom students of HR College in Churchgate watch the speech with their faculty and engage in analysis. This year, the event happened online as students and faculty joined in virtually.“It is a universal fact that there is an irreparable skill gap. The onus is now on colleges and students themselves to bridge this gap in the best possible way, given the circumstances,” said Navin Punjabi, assistant professor and director (placements) at HR College.He said that this year recruiters have been preferring students who are skilled to start working virtually. “Recruiters are realising that if the student can start working from home, they can save time and resources on on-boarding the new recruit in the virtual process. So, we are trying to train our students in the same,” Punjabi added.Paavan Choudary, founder of Merilytics, an analytics solution firm that rolled out over 100 offers across premiere institutes such as Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), agreed with Punjabi.“The pandemic has been both a boon and a bane for talent acquisition. On one hand, due to virtual processes, we are able to expand our reach of campuses, but on the other hand, it has become highly competitive to find talent. We don’t think any additional training is necessary, at least from our perspective, but the on-boarding processes are largely virtual, which implies we have to budget more time for people to integrate,” said Choudary.Over the last weekend, Scaler, an upskilling platform for students and working professionals in the technology space, held a virtual job fair for students. “Virtual hiring events are becoming the new normal. Our online assessment test platform is being used by many technology companies for screening their new recruits,” said Abhimanyu Saxena, co-founder of Scaler.He said that many technology firms are adding an additional screening level and asking students to take live coding tests. Video CVs are also becoming increasingly popular among recruiters.“We have already introduced an additional level of screening by introducing video proctoring during an online test and virtual interviews. We have been using video CVs as the first step along with resume as it helps in the selection process. Coding tests with real-time compilers are used to assess coding ability. Students can take the online test/interviews from their location using laptop or desktop or mobile phone. In case of any suspicious activity by the student, the system warns the candidate and shares the final report with the recruiter whether the student was found suspicious or non-suspicious during the process,” said SJ Raj, senior vice-president, human resources operations, Newgen Software, a digital transformation firm.Raj said that even as the pandemic subsides, companies may continue to use technology. “In the future, considering most of the colleges are off city limits, technology will be the big enabler. It will be a hybrid model wherein local colleges can be covered offline while outstation colleges can be covered with the online process to optimise our effort and cost,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colleges-students-grapple-with-pandemic-truths-101622315913625.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||New UGC rules facilitates autonomy to seven MU colleges in past one year||The move to reduce the academic burden of University of Mumbai (MU) is an ongoing process and while the state government has already approved two cluster universities as well as the state’s first private university, more and more colleges have managed to acquire autonomous status in the past one year.As per information shared by MU officials, there were 35 autonomous colleges, including five university departments, under the varsity by February 2020. However, making use of the new University Grants Commission (UGC) rules, seven other colleges have managed to get the prestigious status, taking the total number to 42 at present.“Earlier the process of autonomy was a two-step process and colleges first had to seek approval from the affiliated university before approaching UGC. But now UGC has streamlined the process, and this has encouraged more colleges to apply and achieve the autonomous status in the past one year,” said Deepak Wasave, deputy registrar, affiliation section, MU. He added that with the change in rules approved by UGC in 2018, colleges now only need affiliation confirmation from the respective university and can then approach UGC directly. “This cuts down the process time by more than half, helping more and more colleges in seeking autonomy,” he said.Well performing colleges were first encouraged to seek autonomy to help reduce the burden on MU, which has more than 800 affiliated colleges. The state education department encouraged more and more ‘A’ grade accredited colleges to apply for autonomy and handed over the reins of academic growth to the institutes themselves.UGC had earlier mentioned that colleges that get ‘A’ grade in three consecutive National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) cycles should be awarded autonomous status.The new guidelines, referred to as University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018, now states that henceforth, colleges with a NAAC score of 3.51 and above shall be considered for autonomous status “without onsite visit by the expert committee” of UGC.One of the last institutes to be awarded autonomy was KJ Somaiya Institute of Engineering & Information Technology, in March this year. “At the UGC level, things have become much more facilitative, but the process still has hurdles and delays. Even though UGC permits new courses for autonomous colleges, if such a course is not there in the affiliating university, additional steps and more processes for approval cause further delays,” said professor VN Rajasekharan Pillai, provost, Somaiya Vidyavihar.Time and again experts have commented on the need for “full-fledged autonomy” as opposed to only academic autonomy. “There are four facets of autonomy — academic, financial, administrative and managerial. Technically, autonomy survives on these four pillars, but what colleges are getting right now is only academic autonomy, which dilutes the power of the status,” said SS Mantha, former director of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).Colleges, too, have highlighted the need for more diversity in the status. “What we get is more or less autonomy in conduct of examination only. Though autonomous colleges are getting some liberty, what we need is complete autonomy,” said Naresh Chandra, principal of BK Birla College, Kalyan.At present, autonomous colleges are allowed to design and upgrade their curriculum and to conduct examination as per their own schedule. However, the result is still certified by the university they were formerly affiliated to. “In order to initiate any new project, one needs financial backing and with that important part missing, it limits the growth of the institute,” said Mantha, adding, “The true strength of an institution in terms of what it does academically or otherwise is revealed only when they start giving out their own degree certificates, without the backing of an established university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-ugc-rules-facilitates-autonomy-to-seven-mu-colleges-in-past-one-year-101622315913041.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||82-year-old hotelier duped of ₹1.7 crore by Facebook friend||Colaba police registered a first information report (FIR) on the basis of a complaint lodged by an 82-year-old Malabar Hill resident who has been cheated to the tune of ₹1.7 crore by a London-based friend he met on social media platform Facebook.The complainant was befriended by a woman on the social media platform who posed as a senior executive of a UK-based pharmaceutical company. She induced the complainant into investing money in supplying raw material for an alleged drug for cancer treatment and cheated him.According to police sources, the complainant received a friend request from one Samantha Mathew, who introduced herself as purchase manager in pharmaceutical company at London, in February this year. After chatting on the platform for a while, the two shared their mobile numbers. “Mathew told the complainant that her company procured some herbal raw material for producing a cancer medicine from a firm in Nagaland, India. This raw material, she claimed, was extracted from a tree in Nagaland and added that she has been procuring the raw material for the company and was getting good commission for it. She then allegedly told him that her employer was transferring her to some other department, and offered the complainant her company’s agency for procuring the raw material and earn 60% commission,” said a police officer. The complainant decided to invest money in the business of supplying the raw material and entered a deed of agreement with Mathew’s company on May 3. As per the agreement, which was sent to the complainant through email, he was supposed to buy 5,000 packets of the raw material from Nagaland-based Varma Enterprises and send it to the company in the UK for a period of five years. The firm also stated that they would check samples first and then make 50% advance payment for a shipment. For the one packet of raw material, the company agreed to pay around ₹2 lakh.The complainant bought five packets from the Nagaland firm for ₹75,000 each to send as samples. But the UK-based company told him that they would need at least 500 packets as sample.However, after the complainant sent around ₹1.7 crore to buy 500 packets to the said Nagaland-based firm, he did not get the delivery. Upon checking with the firm repeatedly, the firm told him that they would send an executive via air to deliver the samples. Upon reaching the airport on the given date, the complainant found out that no such person was in the flight. Following this, he approached Colaba police.“We have registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 (Computer related offences) of the Information Technology Act. We are in process of obtaining details of the transactions, online Facebook accounts and beneficiary bank accounts. We suspect that the accused used fake names, fake company details and website and emails IDs,” said a police officer.Another police officer said the typical modus operandi indicates involvement of a Nigerian gang in the fraud. “Nigerian cyber fraudsters have been using the false stories of cancer-curing herbal medicine since many years and targetting vulnerable senior citizens on Facebook,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/82yearold-hotelier-duped-of-1-7-crore-by-facebook-friend-101622315853588.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone-hit barge Gal Constructor spills diesel into Arabian Sea||Barge Gal Constructor, which for stuck on the rocky ridges at Vadrai coast, Palghar due to Cyclone Tauktae, has started to spill around 80,000 litres of diesel and lube, grease and other liquids into the sea. Fishermen from the area said a layer of fuel has formed over the water, making it difficult for them to fish. Contractors of the barge, which had 137 crew members onboard when it was stuck in the Arabia Sea amid the cyclone, have arrived at the spot and are making attempts to contain the spillage.The Coast Guard, in a statement, said that two fuel barges are being used to remove the oil and repairs to the hull is on.The barge, which was on ONGC duty, drifted to Vadrai coast on May 17 after it lost power. The Coast Guard with the help of three Chetak choppers and ship rescued all 137 crew members but the barge is still stuck at the coast, jeopardising the environment and leading to marine pollution.Manendra Arekar, chairman of Vadrai Machimar Sarvodaya Society, complained to Palghar port officer about the dangers of marine pollution due to the spillage. “Due to the oil spillage, the entire Vadrai, Satpati coast area is reeking of fuel, oil and chemicals, and as a result fishing is impossible. A thin layer of fuel is formed, leading to harm to marine lives,” said Arekar, adding, “We have appealed to the port officer to take remedial action to prevent more damage to the coast and the environment.”Poornima Meher, a fishermen leader, said the barge should be removed from the spot immediately before the onset of monsoon and that the spillage be controlled. “The fuel and oil load should be emptied on an emergency level, or else we will protest at the spot as 12 days have passed since the spillage,” Meher said.Assistant inspector Sudhir Dhayarkar of Satpati coastal police station said contractors and owners of the barge approached the police seeking security at the spot as the team are at the location to contain the spillage. “They are using boom, a big ring surrounding the barge, which will soak up the oil and fuel spillage,” said the official. “It is a time consuming process and we have not been informed as to when the fuel and oil will be emptied as the hull of the barge has formed cracks in some areas, resulting in the spillage. The process could take months,” said Dhayarkar. He further added that locals visiting the barge during low tide made the job difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclonehit-barge-gal-constructor-spills-diesel-into-arabian-sea-101622315853001.html
30-05-2021||Other||UP’s first 6-lane extradosed bridge at Prayagraj to be ready by 2024||Ministry of road transport and highways is constructing Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) first six-lane extradosed bridge over the Ganga in Prayagaraj.An extradosed bridge employs a structure that combines the main elements of both a box girder bridge and a cable-stayed bridge, officials said. The bridge, from Malak Harhar to Stanley road (near Beli Hospital), is expected to be ready by February 2024, said officials.“The state’s first six-lane extradosed bridge will have an overall length of 9.9 kilometers, of which 3.84 km would be the main bridge and the rest of the distance would be approach section of the bridge,” said project director Raj Kishor Singh, an Indian Engineering Services (IES) officer. “The stretch of 3.84 km would have 67 pillars and foundation work of 17 pillars is now in process. Also, of this 3.84 km, the span of 860 meters would be extradosed bridge and the rest would be precast segmental bridge, having span of 50 meters,” he said.“Of this, 860 meters, there would be three spans of 200 meters while two of 130 meters would be balancing spans on either side of the bridge. Besides, two spans of 50 meters would also be there on either side of the stretch,” said Singh.“The bridge would start from the Pratapgrah road (around 500 meters from Malak Harhar trisection), gain height to over cross the existing Y-junction (going towards Lucknow) and would then cross the Ganga from Kacchar area spanning over Beli village before ending at Stanley road,” he said. “For the commuters, wishing to move towards Lucknow, there would be a slip road using which one can turn towards Lucknow, while those going towards Pratapgrah or Faizabad would stay on the bridge and land on the existing Prayagraj-Pratapgrah highway,” said Singh who has earlier executed work on Varanasi airport link road. To speed up the construction work, a temporary road has been constructed which would expedite the transport of men and material. “We have the challenge of expediting the construction work amid Covid-19 pandemic. The total cost of the bridge is 1948.25 crore and would be completed by February 2024,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-first-6-lane-extradosed-bridge-at-prayagraj-to-be-ready-by-2024-101622315733521.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Dadar GRP arrests two||Dadar Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a history-sheeter for extortion and robbery. The accused’s wife, who was being brought for questioning in the case, has also been arrested after she tried to escape. According to GRP officers, a special team was set up to arrest Santosh Kumar Singh alias Bablu Thakur, wanted in a crime that took place on March 7. Police received a tip-off on Friday that Singh was to visit Govandi along with his accomplices. The officers laid a trap and arrested Singh. During investigation, police found out that Singh had bought property worth crores in the name of his wife Rita Singh.Meanwhile, Rita was absconding and was hiding in Juinagar in Navi Mumbai under a fake identity. With the help of Nerul police, GRP officers located Rita.However, when she was being escorted from the platform at Dadar station towards GRP police station, Rita jumped on the tracks to in an attempt to escape from police custody.“As soon as Rita jumped on the track, constable Arjun Dhanvat followed her and jumped after her. He pulled her towards the other side of the track and saved her from getting crushed under an approaching local train,” said a police officer from Dadar GRP.She was then placed under arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dadar-grp-arrests-two-101622315734142.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra human rights body defunct for over a month for want of members||The Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) has been dysfunctional for over a month, ever since the last member on the commission, judicial member MA Sayeed, retired on April 27. Now all the adjudicatory posts— chairman, judicial member, expert member, and special inspector general — are all vacant, advocate Vaishnavi Gholave has highlighted in a notice issued to the state government, calling upon the state authorities to fill up the vacant posts at the earliest.In her letter to the chief minister and other state dignitaries, Gholave also highlighted the fact that no appointments have been made to MSHRC since July 2018, although there were around 20,737 cases of human rights violations are waiting to be adjudicated.According to the notice, “acting chairperson MA Sayeed retired on April 27, 2021 and this has left the commission entirely non-functional”. There’s a notice on MSHRC website declaring that “all new matters have been adjourned sine die”.According to the information obtained by Gholave under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the last MSHRC chairman retired on January 23, 2018 and the expert member demitted office on September 16 of the same year, and the posts have been lying vacant since then.The post of special inspector general of police attached to the commission, who undertakes investigations as may be ordered by the commission, has been vacant since December 12, 2019. Overall, around 50% of the sanctioned posts on the establishment of MSHRC are vacant as of date.As per information obtained by the lawyer, only 1,083 cases have been disposed of in the past year due to non-availability of regular chairperson and expert member, which led to the entire load being handled by a single judicial member, Sayeed, who also had to discharge administrative and other functions till the date of his retirement.In this backdrop, Gholave has called upon the state authorities to fill up the vacant posts at the earliest. “The Constitution of India guarantees the right to seek justice,” states her notice, adding, “So if there are no members appointed to give justice, people will be deprived of the constitutional right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-human-rights-body-defunct-for-over-a-month-for-want-of-members-101622315732956.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Man, wife booked for abusing mother||Bandra police on Saturday registered a first information report (FIR) against a local resident and his wife for allegedly harassing and beating the man’s 53-year-old mother. According to the victim, Rafat Gholapkar, her 27-year-old son Saad and his wife Lubna, 26, had beaten her up when she refused to leave her own house. In her statement to police, Gholapkar stated that she lived with her husband at Bazaar Road in Bandra (West). Her son had married Lubna in 2012 and initially lived separately, but the couple moved in with them after a few months and started fighting with the complainant.She stated that when she tried complaining to her husband after the couple abused her, he did not pay any heed.On May 17, the couple demanded that Gholapkar leave the house, to which she objected saying it was her house. The couple then allegedly started abusing her and beat her up. Following this, she approached the policeAdvocate Mariam Tanveer Nizam, on behalf of the complainant, said, “This is a blatant case of domestic violence against women and a very unfortunate example of lack of support from the in-laws. We are grateful to Bandra Police for taking cognisance and booking the guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-wife-booked-for-abusing-mother-101622315673014.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Model files rape, molestation case against photographer, 8 others||A 28-year-old Andheri-based model, who recently sparked controversy after making MeToo allegations, has filed a complaint of rape and molestation with Bandra police against photographer Colston Julian and eight others including son of a known producer, a Bollywood talent manager and a film producer. Mumbai Police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu confirmed the development and said further investigation is on.The model had, on April 12, written a post on a social media platform, narrating how she was physically and emotionally abused during a work assignment. She also wrote to a senior police officer seeking to file a case against the photographer alleging sexual harassment and physical assault.Bandra police on May 26 registered a first information report (FIR) in the matter.Julian did not respond to HT’s calls and messages.According to police sources, the model in her complaint stated that Julian took advantage of her and allegedly raped her in Bandra between 2014 and 2018 under false pretext.The photographer had earlier quashed the accusations as “false and spiteful”. In a post on a social media platform, he had written, “Dear all, it has come to my notice that a social media post and news article with entirely false and spiteful accusations, are making certain claims against me. My lawyers are following the official process and are responding to the situation legally.” Besides Julian, the model has accused eight others of allegedly raping her on different occasions.The police have registered an FIR against the nine accused under sections 376N (committing rape repeatedly on the same woman), 354 (molestation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are further investigating the matter and checking the veracity of the allegations and collecting evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/model-files-rape-molestation-case-against-photographer-8-others-101622315553691.html
30-05-2021||Other||UP CM announces scheme for children who lost parents to Covid-19||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced a welfare scheme for children who have either lost both of their parents or the earning parent to Covid-19.Under the scheme, known as the Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Sewa Yojana, every such child of 18 years and below in the state will get financial assistance of ₹4,000 per month till they become adults or turn self-reliant. The assistance will go to the caretaker of the children to ensure they are looked after. Elaborating about the scheme, Yogi Adityanath said, “Children who have lost both of their parents to Covid-19, a surviving parent, legal guardian in case the parents have already died earlier, will be included in this scheme. Children, who have lost the earning parent of their family will also be included in the scheme. The state government is committed to better health, better education and for the bright future of the children.” The state government will also provide tablets or laptops to all such children studying in schools, colleges or pursuing vocational education. The government will provide financial assistance of ₹1,01,000 for the marriage of girls under the scheme. Orphans aged between two and 10 years, who do not have any guardian or extended family to take care of them, will be rehabilitated in five Rajkiya Bal Grah (children’s shelter homes) across the state. There are five such children’s shelter homes in Mathura, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Agra and Rampur. “The state cabinet will pass the scheme on Monday in which further details will be clear,” said an official of the women and child development department. The state government has also made a separate provision for taking care of minor girls. All such orphaned girls will be rehabilitated in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (residential) run by the Centre. In addition, the government will also try to rehabilitate them in 13 girls’ shelter homes run by the state government. If required, the state government could also rehabilitate girls in any of the 18 Atal Awasiya Vidyalayas (Atal Residential Schools) which are being set up across the state. After getting reports of a large number of children being orphaned due to the pandemic, the state government decided to frame a rehabilitation policy for them. The women and child development department of the state government has been tasked with identifying such children. The department has asked district magistrates to take the help of village child protection committees headed by gram pradhans in preparing this list. Child Line (1098), special juvenile police units, district child protection units and nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) in the rural and urban areas are also assisting the district magistrates in the task. The department of women and child development has also asked officials to take adequate steps to prevent child marriages, child trafficking and act if any such incident is reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-announces-scheme-for-covid-orphaned-children-101622315553007.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four youths drown in Sutlej in Punjab’s SBS Nagar district||Four youths, aged between 17 and 21 years, drowned after jumping into the Sutlej for a bath in Punjab’s SBS Nagar district on Saturday evening. They have been identified as Hardeep Kumar, Sandeep, Happy, and Nitin of Balachaur town in the district. Senior superintendent of police Alka Meena said their bodies were recovered with the help of divers. The four were among dozen youths who had gone to the river at Aauliyapur village near Balachaur around 3pm. As the four ventured into the deep waters, they got stuck and drowned. The other youths rushed back and informed police.Lal Bahadur, a local councillor, said all the victims belonged to families of labourers. Happy was the only child of his parents. Police have initiated inquest proceedings. Bodies will be handed over to family members after postmortem on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-youths-drown-in-sutlej-in-punjab-s-sbs-nagar-district-101622314113514.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||MCDs push to sanitise industrial areas in city||With the Delhi government announcing relaxation in lockdown curbs from Monday, after more than five weeks, and paving the way for the reopening of industrial units, the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD) on Saturday started an intensive drive to sanitise industrial areas across the city.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation started the sanitisation drive from Anand Parbat industrial area while the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) sanitised Jhilmil industrial area on Saturday. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) also carried out sanitisation activities in Okhla industrial area, along with other residential neighbourhoods.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that the construction sector and factories can resume operations from Monday, when a phased unlocking of the Capital will begin.Jai Prakash, mayor of north MCD, said the civic body has decided to sanitise all the industrial areas falling under its jurisdiction. “Before Monday, the sanitisation drive will be conducted at Wazirpur, Bawana, Narela, Shahzada Bagh, and Mundka, among other industrial areas. We are taking every possible step to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We are also sanitising residential areas with sprinkler tankers,” he said.Similarly, EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said sanitisation has been intensified in the industrial areas such as Anand Vihar, Patparganj, Jhilmil, Vivek Vihar, Gokulpuri, etc. “All the industrial areas will be thoroughly sanitised before the unlocking process begins,” said Jain.A senior SDMC official said, “Industrial areas such as Okhla, Badarpur, Hari Nagar among others are regularly being sanitised along with residential neighbourhoods,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcds-sanitise-industrial-units-set-to-open-from-monday-101622313933361.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Except two exemptions, curbs to stay for a week||Except for construction activities and manufacturing units in approved industrial areas, which have been permitted to resume from Monday, the ongoing lockdown in Delhi will continue as it is for at least another week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order issued on Saturday.“The owners of manufacturing production units (and) the owners, contractors, employers of construction activities shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of all the directives. Only asymptomatic workers and employees will be allowed at the workplace. Staggering of work/business hours will be followed at the workplace in order to ensure proper social distancing between workers, adequate gaps between shifts, staggering the lunch breaks of staff etc,” the order, issued by additional chief secretary Satya Gopal, said.Also read: Delhi’s new Covid-19 cases drop below 1,000A senior state government official clarified that for the general public, the lockdown in Delhi will continue as it is for another week.Also, manufacturing or production units will be allowed within closed premises only in approved industrial areas and construction activities will be permitted within work sites. To be sure, any industrial unit operating outside an approved industrial area in Delhi is considered illegal. The Capital has 29 approved industrial areas, including in Bawana, Narela and Patparganj.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that the construction sector and factories can resume operations from Monday.The DDMA in its order mandated that all workers and employees maintain Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at the workplace. These include wearing masks, maintaining social distance, no spitting in public places and no consumption of tobacco products or liquor.Workers will be also need to have an e-pass, which can be obtained by the owners, employers or contractors, by submitting an online application with details of employees on the Delhi government website.The government has also directed all district magistrates (DMs) to ensure random RT-PCR/rapid antigen tests at the manufacturing and production units, and at construction sites, on a regular basis.All DMs and their counterpart district DCPs shall deploy special teams for regular inspection of these manufacturing/production units as well as construction sites for ensuring effective compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour by all workers/employees, read the order.“Existing e-passes for those engaged in essential services will continue to be valid throughout the lockdown. Moreover, the police have been asked to ensure effective checking of movement of people and vehicles by putting an adequate number of pickets with the objective to prevent unnecessary movement of people on roads during the curfew. DMs, DCPs and the MCDs have been asked to strictly check Covid appropriate behaviour in all mandis, ISBTS, railway platforms/stations, slum areas as well as at all shops providing essential goods and services during the curfew,” said the order.“It should be ensured that the people who visit these places strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour. No shops (of non-essential commodities or services) or weekly markets should function illegally within the jurisdiction of the respective DM,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/except-for-construction-and-manufacturing-all-lockdown-curbs-to-stay-for-another-week-ddma-101622313932849.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi top cop reviews security as Covid curbs eased||Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Friday reviewed security arrangements ahead of the gradual relaxation of lockdown curbs in the Capital from Monday. The police chief directed field officers to study locality-wise spread of the infection and identify areas, so as to strictly enforce Covid safety measures in the spots. The top cop also cautioned officers on the possibility of rise in street crime. Saturday’s meeting, held through video conference, was attended by all DCPs, and their seniors, special and joint commissioners of police.“Shrivastava also directed police staff to go on ground to check violations and take necessary action,” said Delhi police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-chief-reviews-security-arrangements-101622313872793.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Soon, breeze through immigration ‘e-gates’||The bureau of immigration is all set to install automated e-gates, which will scan passenger information without any human intervention, at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport starting July.Officials said the facility, called the Trusted Travellers Program (TTP), will reduce the clearance time by almost half, and has been designed on the lines of the US’s Global Entry Program, which allows pre-approved immigration clearance for low-risk travellers. Initially, eight e-gates -- four each in departure and arrival immigration areas -- will be installed.Also read: India throws weight behind Quad groupOfficials claimed that the new facility will drastically cut down the time taken for immigration clearance. “On an average, the immigration clearance process currently takes about 1.5 to 2 minutes for a passenger at counters staffed by immigration officials at the Delhi airport. This is the time taken at the counter, and does not include time spent waiting in the queue. With the e-gates in place, as manual intervention will be zero, a passenger will be able to gain immigration clearance within 30-40 seconds,” said an officer, who wished not to be named.Another officer aware of the development said on condition of anonymity that to get immigration clearance at the e-gates, passengers will need to scan their passports and boarding passes themselves. “After ascertaining that the passport and boarding pass are genuine, a camera attached to the scanner will click a picture of the passenger’s face. The e-gate will also scan their fingerprints, which will be matched with a database of the prohibited or blacklisted passengers within seconds. Once cleared, the e-gates will open, allowing the passenger to proceed,” the officer said.Also read: Pulwama hero’s widow completes mission to become an army officerOfficers also said that initially, there will be staff present to assist the passengers in the process. The passengers’ data will also be recorded with the bureau of immigration for future use, they added.The e-gate was put on trial at Delhi airport in December last year for three months. The officer said that after completion of the trials, they received approval from the MHA to proceed. “Orders have been placed to buy the technology and operations are expected to begin by July first week,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/soon-breeze-through-immigration-e-gates-at-igi-airport-101622313813461.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar sent to 4-day police custody||A Delhi court on Saturday sent wrestler and Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar to police custody for four days in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old wrestler, saying that the allegations against him are “grave” and “serious”.Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Goel, who also allowed the custodial interrogation of co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, said that “no one is above law and it treats everyone equally”. “… the allegations against both the accused persons are very grave and serious in nature. Moreover, the involvement of a large number of persons in the commission of crime as well as in hiding out of the accused persons, some of which belong to some notorious gangs stationed in Delhi and outside Delhi are yet to be arrested (sic),” said the judge, noting that the initial days of the investigation are crucial. He agreed with the police submission that recoveries of mobile phones and clothes have to be made. “As such, in the interest of justice, deem it appropriate to allow the application of IO to the extent of four days only,” the court said in a seven-page order.Police had sought seven days custody for Kumar and co-accused Sehrawat, who were arrested from Mundka area on May 23. Kumar has been booked for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy in the murder of wrestler Sagar Rana, a former national junior wrestling champion. Advocate Pradeep Rana, the counsel for Sushil Kumar, accused the police of a media trial and trying to curtail the freedom of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushil-kumar-sent-to-4-day-police-custody-101622313814041.html
30-05-2021||Lucknow||UP to get more rain in next two days, says IMD||Several districts of eastern and central Uttar Pradesh are expected to receive heavy rainfall accompanied with thunderstorms and gusty winds on May 30 and June 1, according to a forecast issued by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday.Considering the alert, the state government has asked administrations of as many as 24 districts to stay on alert and make arrangements to reduce the damage cause by the adverse weather.Director of state MeT department JP Gupta said, “The disturbance caused by cyclone Yaas is moving slowly towards north-western direction inland in the next couple of days before losing its energy. This movement will lead to adverse weather conditions in UP.”Lucknow and other districts of central UP may also receive scattered rain over the next two days, according to IMD.On Saturday too, some districts, including state capital, reported scattered rain which led to drop in temperatures. The state capital recorded a maximum temperature of 30 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was recorded at 24 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-get-more-rain-in-next-two-days-says-imd-101622313812886.html
30-05-2021||Other||Professor C.N.R. Rao gets Eni Award for his research on renewables||Bharat Ratna Professor C.N.R. Rao has received International Eni Award 2020 for research into renewable energy sources and energy storage, also called the Energy Frontier award, said Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advances Scientific Research (JNCASR) in a statement. Eni Award is considered to be the Nobel Prize in Energy Research. It will be presented to him in October 2021 in Rome.Professor Rao has been working on hydrogen energy as the only energy source for the benefit of mankind. Hydrogen storage, photochemical and electrochemical production of hydrogen, solar production of hydrogen, and non-metallic catalysis were the highlights of his work.“Rao has been conferred with prestigious Energy Frontiers Award in recognition of his research in renewable energy sources and energy storage,” the statement read.According to the statement, the award has been conferred for his work on metal oxides, carbon nanotubes, and other materials and two-dimensional systems, including graphene, boron-nitrogen-carbon hybrid materials, and molybdenum sulfide (Molybdenite - MoS2) for energy applications and green hydrogen production.The award, which has become internationally recognised over the years in energy and environmental research, aims to promote better use of energy sources and encourage new generations of researchers in their work. It bears witness to the importance that Eni places on scientific research and innovation. It includes a cash prize and a specially minted gold medal, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/professor-c-n-r-rao-gets-eni-award-for-his-research-on-renewables-101622313692807.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||City won’t get 550,000 allotted jabs before June 10: Sisodia||Delhi will not get its next allocation of 550,000 Covid-19 doses for the 18-45 age bracket before June 10, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday, adding that the state will need several more doses if it wants to inoculate its entire population.“Yesterday [Friday], the Centre communicated to us that the Delhi government will get 5.5 lakh allocated doses only by June 10. Firstly, 5.5 lakh doses are too little, and on top of that they are not giving us the doses on time. Delhi has 92 lakh people aged between 18 and 45. We need 1.84 crore doses [to inoculate all of them completely]. We are prepared to vaccinate all of them in three months, but there are no vaccines only due to gross mismanagement by the Centre. The Delhi government only received 4.5 lakh doses in April, and then 3.66 lakh doses in May,” said the deputy chief minister, while addressing a video press briefing.Also read | Vietnam detects hybrid Covid-19 variant: ReportSisodia also asked how private hospitals that charge people for the vaccines — as compared to state-run centres, which administer jabs for free — are able to get stocks, while the state government is short of vaccines.All of the Delhi government’s vaccination centres for the 18-45 age group have been shut for nearly a week now due to a shortage of vaccines.A senior government official said that when Covaxin doses arrive, those due for their second dose will be given priority to ensure they are fully vaccinated within the stipulated 28-day period.In addition, the deputy chief minister also asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-run Centre why finance ministers of some BJP-ruled states are opposing Goods and Service Tax (GST) waivers on essential health items such as vaccines, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters and so on.Several states across the country have requested for all Covid-essential materials, equipment, medicines and vaccines to be exempted from GST. To this effect, the Union government on Saturday constituted an eight-member ministerial panel under Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma to consider GST exemptions on a range of Covid-19 medical essentials.Also read: Except two exemptions, curbs to stay for a weekReferring to the GST council meeting chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday that was attended by all state finance ministers, Sisodia said, “As the finance minister of Delhi, I proposed making vaccines and other essential health equipment such as pulse-oximeters, PPE kits, etc. tax-free. Finance ministers of West Bengal, Punjab, Chhattisgarh too demanded the same. However, when I proposed the need to make vaccines and Covid-19 related equipment tax free, many finance ministers of BJP-ruled states resisted and therefore, a consensus could not be concurred.”Central government spokespersons did not respond despite repeated requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-will-not-get-550k-alloted-vaccine-doses-before-june-10-sisodia-101622313633561.html
30-05-2021||Other||Hyderabad couple mobilises ₹16cr through crowd-funding for son’s treatment||In a record of sorts, a Hyderabad-based couple mobilised ₹16 crore in a span of three-and-a-half months from 65,000 donors through crowd-funding to buy a medicine, supposed to be the world’s costliest medicine – for treating their three-year-old son suffering from a rare disease – Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA). Yogesh Gupta from Chhattisgarh, who has been working in a private firm in Hyderabad for the last 10 years, and his wife Rupal Gupta, were clueless when the doctors at Rainbow Children’s Hospital in the city told them that the only way to save their son Ayaansh was to procure – Zolgensma, which is the only medicine that can cure SMA. “When we made enquiries, we came to know that Zolgensma, made by Novartis, costs around ₹16 crore and it has to be imported from the USA or the European countries. Added to this, one has to pay import duty and GST on the medicine,” Gupta told HT. The couple tried a few options to mobilise money for the medicine, but they realised that they won’t be able to do it because it was too huge. “But my wife was confident that we could definitely raise the money. She was reading about fund-raising or crowd-funding campaigns that regularly take place in the countries like the USA and the UK. So, she suggested we, too, could start such a campaign,” Gupta said. On February 4, the couple posted a request on the social media platforms and began the campaign. “Our friends, about 150 of them, also pitched in and made the campaign viral. The response was overwhelming. Though the flow of funds slowed down a bit later, we did not give up hope. Our friends intensified the campaign and finally, by May 23, we could mobilise all the money we required for Ayaansh’s treatment. We closed the campaign on the same day,” Gupta said. He said nearly 65,000 donors have responded to the fund-raising campaign and donated money in small or big amounts. The donors included celebrities like Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli and his actress-wife Anushka Sharma, Emraan Hashmi, Dia Miza, Javeed Jaafri, Rajkumar Rao, Arjun Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and others. “We have completed all the required documentation and placed the order with the US firm for the purchase medicine and we are expecting it to be delivered by June 10. We are thankful to every one of the donors and also to my friends, who made relentless efforts to mobilise money to save my son,” Gupta said. Ayaansh, who turned three years on Thursday, showed the signs of the rare disease, when he was just six months old. “He had very limited movement of his muscles. He couldn’t even cough and when there was a congestion in chest, we had to use a suction pump to remove phlegm from the lungs,” Gupta said. The couple took the child to various doctors, including paediatricians and neuro-physicians. “Though they diagnosed it as Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), they had no idea about the treatment. They told me it is a progressive disease and my son might not survive beyond four years,” he said. Luckily for the couple, Ayaansh can speak and that was the only solace for them. “Finally, the doctors at the Rainbow Hospital in Hyderabad recommended this drug available abroad and said it would make him normal. That raised our hopes,” Gupta said. The couple is now trying for exemption of the import duty and GST on Zolgensma. Interestingly, on March 17, Ayaansh’s issue was raised in Rajya Sabha by a Congress member from Madhya Pradesh Vivek K Tankha. Replying to his query, finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman said imported life-saving drugs including those for spinal muscular atrophy disease for personal use are exempted from basic customs duty but they attract five per cent GST. She, however, assured that ad hoc exemption from GST on imported life-saving drugs could be given on a case-to-case basis during exceptional nature. “We have made the request for exemption of the GST as well and are hopeful of getting the approval by next week,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-couple-mobilises-16cr-through-crowd-funding-for-son-s-treatment-101622313632869.html
30-05-2021||Other||No decision on extending lockdown: Yediyurappa||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said that no decision has been taken on extending the state-wide lockdown. He added that if people follow the regulations, there will be no need to extend the lockdown. All districts of Karnataka are currently under a lockdown till 6 am on June 7. While lockdown announced initially was supposed to end on May 10, experts insisted to impose lockdown from May 10 to 24, which was later extended till June 7. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said: “The lockdown will be in effect till June 7 and we will assess the situation and decide what happens next. The strict restrictions will be in place till then and depending on Covid-19 cases reducing, we will take the next decision. If people cooperate, the question of extending the lockdown may not arise but people have to cooperate, that is all.” Yediyurappa on Saturday also announced the CM Baalaseva scheme for children who lost their parents due to Covid-19. Under this scheme, the government will provide ₹3,500 to guardians of the children who lost both their parents in the pandemic. Similarly, for children who have passed standard 10, they will be given laptops and girl students above the age of 21, will be provided ₹1 lakh for marriage, higher education, or entrepreneurship, the government said. “Children who don’t have any guardians will be taken care of in the childcare institutions and to provide then quality education children will be admitted to (government-run) residential schools,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-decision-on-extending-lockdownyediyurappa-101622313512782.html
30-05-2021||Other||Don’t lower guard: Experts warn against Covid 3rd wave in K’taka||Bengaluru: The daily Covid-19 numbers reported in the past few days in Karnataka point at the downward trend of the second wave of the pandemic, with experts saying the spike in cases would stabilise by mid-June. They, however, warned against lowering the guard, and added that the third wave was inevitable by the end of October. Looking at the experiences of the European countries, experts said, the third wave could be deadlier than the first two. “It is a clear indication that by the third wave, we have to strengthen the medical infrastructure in order to treat higher number of patients than the second wave. The next few months should be used for that,” said Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology and member of the state’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19. However, the preparation for the third wave has to go beyond just medical infrastructure and oxygen supply, experts said, adding that the younger population might be the most vulnerable group in the third wave. Babu said with most senior citizens getting vaccinated by then, those below 18 years, if not vaccinated by then, would be the most vulnerable. He also said that infections among children would be a bigger concern. In Karnataka, during the first wave between March and September 2020, as many as 19,378 children under the age of 10 were infected. From then until May this year, 49,257 in the age group have tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 68,635 children under the age of 10 have been infected till May 20 this year, according to state health department data. The case was similar in the 10-19 age group as 41,895 tested positive for the virus between March and September 2020, while another 131,391 got infected since then, taking the total to 173,286 so far, the state data suggests. State health director Om Prakash Patil, who held consultations with 17 experts and members of the state unit of the Indian Academy of Paediatricians (IAP) on Friday, said Karnataka will come out with guidelines on handling paediatric Covid-19 infections. “We discussed what can be done to prevent spread among children and how we can ramp up our infrastructure and train manpower to handle paediatric cases if at all the projections come true,” Patil said. Shivananda, former director of the state-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, who attended the meeting, said the state needs more manpower trained in handling child cases as the existing number of paediatricians may not be adequate. “Only a fraction of the infected child cases may require ventilators. Most of the new ventilators come with settings that can be adjusted for paediatric use. What the state may require is more paediatric BIPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) machines and paediatric ICU beds,” he said. “Also, as home isolation of infected children is very difficult without parents’ supervision, we have asserted that vaccination of parents should be given priority. If they are immunised, the risk of them getting infected while handling Covid positive children will be minimal,” Shivananda added. Another point of concern has been the deaths among the 30-45 age group, experts said. Compared to the first wave, more deaths were reported in this age category in the second wave. Babu said in many cases undetected comorbidities could have been the reason for deaths. “As we are expected to witness the third wave, it was important that people get themselves tested to understand the various comorbidities they have. In India, people get these comorbidities at least 10 years before other countries,” he said. Babu added that the pace of vaccination will be a key factor in preparing for the third wave. “We are vaccinating elderly, and it is showing results, but it important that we vaccinate the younger population as well. We can’t emphasise this enough,” Babu said. The Karnataka government has formally announced a 13-member committee of medical experts, headed by noted cardiac surgeon Devi Prasad Shetty, to prepare a roadmap to tackle the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced Shetty’s name on May 14, after the Karnataka high court asked the government to submit its plans to tackle the pandemic. Experts also said it was important to increase the number of beds in hospitals and other infrastructure, referring to the countless reports of patients dying without getting a hospital bed. In the second wave of Covid-19, the proportion of people who died without getting a hospital bed increased exponentially. While 3.8% of all deaths in the first wave were reported outside of hospitals, in the second wave, it jumped up to 9.3%, or one in every 10 Covid fatalities in Karnataka, shows the analysis of health bulletins released by the Karnataka state health department on so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-lower-guard-experts-warn-against-covid-3rd-wave-in-ktaka-101622313452824.html
