01-06-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Abandoned by in-laws 3 yrs ago, Gurdaspur woman finally manages to get heard||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 31FIR No. 55 dated May 29 registered at the Dhariwal police station on a complaint filed by Gurdeep Kaur (50) against her ‘wayward’ husband has become the talk of the town. These days, conversation in the non-descript township of Dhariwal often veers around Kaur’s fight against the system. Her struggle also speaks volumes about how she stayed composed and dignified even after being abandoned by her husband following a skin disease, which threatened to devour her body, and still continues to do so.After braving taunts and an insensitive police system which refused to listen to her pleas just because her husband was politically well-connected, Kaur approached SSP Nanak Singh last week.Finally, it was the police chief who turned out to be her saviour but not before he assigned an SP-rank officer to conduct a thorough probe. As a result of the inquiry, FIR No. 55 carrying sections 493 (cohabitation by a man after deceitfully inducing of belief of lawful marriage), 420 (cheating), 509 (intending to insult the modesty of a woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC was registered again her husband Rajwinder Pal Singh Kaler.Dhariwal SHO Amandeep Singh Randhawa said several police teams were in the process of raiding Kaler’s hideouts. The accused has been at large ever since the news reached him that “his time was over and that the police had booked him on various charges.”The case in a nutshellIn 1988, Gurdeep was married to an Air Force officer Sukhjinder Pal Singh. The couple had two daughters — Sukhdeep Kaur and Navdeep Kaur. In 2005, her husband passed away and two years later she was virtually arm-twisted by her in-laws to tie the knot with her brother-in-law Rajwinder. In 2018, Gurdeep caught a skin infection, which defaced her body. Kaler and his mother then ‘committed the cardinal sin of abandoning’ a helpless Kaur. After forcing her out of his house, Kaler got involved with another woman. The alibi that he took was that “the woman was her mother’s caretaker.” Kaur’s fight against the insensitive system had now commenced in full vigour. Her visits to police stations to get justice became common. People started mocking her. She would be ridiculed anywhere and everywhere she went. She needed justice, which was not forthcoming. She would be waived away by cops whenever she complained to them. She found herself isolated from the system and became a forlorn figure of her former self. Finally, last week, she mustered enough courage to visit the office of the SSP. He gave her a patient hearing and ordered the SP (Investigation) to inquire into the exact sequence of events leading to the woman’s plight. Later, on the recommendations of the SP, a case was made out against Kaler. “Justice was a bit delayed in this case but we ensured it was not denied,” said the SSP.Now, a torchbearer for those in distressGurdeep Kaur now gets regular calls from distressed women on how to fight the system both from within and outside. “I urge women who are often at the receiving end of their in-laws’ tantrums to stand up and be counted. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. After all the trials and tribulations I had to go through, the long arm of the law has finally caught up with my errant husband,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/abandoned-by-in-laws-3-yrs-ago-gurdaspur-woman-finally-manages-to-get-heard-261623
01-06-2021||---||Deadly May: Month saw highest deaths, cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 31The district reported the highest number of 488 deaths and 12,030 positive cases in a month during May ever since the start of the pandemic last year. However, the spread of the infection seems to have slowed down during the last few days, as the number of cases and casualties has decreased.In April, the district reported a total of 11,498 positive cases and 286 deaths. Of the total 44,538 positive cases reported since the start of the pandemic 15 months ago, around 52 per cent cases and 53 per cent deaths due to the disease have been reported in the last two months.In April and May, the district reported a total of 23,528 cases and 774 deaths due to the disease.However, in the last few days, the number of positive cases reported daily has started decreasing. In the last one week, the number of daily reported cases has gone below 200. Even the number of casualties due to the disease has decreased. However, the corresponding decrease in casualties is much less than the decrease in cases.The district health officials said with decrease in cases, the active caseload on hospitals has also decreased. At peak, the active caseload had crossed the 6,000-mark. However, it has gradually come down to 3,211. The officials said as the number of patients recovering was more than the number of patients testing positive, the caseload would decrease further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deadly-may-month-saw-highest-deaths-cases-in-amritsar-261624
01-06-2021||---||7 die, 164 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 31With seven Covid-19 related deaths reported in the district on Monday, the toll has increased to 1,457. The health authorities also reported 164 new cases with which the total count has reached 44,702.The new cases include 112 influenza-like illness cases and 52 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 240 patients, the recovery count has improved to 40,034. At present, the district has a total of 3,211 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Meena Aggarwal (60) Varindavan Avenue (Batala road), Prabhjot Kaur (36) of Paradise Enclave, Kulwant Singh (85) of Verka, Jagmohan Singh (68) of Ram Tirath, Satnam Singh (53) of Makowal (Ajnala), Gurbachan Kaur (80) of Vallah and Gulzar Singh (77) of Kot Khalsa.Meanwhile, a total of 3,351 residents were inoculated today. Those who received the first dose included 164 healthcare workers (HCWs), 1,209 frontline workers (FLWs), 1,773 residents above 45 years and 110 residents in the age group of 18-44 years. Those who received the second dose included seven HCWs, 28 FLWs and 60 residents above 45 years.1 dies, 46 +ve in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported one death in Tarn Taran district on Monday. With this, the toll increased to 309. The authorities reported 46 fresh cases today. The number of active patients increased to 531. Out of these, 285 patients have been isolated at their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the authorities collected 1,094 swab samples today. A total of 1,29,390 beneficiaries have been inoculated so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-die-164-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-261625
01-06-2021||---||GNDU announces revised schedule for fee submission||Amritsar, May 31Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has rescheduled submission of online examination forms and fee (May to June 2021) for undergraduate semester II,IV,VI,VIII and X and postgraduate semester II and IV for private/regular students at online portal collegeadmissions.gndu.ac.in.Prof Manoj Kumar, in charge, Examinations, said the revised schedule for submitting online forms (full subjects/reappear/special chance/additional subject and improvement) and examination fee through online application for private candidates and manual form submission (special chance/additional subject) for annual supplementary draft/cash at university cash counter will commence from June 10 without late fee.He said the last date for private students for printing fee slip/to select subjects on portal and generate the challan by colleges is June 10 without late fee. He said the last date with late fee of Rs 250 is June 16; Rs 500 late fee is June 20, Rs 1,000 late fee is June 23, Rs 2,000 late fee is June 26 and Rs 1,000 per day (maximum up to Rs 25,000) late fee will be charged 10 days before the commencement of examinations.Similarly, the last date to deposit examination fee in bank (for private candidates) and to submit cash/draft at university cash counter by colleges is June 15 without late fee. He said the last date with late fee of Rs 250 is June 18, Rs 500 late fee is June 22, Rs 1,000 late fee June 25, Rs 2,000 late fee June 28 and Rs 1,000 per day (maximum up to Rs 25,000) late fee will be charged 10 days before the commencement of exams. The grace period of three days has already been added in above dates so no extra time would be given.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-announces-revised-schedule-for-fee-submission-261626
01-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||FIU to probe suspicious transactions of Anthony||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 31Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) will probe into the details of hawala and other bank transactions of Manohar Lal, alias Anthony Pehalwan. SSP Tarn Taran, Dhruman Nimbale, said the agency was requested to submit the report within two weeks. According to the police, there were several complaints against Pehalwan regarding his involvement in the illegal trade.He was produced in the Patti Court after expiry of police remand on Monday. The court has sent him to judicial custody now. He was arrested by the Tarn Taran police on May 25 in connection with hawala payments of drugs seized from a drug peddler Nishan Singh of Bandala village on April 5. Nishan was held with 3 kg of heroin valued at Rs15 crore in the international market. Pehalwan was booked under Sections 27 (A) and 29 of the NDPS Act.A police team, led by ASI Nirmal Singh of the anti-narcotic cell, produced Pehalwan in the Patti court. The police had made elaborate security arrangement around the court complex when he was present in the court.“We will bring him on production warrant once we get the report from the FIU which would analyse suspicious financial transactions. The investigations would help in tracing his contacts and nailing them in case they were found part of the alleged hawala racket,” said Nimbale.Investigations carried out so far revealed that the contacts Anthony had in Pakistan were not wrestlers. The SSP said he had made alleged hawala transactions worth Rs 89.50 lakh. The police were looking his contacts in Haryana, Delhi and in Canada, besides other parts of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fiu-to-probe-suspicious-transactions-of-anthony-261627
01-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Tarn Taran DC office staff go on mass casual leave||Tarn Taran, May 31 On the call of state employees’ association, members of the District DC Office Employees’ Association organised a protest against the state government at the District Administration Complex (DAC) here on Monday. The employees of the DC, SDM, and tehsil offices on Monday went on a mass casual leave for an indefinite period.  The employees were on protest for the last 10 days. Karwinder Singh Cheema, district president; Sukhwinder Singh, Rajwinder Singh, Beant Kaur, Harjit Kaur, Kiran Bala and other leaders of the employees, while addressing on the occasion, condemned the state government for not implementing the accepted demands of the employees.  The leaders demanded implementation of the pay commission report, departmental promotions and early release of DA allowance.   The leaders alleged that the indifferent attitude of Manpreet Singh Badal, Finance Minister, was the main hindrance in the implementation of the demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-dc-office-staff-go-on-mass-casual-leave-261628
01-06-2021||---||Ain’t no pandemic? Residents drop their guard as markets open in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 31The district administration allowed opening of all categories of shops from Monday, but residents hardly observed Covid-appropriate behaviour. Locals were seen jostling with each other and law enforcing officials were finding it difficult to enforce the norms.After observing a fall in fresh cases, shops on both sides of the roads were given a nod to open. Traders and manufacturers had been lobbying with the government to commence business activity. They had complained of massive losses as finished goods were piling up in godowns.Parminder Singh, a shopkeeper, said opening of shops on alternate days resulted in pile up of inventory. He said they were offering sanitisers to customers at their shops, but wearing masks was their personal choice.Anil Vinayak, a resident said, pople were defying the health norms and exposing themselves, besides others to the virus. People should not forget that when guidelines fail to achieve the desired results, imposing restrictions becomes necessary, said Vinayak.Ensuring social distancing at public places seemed to be a gigantic task for the police personnel.“The government and public have equal responsibility to tackle the pandemic. Despite Covid-19, people are thronging markets without masks,” he said.Balram Kumar Sharma, chief, Punjab Sudhar Sabha, said, “A majority of people out on roads had pulled down their masks due to hot day. So, masks were covering their chins instead of faces. Though weather became pleasant in the evening following rain and strong winds, markets were closed by 5 pm.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aint-no-pandemic-residents-drop-their-guard-as-markets-open-in-amritsar-261629
01-06-2021||Neha Saini||A porch turned into outdoor paradise||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 31Lockdown, for many, was a chance to introspect and re-connect with oneself. Vanu Ahuja, a city-based entrepreneur, used her time to soak in the nature and reinvent the artist in her. She spent most of her time creating beautiful, sustainable green spaces in her home. Her garden and her porch have been transformed into a potted-plant paradise, while her indoors also donning a green look.“Before lockdown, I never really invested myself much into gardening or creating green spaces. But during lockdown, I caught this habit of sending a potted plant to my close friends and family for any occasion. After that, I started building a porch garden area at my house,” she says. Vanu initially sourced all her potted plants through verified vendors or platforms. Later, she herself started creating aesthetically done potted plants, using fibre and other organic material to create planters. She has nearly 200 potted plants in her porch garden alone and has also started her own label ‘Sow Garden’ to encourage people to buy plants and also gift them.“I mostly grow air purifying species of native plants, such as bamboo, areca palms, rubber plant, snake plant species, Chinese evergreen and gerbera daisies, which are considered to be rich in oxygen. Some of them also make for great indoor plants as they have beautiful flowers,” she shares. She also has a variety of exotic indoor plants such as peperomias, spider plant, kalanchoes and all. The pots she uses are all hand-painted and hand-made.Vanu believes that it’s a great time to re-introduce sustainable lifestyle to our lives. “I have been creating awareness regarding not just nurturing a green space in our homes, but also using plants as giveaways to celebrate special occasions. It is very easy to have a potted plant-based terrace or small green indoor space. We have been promoting plant giveaways for all occasions.” Vanu’s 13-year-old daughter Suhana has been helping her nurture the plants. “She makes gift tags and candles using dry flowers, which is an excellent way of re-using natural elements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-porch-turned-into-outdoor-paradise-261631
01-06-2021||---||District & Sessions Judge inspects Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, May 31District and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur Randhawa on Monday visited the Amritsar Central Jail. During the visit, she inspected jail barracks, kitchen, hospital complex, legal aid clinic and video conferencing room.Pushpinder Singh and Ashish Saldi, Chief Judicial Magistrates, had accompanied her while Arshdeep Singh Gill, Jail Superintendent and Hemant Sharma, Deputy Superintendent (Maintenance), were also present on the occasion.The grievances of the jail inmates were taken up with the jail authorities. Randhawa informed the inmates about various legal aid services being provided by the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, including ADR mechanism, legal aid, lok adalats, victim compensation schemes, para legal volunteer services, legal aid clinic and legal literacy clubs in schools and colleges, etc.They were also made aware about the free legal aid provided by the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, SAS Nagar, and were apprised that any inmate in the jail whether convict or undertrial is entitled to free legal aid under the Legal Services Authority Act, 1987, by filing a simple application and thereafter he is immediately provided a free legal aid counsel. Similarly, in case a person is convicted by the court and intends to file appeal/revision against the order of conviction, he can also file an application in the office of District Legal Services Authority, Amritsar, she told.It was further informed that all expenses incurred during the case were borne by the District Legal Services Authority, Amritsar. They were told that there was a legal aid clinic established at the Central Jail, Amritsar, where trained para legal volunteers were deputed by the District Legal Services Authority, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-sessions-judge-inspects-amritsar-central-jail-261632
01-06-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar Health Department organises workshop on World No Tobacco Day||The district Health Department organised a workshop to mark World No Tobacco Day on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said tobacco causes cancer and it should not be consumed in any form.He said tobacco usage causes cancers of the mouth, throat and lungs. The near and dear ones of tobacco users also are prone to many of its side-effects, he said.Dr Singh said tobacco has around 40,000 harmful chemicals, which are responsible for causing various diseases.District Nodal Officer Dr Sharanjit Kaur said young children under the influence of popular media and peer pressure start using tobacco in the firm of cigarettes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-health-department-organises-workshop-on-world-no-tobacco-day-261633
01-06-2021||---||Amritsar's DAV College constitutes Covid task force||Amritsar, May 31 The University Grants Commission had issued guidelines to educational institutions to constitute a Covid-19 task force to ensure counter measures. The DAV college of Amritsar, too, constituted a Covid-19 task force for the control of the deadly coronavirus on Saturday. The main objective of the task force is to raise awareness against the pandemic among the public through audio-visual messages. Dr Rajesh Kumar, college principal, said: “We have constituted the task force as per the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and our team will put in their best effort for the elimination of the corona virus.” “Dr Rajneesh Popi, vice-principal, Dr Ashwani Verma medical officer, Dr Kamal Kishore, Prof Sanjeev Dutta, Prof Shilpi Seth and Prof Gaurav Sharma are the members of the task force and they have been assigned to organise various awareness activities in different areas of the city.”  “We will also involve the cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) in this work,” he said. Dr Rajesh said: “We will raise awareness about the importance of wearing mask and value of social distancing against the spread of Covid-19.” He said: “It has been observed that some irresponsible people avoid wearing mask and it is a major threat to the lives of others. Our task force will realise public that every single life is important.” “Our task force will promote anti-Covid vaccination drive and remove all misconceptions of people about it,” said Dr Kumar. He said: “We will also install hoarding in the area to raise awareness and we are hopeful that people will support our task force and obey guidelines of the administration and government to control the pandemic.”  Prof Dr Kamal Kishore, in charge, NCC (infantry) wing said: “The college is distributing free masks and sanitisers to the public and our cadets are giving demonstration of hand washing technique.”  He said: “We are also creating awareness about the need of anti-Covid vaccination, especially for comorbid persons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-dav-college-constitutes-covid-task-force-261634
01-06-2021||---||Three nabbed with heroin||Amritsar, May 31The police have arrested three drug smugglers and recovered heroin from them in two separate cases here on Saturday.In the first case, the Maqboolpura police nabbed Dilbagh Singh, alias Baggar, a resident of Old Jawahar Nagar, and recovered 50 gm of heroin from him.Sub-Inspector Ravi Kumar of the Crime Investigating Agency stated that following a tip-off they raided the hideout of the accused and recovered drugs. A case under Sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against Dilbagh Singh.In the second case, Verka police nabbed two drug smugglers with 8 gm of heroin. The accused have been identified as Pardeep Singh, alias Washa, a resident of Guru Nagar, Verka, and Jagrup Singh, alias Bobby, of Jandiala Patti, Verka.Sub-Inspector Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police station, said the police had set up a check-point near Fatehgarh Sukharchakan. The accused, who were riding a motorcycle without the registration number plate, were intercepted.During the search, the police recovered the heroin from their possession. The police have registered a case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and initiated investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-nabbed-with-heroin-261635
01-06-2021||---||‘Do not take any medicine without consulting doctor’||Amritsar, May 31A webinar on information and prevention of black fungus was conducted by a local NGO ‘Voice of Amritsar’.Department of Head and Throat Surgery head Dr Prahlad Duggal conducted the seminar. Explaining the symptoms of fungus, he said we should take care of cleanliness of our surroundings as well as that of our body.“No medicine should be taken without consulting or advice of a specialist. If you have any symptoms related to black fungus, consult a specialist immediately,” he said.Dr Duggal also answered the questions of people during the live session. Rajwinder Pal and Jasjit Singh, executive members of the organisation, said the webinar was conducted in view of the lack of information about the disease among people. Founder member Dr Rakesh Sharma thanked Dr Duggal for conducting the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/do-not-take-any-medicine-without-consulting-doctor-261636
01-06-2021||Amritsar||Joint Teachers’ Front to hold flag march||The Joint Teachers’ Front in the district strongly condemned the Education Minister’s repeated dismissal of their demands and announced to intensify the struggle by mobilising teachers extensively.  At a meeting held on Monday between several teachers’ unions under the front’s banner, Ashwani Awasthi, district convener of the front, said instead of lending them an ear and discussing their issues, the government was adopting an indifferent attitude towards them.  “Despite repeated protests by the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, Education Minister and the Chief Minister conspired to silence voice of teachers. The old pension system is not being restored by the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joint-teachers-front-to-hold-flag-march-261637
01-06-2021||---||Operation Bluestar: Dal Khalsa to hold events in four districts||Amritsar, May 31In remembrance of Sikhs and pilgrims who were killed during Operation Bluestar, the Dal Khalsa has decided to organise ‘Ghallughara Yadgari Samagam’ in four districts of the state from June 3 to 6. The events will be held at Moga and Mullanpur (Ludhiana) on June 3, Bhatinda on June 4 and Amritsar on June 5. The organisation called upon masses to gather at Akal Takht on June 6.Kanwar Pal Singh, spokesperson, Dal Khalsa, said the call for Amritsar bandh has been givent to protest against the destruction of Akal Takht and missing manuscripts and artefacts from Sikh National Library.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/operation-bluestar-dal-khalsa-to-hold-events-in-four-districts-261638
01-06-2021||---||Curfew hits liquor vend owners hard||Amritsar, May 31Liquor shops and beer bar owners have complained of heavy losses due to lockdown and night curfews in the district. They say that their fixed expenditures are intact whereas there is no window left for earning.Harish Chander, who is operating a beer bar, said licensed beer and hard liquor bars serving their customers inside their premises were compelled to lay off their 60 to 70 per cent staff. “A beer bar pays Rs 2 lakh annual license fee to the Excise Department which was reduced to Rs 1.5 lakh this time. Similarly, hard liquor bar pays an annual license fee of Rs 4 lakh which has been curtailed to Rs 3 lakh this year,” he said.Unable to meet fixed expenditures, they have to source money from their savings. Other fixed expenditures include commercial power tariff, MC house tax, maintenance cost of bars and others, besides they have to retain some staff to maintain in-house installations and for their upkeep.Ramesh, a barman, said before the lockdown the owner had hired around 15 employees at the bar. He said barring two the rest of the staff members were laid off. He said it was not a case in isolation but almost all bars resorted to this move. He said the majority of them worked as waiters. He said a waiter in a bar used to earn between Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 per month before the lockdown. He said once the situation normalised all of them would join the work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-hits-liquor-vend-owners-hard-261639
01-06-2021||Amritsar||2 women robbed of Rs 4K, mobiles||5 UPS stolen from court complexAmritsar: Five UPS systems were stolen from various offices of the district court complex last night. Complaint Rajinder Kumar in his statement said an unidentified person decamped with five UPS systems from different offices of the district court complex. The police have registered a case against an unidentified person under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC. ASI Lakhwinder Kumar, in charge, court complex police post, said the police were investigating the matter and the thief would be nabbed soon. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-women-robbed-of-rs-4k-mobiles-261640
01-06-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar GMCH gets Oxygen plant worth Rs 1 cr||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar claims it will be self-sufficient in medical oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients.Bathinda MP gives Rs1.5 cr for 2 plantsBathinda: MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday sanctioned Rs1.5 crore from her MPLAD funds for establishment of two pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants at Talwandi Sabo and Goniana to ensure adequate provision of oxygen for Covid patients in this regionEquipped with pressure swing absorption (PSA) technique, a state-of-the-art unit has been arranged through the DRDO under the PM Cares fund. Another one with the same capacity was being installed at the Government Medical College, Patiala.Costing around Rs 1 crore, the unit has a capacity to generate 1,000 litre medical oxygen per minute from atmospheric air on the hospital premises. Dr Rajiv Devgan, Principal of GMCH, Amritsar, said: “We have an arrangement of 16 MT liquid oxygen and the new generator will be an additional arrangement,” he said.Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni said ventilators and oxygen concentrators were available in sufficient number now.Two identical air-borne oxygen generation units worth Rs 1.94 crore are expected to be installed shortly in Vallah and a charitable hospital near the Shaheedan Sahib gurdwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-gmch-gets-oxygen-plant-worth-rs-1-cr-261580
