02-06-2021||GS Paul||Yet again, ‘missing’ posters of Navjot Sidhu emerge in Amritsar East constituency||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 2“Missing” posters of the Congress leader, Navjot Singh Sidhu, have surfaced in the East constituency represented by him as an MLA.A reward of Rs 50,000, too, has been assured to anyone who gives information about him.An NGO, Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Sewa Society, has put up these posters titled as ‘Gumshuda Di Talaash’ near Jauda Phatak in Rasoolpur Kalar area, where the train tragedy had occurred in October 2018 during Dusehra festivities that had killed scores of people.Sidhu had announced to adopt the families of this area only whose breadwinners lost lives in the train catastrophe, but never fulfilled it.Anil Vashisht, the NGO head, said: “The mounds of garbage, broken roads, filthy water ponds speak volumes about the MLA’s careless attitude towards the residents. The voters had showed faith in him and elected him multiple times as MP and MLA.”He said that the people of the East constituency were eagerly waiting for him to visit them during the trying times of Covid crisis, but in vain.“Amritsar residents have showered their blessings on him and his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu many times, which took them to occupy plum political posts, but what have they done in return? Just nothing! We promise to give Rs 50,000 to anyone who traces him,” he said.Another resident Deepak sarcastically said that people should now ‘thoko taali” for getting him a seat in Assembly and in return they got ‘Baba Jee ka Thulu”.“Sidhu is more inclined to grab the ‘seat’ than caring about ‘development’ work. We have been forced to live in a hell-like situation and he left us in lurch for their political motives,” he alleged. This was not the first time Sidhu's ‘missing’ posters were put up here. Earlier, in September 2009 also, when he represented the Amritsar Parliamentary seat, similar posters were pasted by the Congress leaders then.Rather, an online complaint of ‘missing MP” with the police was also registered by Congress leader Dr Raj Kumar Verka. He was engaged with the TV channels as cricket commentator and comedy shows and moved frequently to New Delhi and Mumbai.In August 2013, and July 2019, too, identical 'missing' posters of the MLA was spotted across Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/yet-again-missing-posters-of-navjot-sidhu-emerge-in-amritsar-east-constituency-262293
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Demand for Oxygen, level-II & III beds dips in Amritsar||The demand for oxygen, level-II and level-III beds has gone down following the drop in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.Sources in the Health Department said the demand for oxygen, level-II and level-III beds dipped in proportion to the fall in the number of positive cases. They said the exact reason behind the dip in the demand of these equipment would be known in a couple of days.At GMC, Amritsar, Dr KD Singh said: "There is 40 per cent decline in the demand for oxygen. During the peak of Covid-19 here, in May, it was 15 metric tonne. Now, the demand has come down to 9 MT. Similarly, during the peak, the demand for level-II and level-III beds was 325. Now, it has come down to 153."Despite repeated attempts Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, and Dr Amarjit Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon could not be contacted.3,556 persons receive the jabAs per the cumulative report of Covid vaccination in the district, 3,556 persons were administered vaccine on Tuesday. With this, the total count of people vaccinated till date, with both first and second doses reached 3,83,944. The district has a stock of only 4,790 vaccines.The 15,088 healthcare workers who form the 40.08 per cent of the total have been inoculated to date.Similarly, 17,637 frontline workers who form the 33.63 per cent of the total, have been administered the jabs in Amritsar district.So far, 40,130 beneficiaries above 45 years of age have been fully vaccinated in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/demand-for-oxygen-level-ii-iii-beds-dips-in-amritsar-262148
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Four fall prey to virus in Amritsar, 122 test +ve||The recovery count well-surpassed the new positive cases reported on Tuesday. As many as 390 patients recovered, while 122 persons tested positive. Hence, the recovery count improved to 40,424. The total count of positive cases in the district reached 44,824.Four more Covid-19 related deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,461. The 122 new cases include 82 influenza-like illness cases and 40 contacts of positive patients. The total count of active cases in the district came to 2,939 cases.Those who fell prey to the virus include Prem Chand, 45, of Verka; Bikramjeet Singh, 41, of Chogawan; Karan Kaur, 87, of Burari village in Baba Bakala and Sukhwinder Kaur, 63, of Navi Abadi.Six die in Tarn TaranSix persons succumbed to the virus in the district on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 315. The district also received 35 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. There are total 503 active cases, of which 253 have been isolated in their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,099 samples to be tested for Covid infection were collected by different teams of the Health Department. The district has vaccinated 1,30,337 citizens against the pandemic so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-fall-prey-to-virus-in-amritsar-122-test-ve-262149
02-06-2021||Dr Jagdish Lal Bhatia||The man who set up  TB sanatorium in Amritsar||Born into a well-established business family in Amritsar, he completed his early education at a local school. Bhatia then joined Government Medical College for his MBBS. After his marriage in 1952 to Meera Bhatia, a Master’s in Zoology from Lucknow, he was offered scholarship to complete his higher medical education in Scotland in the UK, where he qualified as Fellow of Royal College of Physicians and returned to India to fulfil his passion to serve poor of the poorest. He was instrumental in setting up a specialised TB Sanatorium in Amritsar attached to the GMC in 1958 designed to treat and cure TBHe was born on November 1, 1924, into a well-established business family in Amritsar. After completing his early education at a local school here, Dr JL Bhatia joined Government Medical College for his MBBS. After his marriage in 1952 to Meera Bhatia, a Master’s in Zoology from Lucknow, he was offered scholarship to complete his higher medical education in Scotland in the UK where he qualified as Fellow of Royal College of Physicians (FRCP) and returned to India to fulfil his passion to serve poor of the poorest.His first posting after completing his FRCP was at TB Sanatorium, being run at Dharampur near Solan (Himachal Pradesh), where he learnt to cure TB patients and opted to serve his city. Dr JL Bhatia was instrumental in setting up a specialised TB Sanatorium in Amritsar attached to the Government Medical College in 1958 designed to treat and cure TB, rampaging the country at the time due to unhygienic and poverty conditions. He continued to actively practise medicine till last year, offering free consultation and medicines to patients.Recalling several incidents, his son Dr Deepak Bhatia, who is a senior orthopaedic surgeon based in Dubai, said porters at the railway station, taxi drivers and even ordinary people whom he had cured would recognise him and offer their services for free. A senior physician from the city and one of his students, Dr P C Arora said Dr Bhatia would detect TB signs with just one glance at the X-ray while his prescription was very precise. The current head of Department of TB and Chest Diseases, Government Medical College, Dr Naveen Pandey in a condolence message to family today said that Dr JL Bhatia’s foresight to set up TB Sanatorium with all facilities for complete treatment was a definitive service to community, especially the poor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-man-who-set-up-tb-sanatorium-in-amritsar-262150
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Rain, high-velocity winds lash Amritsar||Heavy rain accompanied by high-velocity winds lashed the city on Monday. With wind speed measuring 80 kmph, several electricity poles, wires and trees got uprooted. Some areas received hailstorms too.Power outages were reported for around 10 hours in the city and its periphery. Residents also complained about fluctuation in power supply.Avtar Singh, a carpenter said, “A power cut was scheduled on Monday, thus we didn’t go to work. As power cables snapped due to the thunderstorm, we came back without work.”Officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited said they had stopped transmission to feeders as a precautionary measure. “As soon as weather got normal, power supply was resumed,” said Gursharan Singh of the PSPCL.Residents got respite from hot weather and the city witnessed a dip of 15 degrees in temperature. The temperature was recorded at 38 degrees Celsius on Sunday and 23.4 degrees Celsius on Monday.Farmers were happy as rain irrigated their fields ahead of sowing kharif crops. Now, they don’t need to irrigate their fields with tubewells. Rain also proved favourable for vegetables as it took care of mites and other bugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-high-velocity-winds-lash-amritsar-262151
02-06-2021||Amritsar||No respite: Constant rise in fuel prices burning a hole in residents’ pockets||The soaring prices of petrol and diesel have upset the budget of many families, effecting a hike in investment cost of farmers and manufacturers.On Tuesday, petrol was sold at Rs96.32 per litre and diesel at Rs88 per litre in the city. People from middle and lower income group families are upset by the soaring prices as they burn a hole in their pocket. According to them, a meaningful part of their earning goes into footing the fuel cost.Navpreet Singh, earning his livelihood by working with an on-demand food-delivery platform, said people like him depend on two-wheelers to earn their livelihood. Fuel cost and maintenance of two-wheelers are their twin investment which are vital to their earning. He said on an average, a delivery boy has to shell out between Rs4,000 and Rs5,000 on fuel and maintenance cost. “Companies are pruning incentives to make up for the losses incurred during the lockdown and on the other hand, the government was hiking the fuel cost. Both are twin blows to delivery boys,” he said.Jaspreet Singh, a farmer, meanwhile said their input cost in farming was increasing day by day owing to soaring fuel prices. He blamed it on the political set up of the country. “It is entirely a political game as oil companies have stopped revising fuel prices before five states went to poll between March and May. Once the poll results were out, the oil companies started gradually increasing prices of oil and diesel,” he said. The Centre has brought the entire trade activity, barring petrol and diesel prices, under the ambit of the GST.Raman Gupta, an industry leader, said the petrol price was not too far from hitting the three-figure mark. Last month registered the steepest hike in fossil fuel prices effected this year, as their prices were revised upwards almost every alternate day. He cautioned the government that the soaring fossil fuel prices have the potential to further contract the economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-respite-constant-rise-in-fuel-prices-burning-a-hole-in-residents-pockets-262152
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Civic body razes two illegal kiosks||The estate wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) demolished two illegal kiosks on the prime locations here on Tuesday. Some mischievous persons patronised by ruling party leaders are frequently attempting to set the illegal kiosks in main markets. An illegal kiosk was installed near the Grand Hotel on Sunday night. On Tuesday, a team of the estate wing reached along with a ditch machine and removed the kiosk completely.Meanwhile, another illegal kiosk was again set up outside the D-Mart. The estate wing team had demolished the kiosk at the same place last week. But a person, who is reportedly backed by a senior politician of the ruling party, again set up the kiosk on Monday.Despite political pressure, the MC team led by Estate Officer Dharminder Jeet Singh demolished the kiosk. The person who set the kiosk opposed the move of MC officials.Dharminder Jeet Singh, Estate Officer, said, “We will not tolerate any illegal kiosk on government land. We will file a police complaint against the encroachers too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-razes-two-illegal-kiosks-262153
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Verbal spat over parking takes ugly turn, one booked||A verbal spat over parking of a vehicle took an ugly turn when a person opened fire at Rajiv Kumar, a jeweller, in Ajnala on Monday. The victim had a narrow escape in the firing. The accused has been identified as Himmat Singh. Rajiv told the police that he has two shops in front of gurdwara Baba Jiwan Singh in Ajnala.Rajiv said Himmat has a shuttering business and usually keeps his equipment in front of his two shops to which he objected. He said Himmat got a car of his known parked at the same spot on Monday. Rajiv said when he asked Himmat to remove the vehicle, the latter entered into a spat.Rajiv alleged that Himmat took out a pistol and fired at him. He said the accused fired another shot, which missed him again. The police have registered a case under Section 336 of the IPC and the Arms Act against Himmat in this connection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/verbal-spat-over-parking-takes-ugly-turn-one-booked-262154
02-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Body of missing man (54) found||Carjacking at gunpointAmritsar: Several armed persons snatched a car from a trader in the Ranjit Avenue area here on Sunday. The victim, Mayank Nanda, a resident of the Lawrence Road area, had gone to give medicines to his cousin in the Ranjit Avenue area. Mayank (26) told the police that when he reached Ranjit Avenue Ajnala Road T-point, four persons travelling on two bikes intercepted his car PB-02-DP-7194. He said pointing a pistol, they pulled him out of the car and sped away with his car and their bikes towards Ajnala Road. He said he had two mobile phones in the car. The Ranjit Avenue police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and the Arms Act against unidentified persons, while the police were still groping in the dark. Robin Hans, SHO, Ranjit Avenue police station, said that investigations were on while CCTV cameras in the area were being scrutinised for get some clues. TNS5 mobiles seized from prisonersAmritsar: In yet another seizure, Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated five mobile phones from five prisoners during a search operation carried out on Monday. Mobiles were seized from Raja Singh, Dilbagh Singh, Gulshan Kumar, Gurpreet Singh and Rashpal Singh. Jaswinder Singh, assistant superintendent, Central Jail, said during checking of room number 4 of barrack number 4, the staff seized a smart mobile phone along with a SIM card from Raja Singh, while a keypad mobile was confiscated from Dilbagh Singh. Similarly, one mobile phone with SIM was seized from Gulshan Kumar and one from Gurpreet Singh. A Redmi mobile phone along with SIM was seized from Rashpal Singh. The Islamabad police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prison Act following a complaint by the jail authorities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/body-of-missing-man-54-found-262155
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Students excel in essay competition||The District Education Department had held a series of events to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Results of essay writing competitions held for students of middle and senior secondary government schools were announced on Tuesday. Kiranjot Kaur of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, was declared winner in senior secondary category, Meherpreet Kaur of the same was declared winner in middle school category.Gurbind Singh of Government Senior Secondary School, Kot Baba Deep Singh, ranked first in senior secondary category.Now, these winners would compete at the block-level competitions, which would begin from June 11 onwards throughout the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-excel-in-essay-competition-262156
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Martyrs’ gallery at Golden Temple hangs in balance||Shriomani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has asked to expedite the work on the martyrs’ gallery, dedicated to those killed during Operation Bluestar, on the Golden Temple complex. The ‘kar sewa’ for the gallery being set up in the basement of Gurdwara Shaheedan in the Operation Bluestar memorial, was entrusted to Damdami Taksal, once headed by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale.The ceremony was officially launched in 2017 in the presence of the then SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh and Damdami Taksal head Harnam Singh Khalsa. But the project that was aimed to be completed within a year lingered on. SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said the work got affected due to Covid-19 lockdown restrictions.“It was carried on a war footing, but major work was affected due to shortage of labour amid the pandemic. Most of our projects got delayed, but we have been asking the organisations who were awarded ‘kar sewa’ to complete the task as early as possible,” he said.In the backdrop, the idea was to have portraits of ‘militants’ and pilgrims, who lost lives during the Army ‘assault’ in June 1984. Banking on the compensation of Rs10,000 awarded to the kin of Sikh activists in 1984, the SGPC has in its possession a list of 743 persons.On the other hand, a survey was conducted by Dal Khalsa which was compiled in a directory titled ‘Martyrs of June 1984 holocaust’ in 2006. It carried a brief about the militants and was updated twice in 2007 and 2012.The Damdami Taksal, in collaboration with the SGPC, Dal Khalsa and a US-based organisation, has prepared two lists comprising 890 persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-gallery-at-golden-temple-hangs-in-balance-262157
02-06-2021||Amritsar||2 damage stone laid for school, booked||The police on Monday booked two persons, Chand Kishore of Verka and Sandeep Prashar of Kashmir Avenue, for allegedly dismantling two concrete pillars erected for laying the foundation of a community school on the Waqf Board property in the Verka area two days ago.Mahmood Akhtar, Estate Officer, Punjab Waqf Board, had lodged a complaint with the police in this connection.In the complaint, he stated that the Waqf Board owned over 60 kanals near a graveyard in Verka. He said as per the revenue records, the area was duly notified in the Punjab Government gazette on July 22, 2011.He said the land was situated near the Guru Nanak Dev University campus. The entire land was lying vacant and after the survey, the Punjab Waqf Board decided to open a school with modern facilities for the community for which it sanctioned and released funds for the construction of the boundary wall. He said on Saturday, two pillars of the foundation stone were constructed.He said the duo had threatened to stop the construction work on Saturday morning. In the evening, both the pillars were found broken, sabotaging the plan for opening a school. Verka police have registered a case under Section 3 of the Prevention of Damages to Public Property Act and Section 427 of the IPC against the two suspects. Further investigation was under progress, said the police authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-damage-stone-laid-for-school-booked-262158
02-06-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Farm leader dies after  brief illness||Farm leader Lakhwinder Singh Lakhi, who had been constantly protesting against the three agri laws at Sutehri, died at a hospital in Jalandhar. Lakkhi had fallen ill while sitting on a dharna a few days ago.Harbans Singh Sangha, chief, Azad Kisan Committee Doaba, said those present at the dharna in front of Reliance’s showroom took Lakhi to a local hospital where doctor advised him to get him admitted to a super speciality hospital.Sangha said his family admitted him to a hospital in Jalandhar on May 23 where he breathed his last on May 31. “Due to the stubbornness of the Central Government, many farmers are getting martyred. We will return from the borders of Delhi only after getting our demands fulfilled,” said Sangha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-leader-dies-after-brief-illness-262159
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Pay advertisement tax: Amritsar MC to hospitals||Now, the advertisement wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) has issued notices to private hospitals to deposit tax for using glow sign boards and displays atop their structures.Officials of the advertisement wing claimed that more than 20 notices have been issued to private hospitals.The MC asked the hospitals to show details of the advertisement tax deposited by them in the past. According to information, all major hospitals have installed flashing displays on their rooftops. Apart from this, they have also installed glow sign boards and hoardings on every part of the building. Sushant Bhatia, in charge, Advertisement Wing, said, “Hospitals have installed large displays, but are not paying tax. We have asked them to submit the details of tax deposited against these displays. We gave them three working days to submit the details, else we will take action as per the Municipal Corporation Act.”Recently, the MC had implemented the advertisement policy and started recovering tax for third party advertisements and outdoor display advertisements. Earlier, notices were issued to shopping malls and other commercial establishments. Some of the shopping malls paid the tax of late.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pay-advertisement-tax-amritsar-mc-to-hospitals-262160
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Rs 50 cr Patti-Makhu rail link: Residents welcome land acquisition notification||City residents have welcomed the gazette notification for land acquisition for Patti-Makhu rail link which will pave way for Amritsar-Ferozepur rail link.Following the survey, it was found that 70.1 hectares of land is in Tarn Taran and 95.68 hectares of land is in Ferozepur. Now, the state government has permitted land acquisition. Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) president Piara Lal Seth said the government had released a grant of Rs 50 crore for the proposed Patti-Makhu rail link, now gazette notification number PWD-BR 307/12/2020/BR31/170259/2021 dated April 19 was issued.He anticipated that the move would consolidate the city-based businesses like tourism and its manufacturing industries.A delegation of the PPBM along with OP Soni, now Cabinet Minister, had gone to meet then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh at New Delhi in 2013 and the demand for the Amritsar-Ferozepur rail link was presented before him. Subsequently, then Union Railway Minister in the UPA Government, Pawan Bansal, had sanctioned the project. The Ministry of Railways approved about Rs 300 crore for the project during the 2017-18 fiscal.Samir Jain, general secretary of the PPBM, said the government had conducted the survey of the site where the railway track would be laid and it was found that negligible displacement was to be required for laying the track.Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron of the Amritsar Vikas Manch, said: “The project is immensely beneficial for the country as it will provide a railway line parallel to the border between India and Pakistan. It will shorten the travelling distance between the holy city and country’s financial capital Mumbai by 240 km. Goods can be delivered at a short duration and tourists can travel in short time states of Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir. It will reduce the railway rush on Amritsar-Delhi-Mumbai route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-50-cr-patti-makhu-rail-link-residents-welcome-land-acquisition-notification-262161
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Kisan morcha chief alleges police inaction||Bharatiya Janata Party Kisan Morcha’s district president Gurmukh Singh Bal, who was reportedly attacked by some persons on May 22, alleged police inaction on Tuesday, adding that now he was receiving death threats from the perpetrators. Giving details, he said he was attacked by several persons who barged into his house and thrashed him on May 22.The entire incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras. He said though the police had registered a case three days after the incident and arrested one person in this connection, the remaining suspects were still absconding.Among those booked included Jobanjit Singh and his accomplices. He said on May 22 around 11.30pm the accused barged into his house and entered into a scuffle with him.He said he and his family members sustained injuries in the incident. He said when people gathered outside, the accused fled from the scene. On the basis of his complaint, the police registered a case and nominated two persons.He said he was getting death threats from the accused time and again. He urged the police to take prompt action and arrest the remaining suspects. He said if anything happened to their family, only the police and the district administration would be responsible for this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-morcha-chief-alleges-police-inaction-262162
02-06-2021||Amritsar||DC office staff take out bike rally||The members of DC Office Employees’ Association, who have been protesting against the government by taking mass leave since nine days, took out a motorcycle rally on Tuesday. Carrying black flags and raising anti-government slogans, the members drove across the city to mark their protests against ‘anti-employee’ policies.Union officials said the Punjab Government was not paying any heed to the demands of the union. “We have been on mass leave since the last nine days and have been demanding from the government that the staff shortage in the DC office be met, the 6th Pay Commission be implemented immediately, the DA instalments and arrears pending since 2016 be released immediately and the old-age pension scheme be restored. Today’s rally was a part of a state-wide call by the Punjab DC Employees’ Union to mark our protest,” said Yadwinder Singh Bhangu, president, DC Office Employees’ Association.Members said the union would continue its struggle until their demands were met. On the other hand, due to the strike, the work of registries, licences and certificates etc. was being affected, due to which the applicants, typists and notary lawyers working here were being forced to sit idle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-office-staff-take-out-bike-rally-262163
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Civic body to adopt zero tolerance policy against encroachments in Amritsar||The Department of Local Government has set major recovery targets for the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation to generate revenue for the city. The Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) owns properties worth crores and a large number of properties are on lease in the city. The lease properties, worth crores, are under the possession of various owners, even after the end of the lease term.The estate officials claim that selling or settlement of these leased properties is one of their major agendas. “The leased properties are in prime locations and are under the possession of various institutions and individuals. There are several legal issues to get the possessions of these properties. The state government has given its nod to sell these properties on collector rate. The MC is not getting anything from these properties and we are now planning to sell these properties at market rate. We can generate good revenue from these properties”, said Dharminderjeet Singh, Estate Officer of the MC.Apart from this, the MC owns more than 1,100 shops in the city in which tenants have been running their businesses for years. Most of them are not paying the rent. The MC has asked the tenets to buy the properties for which they have been paying the rent. Around 600 shopkeepers have shown interest in the purchase of properties, while some of them had already purchased from the MC, he said. The estate wing will try to sell maximum properties to collect revenue as tenants are paying nominal rents.“Removal of illegal encroachment is our main liability. We don’t tolerate any new kiosks or vendors on the road, which creates hurdles in the traffic movement. The street vending zone would also be implemented soon. But we have zero tolerance for vends in the narrow markets of the city. The drive for removal of encroachment is going on. The residents should inform us if they spot any illegal encroachment in the city”, said the Estate Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-adopt-zero-tolerance-policy-against-encroachments-in-amritsar-262164
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Helping people launch their products online||Despite Covid-19 induced economic crisis, Satpal Singh Sokhi has been paying regular salaries to his staff.Running a company providing IT solutions at one platform he employs nearly 30 youngsters at his local office and another at Andheri in Mumbai. His company specialises in developing website, e-commerce sites, online branding on all social media platforms, including, Facebook, Instagram, google, YouTube and others. A popular eating joint with locals, Makhan Fish became equally popular with tourists after Sokhi designed an advertisement for it on the social media platform.“There are a number of local companies which have carved a niche for themselves in their adopted fields but common people are not aware of it. So, his company is composing their profile videos which helps them easily reach out to their clients. One such company for which they create content is Bhupindra, which manufactures machinery for paper-cutting and other purposes. One more is Woodmac which manufactures machineries for plywood industries.” His company prepares websites and offers other IT solutions to overseas-based companies also. He said a large number of his customers from overseas are NRIs. He not only made their websites but also helped them launch their products here. His working with them helped to build a unique perspective on brain drain.“A majority of people going overseas come from opulent families. Unable to find a suitable platform to build up their careers, they find it more convenient to go overseas.” He blamed wealthy people of the holy city for abstaining from their duty to invest in businesses to help create more employment. He stated that this was the best way of paying back to the society.He expressed his resentment over the quality of IT students being churned out from the engineering colleges of the region. He said they have to train them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helping-people-launch-their-products-online-262165
02-06-2021||---||Gang rivalry behind Patti double murder||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 1The district police today claimed to have solved the Patti double murder case in which two residents — Amandeep Singh Fauji and Prabhdeep Singh, alias Pooran — were shot on May 27, while their third associate was injured seriously.A case under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC, and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered by the Patti city police. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the killings were the outcome of personal enmity between two groups involving gangsters.Though the police had arrested three suspects — Malkit Singh Laddoo of Patti, Paramjit Singh Pamma of Harike and Manpreet Singh, alias Manna, of Manochahal — the suspected shooters were still at large. Two pistols with nine cartridges were recovered from them.The police probed the role of NRI Lakhbir Singh Landa from Harike. He had migrated to Canada one-and-a-half years ago and faced eight criminal cases.The SSP said Landa had demanded ransom from a person from the area in Canada. Fauji, however, asked the individual not to pay the ransom. Landa then planned to kill Fauji and his associates by hiring contact killers. He contacted Preet Sanghwan from Amritsar, who demanded Rs 20 lakh for the job, but Landa paid him Rs 6 lakh, claimed the police.Laddoo gathered information about Fauji’s movement and gave it to the gangsters. They chose May 27 for the killing as Fauji used to visit a mausoleum on the outskirts of the town every Thursday.The SSP said preliminary investigation pointed to the role of two shooters. One of them was identified as Preet Sanghwan, who is at large.Meanwhile, Laddoo was produced in a Patti court, which remanded him in four-day police custody. He reportedly has a Congress background and is linked to the Majha Truck Union, Patti. The district police would soon issue lookout warrants for Canada-based Landa.A special investigation team, comprising Gurbaj Singh SP (PIB), Kamaljit Singh DSP (Investigation) and Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh, carried out the investigation in the case, said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-rivalry-behind-patti-double-murder-262119
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht to come up with film on Operation Bluestar||Thirtyseven years on, Akal Takht has announced a documentary on the Army’s Operation Bluestar.For the purpose, officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has asked eyewitnesses and others to submit their experiences in a video format so that these could be compiled to recreate what happened inside the Golden Temple complex between between June 1 and 10 in 1984. The idea is to have an authentic and credible account with the help of eyewitness’ interviews and interrogation reports of the Army. The Jathedar met an eyewitness, Harwinder Singh Khalsa, a ‘Panth Sewak’ awardee, to know about his experience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-to-come-up-with-film-on-operation-bluestar-262128
02-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC against sale of holy ‘sainchis’ and 'pothis' online||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has taken a grim view of the sale of holy ‘sainchis’ (volumes) of Guru Granth Sahib and ‘pothis’ by an e-commerce website.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said a legal notice was being sent to Amazon against the sale, which was against the Sikh principles.“Amazon has been asked to remove the link for the sale of Guru Granth Sahib 'sanchis' and 'pothis' from its website immediately or face legal action. It is unethical to sell holy scriptures online as during the delivery, no ‘rehat maryada’ can be maintained. We have received complaints from devotees following which action was taken,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-against-sale-of-holy-sainchis-and-pothis-online-262129
