03-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC notice to Amazon for selling sacred Sikh texts online||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has sent a legal notice to e-commerce giant Amazon for selling copies of holy books Guru Granth Sahib and Gutka Sahib, an office bearer said Thursday.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said there is “outrage” over the sale online of the Gutka Sahib, a collection of sacred verses.He said the Amazon practice went against the principles of the Sikh religion.“There is huge devotion and respect for the Gurbani in the minds of the Sikh community and there is outrage among the Sikhs over the sale of the Gutka Sahib online by Amazon,” he said Dhami asked Amazon to immediately remove the two holy books from its website and warned of legal action if the company failed to do so. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-notice-to-amazon-for-selling-sacred-sikh-texts-online-262927
03-06-2021||Amritsar||Health impact of online classes||Farmers’ jatha leaves for SinghuAmritsar: A group of farmers from the border belt here on Wednesday left to participate in the ongoing protest against the three agriculture laws at Singhu border. The farmer leaders said that it was the 85th jatha from the area left for Delhi to join protest. Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and Border Area Sangharsh Committee leaders Baba Arjan Singh Hushiar Nagar, Nirmal Singh Modhe and sarpanch Surinder Singh Khasa said that the farmers would also stage protest at district headquarters on June 5 to express their anguish. TNSJune: anti-malaria awareness driveAmritsar: The district health department, Tarn Taran, has planned a series of awareness programmes during the month as June is being observed as anti-malaria month. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehra said the government had planned to eradicate malaria by the end of year 2021. He said 15 districts in the state including Tarn Taran had been selected to achieve the target. He said that people would be made aware of the causes and prevention related to malaria during the one month awareness programme. TNSOnline speech competitionTarn Taran: An online speeh competition on the theme “Dependence on Technology is making humanity less intelligent” was held at Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, on Wednesday. Students of classes XI and XII expressed their views. Students participated in the competition online. The students impressed everyone and encouraged to use less technology. The winners of the competition were awarded by the school Director Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa and Principal Manisha Sood. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-impact-of-online-classes-262752
03-06-2021||Amritsar||4 mobile phones seized from jail||Man nabbed with illegal pistolAmritsar: The city police arrested a person with country made illegal 315 bore pistol and cartridge here on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Sajan Singh, alias Mathi, of Indira Colony, Majitha Road. ASI Kulwant Singh, in charge Mai Bhaggo College police post, said a police team was present at Dutta Enclave near bypass road. The accused came from Gurudwara Shri Chand side. The cops found his activities suspicious and intercepted him. During search, the police recovered country made 315 bore pistol and a cartridge of 315 bore. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered. “We will get the police remand of the accused and investigate his links from where he got the illegal weapon,” said ASI Kulwant Singh. TNSResident duped of Rs13L, 2 bookedAmritsar: Two person running a travel agency illegally have been booked for duping a resident of Rs13.30 lakh on the pretext of sending her abroad. The accused have been identified as Puneet Kumar of Ram Nagar, Kangra Colony at Batala Road and Shefali Modgill of Gopal Nagar Majitha Road. Victim Bhagwant Kaur, in her complaint said the accused cheated her of Rs13.30 lakh on the pretext of sending her to England. After an inquiry conducted by Sarbjit Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (North), a case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act-2014 has been registered at Ranjit Avenue police station. No arrest has been made so far. TNS15-year-old girl kidnappedAmritsar: A 15-year-old girl was kidnapped after being threatened with a sharp-edged weapon at Sra village in Mattewal area here, on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Germanjit Singh, a resident of the village. Mother of the victim in her complaint said the accused entered her house along with his brother on the intervening night of May 28 and 29. They had sharp-edged weapons in their hands. The accused forcefully took her daughter along with them. The police have registered a case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC. No arrest has been made so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-mobile-phones-seized-from-jail-262751
03-06-2021||The Central Government has played a cruel joke on the poor on the promise of providing a free house to the identified beneficiaries of Khemkaran town under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Under this much advertised scheme||Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana subsidy delayed||Remembering social worker of PattiVinod Kumar Sharma, a social worker and resident of Patti town, who succumbed to Covid about 10 days ago, would be remembered by people for a long time. Vinod Sharma was working as patwari and was known for his honesty. He started donating blood at younger age and registered his name with the Civil Hospital, Patti, for voluntary blood donations. With his help, the residents formed the Bhagat Pooran Singh Khoondan (Blood Donation) Committee, Patti, in 1994. The committee performed well and managed to donate 72,000 units of blood till 2020 to different hospitals in the state and other parts of the country. He himself had donated blood 100 times. He had been providing food to the needy under ‘Bibi Rajni Da Chullha‘ (Kitchen of Bibi Rajni) in Tarn Taran, Patti, and other places in the district. He was seen in social service all times, besides his official duty. He was honoured for his selfless services several times.A Deputy District Attorney with a tender heartGurpreet Singh Rana, Deputy District Attorney, Tarn Taran, remains in search of needy students to extend them financial aid to carry on their studies. He himself faced a lot of problems from childhood and it was due to this that he adopted the way to make him mentally satisfied. His father expired when he was just six years old. His mother, who was a government school teacher, brought up her two sons with great care. Rana took his secondary from the Punjab School Education Board and did his graduation from SGAD Government College, Tarn Taran. He topped the law degree from Guru Nanak Dev University in 1998 and then started law practice. He was selected as an Additional District Attorney in 2006 and was now Deputy District Attorney in Tarn Taran. He was a nature lover with kitchen garden in his home and swimming is his habit. He has appealed the students to approach him for financial help in case of need.Small wonder teaching big lessons in covidDhruman H Nimbale, SSP, Tarn Tran, has expressed his satisfaction over adopting wearing mask and other precautions against Covid as the natural habit by the people. The district police head was on his way to his office recently when he saw a tiny tot going on foot with her grandmother wearing mask. The SSP stopped his official vehicle near the tiny girl and inquired the reason of wearing mask by her. Her grandmother told SSP that she (the girl) was deaf and dumb and cannot tell anything. “It was her habit to wear mask and maintain social distancing even at home and wash her hands often,” said her grandmother to the SSP. She said they had sufficient stock of mask and sanitisers in the house and the girl often distributes mask to people not wearing the mask in the locality. The duo was going to have medicine from the hospital for the girl who was under treatment.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pradhan-mantri-awas-yojana-subsidy-delayed-262750
03-06-2021||Amritsar||‘Patti-Makhu rail link still a distant dream’||“The much sought after Patti-Makhu rail link that was ‘gazetted’ by the state Congress government was nothing but a political move.”This was stated by Rajya Sabha Member and former BJP State President Shwait Malik. “It was the lax policy of Capt Amarinder led government to declare the project during the last leg of its tenure. How could the land acquisition formalities be furnished within seven months’ remaining span? It was nothing but another ‘lollipop’ of the state Congress to garner poll favours,” he said.He claimed that the project to connect Amritsar with Ferozepur was conceived when Dr Manmohan Singh was the PM and Pawan Bansal was the Railway Minister. “It was lingered for the past 10 years. “When I became Rajya Sabha member in 2016, I raised this project in the Parliament and got Rs 299 crore sanctioned with the intervention of PM Narendra Modi and the then minister Arun Jaitley. But this amount remained un utilised as the state government could not spare Rs 40 crore to acquire the land for the past four years,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-makhu-rail-link-still-a-distant-dream-262749
03-06-2021||---||Using mundane objects to create art||Amritsar, June 2Artistes had a challenging year in terms of survival and visibility for their art. But some are choosing to rise above it by making optimum use of this unexpected hiatus. Smiley Chaudhary, a city-based muralist, has been busy creating art for a cause.Smiley specialises in working with waste, mostly crude materials such as cement, wood, iron, bamboo, GRC, fibre, wax, glass, paper, ribbon and turning the mundane materials into intangible art. She has been busy with several projects to contribute towards community building.“It has been quite challenging to arrange for raw material for my art work, since I source my material from waste. With everything shut during lockdown last year, I had to ensure to go extra mile to arrange for waste material such as broken glass, tiles, even scraps of fabrics that I used to get from boutiques. After a tough six months, I decided to work on few projects to create murals and installations for community-based initiatives,” she shares.She has been engaged in FICCI FLO’s mentorship programme to train underprivileged girls. She also created a series of paintings inspired by the life of Maharaja Ranjit Singh that were donated to the district administration. “My entire lockdown period went into creating these paintings by using scraps and waste,” she said.“The paintings are an example of sustainable art as I have used plant-based waste such as peels in making them and they will be displayed at the new administrative building. I also worked on creating installations and miniatures to be displayed at international airport,” she said.Her most recent work includes creating miniatures for FLO mini forest on the pattern of rock garden. “I have made miniatures by using broken tiles, ceramics, fabric scrap and glass. It has been my way of raising awareness regarding nature and sustainability through art. I feel, post pandemic, the message is loud and clear. We have to embrace a nature-friendly lifestyle.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/using-mundane-objects-to-create-art-262748
03-06-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC gets another road-sweeping machine for city||The Municipal Corporation (MC) got another road-sweeping machine to clean major roads in the city.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal inaugurated the machine, which will clean major roads of the city. The truck-mounted machine cleans roads efficiently, claimed the Mayor. The cost of one machine is Rs50 lakh. The MC now has two such machines.The Mayor said the Municipal Corporation brought modern machinery worth crores of rupees for roads to streamline the sanitation system of the city. Vacuum-sweeping machines have been bought to clean major roads.The Mayor said millions of pilgrims visit the holy city and therefore it was the duty of the MC to pay utmost attention to its cleanliness by using the state-of-the-art machinery for this purpose.Superintending Engineer Anurag Mahajan, XEN Ashwani Kumar, Municipal Health Officers Dr Ajay Kanwar, Dr Yogesh, JE Kulwinder Singh, JE Raman Kumar and Malkit Singh were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-gets-another-road-sweeping-machine-for-city-262747
03-06-2021||---||SGPC celebrates Gurta Gaddi Diwas of 6th Guru||Amritsar, June 2The SGPC celebrated the Gurta Gaddi diwas of the sixth Master Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib at Akal Takht with traditional Sikh traditions on Wednesday.Grandeur was decorated at Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib, sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai, situated within the Golden Temple complex.After the bhog of Akhandpath, hazuri raagi group of Bhai Jarnail Singh Koharka of Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib, performed Gurbani Kirtan and Bhai Prem Singh offered prayers.During the function, Harmandar Sahib head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh, Akal Takht Sahib Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh congratulated the sangat (devotees) on the Guruship Day of the sixth Sikh Guru and urged them to follow the path shown by the Guru.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “After the martyrdom of the fifth Sikh master - Guru Arjan Dev, the sixth Guru, Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib established the Akal Takht, the highest temporal shrine representing independent Sikh thinking for the unique existence and identity of the Sikh community. Guru Sahib fought four wars against oppression and instilled in humanity the passion to fight for the rights and truth. This sentiment needs to be inculcated in today’s youth.”On this occasion Giani Jagtar Singh said that Guru Sahib has incomparable blessings to the Sikh community and today the community should take guidance from its history and adopt Bani and Baana (Gurbani and traditional Sikh attire, respectively). Meanwhile, Jalaus (grandeur) were also decorated at Harmandar Sahib, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai dedicated to the Guruship Day of the sixth Sikh Guru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-celebrates-gurta-gaddi-diwas-of-6th-guru-262746
03-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Now, gangster booked in land-grabbing case||Tarn Taran, June 2Notorious gangster Preet Sanghva has now been booked by the Valtoha police in another case related to land grabbing in Lakhna village. He was among the main accused for firing in Patti town a week ago, in which two residents were killed and one injured.According to information, Preet Sanghva, Rajwinder Singh Raj, Manjit Singh Gabbar and Mahan Singh of the border area along with as many as 50 armed men in a bid to grab a 103-kanal land irrigated it four months ago. The accused harvested the wheat crop two months ago and sold it at some unknown market.Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh, the Investigating Officer from Valtoha police station, said a case under Sections 447, 379 and 120 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against the accused.The IO on Wednesday said Sukhwinder Singh, a Commission Agent, who was a resident of Lakhna village, was the owner of the land and had cheated several area residents of crores of rupees. He then took a huge sum of money from Rasal Singh of the same village and gave him the management of the land and left for some undisclosed destination.The IO said Preet Sanghva and other accused were absconding and further proceeding had been initiated.Man booked on rape chargeAmritsar: A man was booked for allegedly raping a 28-year-old married woman by entering forcefully into her house at Dalla Rajputan village in the Ajnala area. The accused has been identified as Lakhbir Singh of the same village.In her complaint to the Ajnala police, the victim stated that her husband worked as a farm labourer. On April 10, when she was alone at her house, the accused entered forcefully and raped her. He threatened the victim that if she told her husband he would kill him. When her husband returned late in the evening she narrated the whole incident. The matter was first discussed by the elders and they tried to make a compromise between victims and accused. Finally, the victim filed a complaint and police registered a case under Section 376 of IPC. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-gangster-booked-in-land-grabbing-case-262680
03-06-2021||---||Govt failed to fulfil poll promises: AAP||Amritsar, June 2 Jagdish Kamboj Goldy, leader of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), on his maiden visit to the holy city on Wednesday after becoming president of the party’s state BC cell alleged  that the Congress came to power in the state after resorting to a blatant form of corruption by announcing ‘fake’ promises.  He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh formed the government by telling a bundle of lies to the people. He said people of the state would not forget his lies of giving job to a member of each family, eradicating drug menace, smashing the sand mafia, cable mafia and others. He said not even one of these promises was honoured by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-failed-to-fulfil-poll-promises-aap-262681
03-06-2021||---||After 2 months, cases drop below 100 mark in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 2In what could be termed as a little respite from Covid-19 infections, the district reported only 97 positive cases on Wednesday. The health authorities have also reported seven deaths due to the disease.The number of Covid-19 positive cases had started increasing in mid-February. At its peak, the daily positive case count had even crossed the 600 mark. The cases, however, have seen a decline in the last two weeks.It was in the second week of April, that the daily cases crossed the 100 mark and started increasing daily.The new cases reported on Wednesday include 69 influenza-like illness cases and 28 contacts of positive patients. So far, the district has reported a total of 44,921 positive cases and 1,468 deaths due to the disease.The health authorities said with the recovery of 289 cases on Wednesday, the total recovery count also improved to 40,713. The district, at present has a total of 2,740 active cases.Meanwhile, the deceased have been identified as Peter Masih (32) of Jagdev Khurd village; Randhir Singh (72) of Gheri Mandi village; Kewal Kapoor (88) of Mall Road; Parkash Singh (54) of Nangal; Kulwinder Singh (56) of Sohian Kalan; Channo Devi of Subhash Nagar (Sultanwind Road) and Gurdev Singh (58) of Batala Road.Three die, 10 test positive in Tarn TaranThree persons succumbed to the virus on Wednesday, taking the toll to 318 in the district. The Health Department teams collected 1,085 samples on Wednesday from different places. As many as 10 persons tested positive.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,31,623 citizens have been vaccinated against Covid-19 till date. There were 432 active cases in the district and 219 patients have been isolated at their respective homes.The district has gradually started recording less fatalities and positive cases now. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-2-months-cases-drop-below-100-mark-in-amritsar-262673
03-06-2021||---||A messiah for Covid orphans||Amritsar, June 2With a view to provide succor to children aged under 10 years who have been orphaned by Covid, Dr Ashok Uppal, Punjab Medical Council member and former president, IMA-Amritsar, has announced financial relief to the tune of Rs1 lakh.The initiative is a part of the ‘Mission Rahat’ launched by Uppal Neuro Hospital earlier. Under the initiative, the hospital has been providing free consultation and medicines to the needy Covid patients.Dr Uppal said people could contact them through Mission Rahat helpline 88729-62555 if they come across a child who has been orphaned by the deadly virus.“Though it is not possible to fill the void caused in their lives by the pandemic, it is our duty to provide fiscal and social assistance to them in their time of need,” he said.He also lauded the initiatives taken by the Centre and state government for the wellbeing of such children. “Children are the future of our nation. It is the duty of every responsible citizen to come forward to the aid of the children bereaved on account of Covid, in every possible way that they can,” said Dr Uppal.In an appeal to the general public, Dr Uppal said people should help families affected by the pandemic, especially children, in any way it is possible for them. “We can take care of each other,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-messiah-for-covid-orphans-262674
03-06-2021||---||Cancellation of Class XII exams: Decision evinces mixed response||Amritsar, June 2The decision to cancel the Class XII board exams has evinced mixed response from both teachers and students. Parents, however, have heaved a sigh of relief that health has been given a priority. Meanwhile, everyone’s eyes are now on the evaluation criteria, which is yet to be decided.The academicians feel this decision was the only option left during unprecedented times, but it would definitely give a free pass to those who did not study at all during the year.Upasana Mehra, principal, Senior Study II, said: “I don’t think it’s the best decision to scrap exams altogether. Students who had prepared well throughout the year despite the challenge of the pandemic and online classes definitely will be disappointed. It will also have an impact on those planning to take competitive exams or applying for foreign universities.”Anjana Gupta, principal, DAV International School, too, feels that this was the most plausible solution under given situation. “The health of students had to be kept as a priority and so, despite whatever challenges that might arise in future, a decision had to be made. We can understand that this might create unfair advantage for some, but it’s a small price to pay under the given circumstances.”Students, too, were divided over the decision, as they hoped the admission process for colleges, too, would be considered.“I think it was a fair decision to not go ahead with the exams given the risk it will bring along. I am glad this decision was made. The next important thing to look out for will be the evaluation criteria because that essentially decides how we will go about with our admissions,” said Pushti Seth, a student of Spring Dale Senior School.Mannat Dashmesh, a student of Dalhousie Public School, Badhani, said she had to change her entire plan for higher education due to the pandemic. “It has been difficult to cope with academics during the pandemic. According to the situation, the decision might seem best, but for me, it means that now I will have to apply overseas to pursue the course of my choice. I had earlier planned to apply in DU colleges that already have very high cut-offs. With scrapping of exams, whether a good student or not, everyone has been put on the same pedestal.”Parentspeak"It is a serious concern as well as respite among parents that the Class XII exams have been called off during the surge in Covid cases. As for children, I think various competitive exams and colleges acknowledge the fact that unusual times like these need some flexible solutions." — Anupama Sood, A parent of a Class XII student||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cancellation-of-class-xii-exams-decision-evinces-mixed-response-262675
03-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Teen gang-raped in Sarhali, 4 booked||The Sarhali police have booked four persons, including two women, in a gang-rape case with a 13-year-old resident of Usman village. The incident occurred on the intervening night of May 30 and 31, but the police registered the case on Tuesday. The accused include Manu and her sister Pooja of Usman village and two unidentified persons from Thathian Mahanta village. IO Sub-Inspector Geeta from Sarhali police station said the accused Manu and her sister Pooja abducted the girl from her house at night and took her to Thathia Mahantan village, where the accused committed the crime with the victim. Meanwhile, victim’s parents started inquiring about her whereabouts from Manu and Pooja after which they immediately informed the accused, who then dropped the girl at her village. The family then lodged a complaint with the police. Police officer Geeta said a case under Sections 363, 376-D and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act had been registered in this regard. Manu has been arrested and was produced in court. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-gang-raped-in-sarhali-4-booked-262676
03-06-2021||---||Gym owners protest, demand opening of fitness centres||Amritsar, June 2Gym owners held a protest against the government for not allowing them to open their centres here on Wednesday. They said the government had permitted all businesses, including liquor vends to function but gyms were not allowed to function even with restrictions.Raising slogans against the government’s restrictions they sought immediate lifting of the restrictions. Some of them even took out their upper clothes to show their six-pack body to convey their resentment at the government’s insensitive attitude toward gyms. They complain that it was the second closure for the gyms during the past 14 months. “Gyms have been closed for the past nearly three months and their establishments were closed for nearly seven months last year, said a gym owner Deepak.He hit out at the government that the guidelines were only for gyms while all other sections of trade and industry were allowed. A majority of gym owners have to pay rent of their premises, salaries to employees, power tariff, maintenance cost of machineries and other unseen expenditures, besides they have to feed their families too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gym-owners-protest-demand-opening-of-fitness-centres-262677
03-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Dholis count losses, seek financial help from govt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 2The pandemic has taken a heavy toll on people’s work, business, jobs, etc, throughout the world. Even individuals who make a living through their skills have not been spared by it.Even people connected to the wedding industry are also counting losses. Dholis are one of them who are demanding financial help from the government as they have earned not even a single penny in the current wedding season due to the Covid-induced restrictions. They rue the entire wedding season has been lost to the restrictions enforced amid rising cases of Covid-19 in this summer season.“Our services are sought during the days of wedding, navratras and some other days of celebrations. On top of it, our limited earning opportunities round the year have been further wasted by Covid-induced restrictions,” said Amrik Singh, a 65-year-old dholi.This is the only source of earning for his family. His grandson Sonu also joined him after learning nuances of the instrument from him. Keeping this in view the government must give them a monthly allowance to sustain during this bad phase, he demands.Apart from the conventional sources of engagement, now they are also hired by schools as trainers to train students in the art and are called in different parts of the country and even abroad to showcase their art. The pandemic has dealt a severe blow to the profession of about 2,000 dholis who earn their living from the Punjabi folk instrument. Its roots are so deeply entrenched in society that an entire locality is named Dholli Mohalla, indicating that generations have been involved in the profession passing the skills from one generation to the next.A spate of electronic instruments overtook the indigenous vocal instruments barring dhol. It has not only adjusted to the changing social and cultural milieu but also maintained its independent place.Billa, a dholi, said, “Last year too, the marriage season was wasted during the lockdown and curbs were imposed during the Navratras, which hit their income”. He says that they are not only maintaining the Punjabi heritage but are also rearing their families. Restrictions on celebrations have almost ended their income and they are compelled to fund their essential family expenditures by taking loans. He lays stress that in this scenario the government must extend a helping hand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dholis-count-losses-seek-financial-help-from-govt-262678
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nod to tehsil complex in Amritsar village||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Wednesday gave nod to construct a tehsil complex at Lopoke in Amritsar district and develop a food street in Hoshiarpur, besides clearing several other infrastructure development projects in various parts of the state.She was chairing the 54th meeting of the empowered committee of optimum utilisation of vacant government lands (OUVGL) scheme here.To augment development projects in the state on the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the meeting decided to construct the tehsil complex in Lopoke, Amritsar district.The empowered committee decided to start forthwith the work to develop the food street at Nalonian in Hoshiarpur and invite applications from interested persons for the allotment of booths and shops at the new commercial site. The Chief Secretary asked the authorities concerned to make the new food street operational by the year-end. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nod-to-tehsil-complex-in-amritsar-village-262472
03-06-2021||Amritsar||NGO puts up ‘Navjot Sidhu missing’ posters in Amritsar||‘Missing’ posters of Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu surfaced in the East constituency represented by him as an MLA. A reward of Rs 50,000, too, has been assured to anyone who gives information about him.NGO Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Sewa Society has put up these posters titled ‘gumshuda di talaash’ near Jauda Phatak in the Rasoolpur Kalar area, where a train tragedy had occurred in October 2018 during Dasehra festivities that had killed scores of people. Sidhu had announced adopting the families of the area whose breadwinners lost lives in the train catastrophe, but never fulfilled it, the NGO alleged.NGO head Anil Vashisht said: “The mounds of garbage, broken roads and filthy ponds speak volumes about the MLA’s careless attitude. The voters had showed faith in him and elected him multiple times as an MP and MLA.” He said people of the East constituency were waiting for him to visit them during the trying times of Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-puts-up-navjot-sidhu-missing-posters-in-amritsar-262459
03-06-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL incurs Rs 8.50 crore loss due to thunderstorms||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2Two thunderstorms in the past few days that hit the region, snapping power supply to several parts of the state, have caused a loss of over Rs 8.50 crore to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) with officials still working to restore power to many areas. Already facing a shortage of men and material, the restoration process took over 24 hours in many parts of the state.The two thundershowers and strong wind snapped off power lines in parts of Amritsar, Mohali, Nawanshahr, Fazilka, Muktsar, Bathinda, Barnala, Moga, Sangrur, Patiala, Mansa, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib, officials said.Electricity poles were reportedly damaged in many villages across Punjab, with trees causing maximum damage. As per the information gathered from officials, the 11 KV system of the PSPCL suffered maximum damage due to the storm.Around 1,145 transformers were damaged out of which 616 were in south zone which suffered a total loss worth over Rs 4.13 crore followed by 391 transformers in west zone with a total loss of Rs 3.34 crore, 69 in central with Rs 58.10 lakh, 50 in north zone causing Rs 34.50 lakh losses and 19 in border zone with the total loss pegged at Rs 16.91 lakh. “Around 6,323 poles were damaged in the state while 1,359 other power items of 11 KV system were destroyed,” said a top official. Around 10 pm on Monday, the power load of Punjab touched a low of 3,400 MW, which meant that most of the state faced almost a blackout-like situation. “This low load in peak summer was alarming as normally 3,000 MW is the load during the peak winter in December and January,” an official said.Even the 66 KV system suffered major losses with eight towers in Bathinda, two in Patiala and one in Amritsar being destroyed due to the heavy winds. “Approximately Rs 29.35 lakh worth of items were destroyed,” said the official.A senior PSPCL official said, “Basically we don’t have enough material to handle paddy season this year. And if such weather conditions occur a few more times, restoring power can become impossible”.“All officials in the field worked tirelessly to restore power in cities and villages. Due to high wind velocity and damages caused, at some places it took a little longer to restore power supply. I again say that we have no material shortage and ample stock is there, while on-the-spot purchase is allowed for field officials,” said CMD, PSPCL, A Venu Prasad.Ajay Pal Singh Atwal, general secretary, PSEB Engineers’ Federation, flagged the issue of material shortage in a letter to the PSPCL management claiming: “Distribution transformers, insulators, cables and cable boxes are in limited supply.”Govt betrayed people on power issue: AAPChandigarh: AAP MLA from Delhi Raghav Chadha on Wednesday said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had tried several times to betray the people of the state on the electricity issue. Chadha said Capt Amarinder had befooled the people of Punjab with his promises of issuing a white paper and cancelling the faulty power purchase agreements, which were just false claims. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pspcl-incurs-rs-8-50-crore-loss-due-to-thunderstorms-262466
