04-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Baba Sewa Singh of Khadoor Sahib is UN’s Faith of Earth||2 foreign-made pistols seizedAmritsar: The Border Security Force (BSF) confiscated two foreign-made pistols, which were sneaked into Indian territory by Pakistan-based elements on Tuesday. The weapons were found during a search operation near Panjgraian border outpost following a tip-off. The weapons were wrapped in polythene and hidden under soil. Later, the BSF informed the Ramdas police regarding the seizure. A complaint was registered with the Ramdass police by Bhagwan Singh Srivastva, SI, BSF. According to the police, the BSF seized a 7.63 mm pistol (made in China) along with 12 bullets and a Turkish made 9 mm pistol with one round. The police have detained several suspects from villages located near the international border for interrogation. The police have also questioned owner of the fields from where the weapons were seized. TNS4 mobiles, charger seized in Amritsar jailAmritsar: In yet another seizure, the authorities at Amritsar Central Jail confiscated four mobile phones from the de-addiction centre on its premises here on Wednesday. While a cell phone was recovered from a prisoner identified as Ravinder Singh, alias Bhinda, the remaining phones were found unclaimed and wrapped in a polythene bag. Avtar Singh, assistant superintendent, Central Jail, said during checking of de-addiction centre’s barrack number 2, a cell phone was seized from Ravinder Singh. Similarly, an unclaimed polythene bag was confiscated, which was concealed in a bathroom pipe. When opened, three mobile phones were found from it. The jail authorities also found a mobile charger from a notorious gangster Amanpreet, alias, Rinka. Two separate cases were registered with Islamabad police station here. TNS14-yr-old traced to Darbar SahibTarn Taran: A 14-year-old boy who went missing from his native Bharowal village on Wednesday was traced to Darbar Sahib on Thursday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the boy Arunpreet Singh (14), son of Jarnail Singh, left home due to some domestic problem. He said the boy was handed over to his parents by Inspector Jaswant Singh, SHO Goindwal Sahib police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baba-sewa-singh-of-khadoor-sahib-is-uns-faith-of-earth-263205
04-06-2021||---||Firing at petrol station: Security guard injured, rifle snatched||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 3Unknown armed persons snatched a rifle from the security guard of a petrol pump after shooting him in Gaunsabad village falling under the Kamboh police station here late Wednesday evening.The victim was identified as Harjit Singh deputed at Shiva petrol pump. Though the police registered a complaint in this regard, there was no breakthrough in the case so far.Yadwinder Singh, SHO, Kamboh police station, said the injured guard was admitted to a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable. He said remaining employees of the petrol pump were having dinner when the incident took place.Dharam Pal, owner of the pump, said three armed persons came on a bike at the petrol pump and asked for filling petrol. He said an employee told them that the petrol pump was closed. As employees who were having cash had gone for dinner, the accused found an opportunity and shot at Harjit. They snatched his rifle and fled away.The SHO said further investigations were under progress. He said the police were scrutinising CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity to find clues about the suspects. A case has been registered, he added.Woman commits suicide, husband bookedA woman ended her life after hanging herself at her house in Nava Kot area on Wednesday. The victim, Neha, was residing along with her husband, Rohit Kumar, in a rented accommodation.She allegedly committed suicide following alleged harassment at the hands of her husband. On the complaint of the vicitim’s mother, Tripta Devi, the police have booked Rohit on charges of abetment to suicide.Devi told the police that Neha got married around eight years ago. She said they were living in a rented accommodation for the last one year. Devi said she got a call that Neha had closed herself in a room. As Rohit broke open the door, she was found hanging with a ceiling fan.She alleged that Rohit used to harass her daughrer, tghus she took the extreme step.The Gate Hakima police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against Rohit. The police said body of the deceased was handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination and raids were on to arrest Rohit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-at-petrol-station-security-guard-injured-rifle-snatched-263203
04-06-2021||Tarn Taran||3 students of Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government College honoured||Harwinder Singh Bhalla, Principal, Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government College, on Thursday honoured three students of the college— Gurpreet Kaur, Ranjit Kaur and Karanbir Singh— for obtaining first three position in the college in the first semester of BAC, results of which were declared by Guru Nanak University recently. The principal extended his best wishes to the shining students for their bright future and called all students to follow these students. Teachers of the college were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-students-of-sri-guru-arjun-dev-government-college-honoured-263202
04-06-2021||---||Development works inaugurated in North Assembly segment of Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 3City Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated development works worth crores of rupees in ward number 12 and 13 of North Assembly constituency here on Thursday. The work of interlocking tiles has been inaugurated in Green Field, Diamond Avenue, Gulmohar Avenue with a cost of Rs 46 lakh, while flooring and interlocking tile work in localities of Har Rai Avenue, Shree Chand Enclave at a cost of 46 lakh has also been initiated, Rintu said.The Mayor said the work of interlocking tiles had been started for the convenience of ward number 12 and 13 residents. He said that development works had been done in almost every ward of the city and no area of the city would be deprived of development and the problem of water and sewerage had been fixed in almost every area of the city. All wards of the city have been equipped with modern smart LEDs, he said.Counsellors Priyanka Sharma, Ritesh Sharma, Manjit Singh, Narinder Kumar, Baldev Singh, Amrik Singh, Prem Singh, Ranbir Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Honey, Jasbir Singh Chhind, Pradeep Singh, Narinder Singh, Raj Singh, Harpreet Singh, Surjit Singh and Pappu Pehalwan were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/development-works-inaugurated-in-north-assembly-segment-of-amritsar-263201
04-06-2021||---||Youth, brother shot at, 5 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 3Amardeep Singh (22), a resident of Devidaspura village falling under Jandiala police station, was seriously injured while his brother Arshdeep Singh, had a narrow escape, when around five persons attacked them three days ago.They were going from Devidaspura to Amarkot village, when the incident took place. A case was registered only on Wednesday, as the victim was not fit for recording the statement earlier. On the statement of Amardeep, Jandiala Guru police booked Rahul, alias Dana, of Sheikhupura Mohalla in Jandiala Guru; Budhu of Talawa village along with three unidentified persons on the charges of attempt to murder and under Arms Act.Amardeep, a farmer, told the police that on May 31 he along with his brother Arshdeep Singh was going from Devidaspura to Amarkot village on their bike PB-08-CN-3455. He said when around 11.30 pm they reached near the residence of one Darshan Singh, where the accused were standing, Rahul took out pistols and shot at them. He said a bullet hit his right thigh. He said the shot fired by Bhudhu hit his left shoulder. He said when the accused tried to catch them, his brother sped the bike and they fled from the scene. He said as his condition was very serious, his brother got him admitted to a private hospital in Amritsar.ASI Harinder Singh, investigating officer, said Amardeep told that the accused used to pressurise him but he did not reveal anything else. He said further investigations were on to find the cause behind the attack and raids were on to nab the suspects. Rahul Dana used to ply auto-rickshaw and we are checking the antecedents of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-brother-shot-at-5-booked-263200
04-06-2021||---||Crackdown on illicit liquor biz||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 3In a joint operation, the Police and Excise Departments of Tarn Taran and Ferozepur district recovered a huge quantity of lahan and illicit liquor from Jalloke village in the Mand area on Thursday.Five persons have also been arrested for indulging in the illegal trade.Navjot Bharti, Local Excise Officer, informed that in the seven-hour long operation, as many as 80 personnel from both departments were deputed under the supervision of Iqbal Singh DSP (Operation). Excise Inspectors Jatinder Singh, Amrik Singh and Parshotam Pathania led the teams in the search operation. The teams recovered two working stills with 525-kg lahan and 18,750-ml illicit liquor. The teams also recovered 17,500-kg unclaimed lahan. The lahan was destroyed on the spot.The officer said the arrested persons have been identified as Balwant Singh, son of Kartar Singh; Gurdev Singh, son of Kartar Singh; Borh Singh, son of Balbir Singh; Jeet Singh, son of Gurbachan Singh and Tarlochan Singh son of Mukhtiar Singh. As many as 15 drums, nine cans and nine other utensils were seized from the spot. Cases under Sections 61,1, 14 of the Excise Act have been registered by the Patti Sadar police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crackdown-on-illicit-liquor-biz-263199
04-06-2021||---||Operation Bluestar anniversay : Security beefed up ahead of June 6 in Amritsar||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, June 3Deputy Commissioner of Police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal on Thursday led the police personnel and conducted a flag march from the Hall Gate to the Golden Temple ahead of the 37th anniversay of Operation Bluestar on June 6.Bhandal said elaborate security arrangements have been made to thwart any untoward incident on the occasion. He said around 5,000 cops have been deployed in the city while 1,000 policemen would be responsible for maintaining security from the Hall Gate to the Golden Temple on June 6.He said checkpoints have been set up at entry and exit points of the city. He said the police have been asked to keep an eye on suspicious elements. A company of Punjab Armed Police and SWAT teams has been deputed in different parts of the city, said the DCP. The police teams carried out patrolling around the Golden Temple and checked hotels and inns.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) informed that ‘Akhand Path’ would commence at Akal Takht from tomorrow and bhog would be held on June 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/operation-bluestar-anniversay-security-beefed-up-ahead-of-june-6-in-amritsar-263198
04-06-2021||---||Teachers’ front takes out bike rally in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 3A large number of teachers from the district led by Ashwani Awasthi, district convenor, Joint Teachers’ Front, on Thursday staged protest and burnt an effigy of the Education Minsiter for moving ahead with anti-teacher policies.Protesters took out a motorcycle march in the city and expressed anger over destruction of education system by implementing education disruptive decisions. They opposed the decison to impose move ahead with online education as an alternative to classroom education by the Education Secretary by involving teachers (vocation cadre) in zoom classes, meetings, trainings, distribution of food and books during summer vacations.The teachers have been protesting against the suspension of the report of the 6th Pay Commission and on the issue of transfers of primary teachers for ninth time in a row.Slamming the Education Department for not considering educational merit for promotion to the post of lecturer, agitators demanded that they should be given fair hearing.Rajesh Kumar Parashar, a member of the Joint Teachers’ Front, said those protesting were being victimised as their leaves were being deducted and salaries cut. “The state government is bullying teachers who raise their voice. There is a tendency to suspend teachers without investigation and unreasonable decisions are being made to give jobs to retired teachers. Misrepresentation of ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ is being done and fee has not been refunded despite the cancellation of Class X exams,” he said.“Similarly, the old-pension scheme is not being restored by the state government on those recruited after January 1, 2004. Report of the 6th Pay Commission is not being made public. Computer teachers have been prevented from shifting in the department and arrears of dearness allowance are not being released,” said Parashar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-front-takes-out-bike-rally-in-amritsar-263195
04-06-2021||---||A day of protests in Tarn Taran district||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 3Various unions protested against the state government for non-fulfilment of their demands in the district on Thursday.Teachers under the banner of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha organised a motorcycle march and moved to the District Administrative Complex where they submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh.The protesting teachers burnt an effigy of the Education Minister and Secretary of the Education Department.The teachers organised a rally at Gandhi Municipal Park in which large number of women teachers also participated.Karaj Singh Kairon, Nachhattar Singh and Prabhjot Singh addressed members of the union. Kairon condemned the Education Department for victimising teachers, abolishing several posts of teaching and non-teaching staff. Nachhattar and Prabhjot alleged that the Secretary was forcing teachers to tell lies by submitting wrong information just to show good performance.Meanwhile, employees of the DC office, SDM and revenue tehsils, among others, protested at the District Administrative Complex and alleged that the government was not accepting their long pending demands.The employees have been on a mass leave on the call of the District DC Office Employees’ Association.Karwinder Singh Cheema, district chief, District DC Office Employees’ Association, condemned the state government for not implementing their accepted demands.Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, Shivkaran Singh Cheema and Beant Kaur stressed for implementing the 6th Pay Commission report, expedite the process of the departmental promotion committee (DPC), releasing dearness allowance and restoration of the old-pension scheme.Indefinite strike of safai sewaks of the Tarn Taran Municipal Council entered 22nd day. Romesh Kumar Shergill of the Safai Sewaks Union said the government should be prepared to face resentment of employees during the 2022 Assembly poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-day-of-protests-in-tarn-taran-district-263193
04-06-2021||Neha Saini||Amritsar's young samaritans out to help in whatever way they can||Tribune New ServiceAmritsar, June 3Nothing defines creativity better than childhood and when it comes attached with some core values like compassion and responsibility, it needs to be lauded.Leading by example, a few kids from the city are using their creative skills to raise funds and awareness regarding social causes. While they do so, they are learning important life lessons and helping the lesser privileged.Diya Bubber, 14, has the soul of a true artiste. The young and upcoming musician has been singing since the age of four, but it’s only now that she realised the true potential of her art. Diya has been hosting online music concerts for Covid-19 relief, as a way of soothing the pain the pandemic has caused. “In my first attempt, I sang for an online prayer meet and realised the power of music as a healer. Over 5,000 people connected through that online prayer meet. The purpose of live music concert is to engage people from all age groups to channel their grief, pain, loneliness and whatever pent-up feelings they are going through and express through music,” she says.Diya is a composer and has been writing songs as a therapeutic process throughout the pandemic. “I feel that the times have been tough for everyone, mentally and physically. We need to connect through tangible and intangible means to overcome it,” she says. Diya is also collaborating with her friend Devyani, who is the daughter of celebrated designer Raghvendra Rathore, to design masks and raise money for Covid relief. “The funding will go to different charities working for Covid-19.”Another pair of young, socially responsible citizens are Saanvi (15) and Samika (11) Mehra. The siblings have started a fundraiser art sale through selling handmade paper, cards, tags, bags, envelopes, decoupage jars and coasters to raise funds to send ration to families that are unable to earn their day-to-day living due to Covid restrictions. Saanvi, who handles social media marketing for her sister’s creations, says: “It started after I got inspired by a friend, who was organising book sales online to raise funds for Covid-19 relief. We decided that we, too, can contribute through small efforts.” Samika, who is the artist behind the initiative says: “I spend seven to eight hours every day to make these crafts. We have already sold 40-50 orders and we just started 15 days back.”Both girls say it’s fulfilling to use your talent and skill for something good. “I feel that one should listen to their soul,” says Samika.Another budding artist Dishita Sareen, 15, has launched her initiative Kala, making hand-painted pots and planters to sponsor the education of two children. Dishita, who aspires to become an IAS officer, shares that it started as an effort to help two kids of a house help, who needed money for education.“I put my crafts on sale through an online mode and whatever I earn is used to support the education of needy kids. We have already generated enough funds to sponsor the education of the two kids for six months and are now looking forward to reaching out to more,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-young-samaritans-out-to-help-in-whatever-way-they-can-263192
04-06-2021||---||7 persons succumb to virus in Amritsar district, 146 new infections||Amritsar, June 3With seven more Covid-19 related deaths in the district on Thursday, the toll increased to 1,475. The health authorities reported 146 new cases. With this, the total count of positive cases has increased to 45,067.The new cases include 86 influenza-like-illness cases and 60 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department reported recovery of 330 patients with which the recovery count increased to 41,043. At present, the district has a total of 2,549 active cases.Those who succumbed to the virus include Balbir Kaur (50) of Udhoke Kalan village, Jasbir Kaur (55) of Chheharta, Mohinderpal Singh (53) of Chheharta Chungi, Bakhshish Singh (55) of Gumtala, Kulwant Rai (55) of Bhaini Baserke, Subhash Chandra (68) of Kale Ghanupur and Avinash Arora (75) of Chawal Mandi.Meanwhile, 1,926 beneficiaries were inoculated on Thursday. A total of 207 healthcare workers, 1,088 frontline workers and 965 residents above 45 years of age were administered the first dose. Those who received the second dose included 13 healthcare, 24 frontline workers and 139 persons above 45 years of age.Four die, 50 test positive in Tarn Taran districtThe health authorities reported four Covid-19 deaths in the district on Thursday. With this, the toll has reached 322.The authorities reported 50 positive cases in the district today. The district has 436 active cases of which 237 have been isolated at their homes.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said a total of 1,32,883 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-persons-succumb-to-virus-in-amritsar-district-146-new-infections-263191
04-06-2021||---||Amritsar district gears up for ‘3rd wave’||Amritsar, June 3Amid fears that the third Covid-19 wave will be “dangerous for children”, the authorities at Government Medical College here have started preparations to deal with the situation.Special arrangements have been made at the paediatric department of the hospital for children below five years of age.The critical care unit of the department has 12 fully functional bed units. The authorities said in case of an emergency, eight new beds could be installed at the place within no time and for this, all modalities have already been completed.The authorities said all required equipment for use of small children has also been arranged. They said arrangements have also been made to conduct tests such as MRI, CT scan, ultrasound scan and blood tests inside the centre, so that children are not required to be taken out.The officials said the facility would be used to treat children below 5 years of age in case they are infected with the virus. The arrangements have been made in this regard in view of the health findings that the anticipated third wave of Covid-19 could result in more infections among small children.Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni said special units are being created at medical colleges in the state. “Everyone knows that keeping children in hospital is difficult and we pray that such a situation does not arise,” he said, adding that arrangements were also being made at other government hospitals to increase the number of beds and infrastructure for patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-gears-up-for-3rd-wave-263168
