05-06-2021||Last week||Gurdaspur Dairy: Confessions of a ‘stupid’ bike thief||When cops act without any biasA flutter was created in political circles early this week when the Batala police booked President of the Sri Hargobindpur Municipal Committee (MC) Navdeep Singh Pannu for attempt to murder after he and three of his accomplices fired at a politically powerful brick kiln owner Sandeep Bhalla. Pannu had won the civic body polls as an Independent candidate but later joined the Congress. Fearing that they could come under pressure from politicians, the police were quick to register a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 of the IPC (trespassing and wrongful restraint) against Pannu, Sachin Kumar Kalia, Amrit Pal Singh Bhinder and Bhinda Aulakh. Batala SSP Rachpal Singh knew he was bound to be pressurised and hence acted quick, a development which is normally a rare occurrence with the cops because they take their own sweet time to act and react when such incidents happen. “Navdeep had joined the Congress after winning as an Independent but it does not mean the police force was under any sort of pressure from the ruling party. We are working without prejudice and bias,” said the SSP. On the day of the crime, a fear psychosis did grip the locals because they thought that if a person as powerful as Bhalla could be attacked, where do they stand in the scheme of things?An early bird catches the wormQadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa surely knows the meaning of the adage “It is the early bird that catches the worm.” With just months to go before the election bugle is blown, he has reached out to his voters by stationing as many as 10 ambulances carrying Covid-related material at strategic places in his constituency. School buses have been converted into mini-ambulances and these are now being used to ferry villagers to the nearest vaccination centres. His sons-Arjun Partap Singh and Kanwar Partap Singh-are extended a helping hand. Masks and sanitisers are being distributed liberally. Interestingly, the material is neatly packed in cardboard boxes aptly named ‘Fateh Kits.’ Help desks have been established in almost all villages falling in the Qadian assembly seat. Volunteers manning these desks help villagers in identifying the vaccination centres. As for the MLA, he said his ambulances would remain in his assembly segment till the last of the viruses disappeared into oblivion. He said, “I have been telling my people that even with all those necessary precautions you can still get infected. But never lose your faith in safety. Your job is to focus on your actions like wearing masks and using hand sanitisers, the consequences were never in your hands anyway.” That was well said, Mr Bajwa. — Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-dairy-confessions-of-a-stupid-bike-thief-263796
05-06-2021||---||Op Bluestar anniv: Security  up around Golden Temple||Amritsar, June 4A heavy police force has been deployed around the Golden Temple in view of the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar on June 6 here. Senior police officials held meetings to ensure that the event passes off peacefully.According to senior police authorities, over 1,000 cops were deployed near the Golden Temple and a close watch is being kept on suspicious elements. Contingents of police forces from adjoining police districts, including Amritsar rural and Tarn Taran, were also summoned for maintaining law and order in the city. Cops in civil dress were also deputed inside the shrine.Senior police officials, including Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal, supervised the security arrangements.The Police Commissioner warned anti-social elements against creating law and order problems on the day. He said police officials were asked to take suspicious elements under preventive arrest if the need arises.Police officials revealed that senior police officials from the city and Amritsar rural police led by Dr Gill and SSP (Amritsar Rural) Dhruv Dahiya held meetings in the police lines and chalk out plans and issued necessary instructions to the police officials. A close watch is being kept in the places which remained a hotbed of militancy in Punjab during heydays of terrorism. These included Mehta, Majitha and Attari. The entire city, especially areas surrounding Darbar Sahib, had turned into a fortress with intensive barricading.Meanwhile, Tarn Taran police also installed check-points at the entry and exit points of the city in view of Ghallughara divas. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale visited these nakas. Those who were found running away after seeing the cops were nabbed and their antecedents were being looked into.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/op-bluestar-anniv-security-up-around-golden-temple-263794
05-06-2021||The MC has stepped up its proposed implementation of projects to improve the city’s green cover. Recently||Amritsar civic body employees plant saplings||Following the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the MC would spend Rs 85 lakh on the installation of ‘WAYU’ units.Several NGOs have also initiated steps to promote green spaces. Rohit Mehra, IRS and an environmental activist, has collaborated with the administration to build vertical gardens and also start first green ambulance service to recover dying or uprooted trees. “It takes time to bring about the change we desire. Education is as important as implementation for recovering the lost natural wealth and moving towards sustainability,” said Rohit.Dilbir Foundation, another major contributor towards afforestation campaigns in the city, has started 5Tree project, which aims to encourage people to plant five fruit saplings, especially native varieties. “As a pre-monsoon activity, we are motivating people to plant saplings in order to increase fruit bearing tree cover in the city. Traditional varieties, which are being encouraged are mulberry, jamun, mango, jujube, moringa, tamarind and gooseberry. These enable food production and atmospheric oxygenation for the needy. The tree species shall be made available to all who come forward. Ace tree planters are being given incentives up to 30 per cent on organic produce by us,” said Gunbir Singh, president, Dilbir Foundation.The district administration has begun the process of creating mini forests at Chali Khuh and another mini forest will be created and adopted by the FICCI FLO. Guru Nanak Dev University has already started work on turning six acres of its land into a mini forest. Concepts of multi-plantation, including seed bomb dispersal were being adopted to ensure maximum plantation before the monsoon arrives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-employees-plant-saplings-263792
05-06-2021||It’s 2021 and we are in the middle of a pandemic||All is not well here: Let’s take pledge to adopt green & clean lifestyle||Response towards environment conservation and regulation has been staggered and always too little, too late. Earlier, Amritsar’s ranking in the Ease of Living Index assessment, a citizen perception survey released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, placed it at 45th spot among 49 cities assessed in the category. The city’s rankings in several surveys conducted under Swachh Bharat and Smart City projects has consistently been poor, placing it among the low ranking cities, in the last five years.The recent report on air quality assessment conducted under the CITIIS programme by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development and funded by the French Development Agency and European Union, recorded the average amount of PM 10 and 2.5 particles in the air at several areas to be much higher than normal. Other air pollutants, including sulphur-dioxide, nitrogen-dioxide, carbon-monoxide, ozone as well as noise pollution levels were monitored and found to be just around the minimum mark.Environmentalists have rued about depleting green spaces, including Ram Bagh. Gole Bagh and Chali Khuh are the only remaining reservoirs of the city’s green wealth. A few years ago, a large number of trees were cut for the BRTS corridor. Since then, only a portion of the green cover lost has been revived. Recently, around 80 trees on the the banks of Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) that were supposed to be chopped for a project were saved after residents and activists raised concerns.The city has struggled with the implementation of a systematic waste management programme. Bhagtanwala garbage dump has turned into the Achilles heel for civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-is-not-well-here-lets-take-pledge-to-adopt-green-clean-lifestyle-263790
05-06-2021||---||4 succumb, 144 test +ve in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 4With four more persons losing their lives to Covid-19 in the district on Friday, the toll increased to 1,479. The health authorities reported 144 new cases today. With the new cases, the total count of positive cases increased to 45,211 in the district.The new cases include 94 influenza-like illness cases and 50 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department reported the recovery of 345 patients with which the recovery count increased to 41,388. At present, the district has a total of 2,344 active cases.Those who fell prey to the virus include Jasbir Kaur (67) of Chowk Paragdass, Balwinder Kaur (47) of Mehta, Ranjit Kumar (68) of Kot Khalsa and Mukhtar Singh (58) of Jasroar village in Ajnala.Meanwhile, 4,261 beneficiaries were inoculated in the district today. It took the total number of people fully inoculated to 3,92,155. So far, a total of 15,122 healthcare workers, 17,745 frontline workers, 40,390 residents above 45 years of age were administered both doses.Four die in Tarn TaranThe district health authorities on Friday reported four deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 326. The health authorities reported 33 fresh positive cases today. With this, the tally of active cases increased to 421 in the district and out of these, 225 patients have been isolated at their respective homes.So far, 2,124 citizens have been vaccinated and a total number of 1,35,007 had been vaccinated against Covid-19. Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said teams of the Health Department had collected 1,118 samples on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-succumb-144-test-ve-in-amritsar-263716
05-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Man ends life, wife among five booked||A 23-year-old resident of Goindwal Sahib allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. The police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against his wife and four of her relatives.  The deceased has been identified as Karamjit Singh.   Parveen Kaur, mother of the deceased, told the police that deceased’s wife Manpreet Kaur and her four relatives thrashed Karamjit mercilessly over a family conflict. Perturbed over this, on May 25 he consumed poison.  He was admitted to local hospital and died on June 3. The police have registered a case against Manpreet, Gurmeet Singh, Palwinder Singh, Paramjit Singh and Jasbir Kaur. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-ends-life-wife-among-five-booked-263717
05-06-2021||---||Medical students seek stipend on a par with peers||Amritsar, June 4Medical students who were shifted from Mata Chintpurni Medical College, Pathankot, and Gian Sagar Medical College, Patiala, to the Government Medical College, Amritsar, confronted Cabinet minister OP Soni on Friday for not being paid stipend for performing duties during the pandemic. Soni visited the GMC to inaugurate oxygen generation plant and a building for students.Agitating students gheraoed Soni and sought a monthly stipend of Rs 15,000, which their counterparts were being paid. They said their college fee was three times higher than the GMCs, yet they were not being paid stipend. Protesting students claimed that they have been performing Covid duty for the last two months.The minister told the students that they had had given in writing that they would not charge any fee in return for the government duty.Meanwhile, Soni inaugurated an oxygen plant at the GMC, which would produce 1000 litre per minute oxygen. The plant has been set up with an investment of Rs 3 crore and two more such plants would be installed here. Soni also inaugurated a 2,025 sqm area building, set up by the Punjab Health System Corporation, for students. The building has a hall for indoor games, gym, swimming pool on the first floor and canteens for teachers and students on the ground floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/medical-students-seek-stipend-on-a-par-with-peers-263718
05-06-2021||---||Queen of wit Twinkle’s message to all Amritsar women — just be yourself||Amritsar, June 4Sassy and witty Twinkle Khanna, participated in a virtual session ‘Twist in the Tale’, held by FICCI FLO Amritsar chapter today. A celebrated author, who is known for her unapologetic self, shared bits from her life as she discussed several twists in her tale with Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar.“It is my unusual name that somehow pushed me to develop my humour,” she revealed as a conversation starter.Sharing that she had always wanted women to be unabashedly open about complex topics such as sex education and feminine health, Twinkle said her vision for a modern and independent woman is to be financially independent and socially confident. “Tweak India, a space I created, is a medium for modern Indian woman to challenge old ideas and discover new ones. My mom has been a great source of inspiration as I would often find her walking on her own path. Growing up made me realise that we don’t really need men for anything essential, except a companionship and pleasure,” said Khanna, who is popular as Mrs Funnybones. When questioned about her views on marriage, Twinkle very candidly called it an outdated institution and titled Indian marriages as a festival bonanza.Addressing the members, she encouraged the women of today not to be pressurised by anything and possess the ability to step back from the zones that make them uncomfortable. “My mantra is ‘Be Yourself’ and I disapprove of the idea of following someone else. Confidence is the magic carpet that can take you to the places you have only dreamt of,” she reminded the audience. It’s also her mantra to deal with criticism.Talking about parenting, queen of wit said, “We have to undergo a driving test before we get a license to drive a car, why there’s no such thing before turning into a mother or father? We have to have a system wherein the couple has some sort of training, a refresher course, before they could raise a child. We must not spend our lives teaching morals to just our daughters. We should focus on our sons too,” she added.She also expressed her desire to learn and speak Punjabi and fondly remembered her father’s association with Amritsar, his place of birth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/queen-of-wit-twinkles-message-to-all-amritsar-women-%E2%80%94-just-be-yourself-263719
05-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||Rs 15-cr tramadol seizure: Another suspect arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 4Even as the police have launched a manhunt to nab Chetan Parmar, a politician from Himachal Pradesh, along with his other accomplices in connection with the seizure of huge quantity of scheduled H drug tramadol from a factory in Paonta Sahib, the police on Friday arrested Ranu Bhargav from Zirakpur.The police have also brought Prem Kumar Jha, a medical store owner on production warrant from Kurukshetra, Haryana. Jha used to run a medical store in the name of Mansi Medicos in Mayur Vihar in Delhi from where tramadol was smuggled into different parts of Punjab and Haryana, besides Delhi. Following the seizure of tramadol tablets and capsules from Paonta Sahib, the Amritsar (rural) police had raided in Delhi where they came to know about Jha’s arrest by the Haryana Police in a similar case.The police had already nabbed factory owner Manish Mohan and two others in the case. The police have nominated Chetan Parmar, Ranu Bhardwaj and Tarun Batra in the case. Parmar owned the building where the factory was running. The police had seized tramadol worth Rs 15 crore from the spot during a raid on May 28.Parmar is a prominent figure and son of five-time MLA Kush Parmar. He had joined BJP in 2017. Meanwhile, police teams were raiding in different parts of Haryana, Delhi and Punjab to expose the entire nexus.SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the firm was zeroed in following the seizure of 50,000 tramadol capsules by the Mattewal police on May 18. The police had nabbed three drug peddlers identified- Samir Kumar and Suraj Kumar of Majitha road and Gurmukh Singh of Mallunangal village. The bills were issued in the name of HR Enterprises, however, the probe found that the firm did not exist. Several persons from Chandigarh and Mohali had mediated in the delivery of the drug consignment and they were being identified, said Dahiya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-15-cr-tramadol-seizure-another-suspect-arrested-263720
05-06-2021||---||Patti double murder: 2 more brought on production warrant||Amritsar, June 4Tarn Taran police have brought Preet Sekhon’s brother Jaswinder Singh, alias Happy, and Landa’s associate Binda on production warrant in connection with the Patti double murder case in which a SAD worker, Amandeep Fauji, having a criminal background was shot dead along with another person, Parbhdeep Singh, on May 27. Their third accomplice, Shera, was seriously injured in the attack.According to the police, Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, of Harike who reportedly shifted to Canada had contracted Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon, to kill Amandeep Fauji. A hunt was launched to arrest Sekhon, who had shot Amandeep dead. Interestingly, before Happy and Binda were handed over to Tarn Taran police on production warrant, the Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated three mobile phones from their possession.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a look-out circular was also issued against Landa. He was facing many criminal cases before he reportedly migrated to Canada. Efforts were on to bring him back here from Canada. The police had information about the presence of Sekhon in the area and a massive nakabandi was conducted for his arrest, but the police could not get any success. The police had nabbed three accomplices in the murder. Besides, they also nabbed Rajwinder Singh, alias Raju (sarpanch), for allegedly providing shelter to them following the murder.The police said the incident was the result of personal enmity. Landa had demanded ransom from a person from the area in Canada. Landa then planned to kill Fauji and his associates by hiring contract killers. He contacted Preet Sekhon from Amritsar, who demanded Rs 20 lakh but Landa paid him Rs 6 lakh, claimed the police.Police quiz ‘A’ category gangsterIn an effort to know the whereabouts of Landa, Tarn Taran police brought another 'A' category gangster, Aman Dhotia, on production warrant from Sangrur jail. On his information, the police nabbed Milkha Singh, a drug-peddler, and recovered 255 gm of heroin and a weapon from his possession. Dhotia told the police that they used to hand over their drugs and weapons to Milkha Singh who used to supply it to their other clients. Milkha Singh has three cases registered against him under the NDPS Act. A fresh case has been registered against the duo following the seizure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-double-murder-2-more-brought-on-production-warrant-263721
05-06-2021||Amritsar||YGPT among 4 honoured for keeping holy city Amritsar clean||Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal on Friday honoured those who had played a significant role in keeping the holy city clean and tidy under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan on behalf of the Municipal Corporation. Youth for Global Peace and Transformation (YGPT), a local NGO, got first prize of Rs 25,000, Holy Heart School second prize of Rs 15,000, while Navya got third prize of Rs 10,000.  Apart from this, Taj Swarna Hotel was honoured with a memento for its contribution in keeping the city clean for Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal have been continuously visiting MC wards and various localities of the city for the improvement in sanitation ranking of the city. They were appealing to the city dwellers to keep the city neat and clean. While addressing a gathering, the Mayor said the NGO made a documentary to aware the public about the sanitation. He said the entire team of the Municipal Corporation was working round the clock to keep the city clean. The city dwellers are also appealed to contribute to keep city clean.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ygpt-among-4-honoured-for-keeping-holy-city-amritsar-clean-263722
05-06-2021||---||60-year-old Tarn Taran farmer dies at Singhu border||Sonepat, june 4A 60-year-old farmer, hailing from Tarn Taran district of Punjab, was found dead in his tent near HP petrol pump on the Singhu border on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Jangeer Singh of Beeram tehsil, Patti, Tarn Taran district.A Delhi Police team reached the spot and sent the body for the post-mortem examination. It is suspected that he died after suffering a heart attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/60-year-old-tarn-taran-farmer-dies-at-singhu-border-263471
05-06-2021||Amritsar||Bluestar anniversary: Shun gatherings, appeals Giani Harpreet Singh||In the wake of the Covid-19 threat, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh appealed to the Sikh community to stay indoors and remember those who laid down their lives during the June 1984 Operation Bluestar.On the other hand, to mark the event, an ‘akhand path’ was initiated by the SGPC. The ‘bhog’ will be held on June 6.On the occasion, an ‘ardas’ was offered by Bhai Sukhdev Singh while additional head granthi of Akal Takht Bhai Malkit Singh recited the holy ‘hukamnama’ for the devotees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bluestar-anniversary-shun-gatherings-appeals-giani-harpreet-singh-263485
