06-06-2021||Amritsar||DAV boys shine in BCA exams||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-boys-shine-in-bca-exams-264282
06-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Here, fruits & veggies are grown using contaminated water||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, June 5If you happen to visit any of the 125 villages along the 45-km-long Kala Sanghian drain in the district, you will be surprised to see how irrigation is being done in agricultural farms falling along the 1-km stretch on either side of the drain. Maybe you will never want to consume any vegetable or fruit grown here.There are no tubewells along the entire belt of agricultural fields. The source of water for irrigation here is the dark, smelly, chemical-laced industrial waste water flowing through the drain. The stench pervasive all around in the environment makes it difficult for anyone to stand near the drain and the fields that are irrigated with this water.Channels have been dug up all along the drain to use its water for irrigating the fields. In all those villages which are on a low gradient from the channel, the flow of water into the fields is not a problem. Water gushes through the short, underground pipes laid along the drain towards the handmade channels going to the fields. The channels of the fields which are to be irrigated are opened while those where irrigation has been done are plugged using sacks or any other plastic sheets available.In fields which are at a little higher gradient from the drain, pumps have been installed along the channels so that the water could be collected in low chambers and then directed towards the fields. These pumps are portable and can be taken to the next fields as and when required. To save power and avoid the use of pumps, many villagers give their fields on contract so that the earth can be dug as deep as one foot or more and the ground level of the fields falls for them to make it easy to use the drain water through simple channels.As of now, most of these villages have been sowing maize. Pumpkins and water melons too are in abundance here. Many villagers who are keeping dairy animals are also growing fodder in these villages. Interestingly, the villagers who are using this water for irrigation know very well the ill-effects of using this contaminated water and hence avoid the vegetables that they grow themselves.Sonu, a farmer of Kala Sanghian village, said, “We are selling our entire produce in the mandi. For our own kitchen, we buy vegetables from the market. We do not even feed the fodder grown here to our buffaloes for milk consumption and buy feed from the market.”Akali leader HS Walia said, “Just standing near Kala Sanghian drain makes anyone feel giddy, you can imagine the harm that it would be doing to the body when we consume the vegetables grown here. It is high time that the government do something concrete in this regard and ensure that this untreated industrial water is not used for irrigation. Even if the government is to allow this water to be used for agricultural purposes, the quality of the water must be tested on a daily basis by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).”Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal has taken up the matter with the authorities concerned. On his request, even officials, including the Chairman, of the National Green Tribunal have visited the site and passed instructions to the PPCB authorities from time to time but to no avail. The untreated industrial waste continues to flow into the drain. The STP at Basti Peer Daad still works at half the required capacity, thus allowing even the MC sullage to flow into it. Harbir Singh, Senior Environment Engineer, Jalandhar, refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/here-fruits-veggies-are-grown-using-contaminated-water-264283
06-06-2021||---||Angry, farmers burn copies of three agriculture laws||Amritsar, June 5Farmers burnt copies of the three controversial agriculture laws at different places in the district on Saturday and demanded that the laws be repealed.The protests were held outside the residence of BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, outside the BJP’s district headquarters, Roadways workshop and at Golden Gate on GT Road.Farmers said the protest against the three laws would continue till their demands were accepted. Farmers in large numbers participated in the call earlier given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to burn the copies of the laws.Protesting outside the residence of Shwait Malik, Rattan Singh Randhawa, Harjit Singh Jheeta, Davinder Singh Chattiwind, Bachittar Singh Kotla and other leaders said the BJP government had used every trick to defame and discredit farmers’ unions, but the farming community knows that the three laws would be detrimental for their livelihood.Rattan Singh Randhawa said high prices of diesel which is used for preparation of fields was troubling farmers. “The paddy transplantation season has begun and consumption of diesel in tractors is high. In such times, the government is allowing increase in prices every other day,” he said, adding that the Central Government was anti-farmer and anti-poor.Lakhwinder Singh Wariamnagal of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said: “It was on June 5 last year that the three contentious farm laws were brought in by the Central Government. Today's protest marks one year of these anti-farmer laws.” He said the participation of farmers in today’s protest was enough to silence the BJP leaders who claim that the ongoing agitation does not enjoy support of wider sections of farming community. He said the farmers had started the protest against the three laws from June 8 last year.Parminder Singh of Bharti Kisan Union Ekta said: “The BJP has made it an ego issue. Instead, it should listen to farmers and accept their demands.” The union also burnt the copies of the laws outside the residence of BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chinna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/angry-farmers-burn-copies-of-three-agriculture-laws-264005
06-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amid restrictions people prefer neighbourhood grocery stores in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 5The Covid-induced restrictions have changed customers’ preferences with a majority of them visiting neighbourhood and small-time grocery stores opened in every corner and mohalla of the city. Earlier, they would go to department stores being run by multinational companies, which offer discount on cereals, pulses, packed eatables and electronic goods to their customers.Buta Ram, who runs a grocery store on the Sultanwind road, said: “A large number of people from the area had stopped buying goods from his shop after the opening of mega stores in the city by national and international chains.”He said last year there was a curfew and these chains had offered free home delivery to maintain their customer base. However, this time, the restrictions were not as strict as they were last year. This time, these mega stores remained opened and complying with the Covid-19 guidelines had to allow entry of a limited number of customers, he said.Buta Ram, who has been the proud owner of a grocery store for the past over four decades, said, “Kirana stores cannot compete with these department stores being run by corporate groups. As they procure grocery and FMCG items in bulk and, that too, direct from companies excluding dealers. So they offer discounts to their customers. On the other hand, Nukkar karyana stores buy commodities in some hundred kilos.”Surjit Singh, a retired government employee, said, “His family is buying ration from mega stores as they offer different schemes, besides offering buy-one-get-one-free on certain items. However, for the past two months they have been procuring ration from the store in their area. As there were long queues outside those mega stores, it was very difficult to stand in the scorching summer.”Sandeep Gupta, general secretary of the Amritsar Retail Karyana Merchants’ Association, said there was nearly a 20 per cent hike in the quantum of the customers who bought monthly ration in one go. He said for these customers, the stores of multi-national companies were the first choices as they offered a buy-one-get-one-free scheme on non-branded items, discount on certain popular branded items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-restrictions-people-prefer-neighbourhood-grocery-stores-in-amritsar-264006
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Unions lodge protest in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 5 Farmers and people from other sections of society organised protests at different places in the district and burnt copies of the three farm laws here on Saturday.   The farmer organisations associated with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) staged a dharna in front of the ‘Joshi Fashion Mall’ owned by family members of BJP leader Anil Joshi, a former Punjab minister. Pritihipal Singh Marimegha, Jaspal Singh Jhabal and other leaders of the organisation, while addressing the protesters, said the three farms laws were anti-farmer and ruin the farming sector. The protesters burnt copies of the farm laws and raised slogans against the Central Government. The workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, under the leadership of Sukhwinder Singh Dugalwala protested at the Usman toll plaza. The leaders invited farmers to reach Delhi in big number to make the farmer struggle a success. The dharna at the toll plaza had entered 244th day. Similarly, activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) lodged a protest in front of the SDM court complex here. Ajaib Singh Aladinpur and other leaders condemned the Union Government for its anti-people policies. The leaders said the three farm laws were against the interests of society. Meanwhile, farmers of the area lodged a protest in Noordi village and burnt copies of the farm laws. Dhanna Singh Lalughuman and other leaders condemned the BJP-led Central Government for its failure to protect the interest of farmers.  Workers of the CITU held a protest against the new labour laws in Rataul village. Another union leader Sukhdev Singh Gohalwar said, “The new labour laws represent a death warrant for workers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unions-lodge-protest-in-tarn-taran-264007
06-06-2021||---||Amritsar Municipal Corporation imposes heavy fine, traders irked||Amritsar, June 5Those traders who failed to renew their trade licences from the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) till March 31, now have to pay heavy penalties along with the licence fee and conservancy charges.The Municipal Corporation charged Rs 500 for renewal of trade licence till March 31. After the due date, one has to pay Rs 300 conservancy charges alowing with renewal fee. Apart from this, traders also need to pay a fine of Rs 100 per day. One has to pay around Rs 7,500 for the trade licence renewal till this week.The MC has 17,000 registered traders who need a trade licence to run their business in the city. According to report, 40 per cent traders got their trade licences renewed. Around 6,600 traders paid conservancy charges between March and April. The Municipal Corporation officials claimed that traders were depositing the fee.Meanwhile, traders were irked over the MC levying heavy penalties. They urged the government to exempt them from trade licence renewal fee following the Covid-19 induced curfew and lockdown.“Shopkeepers are facing economic hardships due to the pandemic and the government is minting money. Provision of heavy penalty should be done away with,” said Gopal Mahajan, a trader.Mayor Kamrajit Singh Rintu asked traders to pay trade renewal fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-imposes-heavy-fine-traders-irked-264008
06-06-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 7 deaths, 114 new cases||Amritsar, June 5With seven more deaths in the district due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the toll increased to 1,486. The health authorities have also reported 114 new cases, with which the count increased to 45,325.The new cases include 61 influenza-like illness cases and 53 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 297 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 41,685. The district at present has a total of 2,154 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Vijay Kumar (43) of Islamabad; Hari Shankar (67) of Chheharta; Sampuran Kaur (75) of Rokhae village (Ajnala); Parmod Sethi (68) of Jagdambay Colony (Batala Road); Kawalbir Kaur (68) of C-Block Ranjit Avenue; Parkash Kaur (85) of Jagdev Colony and Sarbjit Kaur (44) of Mehta Chowk.2 die, 13 +ve in Tarn TaranTwo persons succumbed to the virus on Saturday taking the toll to 328 in the district. The district received 13 more positive cases and the number of active cases reached 400 on Saturday. As many as 197 patients have been isolated at their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 2,775 citizens were vaccinated against the pandemic on Saturday and total 1,37,782 persons have received the jab against the virus in the district so far. The DCappealed to citizens to abide by Covid protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-7-deaths-114-new-cases-264009
06-06-2021||---||Govt selling vax to earn revenue, says Malik||Amritsar, June 5Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik has criticised the state government for its failure to make Covid vaccine available to the public and for allegedly selling it to private hospitals.He claimed the Centre was making the vaccine available to the states, but the state government had made it a source to earn revenue. Malik said that instead of providing free vaccination to the citizens to prevent the Covid epidemic, the Punjab Government was trying to fill the impoverished state treasury by selling the vaccine purchased at Rs 400 to the private hospitals of the state at wholesale price of Rs 1,060.He said the private hospitals in turn were giving these injections at Rs 1,560 and were openly robbing the public. He alleged recently the state government had sold about 40 thousand vaccines to private hospitals. He added that on the other hand the general public was not getting the vaccine at government health centres.He claimed that free vaccine was being made available to all in Central Government and BJP-ruled states. The BJP leader said the Punjab government did not use 809 ventilators sent by the Central Government. “The main reason for this is that the government has neither trained staff to operate the hundreds of ventilators sent by the Central Government nor any plan to deal with the corona. Punjab has the highest mortality rate of 2.5 per cent in the country which is a very alarming level,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-selling-vax-to-earn-revenue-says-malik-264010
06-06-2021||PK Jaiswar
||Operation clean-up: 21 phones seized from jail in last five days||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, June 5  Concerned over the rising cases of sneaking mobile phones inside the high security Amritsar Central Jail, Additional Director General of Police (Jails) Parveen Kumar Sinha launched ‘Operation clean-up’ in the jail recently.  Under this, regular search operations were conducted in prison barracks which lead to seizure of 21 mobile phones during the past five days. Some of them were found from notorious criminals lodged in the jail in the case of drug peddling or robberies.  A jail official, on the condition of anonymity, said during the search operations, the jail staff managed to confiscate 21 mobile phones, including smart phones from various prisoners in the past five days.  Following the seizures, complaints were lodged with the Islamabad police station in this connection. The police have registered fresh FIRs against 14 inmates and further investigations are under progress.  Even as paramilitary force has been deployed inside the central jail here, there is no let-up in the sneaking of prohibited material inside the high security complex. If the jail officials are to be believed, there were several shortcomings in the construction of the new jail premises besides overcrowding has been a major reason behind the menace. Its close proximity with densely populated areas from all sides also did no good for it thereby increasing the trouble for jail authorities. Majority of phones had been sneaked inside the premises by throwing, it is said.  Superintendent of Jail Arshdeep Singh said such search operations would continue and intelligence in the jail was also being spruced up to nail the perpetrators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/operation-clean-up-21-phones-seized-from-jail-in-last-five-days-264011
06-06-2021||Neha Walia
||Dapper actor opens up on reel, real life||Tribune New Service Amritsar, June 5 When you close one door behind you, others open, each with a different destiny, believes Kabir Bedi, the dapper actor. In an online session hosted by Majha House, Bedi shared stories from his life candidly. “When I interviewed Beatles while working as a radio presenter with the AIR,I was so excited as they were a global phenomenon. It was so badly treated by the AIR that I resigned from my job. After that I came to Bombay and tried my luck in acting. It turned out to be a turning point of my life,” he said. In conversation with Preeti Gill, about his book “Stories I Must Tell”, Bedi said his work in play ‘Tughlaq’ was appreciated. “Suddenly, I was signing films, going to Rome for auditions and getting selected for roles. ‘Sandokan’ was another turning point because no one had quite imagined how successful it will become,” he said. It broke all the records and brought him another role in the Bond movie ‘Octopussy’. “I was basically just an ordinary boy from Delhi who was enjoying all this stardom. And my parents saw what I was doing and they liked it. Their approval meant the world to me, so I continued doing what I was doing,” said Bedi. Preeti also asked about the meshing of his own story with the growth of India in the book as Bedi’s parents were deeply involved in the freedom struggle. Talking about his family, Bedi said, “My parents were both idealists. My mother, Freida Bedi, was an activist and my parents ran into Netaji in Nazi Germany. Ironically, it was the Tibetan Revolution that brought my mother into prominence. When Dalai Lama had to flee, my mother joined the Buddhist sect. It was through her that Tibetan Buddhism spread throughout the world. She has the honour of being the most highly-honoured nun in the sect even today.”  He said although he was approached by many directors, he had to turn most of them down because he could not do the song and dance routine without which mainstream Bollywood could hardly function. “Bollywood has always supported me in my toughest times. When I was going through a difficult patch, ‘Khoon Bhari Maang’, happened.” His book, which is his memoir, is not a name-blame game as he makes some of the controversial aspects of his privy to all. “Only those relationships which played an important role in my life and are integral to my life have been mentioned in the book. Stars are also people and due to the huge interest in their lives, I have purposely chosen not to go into lurid details to feed vicarious interests. I am not hungry for second-hand publicity,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dapper-actor-opens-up-on-reel-real-life-264012
06-06-2021||---||Experts stress on sustainable urban environment in post-Covid world||Amritsar, June 5  The Centre for Sustainable Habitat (CSH) and Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC) of Guru Nanak Dev University organised a webinar on the topic Sustainable Urban Environment in the post-Covid World with focus on ecosystem restoration to celebrate the World Environment Day 2021. The webinar was presided over by Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University. He said there was scanty development of the urban settlements when cities were facing very little environmental issues. He stressed that rising population of the cities was responsible for many of the water, air and land related challenges leading to unhealthy urban living.  Shailendra Kaushik, co-founder of Cities Forum, London, talked about the urban development and mobility challenges the cities around the globe were facing. He suggested that proper blend of urban planning and green mobility options would make the cities resilient to pandemics in the future. Prof Ashwani Luthra, coordinator, CSH, introduced the theme of the webinar and stressed the need to restore the urban ecosystem for better urban living in the post-Covid limes.  Plantation drive to change face of Chali Khoo area  On the occasion of World Environment Day, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal jointly started planting 400 trees to change the face of Chali Khoo area. The city Mayor said the pollution in the city was on the rise and we were also in the middle of a pandemic. Therefore, to keep the city of Amritsar green, 400 trees are being planted on the sites of Chali Khoo. This would change the face of the area where the residents of the city would get clean air. Mayor Rintu said planting trees makes our environment prosperous and brings prosperity in our lives. He said that with the global warming and air quality declining many people today is falling prey to diseases and to avoid this it is very important to plant trees. He said that Punjab’s largest micro forest was also being developed in Amritsar. Praising the support and efforts of the volunteers, he said every resident of Amritsar should plant at least one tree to keep the city green. In 1902, the government dug 40 wells to supply water to Amritsar. There was a time when it was considered to be a considered a posh area of the city but now, it has been barren for many years. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu asked the Municipal Corporation and volunteers to make efforts to plant maximum trees here. Students take part in poster-making contest  Online speech and poster-making competitions were organised to celebrate World Environment Day by Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Tarn Taran on Saturday.  Students from the senior classes participated in the competition with enthusiasm. House wise one best entry for each competition was chosen. NCC cadets too participated in the competition.  Principal Ranjit Bhatia asked students not to pollute the environment by any means.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/experts-stress-on-sustainable-urban-environment-in-post-covid-world-264013
06-06-2021||---||Hospital pays Rs 2L less tax||Amritsar, June 5 During a scrutiny of property tax paid for the period of 2020-21, the MCfound a difference of Rs12.33 lakh between the tax paid by a private hospital at Ranjit Avenue and the actual tax amount.  MC Secretary Sushant Bhatia has written to the MCCommissioner to issue a recovery notice to the hospital. Bhatia said the hospital has to pay Rs3,18,087 as property tax for 2021 but the hospital paid only Rs71,307 for this period.  The MC officials said the hospital had paid less tax than the actual by making incorrect self-assessments during the past five years. “During last fiscal, the hospital paid Rs2,46,780 less than the actual amount. So we have calculated that the tax amount of Rs12.33 lakh should be deposited by the hospital,” said Bhatia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hospital-pays-rs-2l-less-tax-264014
06-06-2021||---||Eight booked for attempt to murder||Amritsar, June 5 The Majitha police have booked eight persons on the charge of attempt to murder in a firing incident at Buddha Theh village here on late Thursday evening.  Victim Davinder Singh was admitted to the Majitha Civil Hospital after he sustained splinter injuries in the incident.  Those booked have been identified as Harjinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Chirda, Sawinder Singh, Shera, Sajan, Kala Singh and Gulzar Singh, all residents of Buddha Theh village.  Davinder told the police that his father Gurwant Singh was the sarpanch of the village. He said on Thursday morning, accused Harjinder Singh and Mandeep Singh were digging up government outer circular road of the village and he stopped them from doing so. He said in the evening, the accused along with their accomplices came to their house and started abusing them while threatening to teach them a lesson. He said as they came out, the accused attacked them and their family members. They allegedly fired at them due to which bullet splinters hit him and he got injured.  On seeing this, the accused fled from the spot while his father was admitted to the Majitha Civil Hospital for treatment.  Sub-Inspector Som Nath said a case of attempt to murder, causing grievous hurt and under the Arms Act was registered against the accused, while further probe was on. Raids were on to arrest them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-264015
06-06-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Fatalities up 77% in Amritsar, but cause in 3,000 victims unknown||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 5With 3,749 persons dying in April and May this year, Amritsar has registered 77.34 per cent increase in the death rate against the corresponding months last year, which reported 2,114 deaths.As per the data of the Health Department, of 3,749 persons, 774 died of Covid this year — 286 in April and 488 in May — but the reason for the remaining deaths is still unknown. Last year, only seven persons died of the viral infection in the two months, according to the official data.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh did not respond to repeated phone calls. However, when questioned about the reason for the rise in the death rate, a senior doctor claimed that many persons might have contracted the virus but never visited a doctor. “They may have never been diagnosed and died at their homes without medical care,” he said, refuting the claims about hiding the number of Covid-19 deaths.As per the data available with the Death and Birth Registration wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Amritsar, a total of 983 deaths were registered in April last year. However, the toll rose to 1,749 in the corresponding month this year. In May 2020, the MC registered 1,131 deaths, which rose to around 2,000 in the corresponding month this year.Though the data for the corresponding month this year is yet to be compiled, the entries in zonal offices reveal that around 1,500 death certificates have been issued so far. The MC staff claimed that entries for around 500 deaths reported at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Civil Hospital and Community Health Center in Verka were yet to be compiled.During the first wave of pandemic, the MC had conducted door-to-door screening and contact tracing. The MC control room did more than five calls in 2.5 lakh households through auto-operated commuter calls.However, during the second wave, no such practice was adopted for mass screening and tracing Covid-19 patients.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said: “Last year, we were proactive against the Covid-19 spread and yielded good results. This time, the district administration and health authorities did not make such efforts and the death toll rose. Still, there is a need to trace every Covid-infected person in order to take care of him/her and avoid the spread of the virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fatalities-up-77-in-amritsar-but-cause-in-3-000-victims-unknown-264147
06-06-2021||---||Bluestar anniversary: Amritsar turned into fortress||Amritsar, June 5Amritsar has been turned into a virtual fortress, with around 7,000 police personnel, commandos and intelligence officials deployed ahead of the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar.Security has been beefed up in the city, especially around the Golden Temple. The police have been deployed inside the premises too. Barricades have been erected on roads leading to the Sikh shrine to keep a watch on suspects. Antecedents of people residing on rent around the Golden Temple are being checked.Keeping in view the history of clashes between the SGPC and the pro-Khalistan groups on June 6, the former has deployed a task force to avoid any untoward incident inside the Golden temple complex.The ‘bhog’ of the ‘akhand path’ for those who departed during the infamous operation would be held tomorrow at 7 am. At the martyrs’ memorial of the operation, built inside the Golden Temple, the ‘bhog’ of another ‘akhand path’ would be held tomorrow morning.Meanwhile, Jarnail Singh Sakhira, SAD (A) leader, said parallel jathedar Dhian Singh Mand would read a message to the community from Akal Takht tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bluestar-anniversary-amritsar-turned-into-fortress-264137
