07-06-2021||---||At 4.74%, Tarn Taran sees highest fatality rate among border districts||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, June 6Though the districts on the international border have reported far less number of Covid cases in Punjab, Tarn Taran district has recorded one of the highest fatality rates. In the last two months, the rate had touched 4.74 per cent.The district had reported 3,474 positive cases in two months — 1,845 in April and 1,629 in May — and 165 deaths. The district has reported 7,622 positive cases since the pandemic started. The number of positive cases in the district is nearly six times less than the neighbouring Amritsar district. With 321 deaths, the district has a fatality rate of 4.21 per cent, which is far higher than the national average of 1.2 per cent.Health officials blamed lack of awareness among the public and over-reliance on quacks and semi-qualified medical practitioners for the high fatality rate. However, these are not the only factors for the high death rate. The district has insufficient infrastructure and absence of qualified medical practitioners.Harbhajan Kaur (65) of Pakhoke village fell sick in April. She continued to take medicine from a quack for 10 days. Finally, she was shifted to the Civil Hospital on May 3 where she died same day.The district does not have a single ventilator. It has to refer its patients to Amritsar. It has only two anaesthetists while it needs six. The district does not have any Intensive Care Unit. Besides, 100 posts of medical officer have been lying vacant for long.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the district administration was making every effort to contain the spread of the disease and check the fatality rate. Medical practitioners in rural areas had been instructed to refer the seriously ill patients to health centres in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-4-74-tarn-taran-sees-highest-fatality-rate-among-border-districts-264710
07-06-2021||GS Paul||Operation Bluestar tagged as ‘ghallughara’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 6Akal Takht officiating jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh emphasised maintaining unity among the Sikh community and tagged Operation Bluestar as “Chaurasi (84) Da Ghallughara” (holocaust). He was speaking during the 37th Operation Bluestar anniversary observed in the Golden Temple complex today.Despite the Covid threat and weekend lockdown, a large number of devotees throng the complex that was under tight security. Amid chanting of pro-Khalistan slogans and carrying placards of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale by separatist Sikh organisation activists, the event passed off peacefully.The ‘parallel’ acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhyan Singh Mand, 2015 Sarbat Khalsa main organiser Jarnail Singh Sakhira, SAD (Amritsar) chief Simranjit Singh Mann and actor Deep Sidhu, who was charged for provoking the Red Fort violence, were also present.Justifying the pro-Khalistan slogans, Giani Harpreet Singh said the event could never be forgetton by the Sikhs. “It is like an irretrievable wound and such slogans help them relieving their pain and anger against the atrocities of governments”, he said.Referring to blood-stained pages of the Sikh history, he said like the earlier massacres of the Sikhs in 1746 and 1762 by the Mughal empire that were termed ‘chhota ghallughara’ and ‘vadda ghallughara’ in which 7,000 and 35,000 Sikhs were killed, the 1984 Army attack was nothing short of “ghallughara”.Delivering his customary message from the podium of Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh said words like ‘Operation Blue Star’ or ‘Saka Neelataara’ must be avoided to refer the event as these terms hurt the sentiments. “Ghallughara was the appropriate terminology for it”, he said.He said many e-mails were received demanding to term it “Amritsar Sikh genocide”. “It was never restricted to Amritsar only, but 37 other Sikh shrines across the country were targeted. The genocide had started on the streets of Delhi, Kanpur, Tata Nagar and other areas between November 1-4 in 1984”, he said. He said the Sikh organisations should unite keeping aside their differences of opinion.Later on, in the presence of Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, head priest of Akal Takht Giani Gurmukh Singh and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, the jathedar honoured Ishar Singh, son of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, along with Bhai Manjit Singh and Satwant Kaur, brother and daughter of Shaheed Bhai Amrik Singh, former federation head, with siropa at Akal Takht.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/operation-bluestar-tagged-as-ghallughara-264712
07-06-2021||---||Four succumb to virus, 111 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 6The district on Sunday reported four more deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 1,490. The district also reported 111 new positive cases, taking the tally to 45,436.The deceased have been identified as Mukhtar Singh (46) of Bal Khurd village; Darshan Kaur (65) of Fakir Singh Colony; Surinder Singh (65) of Tarn Taran Road; and Gurmeet Kaur (65) of Saido Lehal Village.The new cases include 60 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 51 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 200 patients, the total count of those recuperated has increased to 41,885. The district at present has a total of 2,061 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 2,271 residents were inoculated against Covid-19 here on Sunday. Officials of the Health Department stated that till date, 27,287 healthcare workers (HCWs), 58,658 frontline workers (FLWs), 2,17,974 residents above 45 years and 21,980 residents in the 18-44 year age group had been partially vaccinated. Further, 15,129 HCW, 17,798 FLW and 40,469 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated.1 death, 32 new cases reported in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported one Covid-19 related death in Tarn Taran distrcit on Sunday. With this, the toll has reached 329. The authorities reported 32 positive cases today. At present, the district has 371 active cases and 200 patients have been isolated at their respective homes . Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,541 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine. So far, a total of 1,39,323 residents have been vaccinated. The Health Department collected 745 samples today from various parts of the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-succumb-to-virus-111-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-264676
07-06-2021||---||Tung Dhab continues to wreak havoc on residents’ lives||Amritsar, June 6Residents of Holy City, Swiss City, Guru Amar Dass Avenue and Gumtala village along with members of the Amritsar Vikas Manch gathered at the Tung Dhab drain to highlight the ill-effects of air and water pollution caused due to rampant and blatant release of sewage as well as other pollutants into the drain.Over the years, this storm-water drain passing through the outskirts of the city has become just a sewage discharge nullah carrying million liters of waste and unchecked effluents.To add to the woes of residents, apart from increasing pollution, it is causing multiple health hazards. Despite the National Green Tribunal orders, the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) continues to flout the Water Act as well as Central Pollution Control Board norms by releasing sewage directly into the drain.The MC in its recent reply to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had listed the case for addressing pollution issue, had stated in writing that they will plug all municipal sewage release points and not release any sewage into the Tung Dhab by March 31, 2021, but nothing has materialised so far.Kailash Bansal, a Holy City resident, said the drain which passes through the outer area of the Holy City, Guru Amar Dass Avenue and Swiss City was a seasonal rainwater drain earlier, but the mixing of industrial effluents and sewage has now turned it into a toxic drain.He said the toxic gases being produced from the drain is causing acute and chronic diseases among the area residents. He said the toxic wastes, which are getting dissolved in the ground, is causing groundwater pollution. Despite regular complaints to the MC, no action has been taken. Sulphur dioxide which is released due to sewage turns into sulphuric acid that erodes the copper surfaces of air conditioners, refrigerators and circuits of electronic devices leading to quick malfunction within a few months. The children and elderly are suffering with various breathing, skin, eye and allergic problems due to the polluted air and dangerous fumes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tung-dhab-continues-to-wreak-havoc-on-residents-lives-264677
07-06-2021||Amritsar||Minor orphan girl raped, youth booked||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-orphan-girl-raped-youth-booked-264678
07-06-2021||---||7 held for mining sand; 5 tippers impounded||Amritsar, June 6 The Mining Department and the Amritsar rural police arrested seven persons for their alleged involvement in illegal mining at Pandori village falling under the Chattiwind police station here on Saturday. The Mining Department team, headed by Gurmeet Singh, Sub Divisional Officer, River Works and Mining, along with police teams confiscated five tippers and a JCB machine from the spot. Those arrested have been identified as Harpal Singh of Ekalgadda village, Balwinder Singh of Munda village, Manjinder Singh of Sheikh village in Tarn Taran, Baldev Singh of Warring village in Jalandhar, Karandeep Singh of Bishambarpura village, Sarabjit Singh of Sarhali Kalan village and Ravinder Singh of Muzzaffar Nagar in Uttar Pradesh. Gurmeet Singh said following specific information, officials of the Mining Department and the police teams raided Pandori village. They found a JCB machine carrying out illegal mining and five tippers were also stationed there. The drivers of the tippers and the JCB said they were hired by Ravinder Singh, a contractor, who claimed to have the permission for the same.  Ravinder also came to the spot and when the raiding teams demanded to show documents for carrying out the mining, he could not produce the same nor gave any satisfactory answers to the queries. As per the records, there was no permission for the mining in the village and therefore all vehicles were impounded and the accused were arrested from the spot, said Gurmeet Singh. A case under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21 (1) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act was registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-held-for-mining-sand-5-tippers-impounded-264679
07-06-2021||GS Paul||Flaws in political system lead to protests, says Deep Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 6Deep Sidhu, who has been facing charges of violence at the Red Fort on January 26, said ‘faulty’ political system should be held responsible for being a hurdle in getting justice.Sidhu was at the Golden Temple on the occasion of 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar and said poltical dominance was prevalent in every institute. “After 37 years of Operation Bluestar, the justice is still awaited. Be it the Congress or BJP at the Centre, flaws in political system will not let you get justice for your rights. On the one hand, Defence Minister encourages the Sikh Battalion to raise religious slogans ‘Raaj Karega Khalsa’ and ‘Jhulte Nishan Rahe Panth Maharaj Ke’, on borders. On the other hand, when these slogans are raised within the county for one’s own rights (farmers’ protest), one will be tagged as ‘anti-national’, or ‘Khalistani’, he said.When asked about ‘Khalistani’ tag attached to him after his name had surfaced in the Red Fort violence, he said the Supreme Court’s guidelines speak that there should be space for aspirations if these were expressed in a peaceful manner. “Aspirations should be peaceful and space should be there in a mature democratic set up. The struggle was to fight for the right. Unless a proper federal system is established, there will be problems in framing policies. Farming is a state subject, but the Centre overpowered it, thus leading to a massive protest by farming community”, he said and added that a sense of collective consciousness has developed among Punjabi youngsters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flaws-in-political-system-lead-to-protests-says-deep-sidhu-264680
07-06-2021||---||Lockdown, Op Bluestar anniv: Residents stay indoors||Amritsar, June 6 The city wore a deserted look on Sunday due to the weekend lockdown and 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar. Police personnel and commandos were deployed across the city to prevent any untoward situation. As a result, people preferred to stay indoors. All kinds of public transport, including Metro Bus service and auto-rickshaws stayed off the road. Cops set up nakas in different areas to keep anti-social elements at bay. The weekend lockdown caused much inconvenience to passengers travelling by buses and trains in the city.  Passengers alighting from trains at the Amritsar railway station were shocked to find neither a taxi nor an auto- rickshaw to reach their respective destinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-op-bluestar-anniv-residents-stay-indoors-264681
07-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Three nabbed with 650-gm heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-nabbed-with-650-gm-heroin-264682
07-06-2021||Tarn Taran||25 days of Safai sewaks’ protest||Real estate agent assaultedAmritsar: Panic gripped Imperial city on Saturday night when occupants of two cars indulged in firing and assaulted a real estate agent. The victim has been identified as Jatinder Singh, who was rushed to a private hospital. The police said they were recording statements of the victim and eyewitnesses and the matter was under investigation. Jatinder said he along with his mother Sukhbir Kaur and daughter Gurnaz were out for a walk after having dinner. He said three unknown persons with covered faces attacked him. Jatinder said his mother was also injured as she tried to save him. He said as people gathered, the accused took out pistols and fired several shots in the air and fled. Jaspal Singh, SHO, Cantonment police station, said CCTV cameras were being scrutinised. He said probe was on to ascertain the reason behind the attack. TNSMeeting to review Covid mgmt heldAmritsar: A meeting of senior health officials was held at the Civil Hospital here on Sunday to review Covid-19 management in the district. The meeting was chaired by Director Health and Family Welfare Dr Gurbinder Singh. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh and other programme officers. Dr Gurbinder took stock of the arrangement for treatment of Covid cases, isolation wards, Covid sampling, vaccination, containment and micro-containment zones, home isolation, Comprehensive Health Insurance Schemes, user charges and other aspects of the disease management programme. He asked them to be prepared for all kinds of emergencies related to health. He asked officials to ensure that there was no shortage of oxygen cylinders, isolation beds, wards, essential medicines at all health facilities. He said in addition, non-Covid facilities as maternal and child health, maternity facilities, immunisation facilities, malaria and dengue control programmes, non-communicable diseases, awareness camps should not get affected. District Family Welfare Officer Dr Jaspreet Sharma, Deputy Director Dental Dr Sharanjit Kaur, Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Gurmeet Kaur, Senior Medical Officers and others were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/25-days-of-safai-sewaks-protest-264687
07-06-2021||Do you think holding online counselling is appropriate in the present scenario?||Embrace change gracefully & step into the digital world||A step in right directionThe state government’s proposal to set up a portal for online admissions in colleges is a timely step in the right direction. When the number of services available online are increasing daily, why can’t counselling be held through this mode too? The Centre and state should bring in more services under the umbrella. The Centre should begin a world class university, imparting education online on the pattern of Indira Gandhi National Open University providing education through correspondence. The pandemic has provided us with an opportunity to make social reforms such as limiting social gatherings to twenty persons. It is time to put in practice the old saying: simple living and high thinking. Any step to provide online service gives a chance to lessen the load on the road and thereby avoiding traffic jams and keep the environment clean.Naresh JoharNeed of the hour in scorching heatThe pandemic has forced shut colleges and deprived students of benefits of physical classes. Also, transport services are affected which makes travel to educational institutes more difficult. Students can’t feel the ambience of their college too, due to this. It would have been difficult for them to decide about which college to get admission to, when physical visits to colleges were not allowed and they did not rely on postal system. Incidents of postponement of examinations and admissions had added to the woes of the students. Despite all disadvantages, the only option left is online common counseling for college admission. In the age of internet, it is not difficult to host hassle-free common counseling. Its major benefit is the convenience and participation from the comfort of home. As it is difficult to follow norms such as social distancing in interactive sessions of counseling and wear masks which eventually are rendered ineffective due to drenching in sweat in scorching heat and making breathing difficult. Online admission can provide a breather. All those students who don’t have necessary equipment such as laptop and webcams can definitely take the help of their friends, relatives and neighbours. Right from filling admission form to submission of documents and depositing of fee online constitute the online process. Many colleges provide virtual video tours on their websites which can be helpful to students to some extent. Weighing pros and cons of physical and virtual admissions, online common counseling for admissions looks more appropriate.Anil KhannaColleges’ enrolment will be affectedEnrolment in colleges, which are already facing tough times due to the flight of youth from Punjab to foreign countries and Covid-19, will be further hit by this online common portal for admissions. It will lead to many complications regarding students seeking concessions, part payments and getting the subjects of their choice. In the present pandemic times, the students and their parents are already facing many hardships and their future will be in jeopardy with this new system which is full of flaws. It is also hitting autonomy of colleges as the Punjab Government Act 1956 authorises universities to regulate their admissions, curriculum and evaluation system.Dr Mehal SinghStakeholders’ say must be consideredThe policy has been framed and imposed in just one month’s time without any discussion and feedback from the stakeholders. In the pandemic times, the students and their families are already facing unprecedented health and economic issues. They are in dire need of help and guidance from their teachers to choose the courses and institutions. But in the Common Admission Portal such support will not be possible. Students from rural and remote areas will definitely fall prey to the agents who are flourishing in education fields these days. Thus, the portal must be deferred immediately.DS RataulIdea outlandish for some coursesOnline portals for counselling were launched to handle the situation where the demand for seats was unusually high as compared to the availability of seats. For example, seats to medical colleges and IITs are limited and for admissions to them, entrance tests are conducted. After that, online counselling offers the aspirants with a choice of colleges/stations. The arrangement is convenient, foolproof and acceptable to all. However, in case of state colleges, planning to offer admission to courses such as BBA/BSc/BTech /MBA/MCom etc through a similar online programme, the idea is outlandish, to say the least. Some courses are more popular than others. Most of these colleges are functioning under heavy odds. There are more seats than the applicants, who usually have family affiliations with an institution and want to study there. Moreover, the colleges are offering inducements and stipends to attract the required minimum strength to fill the benches and run colleges. In fact, they are struggling to pay salaries to their staff. Under these circumstances, online portals, if introduced, will ruin what remains of higher education in the state. I wonder if any other state follows this system. To me it is a case of ‘solution looking for a problem’. I hope the authorities who thought of it, will think twice before going ahead with this ‘innovation’. I don’t think any college will support it.Prof Mohan SinghTechnology gap will be an issueHolding online counselling for college admissions is the only option available amid the ongoing pandemic. Since counselling is an important part of admission process, student counselling services are in demand which are hard to meet under the present circumstances. Hence something is better than nothing though the experts are having divergent views on the effectiveness of online counseling programme. Covid has adversely impacted all sectors and colleges and universities are no exception. That is why some of them have opened career counselling centres, admission offices and student help centres across the nation to help students seeking admission to various courses. It has been done in view of the curbs imposed in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Obviously fallback on technology is inevitable knowing well that counselling conducted through technology cannot offset the advantages of offline counselling. Online counselling is a kind of professional assistance provided to those requiring counselling. The counsellors with their years of experience and knowledge can help students weigh the pros and cons of various courses and make the right choice. Even then online counselling suffers from inherent disadvantages. The typing speed of a prospective student can limit the conveyance of information in chat based sessions. The students may find it difficult to put complex thoughts and emotions into words. There is a greater chance of miscommunication between the counselor and the student. Despite all, what cannot be cured must be endured, keeping the appropriateness of the online counselling on the back burner. Video-conferencing can play a vital role if the portal meant for the purpose remains functional all time. Since nothing can be done about online counselling, the aspiring students will have to live with it but reality must take precedence over ground reality.Tarsem S BumrahWill be Convenient for most studentsOnline counseling works as a means of constant contact between students and counseling centre or the counselor. There are various types of online counselling like web-counselling, e- counseling and Internet counselling. It helps in facing, addressing and resolving the challenges faced by students in their life who are residing at some rural and border areas. It is fairly affordable and convenient to a large extent for students who are physically challenged, disabled and who are not ready to come out in public with their problems due to their shy nature. As per present scenario of pandemic, it can also protect students to follow Covid guideline such as social-distancing. Few things that must be taken under consideration while holding online counseling are that sometime counselors are non-reciprocative in emergence circumstances and privacy is at stake, which should be taken care of. Facial expressions and body language are not visible to online counselors to help them understand the severity and authenticity of student. Last but not the least chances of providing help are less to those ailing from complicated and serious mental health issues.Ankur GuptaNo satisfactory arrangements madeOnline counseling for admissions to various colleges in the state is a good option but addressing the problem of technology gap among students will be a challenge. Also, counselling plays a vital role in every sphere of human life. As more than 40 per cent population is below 25 years of age, career counseling is felt as a basic need of youth particularly the students. No satisfactory arrangement of career counseling in schools is available. If the state government takes suitable measures regarding online career counseling, it will help students to select courses for them easily. Dedicated career counsellors and portals are the need of the hour to help students select the stream of their choice.TS BhattiTechnical snags shouldn’t be ignoredOne shoe does not fit all, and colleges compete amongst each other with variable facilities and levels of educational standard. Imagine a scenario where one portal (with its evident snags and pitfalls) decides that a particular student is to study in a given college only. Where is the element of choice? Also, higher education is in deep distress with empty seats a norm rather than the exception. Is the state going to guarantee that all seats will be taken or will the fee subvention for empty seats provided for by the state? Furthermore, parents with depleted income, especially during Covid times, are at wits end trying to make ends meet. Covid 2.0 will see the biggest dropout ratio in school and college education due to this health and fiscal catastrophe. Good institutions give a variety of time and material concessions that are outside the purview of a standardised process, not to mention scholarships, sports quotas, meritorious student incentives etc. The fact of the matter is that the admission and registration process is already underway, and this belated intervention shall be sheer confusion. Finally, there seems to be a new found effort to rein in aided colleges (137 only) and public universities, wherein all private institutions are out of this ambit. So what are we sorting out really?Gunbir SinghArrangements must at ground levelKeeping in view the ongoing pandemic, holding online counselling for all colleges is a good step taken by the state government. Before 2007, a common entrance test was conducted for admission to various steams. But after that, direct admissions were made at colleges. Online counseling process is a good option during the pandemic when holding physical sessions increase the risk of contracting the virus. Students can choose colleges of their choice and can take admission according to their merit. But a challenge that needs to be dealt with is the gap in availability of resources in some villages (especially in Border areas), where people also face network issues. We have been facing such issues from the past one year when the education sector had to resort to online mode. Imparting education through online mode had also not been of much help due to gap in resources. It could prove to be a good step but arrangements need to be made for its better implementation.Jatinder Vir SinghRight decision amid pandemicThe state government has set up a portal for online admission in various colleges of Panjab University, Punjabi University and Guru Nanak Dev University. Most of the students and parents are happy with the decision of the government as they will not have to visit colleges in persons and the entire process will be completed at home. While some parents think that with online admission they cannot get proper information about college building, college environment, behaviour of the teachers; the college administrators and principals think that the number of students in colleges is already declining as most of the students in the state are going abroad after 10+2 and many courses in colleges are left vacant. Educated class has an opinion that college admissions should be held in both the modes so that those people who don’t have access to gadgets and are not tech savvy are not left behind in the process.Sucha SagarTechnology only saviour in such timesThe Covid pandemic has transformed lives of various people engaged in different spheres and changed the way of living. Many changes in the realm of education with online classes replacing physical classroom in continuing teaching and now the impact of cancellation of exams on the student will also have to be assessed. During these times of pandemic, technology is the only option that we are left with. Students who need admission in colleges will have to adapt to the new normal by switching to online medium for counselling. This is not a new phenomenon, as online international professional exams have been there for a long time. While, online counselling may be a hurdle for students in remote areas or places with limited internet connection, but observing the way the youth has adapted to the digital world, it’s not impossible. In order to remain safe and adhere to Covid prevention protocol, online counselling seems to be the best option. Guidelines should be issued to students for the complete process. Experts should also be fair and patient with the students, as for many it will be their first time. Let us accept this new change and a step in the world of digitalisation.Dr KS ManchandaGoing online is need of the hourThe pandemic has presented a situation unlike any other that we have seen in recent history. For the state government to be adapting to it is highly commendable. Given that this has been a time of online education and examination and assessment, the provision of online counselling for college admissions, is a step in the right direction. The right to education is one of the most important rights as per international conventions and it falls upon the government to provide access to primary, secondary and higher education. In taking up this step towards having an online portal, the government is keeping up its promise to provide uninterrupted progression for a student, in these unfathomable times.Indu AuroraFor this, Govt must employ professionalsOnline admission to colleges is a welcome step taken by the state government. During Covid, educational institutions resorted to information technology tools more frequently to improve the efficiency of administrative services and effectiveness of academic programmes. In current academic session, especially colleges that impart engineering studies, medical, management education and even institutions imparting degree-level courses across the country, are using internet for admission of students and manage their courses. Online portal on admissions definitely provides utmost convenience to the managements as well as students on a 24x7 basis. On the other hand online procedure also poses lot of barriers on the institutions as well as the students. The students face vivid problems despite the assumption that online facilities are more advantageous than manual ones. These include non-responsive websites, connectivity issues, online payment sites etc. Therefore enough care should be taken by the state government to see that a proper professional and technically sound web designer is approached for making web portal. Students face many problems in online payments due to technological errors. The purpose of online admissions is to provide convenience, save time, bring more objectivity, transparency and speedy transactions over the manual operations. The state government must focus on the management of online process to provide continuous follow-up, updating and customer care to the students and public. Then one can really expect good growth in online admission.Pankaj Kumar SharmaAppropriate method at this timeCovid has been wrecking havoc in every nook and corner of the world since last year. It has hit the education sector the hardest, restricting teaching-learning process to online mode. We are left with no other option than to stay within the confines of our house. So, to overcome this, the state government is ready to prepare to set up a portal for online common counselling for college admissions. In my perspective, holding online counselling is the most appropriate method in the present scenario because we have no other option for the same. Everything is being delayed so online counselling can help students to get the admission process done and start preparing for their future. This major decision to make an online portal for counselling is very helpful for students.IzleenFacilitation centres could be formedOnline counselling is a better option than holding physical counselling as the latter involves a lot of crowding which could prove dangerous amid the present scenario. It makes the process a lot easy and it is very convenient for the students from various parts of the state to participate in the process. Though, some families who do not have access to Internet may face some inconvenience, the process is largely for the better of students and a move in the right direction. To solve the problem of technology gap, some common facilitation centres can be set up so that the future of students is not jeopardised, while ensuring that all safety guidelines are strictly followed during the whole process.Jatinderpal Singh BatthFutile exercise for rural studentsThe decision to implement common online portal for admission has come at a wrong time. Rural students are familiar with traditional method of admission process that is visiting college but new system will deprive them of this facility to view infrastructure and learning about prevalent teaching processes. Moreover, it will be an additional financial burden on pandemic hit common people as many of the students in the rural belt are not so tech savvy and will have to approach Internet cafe which will be charging them accordingly. Further, a visit to cafe will expose them to risk of contracting virus which will make holding online counseling a futile exercise as it aims to prevent students from the ongoing pandemic by avoiding masses at physical counselling. The new system will be a cash cow for private universities but it will sabotage the state funded and aided colleges in the state. So, the new system of common online portal for admission should not be implemented.Satpal SinghOnline portal full of flaws, not requiredThe proposed online admission portal for colleges by the government is unnecessary and full of flaws. It is not practicable as it will lead to harassment of students and their parents, seeking admissions in various colleges in the stateColleges have their own online portals which cater to the need of the admissions. The government's decision is discriminatory as private universities had been kept out of the preview and they will be benefited with this scheme at the cost of the government-aided colleges. Such systems already announced by the government for BEd and Law Colleges have failed miserablyThus the decision must be taken back and the colleges should be given more autonomy rather than imposing such arbitrary decisions. Moreover, in Covid times, students and their parents are already facing hardships and the government should not complicate their livesRajinder Mohan Singh ChhinaQUESTIONCancellation of CBSE/ICSE Class XII exams has evoked a mixed response. Those wishing to pursue higher studies abroad are baffled. Do you think it will impact the future of students who wanted to enrol themselves in foreign universities?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (June 10).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/embrace-change-gracefully-step-into-the-digital-world-264691
07-06-2021||Amritsar||Bluestar anniversary: Akal Takht tags Army attack on Golden Temple complex as ’84 da ghallughara’||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh emphasised on maintaining unity among the Sikh community and tagged the event as “Chaurasi (84) Da Ghallughara” (holocaust) , during the 37th Operation Bluestar anniversary observed in the Golden Temple complex on Sunday.Delivering his customary ‘sandesh’ (message) from the podium of Akal Takht, he said that words like ‘Operation Bluestar’ or ‘Saka Neelataara’ must be avoided to refer to the event as it hurt the sentiments.Amid chanting of mild pro-Khalistan slogans and placards of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, the event went peacefully. The parallel Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhyan Singh Mand, along with 2015 Sarbat Khalsa main organiser Jarnail Singh Sakhira also read out ‘sandesh’.SAD (Amritsar) chief Simranjit Singh Mann, and the prime accused of the Red Fort violence out on bail Deep Sidhu with their supporters were present on the occasion.  Referring to blood-stained pages of Sikh history, Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said that like the earlier massacres of Sikhs in 1746 and 1762 by the Mughal empire were termed as ‘chhota ghallughara’ and ‘vadda ghallughara’ in which 7,000 and 35,000 Sikhs were killed, respectively, the 1984 Army attack was nothing short of it.Comparing the Indian Army’s attack on Golden Temple and Akal Takht with the war between the two nations, he said, “Like, the earlier two ‘ghallugharas’, the third one occurred in 1984 when the Indian Army attacked the Golden Temple, the way China and Pakistan attacked India in 1962 and 1965. Upon attack, the Indian authorities did worse than what the winning forces did with the defeated nation’s citizens,” he said.He said that many emails were received demanding to term the event as “Amritsar Sikh genocide”, but the attack was not executed only on the Golden Temple complex but on 37 other Sikh shrines across the country.“It was not constrained to Amritsar only. In 1984, the genocide had started on the streets of Delhi, Kanpur, Tata Nagar and other areas between November 1-4. Hence, it should be termed as ’84 da ghallughara,” he said.Justifying the “Khalistan” slogans, he said that the event could never be forgotten and remained like an irretrievable wound and its pain is relieved with such slogans.He said that the Sikh organisations, be it SGPC, DSGMC, CKD, Takht Hazur Sahib board, Patna Sahib board and other Sikh organisations, should all unite keeping aside their differences of opinion.“It was fortunate that the Sikh community reacted promptly if any wrong was done to its significance. No voice was raised when masjid was demolished to pave way for raising mandir or Article 370 was abolished, yet when recently a Sikh was thrashed in UP, the Sikhs not only from India but from UK, US and Canada raised voice against it. This was an example of our live soul and our strength which has to be maintained,” he said.Later on, in the presence of Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, and head priest of Akal Takht Giani Gurmukh Singh and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, the Jathedar honoured Ishar Singh, son of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale along with Bhai Manjit Singh and Satwant Kaur, the brother and daughter of Shaheed Bhai Amrik Singh, former federation head, with ‘siropa’ at the Akal Takht.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bluestar-anniversary-akal-takht-tags-army-attack-on-golden-temple-complex-as-84-da-ghallughara-264314
