08-06-2021||Amritsar||Virtual session held on effective communication in Amritsar||SR Government College for Women, Amritsar, organised an online lecture on “ Effective communication: A passport to success in post-pandemic era”. The discourse was delivered by Dr Narinder Kumar Sharma, Department of English, DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology, Jalandhar. The session was attended by 150 students and council members.Dr Narinder informed about key aspects on developing habits, which lead to improving interactive skills. Stressing on the need to communicate effectively in the today’s competitive world, he taught students various language skills. He motivated girls to express their thoughts as this was the only way to de-stress themselves during the pandemic.Jyoti Bala, Principal, SR Government College, thanked the programme coordinators Dr Vandana Bajaj and Manjeet Minhas. She also lauded NSS volunteers for their involvement in co-curricular activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virtual-session-held-on-effective-communication-in-amritsar-265323
08-06-2021||---||Hospital firing: Demand for cancellation of Aman William’s name from FIR||Amritsar, June 7Several organisation on Saturday threatened to hold agitations besides presenting memorandums in every district demanding the cancellation of an FIR registered against Aman William, president of Bhartiya Moolnivasi Mukti Morcha.William was among the suspects booked in the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital’s firing case, in which an emergency medical officer was injured in March.Representatives of Guru Gian Ashram, Bhartiya Valmiki Adi Dharam Samaj and Bhartiya Mool Nivasi Mukti Morcha held a press conference here and urged the Police Department to withdraw the name of Aman William from the FIR, as he had gone to mediate between two warring factions and for treatment of victims.They pointed out that the Civil Hospital firing was an outcome of a dispute that occurred in Luv Kush Nagar area in Putlighar that day. A case was registered and Aman William was among the suspects. Recently, the police had registered a cross case in this connection.They said soon memorandums would be submitted to the police in every district for the same and if the police failed to cancel his name in the FIR, the organisations would be forced to hold an agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hospital-firing-demand-for-cancellation-of-aman-williams-name-from-fir-265322
08-06-2021||---||Jobs for sons of MLAs: AAP corners govt||Amritsar, June 7The youth wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest against Capt Amarinder Singh-led government’s move to offer jobs to his party MLA’s kins on Monday. The AAP’s activists burnt copies of degree at the residence of MLA Dr Raj Kumar Verka and protested outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner.Bhagwant Kanwal, chief, AAP youth wing, said, “When it comes to fulfill the poll promise of providing a job to each family in the state, the government offers only private jobs.” Protesters demanded a roll back of the resolution granting jobs to the kins of the Congress legislators. They also submitted a memorandum at the DC office.Addressing protesting AAP workers, Kanwal said the state government gave plum jobs to the family of late Chief Minister Beant Singh, Sports minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi’s son, MLA Fatehjung Singh Bajwa’s son would be appointed as the DSP while MLA Rakesh Pande’s son would be appointed tehsildar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jobs-for-sons-of-mlas-aap-corners-govt-265321
08-06-2021||Amritsar||Case against 18 persons for mining sand in Amritsar||A day after the police arrested seven persons and seized five tippers and an earth mover (JCB) involved in illegal mining at Pandori village, the Amritsar (rural) police have booked around 20 persons under similar offence.The Mining Department and police personnel faced resistance from the accused after they intercepted sand-laden tractor-trailers near Kot Mehtab village falling under the jurisdiction of Beas police station.The tractor-trailers were heading towards Rayya when cops stopped them and asked for documents. However, drivers could not produce any document regarding ferrying of sand. When the police personnel tried to take possession of the vehicles, the occupants resisted and entered in a verbal spat. They called their accomplices on the spot and started protesting.The Amritsar (rural) police have registered a case against 18 persons for illegal mining. Junior Engineer-cum-Mining Officer Manjit Kumar said the department had specific information that Gurjit, Navdeep and Baldev, were involved in illegal excavation of sand from the Beas river. When the police along with mining staff stopped the tractor-trailers, the accused started arguing. He said as cops tried to confiscate their sand-laden tractor-trailers. A case has been registered in this regard— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/case-against-18-persons-for-mining-sand-in-amritsar-265320
08-06-2021||---||Coffee table book captures historic journey of holy city||Amritsar, June 7A pictorial coffee table book, `Amritsar-A city in remembrance’, depicting all aspects of the holy city’s rich cultural and heritage life was unveiled at a function, here on Sunday. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni, along with other dignitaries, released the book stating that it was an attempt to highlight how city eveolved and all aspects of life in the holy city.MLAs, including Municipal Corporation, Commissioner Komal Mittal and others, were present during the function. The Municipal Corporation, as part of its ambitious Heritage Development and Augmentation Yojna (HRIDAY), has come up with this beautiful historical account of Amritsar, which aims to be developed as world-class heritage site for the pilgrims and tourists.The book contains pictures by legendry photographer Raghu Rai and is edited by noted conservation artist Gurmeet Rai. A 280 page-book is well designed and portrays the religious, cultural, commercial and ordinary life of the city and visiting pilgrims and tourists.Apart from the book, a high-tech mobile app for the tourists and locals `Amritsar- Guide` was also launched during the function. Both the projects are part of the HRIDAY project, a central and state government’s flagship programme for developing Amritsar into a major tourist destination on world tourism map.Cabinet Minister OP Soni, while congratulating the MC Mayor and his team for developing such a beautiful book said, Amritsar has immense potential to emerge on world tourism map. He said the book provides all necessary information to visitors about the city, its historical attractions and tourist spots.Mayor Rintu, while welcoming the dignitaries, said, the book was a portrayal of city’s multi-layered narrative, connecting the material life of the city with its rich history and heritage. He said the mobile app is latest technology tool in the hands of the visitors about historical places and will be guide tour for pilgrims and tourists.He further said the app would provide information about the places visited and would act as a storehouse of the photos clicked and tourism map for future references. “We are committed to project Amritsar to the world through new technology and tools, said Mayor Rintu, adding that the app is geostationary positioning (GP) based tool giving the person his or her location, tourists and historical locations nearby, how to reach there and also save tours and travels places for future references.The dignitaries present included MLAs Sunil Datti, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Deputy Commissioner, Commissioner of Police, GNDU VC Dr Jaspal Singh, Prof. Sarbjot Singh Behal, Prof Sukhdev Singh, State Convenor, INTACH, former head and Dilbir Foundation chief CII Gunbir Singh, Khalsa College Principal Dr. Mehal Singh, DS Rataul, Principal Nanak Singh, MC Additional Commissioner, SE, Dr Jatinder Brar, president Natshala and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/coffee-table-book-captures-historic-journey-of-holy-city-265319
08-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Lockdown deals a heavy blow to employees at malls in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 7Hundreds of youngsters working at shopping malls are either issued pink slips or laid off or being partially paid in the wake of the restrictions imposed during the second wave of the Covid-19.Insiders state that between 10 to 20 per cent showrooms in the high end malls in the city did not renew their contracts, leading to hundred per cent job losses of their employees. They observed that Covid dislodged those who were already on the edge.A resident of Majitha road working with a leading multiplex-cum-shopping mall said over 500 employees were employed in different sections such as sales, house-keeping, security and others in the beginning of this year. He said barring some leading brands, which retained their staff and paid them full salaries, all others carried out pruning as per their convenience. Some of them issued pink slips to half of their staff while employees of some stores were laid off with a verbal assurance of being called back as normalcy returns.A resident of Putlighar, working at another leading mall of the city, said, his many co-workers were being paid one-fourth salaries during the closure of shops. For example, a person who used to draw a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 was getting Rs 3,000. “These employees considered themselves to be lucky enough to be retained by their companies.” He said the government must extend a helping hand by developing a model in which all employees can be retained.Meanwhile, the district chapter of the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) urged state government for its intervention to allow malls to restart operations as per regular operational hours in a controlled and safe manner. It highlighted the pandemic forcing the state to take extreme measures like lockdowns which adversely impacted businesses and livelihoods of thousands of workers in the city. SCAI also addressed the concern that almost 80 per cent employees working in malls, shops, restaurants and service sectors are from economically weaker section and get directly impacted with such disruption in businesses.The association maintained that it is possible to take all kinds of precautions at malls rather than local neighborhood shops. The association stated that operation of shopping malls required meticulous planning. Stores owners claimed that they followed all points of standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) such as humidity and temperature control, superior MERV 13 filter installations, fresh air circulation and separate air conditioning units in the past as well. So, opening of malls in a graded manner will not be an issue for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-deals-a-heavy-blow-to-employees-at-malls-in-amritsar-265318
08-06-2021||Tarn Taran||48-year-old farmer commits suicide in Tarn Taran||Tossing turban: panel seeks reportAmritsar: The SC Commission (Punjab) has sought a report from the Amritsar (rural) police regarding an incident in which several persons allegedly hurt religious sentiments of a person by tossing his turban. The victim had submitted a complaint to the SC Commission, member, Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka. Sarpanch Jasbir Kaur of Raipur Khurd village falling under the jurisdiction of Tarsikka police station alleged several persons assaulted her husband Amrik Singh, who was supervising the development works under way in the village. She said as a concrete stretch was being laid, a family started objecting to it. She alleged the accused obstructed the government work and thrashed her husband, besides tossing his turban. Jasbir said the accused passed objectionable remarks against her husband. She alleged that the police did not take necessary action. Dr Sialka said the SC Commission has sought the status report from Amritsar (rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya. TNSEmployees want regular jobsTarn Taran: Employees of different departments of the state government held a protest here on Monday. They were demanding the fulfilment of their demands. The employees under the banner of the Punjab and UT Mulazam and Pensioners’ Sanjha Front took out a march and burnt an effigy of the state government. Addressing on the occasion, Baljinder Singh Doblian, Nachhattar Singh and other leaders of the morcha demanded the regularisation of the services of the employees working on a contractual, outsource and daily basis over the years. The leaders said the indifferent attitude of the government would cost it dear in the 2022 assembly elections. They said their other demands included implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission and releasing the due DA instalments. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/48-year-old-farmer-commits-suicide-in-tarn-taran-265317
08-06-2021||---||Father of 2 booked for raping girl on pretext of marriage in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 7A girl from Haryana was allegedly raped by a man on the pretext of marrying her. The accused made physical relations with her several times after taking her to a hotel near the Golden Temple and various other parts of Punjab. The incident occurred in February this year.The incident came to light when the victim filed a complaint with the women’s police station in Ambala Cantonment. She later learnt that the accused, identified as Gurpreet Bajwa of Bazigar Colony in Ambala Cantonment, was married and had two children. The Ambala police registered a ‘zero’ FIR and forwarded it to Amritsar city police for further action.The victim alleged that Bajwa was threatening to kill her and leak her objectionable pictures on social media if she told anyone about this or dared to lodge a case with the police.Amritsar’s Division E police station have registered a case under Sections 376 (2) (N) and 506 of the IPC for repeatedly committing rape (on the same woman).A graduate, the victim said she befriended Bajwa, who on the pretext of marrying her, brought her to the holy city on February 25. After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple, he hired a hotel room on February 26 near the shrine and they stayed there for two days. During the period, the accused made physical relations with her. She said for the next two weeks they visited different places in Punjab, including Anandpur Sahib and during these days, he repeatedly made physical relations with her.The victim said later she came to know that the accused was already married and had two children. He also threatened to kill her if she told anyone about their relationship.The police authorities said further investigations were on to nab the suspect.Took her to several parts of PunjabA graduate, the victim said she befriended Bajwa, who on the pretext of marrying her, brought her to the holy city on February 25. After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple, he hired a room in a hotel on February 26 near the shrine and they stayed there for two days. During the period, the accused made physical relations with her. She said for the next two weeks they visited different places in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/father-of-2-booked-for-raping-girl-on-pretext-of-marriage-in-amritsar-265316
08-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Spat over damage to electric pole turns fatal in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 7A 25-year-old youth of Lalpur village and his cousin were attacked by a group of youths, leading to the death of one of them here on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Jagdip Singh Jagga (25) and his cousin, Harjot Singh, escaped unhurt.The accused have been identified as Shubhkaranjit Singh, Gurpartap Singh, Dilbag Singh and Khanddi, all of Lalpur village, and Love of Tur village.There was a dispute between Harjot Singh and Khanddi over the payment of an electric pole which was damaged by Harjot Singh while learning to drive a tractor on Saturday. The tractor belonged to Khanddi, who was helping him how to drive it.Officials of Powercom were asking Khanddi to pay for the damage caused to the pole. He called the victim and his cousin Harjot Singh to resolve the issue at the youth club in Lalpur village on Sunday night.There was a verbal duel between them as Khanddi was pressuring Harjot Singh to pay the amount, but Harjot not only refused to pay the amount but asked Khanddi to pay it as he was the tractor owner.The accused persons, led by Khanddi, in a fit of anger attacked them near the club with an iron rod and other sharp-edged weapons. Jagdip Singh, who was hit on the head, was seriously injured and was admitted to the local Guru Nanak Dev Super Specialty Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.The accused, who have been absconding since the incident, were booked under Sections 302, 148 and 149 of the IPC by Goindwal Sahib police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spat-over-damage-to-electric-pole-turns-fatal-in-tarn-taran-265315
08-06-2021||---||NCLP draws a blank when it comes to paying teachers||Amritsar, June 7Teachers working under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP), who educate children at brick kilns in remote areas, have not received their salaries for the last three years. They alleged that the government stopped the stipend for students after the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020.Jaswant Singh, one of the teachersWe used to protest for our salaries before Covid-19 restrictions. But now, we are not even able to hold a demonstration. The DC had assured that he will write to the department concerned in this regard. Teachers hope that one day the government will release their pending salaries.There are 39 schools in the district, in which 300 persons work under the NCLP. Teachers claimed that more than 2,000 students were enrolled with them in the district.Jaswant Singh, one of the teachers, said they used to protest for their salaries before the Covid-19 restrictions. But now, they are not able to even hold a demonstration. The Deputy Commissioner had assured to write to the department concerned in this regard. Teachers hope that one day the government will release their pending salaries.“The political parties in the state are issuing statements to uplift the Dalits in the state politics. Almost 100 per cent students in the NCLP schools are from Dalit background. If the Congress government in the state and the BJP government at the Centre are concerned about the Dalits, they have to release the salaries of teachers and stipend of students,” Singh said.Teachers are now planning to stage a protest at the DC office to press the government to release their salaries.About National Child Labour Project The Centre provides teaching faculty at places where the practice of child labour or school dropouts are reported on a mass level under the NCLP. The district administration establishes schools to provide education to children at their doorstep. The schools under the NCLP help students in their rehabilitation as well. The administration sets up such schools for children of those labourers who work at brick kilns, industrial areas or are employed as domestic helps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nclp-draws-a-blank-when-it-comes-to-paying-teachers-265314
08-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||Verbal duel takes ugly turn at Amritsar Central Jail, inmate dies||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 7A jail inmate died while two others were injured, when a group of prisoners assaulted them in the high-security Amritsar Central Jail here on Sunday.The victim identified as Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakha Baba (48), was lodged in the jail in a murder case, while the suspects were languishing on the charges of robberies and snatchings.Those booked were Avtar Singh, alias Tari of Jhitte Khurd village; Sultan Singh of Eshapur village; Gurjant Singh of Mehndipur village, Tarn Taran; and Harpreet Singh of Amritsar. All of them were lodged in room number 6 of barrack number 5.A jail official wishing not to be named said the incident occurred in the same barrack in the heat of the moment following some minor verbal duel. Lakha Baba along with Sajandeep of Manawala Kalan and Lovepreet Singh of Sabhran in Patti in Tarn Taran were having dinner in the barrack, when the accused attacked Baba with some sharp iron strip. Lakha suffered deep injuries on his arms and legs while there was no visible head injuries as the deceased was wearing a turban. Sajandeep and Lovepreet also suffered injures while they tried to save Lakha.The victims were sent to the Civil Hospital for the medico legal report (MLR). However, his condition suddenly deteriorated in the hospital and he died apparently of cardiac arrest. The post-mortem of the deceased was conducted on Monday, which would ascertain the exact cause of his death.Jatinder Singh, in-charge Fatahpur police chowki, said initially a case under Sections 307, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Section 52 of the Prisons Act was registered against the suspects. Later, it was amended and section of murder (302 of the IPC) was added to the FIR. He said the accused would be arrested after bringing them from jail to ascertain what prompted them to fight and the circumstances that led to Lakha’s death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/verbal-duel-takes-ugly-turn-at-amritsar-central-jail-inmate-dies-265287
08-06-2021||---||Doctor: Brain tumours are less-understood entities||Amritsar, June 7Brain tumours are feared and less-understood entities. It’s a misconception that all brain tumours are cancerous and once you suffer from brain tumour, you are doomed, said Dr Dushyant Thaman, a neurosurgery specialist, while raising awareness on World Brain Tumour Day, which falls on June 8 every year.Dushyant Thaman, A Neurosurgery SpecialistBrain tumours are feared and less-understood entities. It’s a misconception that all brain tumours are cancerous and once you suffer from brain tumour, you are doomed. It is time to recognise, raise awareness and motivate patients with brain tumours and their caregivers.Medical experts come forward to shed light on the myths and rumours associated with the disease every year on this day.Dr Dushyant said brain tumour may arise principally from two structures — the covering of the brain tissue, which is called the dura mater and the brain tissues itself.He said the tumours arising from dura mater called meningiomas are usually benign and non-cancerous. “They grow slowly and compress the brain, rather than invade it. Most symptoms are caused by compression. Meningiomas may reach a size of 7 cm to 10 cm before detection, making surgery very difficult,” he said, adding that most of meningiomas are curable.He said tumors arising from the brain parenchyma are called gliomas. “Symptoms such as morning headache, vomiting, visual disturbances, first-time epilepsy in any adult should be evaluated by MRI scan and treatment should be started,” he said.Dr Thaman said early diagnosis and treatment can help in saving a patient from many complications.“It is time to recognise, create awareness and motivate patients with brain tumours and their caregivers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctor-brain-tumours-are-less-understood-entities-265286
08-06-2021||---||Amritsar has 11 patients of black fungus||Amritsar, June 7A review meeting was held by Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Parkash Soni at the local Circuit House regarding the current situation of Covid-19 here on Monday. Among others present on the occasion were Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh and Government Medical College Principal Dr Rajiv Devgan.Speaking on the occasion, Soni said all arrangements had been made by the administration and separate wards for children set up expecting the third wave of Covid-19. He said these wards were fully equipped with medical equipment.Talking about the present situation, Soni said Covid-19 cases had dropped by more than 50 per cent and the death rate had also come down significantly. The minister stated that about 1,100 patients were admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital during the peak of the second wave of the contagion, but now the number had come down to 325.OP Soni, Medical Education and Research MinisterAll arrangements have been made by the administration and separate wards set up for children expecting the third wave of Covid-19. These wards are fully equipped.He said at present 11 patients of black fungus were under treatment at Guru Nanak Dev (GND) Hospital. He directed the Civil Surgeon to increase the testing for the virus in the district.The Medical Education and Research Minister said 72,60,286 tests had been conducted so far in three medical colleges and four government laboratories all over the state out of which 20,33,178 had been conducted at the local Government Medical College.Talking about the district, he said over 8 per cent of the reports of the samples being collected from the district were coming back positive. He said with further drop in Covid-19 cases, more relaxations would be given to the shopkeepers.Soni said the persons afflicted with black fungus were being administered injections as and when required. He said the vaccines given to private hospitals by the government had been withdrawn. “We can win the battle against the virus only if we ensure that the instructions issued by the Health Department are strictly followed,” added Soni.Dist reports 9 deaths, 133 covid casesAmritsar: With nine more deaths on Monday, the district toll increased to 1,499. The health authorities have also reported 133 new cases, with which the tally increased to 45,569. The new cases include 82 influenza-like illness cases and 51 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities have also reported the recovery of 192 patients, with which the recovery count increased to 42,077. The district at present has a total of 1,993 active cases. The deceased have been identified as Bakhshish Singh (85) of Chawinda; Shashi (61) of Majitha Road; Baldev Singh (74) of Rambagh; Pritam Singh (56) of Nijjarpura; Rohit (38) of Bhalla Colony; Om Parkash (82) of Guru Nagar (Railway Link Road); Tarsam Singh (44) of Indira Colony; Jaswinder Kaur (69) of Kot Khalsa and Supinder Kaur (52) of Darshan Singh Avenue. TNSOne dies, 21 +ve in Tarn TaranA person succumbed to the virus in the district on Monday, taking the toll to 330 in the district. The Health Department teams collected 1,188 samples on Monday. With 21 positive cases, the number of active cases reached 350. As many as 192 of the active cases have been isolated at their respective homes. Meanwhile, 2,347 citizens were vaccinated on Monday, taking the total number of persons to receive the jab to 1,41,670. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-has-11-patients-of-black-fungus-265056
