09-06-2021||Amritsar||Two students clear NMMS||Sewa Kendras to open 9 am to 5 pmTarn Taran: The Sewa Kendras in the district will be operational from 9 am to 5 pm, including Saturday. District Magistrate Kulwant Singh said the people would be free to visit the Sewa Kender without prior permission. The DM said the aspirants to visit Sewa Kendra with advance permission would contact website https://esewa .punjab.gov.in/CenterSlotBooking or on mobile no. 89685-93812-13. OCPO arrested with 280-gm heroinTarn Taran: A team of the Chohla Sahib police, led by Sub-Inspector Navdeep Singh, arrested a criminal with 280 gm of heroin from the link road leading to Chohla Sahib from Sarhali village on tuesday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused had been identified as Sukhchain Singh Sonu of Mohanpur village. The SSP said the accused was facing 14 criminal cases under different category of offences. The court had declared him proclaimed offender in two cases. The accused has been booked under Sections 21,61 and 85 of NDPS Act. Dharam Kaur, mother of the accused, too was facing five criminal cases under different offences. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-students-clear-nmms-265818
09-06-2021||---||Beneficiaries get smart ration cards in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu distributed smart ration cards to beneficiaries here on Tuesday. Around 200 beneficiaries from ward number 12 and 13 got smart cards from councillor Priyanka Sharma.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said during the tenure of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, basic amenities have been provided to every section of the society.He said free ration was being provided to families under the Smart Ration Card Scheme. He said the state government had enrolled every eligible beneficiary under the scheme so that he or she could get the wheat and concessional rate.The Mayor said every card holder would get an insurance cover up to Rs 5 lakh per annum. He said with this smart card the beneficiaries would be able to get food grains from any ration depot. This will also bring transparency in ration distribution scheme and save time. Councillor Priyanka Sharma, Riteish Sharma, Bhupinder, Sunny Kumar, Amit, Gurpreet Singh and Manpreet Singh Jassi were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beneficiaries-get-smart-ration-cards-in-amritsar-265817
09-06-2021||---||Prefer root-dip treatment for disease-free rice crop: Experts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Punjab Agricultural University Farm Advisory Service Centre (FASC) experts organised a training camp on seed/nursery treatment of basmati rice in a Tarn Taran village, Kot Mohammad Khan, adopted by the centre.More than 40 farmers participated in the camp organised under the ‘Farm Advisory Service Scheme’.Demonstrations givenExtension specialist (Plant pathology) Dr Parminder Kaur demonstrated how to do seed treatment and root dip treatment of basmati rice with Trichoderma harziamum (a fungus) to avoid foot rot disease which sometimes causes huge losses to the crop. She also distributed the strain among farmers and explained the various activities being conducted by FASC experts and asked the farmers to adopt new technologies invented by the PAU. She told the farmers to cultivate recommended varieties of the PAU which are resistant to diseases and insect pests. Dr Savreet Khehra, an expert of fruit science, emphasised to grow fruit plants in kitchen gardens for nutritional security of family. She explained ways to take care of fruit plants during the summers.District extension specialist (Agronomy) Dr Parminder Singh advised not to burn wheat straw as there were many alternate ways to manage it and moreover it pollutes the environment. He explained cultivation practices and fertilisation of paddy/basmati crops.Farmers were also guided about judicious use of agrochemicals on crops and requested to be in touch with the experts in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prefer-root-dip-treatment-for-disease-free-rice-crop-experts-265816
09-06-2021||---||AGENDA 2021: Efforts afoot to raise area under direct seeding of rice to save water||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Experts of the Agriculture Department, Punjab Agricultural University and the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) are jointly make efforts to increase the area under direct seeding of rice (DSR) in the district. The farmers, who seeded rice crops directly, faced several issues and many of them again returned to the puddling method to transplant the paddy.Taking it as a challenge, this year agricultural experts came up with the “tar-wattar” (high moisture condition) technique to address the issue of seed germination.Dr Narinderpal Singh, district extension specialist at Farm Advisory Service Center, KVK, Amritsar, said, “Germination of seed was the major issue being faced by farmers in direct sowing of rice. The farmers used to sow the paddy seeds in optimum moisture, which is good for the wheat germination but not for the paddy seed. The paddy seed needs high moisture. The farmers should irrigate the field and then sow the seeds before it gets dry. It can be measured if tractor tyre tread forms a similar texture on the clay in the field. Then it is accurate moisture to sow the paddy seeds.”Experts at Farm Advisory Service Center asked to prefer ‘Lucky Seed Drill’ which sow rice and spray pre-emergence herbicide simultaneously. Lucky seed drill (with press wheel attachment) helps in solving the problem of krand formation, conserves soil moisture for a longer period and enhances efficiency of applied herbicide. If this machine is not available, then use conventional rice seed drills fitted with an inclined plate metering mechanism and spray herbicide immediately after sowing. Press wheels can also be fitted to any existing rice drill. The experts advocate placing seed at 3 to 4 cm for good germination of seeds.Last year the district witnessed an increase in the area under DSR due to shortage of labour after outbreak of Covid. The experts claimed that when some farmers sow the paddy for the first time he faces several problems such as germination, weeds and low yield. Some of them return to the puddling method but those repeat it for a few years, they become experts to address all the problems with their first-hand experience.“The puddling technique should be replaced with direct sowing as it needs a lot of water. It affects the water recharging process and hardens the soil, which further leads to aeration to roots of plants. It is our agenda to motivate maximum farmers for DSR to save the water and ecology system”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agenda-2021-efforts-afoot-to-raise-area-under-direct-seeding-of-rice-to-save-water-265815
09-06-2021||---||Over 150 saplings planted at Piddi||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 8More than 150 saplings were planted by the followers of Kar Sewa Sect, Khadoor Sahib, on Tuesday on the Gurdwara Baba Kahan Singh complex at Piddi village, near Tarn Taran.Bhai Devinder Singh while leading the followers of the sect said sapling were planted at the site as instructed by Jathedar Manwinderpal Singh, head priest of the gurdwara.The sect is headed by Baba Sewa Singh, also known as the International Environmentalist who was appointed as the faith for earth counsellor by the United Nations Environment Programme recently.The sect started doing about 22 years ago under which 5 lakh saplings have been planted so far. The move is still on without a break.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-150-saplings-planted-at-piddi-265814
09-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: A global educational hub in the making?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8More than 10 state and Central Government-funded educational institutions are situated on a 4-km stretch from Puttalighar crossing to India Gate. Assistant Prof Dr Amanpreet Singh Gill of SGTB Khalsa College (Delhi University), has asked the district administration to set up a ‘Separate Area Development Authority’ for this particular stretch on the lines of the Delhi University’s North Campus.Iconic Khalsa College and Guru Nanak Dev University spread over hundreds of acres can make this educational hub global. He said most institutes situated on this particular stretch share boundary walls, but there’s no specific development plan.Dr Gill said establishment of an integrated authority would pave the way for single book and education material market, food street for students, a youth hostel for short-term stay, regulated paying guests with professional standards and one authority for students’ health and security. He said a specialised police post dedicated to campus can also be set up.At present, there’s not even a signboard, which announces the presence of such diverse educational institutions on this stretch, including Khalsa College for Women, Khalsa College (autonomous), Khalsa College of Law, Khalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (GADVASU), Khalsa College of Pharmacy (PTU), Khalsa College of Nursing, Agriculture College, Khalsa College of Education, Khalsa Collegiate School, Guru Nanak Dev University, Government Polytechnic, Indian Institute of Management, Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology being run by the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers.Dr Gill said, “After implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP), greater flow of foreign professors and scholars will take place in India and Amritsar shall have its due share if this zone is developed into a single brand. It will become a preferred destination for corporates houses to search for talent.” Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said, “It’s a novel idea and needs to be understood before taking a final call.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-a-global-educational-hub-in-the-making-265813
09-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Setting trends: Snac(king) on nutritious food||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Anoop Aggarwal has carved a niche for himself in introducing nutritious snacks in the food processing industry. Having started with a paltry investment of Rs500 in 1995, his business now records an annual turnover of Rs1.20 crore.Innovation in the food processing is his forte. He was the first to introduce soya nuts in the country. Last year he launched a new snack named— nine in one, as it contains eight flakes of black wheat, brown wheat, quinoa, raagi, buckwheat, millets, jowar (Sorghum) and rice pieces of gram. Combined together nutritious value of these products is incomparable, he claimed. His snacks are being sold across the country.Earning appreciation from the American Soyabean Association (ASA) that had felicitated him twice in 2007 and 2009 for preparing best roasted soya nuts. The ASA is an organisation of soyabean growers which had funded his travel to the US for taking part in an exhibition there in 2007. Mumbai-based Federation of Sweets and Namkeen Manufacturers Association also felicitated him for innovative product black wheat snacks.He had introduced improved quality of softer grams, Kashmiri maize, softer than local variety, in the market for consumption.His another unusual snack is five grain mix of roasted soyabean, wheat, millets, corn, and grams. He has prepared nearly 100 varieties of snacks. He joined as industry partner in food processing projects initiated by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and Punjab State Biotech. As a result, he introduced papad which lasts six months whereas local papad lasts only 45 days.Starting from traditional hearth now his unit boasts of electric machinery for roasting, flaking machine for making flakes out of grains, packing machines, machine for cleaning, dryers, mixtures and other required paraphernalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/setting-trends-snacking-on-nutritious-food-265812
09-06-2021||---||6 months on, no progress in dog sterilisation drive in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Six months on, the Municipal Corporation has failed to start the dog sterilisation project in the city even after the nod of the MC General House. The MC officials said they had floated tenders twice but no firm had qualified. Now, the tender has been floated again for the third time to hire a firm for the sterilisations of stray dogs.The MC General House had sanctioned Rs45 lakh to sterilise 5,000 dogs at a meeting on December 31, 2020.According to the official figures, the city has more than 30,000 stray dogs. In December 2018, the civic body had initiated a pilot project by spending Rs18 lakh on the sterilisation of 2,000 stray dogs. Due to poor infrastructure, the MC took two years to sterilise 2,000 dogs. In the absence of an operation theatre and other required infrastructure, doctors were able to sterilise 80 dogs per week.After the failure of several dog sterilisation attempts due to the non-availability of infrastructure, the MC has set up a new dog sterilisation centre at Naraingarh, which has a capacity to sterilise 200 dogs weekly. Following this, the MC had extended the project to 5,000 dogs but no firm has been hired so far.Municipal health officer Dr Yogesh Arora said: “Tenders were floated to hire the firm for sterilisation. Only one firm evinced interest. As per the rules, the work cannot be allotted to a single bidder. Now, we have floated the tender again and hopefully the work will be started soon.”The Municipal officials claimed that the dog sterilisation centre at Naraingarh is ready for operation and as soon the tender materialises, the work would be started at the new sterilisation centre which is equipped with all required facilities.Pertinently, such drives have been started in the past as well, but couldn’t succeed due to inadequate infrastructure and shortage of funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-months-on-no-progress-in-dog-sterilisation-drive-in-amritsar-265811
09-06-2021||---||3 held for gang rape of minor||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Three days after a shocking incident of a gang rape of a minor girl was reported, the police have nabbed three suspects identified as Gurpreet Singh, Jaspal and Akash.A girl (14) had accused the three of allegedly gang raping her in Bhagtupura village, on the intervening night of June 3-4. A case under various Sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act was registered against them. The victim’s mother had said that her family went to sleep on Thursday (June 3) around 9 pm and she heard frantic knocking at the door around 2 am and found her daughter crying. She said the accused called her around 11 pm and took her to Bhagtupura, where he along with his friends committed the crime.The victim said the accused used to come to the village for playing during which she came in contact with her. Following medical examination, further investigations were launched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-held-for-gang-rape-of-minor-265810
09-06-2021||Actress Amandeep Sidhu||Amandeep  Sidhu styles her look||She continues, “But this time around, Mahi got a chance to wear a really pretty white gown. It almost felt like I was attending a wedding in it because it had a completely different style and elegance. I also decided to style my hair into a bun rather than the usual straight and curly locks. I also did my own make-up and gave my own minimalistic yet elegant touch to the whole look. Everyone was really fascinated by the outcome, and this is one of Mahi’s best looks according to me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amandeep-sidhu-styles-her-look-265808
09-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Herculean task: Recovery of Rs 575 cr from power defaulters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8The Covid-19 induced slump has resulted in accumulation of power tariff default to the tune of Rs575 crore for the PSPCL thereby prompting it to launch an ambitious one-time-settlement (OTS) scheme.Powercom has to recover Rs575 crore from 6,720 defaulters of the Border range. The border range comprises Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, besides Amritsar. The matter of concern for Powercom officials is that so far only 240 defaulters —12 government and 228 non-government — have come forward to deposit Rs10.46 crore. The collected amount is meagre in the face of a whopping Rs575 crore.Skatter Singh Dhillon, Chief Engineer, PSPCL (Border Range), said the scheme was only for those defaulters, who had failed to pay the tariff prior to December 31, 2020. He said the impact of Covid-19 induced restrictions creating an economic crisis cannot be ruled out in some cases.He said OTS committees of Powercom officials would be constituted to reach out to defaulters and encourage them to pay the defaulting amount. For this, penalty interest of 18 per cent has been curtailed to 12 per cent.A defaulter on the condition of anonymity said he had set up a cottage unit at home after taking advances from a bank and relatives at the fag end of 2019. Some months after this novel coronavirus struck and all his dreams of becoming self-employed were shattered. “During the last 14 months, his earning remained in doldrums but expenditure rather increased in terms of power tariff, school fee of two kids, increase in the cost of raw material and on other heads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/herculean-task-recovery-of-rs-575-cr-from-power-defaulters-265805
09-06-2021||---||4 prisoners held for killing fellow inmate||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8The police have arrested three prisoners who allegedly killed another jail inmate while having dinner on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakha Baba.Baba (48) was lodged at the Central Jail in a murder case while the accused were languishing on charges of robberies and snatchings.Those arrested included Avtar Singh, alias Tari of Jhitte Khurd village, Sultan Singh of Eshapur village, Gurjant Singh of Mehindipur village Tarn Taran and Harpreet Singh of Amritsar. All of them were lodged in room number 6 of barrack number 5.According to jail authorities, the incident occurred in the same barrack, following a verbal spat. Baba along with Sajandeep of Manawala Kalan and Lovepreet Singh of Sabhran were having dinner in the barrack when the accused attacked Baba with sharpened-iron strip. Baba suffered injuries on his arms and legs while there was no visible head injuries as the deceased was wearing a turban. Sajandeep and Lovepreet also suffered injures as they tried to save Baba.The victims were sent to the Civil Hospital for medico- legal reports. Suddenly, health of Baba deteriorated and he died apparently due to cardiac arrest. The post-mortem of the deceased was conducted today, which would ascertain the cause of his death.Jatinder Singh, in charge, Fatahpur police chowki, said the accused were arrested and investigation was under progress to ascertain the reason behind the assault. The police took an iron strip used in the crime into possession.SAD wants CM TO dismiss Jails Minister Sukhjinder RandhawaAmritsar: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to dismiss Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for allegedly patronising gangsters in Punjab jails, which has led to a total breakdown in jail administration as witnessed by the murder of an inmate in the Central Jail here. In a statement, SAD spokesman Virsa Singh Valtoha alleged that the minister was in the forefront of providing five star facilities to underworld dons and gangsters as witnessed by the VVIP treatment extended to Mukhtiar Ansari and Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, respectively. Due to the failure of the Punjab Government, jails have become a den for planning kidnappings, extortions and even target killings. Gangsters have easy access to mobile phones and luxuries. “Gangsters now feel safe in jail and are carrying out their criminal activities from inside the jail premises,” the SAD leader asserted. He asked the Chief Minister to divest Sukhjinder Randhawa of the Jails portfolio immediately and order a probe into all cases of violation of the jails manual and book those guilty of the same to clean up the jails in the state. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-prisoners-held-for-killing-fellow-inmate-265801
09-06-2021||---||7 impounded vehicles gutted in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Several case property vehicles stashed outside bus stand police chowki caught fire on Monday. This is the second such incident, which took place at the same chowki in the last two months. It took a couple of hours for the firefighters to douse the flames.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh has been probing the case to ascertain the reason behind the incident.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) said the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police was holding a probe in the matter.Bus stand chowki is located inside Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter State Bus terminus. A number of vehicles were stashed outside the police, which were seized or impounded by the police in different cases, however, owners of the vehicles did not show any interest in getting these back or released by the court. Over a dozen case property vehicles were destroyed two months ago while seven vehicles were gutted in fire on Monday.Rambagh police station officials said it was an accidental fire. Cops said passengers at the bus stand informed them about fire. The Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police said the investigation was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-impounded-vehicles-gutted-in-amritsar-265800
09-06-2021||---||Carjacking case solved, 3 held, one still at large||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8The Ranjit Avenue police have nabbed three persons in connection with a case, in which a trader’s car was snatched in Ranjit Avenue area on May 29.Those arrested were identified as Gurpreet Singh, Jatinder Singh and Kunal Kohli, all residents of the Sultanwind area here. However, their fourth accomplice Raja was yet to be arrested. The police authorities said raids were on to nab him.The police recovered the car and a mobile phone from them. Mayank Nanda (26), a resident of Lawrence Road area, told the police that he had gone to give medicines to his cousin in Ranjit Avenue. He said as he reached near Ajnala road T-point, four persons on two bikes intercepted his car (PB-02-DP-7194). While pointing a gun, they pulled him out and sped away with the car. He had two mobile phones in the car one of which was recovered by the police with the car.Sarabjit Singh Bajwa, Assistant Commissioner of Police (North), said the accused changed the colour of the car to black and fixed a fake number plate to hoodwink the police. Following initial probe and with the help of CCTV cameras, the police zeroed in on the suspects. He said Raja was the mastermind behind the carjacking and he had used a country-made pistol in the crime. He said raids were on to nab him.He said as per the probe, they snatched the car for their lavish lifestyle and would have dismantled it later. Talking to the media Jatinder Singh, one of the accused said it was Raja who had planned the robbery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-case-solved-3-held-one-still-at-large-265799
09-06-2021||---||Amritsar district reports six deaths, 102 +ve cases||Amritsar, June 8With six deaths reported on Tuesday, the toll increased to 1,505 in the district. The district health authorities have also reported 102 new cases, with which the tally increased to 45,671.The deceased have been identified as Mahinder Kaur (65) of Kot Khalsa; Sushil Goyal (71) of Gali Vakeel Wali (Mall Road); Ranjit Kaur (66) of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar; Sita Devi (51) of Islamabad; Sukhchain Kaur (50) of Chattiwind and Mohinder Singh (70) of Rajasansi.The new cases include 46 influenza-like illness cases and 56 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department has also reported the recovery of 172 patients with which the recovery count has improved to 42,249. The district at present has a total of 1,917 active cases.2 die, 18 +ve in Tarn TaranThe Health Department collected 1,134 samples on Tuesday and reported two Covid-19 related deaths in Tarn Taran district. With this, the toll reached 332.The authorities reported 18 new positive cases today. At present, the district has 326 active cases and of these, 181 patients have been isolated at their homes. DC Kulwant Singh said 2,583 beneficiaries were administered the jab at different health centres in the district today. He said 1,44,253 have been inoculated in the district so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-six-deaths-102-ve-cases-265798
09-06-2021||---||Fatality rate 3.29%, no improvement even as cases dip in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 8The Coviud-19 infection has started to recede but the fatality rate of patients still continues to be on the higher side as the district’s death rate is much higher than the national average.With 45,671 positive cases and 1,505 deaths till date, the district has a fatality rate of 3.29 per cent. The district’s fatality rate is much higher than the national average of 1.2 per cent.The number of positive cases in the district has increased by almost 117 per cent in the last around two months starting April 1. The district has reported a total of 24,661 positive cases since April 1.The number of deaths after April 1 has also increased by almost 122 per cent with the district reporting a total of 829 deaths in the last two months. The fatality rate of Covid patients has slightly increased to 3.36 per cent during the second wave of the infection.The fatality rate of Covid patients stood at 3.21 per cent prior to April 1. The district health authorities said the death rate in the district was higher as most of the patients report at the hospitals only after their condition becomes critical.“We have seen patients reporting at the hospital when their oxygen saturation level has dropped below 50. In such conditions, if a patient is having any co-morbid conditions, it becomes difficult for doctors to save the patient,” said a Health Department official.Health experts said people should get tested for Covid-19 immediately after they experience any symptom associated with the disease.Honoured for giving the dead a decent burialAmritsar: The district administration on Tuesday honoured employees who have been helping in cremation of Covid-19 patients. DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said though every officer and employee has done a great job since March 2020, the most difficult and important task was to cremate bodies, which poses variety of physical and mental challenges. He said a team working under the leadership of SDM Vikas Hira has so far cremated more than 2,000 persons. “Whenever a person dies, the team takes care of the body and performs rituals according to his/her religion,” he said. He said during the initial days of the pandemic, there were many cases when family members refused to go to the crematorium. In such cases, these men ensured that the deceased were cremated with dignity. Khaira said 17 persons include employees of the Health Department, Tehsil Office and Municpal Corporation. The DC honoured each team member. Those who were felicitated included Tarjit Singh, Dilbag Singh, Baljit Singh, Iqbal Singh, Mangal Singh, Charanjit Singh, Bhupinder Singh (all drivers), Kuldeep Singh and Arun (sewadars), Lucky, Harpreet Singh, Sandeep Singh, Kirpal Singh, Shiva, Ankit, Sahil Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Harpil Singh (all cleanliness workers). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fatality-rate-3-29-no-improvement-even-as-cases-dip-in-amritsar-district-265797
09-06-2021||Our Correspondent||No MSP on maize in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 8Even though the central government has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) of maize at Rs 1,850 this year, there is no procurement of the crop by any agency across the state. The arrival of the crop in the local grain market began a week ago.Major Singh, a farmer from Verowal village at the market, said the crop was procured at Rs 1,550 per quintal on Monday, and it further sold at Rs 1,525 on Tuesday. Major Singh, who is a regular maize producer, said the crop sold at Rs 750 to Rs 1,250 last year.Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, president, Kisan Sangharash Committee, Punjab, said the central and state governments had been asking the farmers to adopt crop diversification and come out of traditional wheat-paddy cycle, but was denying them the MSP on most of the crops, including pulses and maize.Kuljit Singh Chief Agriculture Officer said there was no surety of MSP on maize, because of which farmers were not ready to adopt crop diversification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-msp-on-maize-in-tarn-taran-265510
