10-06-2021||Amritsar||When two Punjabs met||When I was about to make my journey back to Punjab in Pakistan, I asked my grandmother how will I recognise our ancestral haveli? And she replied that there was an old black peacock outside. And when I went there, the peacock was still intact, said a visibly emotional Tarunjit Singh Butalia during an online session organised by Majha House here.When I was about to make my journey back to Punjab in Pakistan, I asked my grandmother how will I recognise our ancestral haveli? And she replied that there was an old black peacock outside. And when I went there, the peacock was still intact. I spent only a few days in Pakistan, but these were so rich that they will make for memories of a lifetime. — Tarunjit Singh Butalia, an interfaith speaker and an educatorThe programme was held under the Majha House initiative of ‘Sanjha Punjab’ and was helmed by Dr Arvinder Chamak. Tarunjit Singh was sharing his memories which he collected and compiled in his book ‘A Journey Home to Lehnda Punjab: History, Experiences and Emotions’.Tarunjit Butalia is an interfaith speaker and an educator. His ancestral home is in Gujjranwala, Pakistan. His family migrated to Amritsar in 1947 and later he settled in the US.When I received an article for translation, I didn't pay much attention as it was just another job. But when I went through these, I was moved to tears by what Tarunjit had written. —  Khizar Jawad, a scholar rom LahoreHe was joined in this session by renowned scholars from Pakistan Mazhar Abbas and Khizar Jawad. “I spent only a few days in Pakistan, but they were so rich that they will make for memories of a lifetime,” said Tarunjit.Tarunjit, through his experiences, debunks many pre-formed, rigid notions that outsiders have of the people of Pakistan. We are seen as a stereotype, as backward people who dominate their women, don't let them get education or work, or force them to be in hijab, and who are not hospitable. His book shatters all myths. —  Mazhar Abbas, scholar From Lyallpur, PAKExplaining his surname, he said the word ‘butalia’ comes from the Punjabi denomination of the number 42 (batali), which marked the number of estates their family owned.He said he had planned to chart a history of his family heritage from one Punjab in Pakistan to the other in India.Sharing his experiences in Lahore during his journey there, he said when the road widened, he knew instinctively that he had entered the Mall Road, and he knew that Aitchison College, the college where his ancestors studied, was nearby. And soon, he was standing in front of the college. “When I reached our haveli, I was delighted to find that it had been converted into a school for girls. It seemed to be a fitting usage of our heritage,” remarked Tarunjit.Introducing the two scholars — Khizar from Lahore and Mazhar of Lyallpur, Pakistan — who helped him in his endeavour, Tarunjit said they were not only translators, but co-authors as their contribution to the book was immense.Khizar said: “When I received an article for translation, I didn’t pay much attention to it as it was just another job. But when I went through one and then the rest of these, I was moved to tears by what Tarunjit had written.”In his turn Mazhar said: “I took up the project simply because I was idle at that time after having submitted my Ph.D thesis. But when I went through the articles, I knew what I had in my hands was something quite unique. Tarunjit, through his experiences, debunks many pre-formed, rigid notions that outsiders have of the people of Pakistan. We are seen as a stereotype, as backward people who dominate their women, don’t let them get education or work, or force them to be in hijab, and who are not hospitable. This book shatters all these myths.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-two-punjabs-met-266201
10-06-2021||Amritsar||9 succumb to virus, 104 test positive in Amritsar||With nine more deaths reported in the district due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the toll increased to 1,514. The district health officials have also reported 104 new cases, with which the total count of Covid-infected persons increased to 45,775 in the district.The deceased have been identified as Ajit Singh (60) of Gagarbhana village; Vishva Nath (75) of Bandala village; Gurinder Singh (38) of Chogawan; Deepak (31) of Rodhe Shah Colony; Mohinder Singh (70) of Khera Rajputtan; Shanti Sharma (86) of Aakash Avenue; Gajinder (65) of Jandiala; Balbir Singh (46) of Tungbala and Balwinder Kaur (57) of Kot Khalsa.The new cases include 52 influenza-like cases and 52 contacts of positive cases. With the recovery of 152 patients, the total count has also improved to 42,401. The district at present has a total of 1,860 active cases.2 die, 21 +ve in Tarn TaranThe district on Wednesday reported two more Covid fatalities, which pushed the toll to 334. Also, 21 fresh cases were reported in the district today. The number of active cases has now gone up to 294 and 170 of these are under home isolation.Total 1,46,378 citizens have been vaccinated so far, including 2,125 persons who were vaccinated today. DC Kulwant Singh said 1,189 samples had been collected on Wednesday by the Health Department teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-succumb-to-virus-104-test-positive-in-amritsar-266203
10-06-2021||Amritsar||Open malls, eateries on lines  of Chandigarh, say Amritsar traders||After opening of malls, restaurants and gyms in Chandigarh, people involved in similar businesses in the holy city are also seeking the reopening of their establishments.Proprietors of hotels, restaurants, gym owners and officials of mall, multiplexes are squirming with the piling up of losses. They say that their business has taken a backseat after drastic steps by the government to restrict the footfall of attendees and other curbs on their profession.Navdeep Singh Grover, proprietor of a restaurant in a posh area of the city, said take away and home delivery did not provide them sustainable income. “How can salaries of nearly 18 employees be arranged when the main vocation of dine-in is lying closed?” he asked.Grover said it was high time the government permitted the opening of restaurants along the lines of Chandigarh. He said even then it would be a daunting task to once again infuse money to attract customers in Covid-induced economic situation.Gym owners said the government should take a leaf out of the UT’s decision to open gyms and replicate it here at the earliest.They said their expenditures were mounting all these months when the gyms were closed but earning had stopped. They requested the government to allow opening of the gyms at the earliest to curtail losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-malls-eateries-on-lines-of-chandigarh-say-amritsar-traders-266204
10-06-2021||Amritsar||GNDU faculty body writes to Governor against VC||The Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association (GNDUTA) has asked the Governor Punjab, who is also the chancellor of GNDU, to issue strict instructions to Vice-Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu to work as per the statute and calendar of the university and his office must diary the communications from the GNDUTA.Lakhwinder Singh, president of the GNDUTA, claimed that the VC had instructed his office staff that they should not accept and diary any letter or communication from the GNDUTA. “Along with GNDUTA secretary NPS Saini, I visited the VC office on May 10 to submit a representation highlighting various issues related to investment of the university funds but the staff refused to diary the same expressing their helplessness because of the strict instructions from the Vice- Chancellor. We visited his office again on May 11 to submit another representation regarding imposing the change of examination pattern from subjective type to multiple choice objective type examination without the required prior approvals from various constituted bodies as per rules, but this too met the same fate,” Lakhwinder said.He said, “Since then, the GNDUTA is communicating only through emails with the Vice- Chancellor’s office, about which the apprehension is that he may deny the receipt of any such communication”.The leaders pointed out that the Establishment Branch vide no Endst. No. 305l-3145/EStt. /A-10 dated February 22, mentioned that the Vice-Chancellor had been authorised by the Syndicate in its meeting held on September 21 to assign additional responsibilities to teachers in various administrative offices of the university. Following this, many teachers have been given additional responsibilities. They claimed that despite repeated communications seeking a copy of the proceedings of the Syndicate meeting authorising the VC had not been made them available.On the reason of VC’s attitude, Lakhwinder and Saini maintained that the VC resorted to stifle the voice of the GNDUTA as it was in the process of making serious revelations regarding gross misgovernance in the university.Despite repeated attempts and text message VC Jaspal Singh Sandhu did not respond.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-faculty-body-writes-to-governor-against-vc-266206
10-06-2021||Amritsar||Farmers leave for Delhi with pitchers, pulses||As the temperature is soaring and farmers sitting at protest sites on Delhi borders are facing trouble, a group of 171 farmers, including women, from the border belt has left to join them.They have taken along earthen pots and around five quintals of pulses. The earthen pots would be used for drinking water while the pulses would be sent to farmers who are facing shortage of eatables on Rajasthan border.Veteran communist leader and farmer activist Rattan Singh Randhawa said, “There is no dearth of wheat flour and other items as every farmer grows these. We have received reports that farmers sitting on Rajasthan border are facing shortage of pulses. The well wishers of the community have contributed around five quintals for them.”Randhawa said farmers had been using earthen pots for storing and cooling water in the summer season. “Most of the farmers live hand to mouth. Even an earthen pot is a luxury for them. People supporting the cause should come forward to support those at the protest sites,” he said.“Even though the protest has been going on for the last more than six months and it has taken a toll on the mental and physical health of farmers their spirits are still high,” he said, adding that it is a do-or-die moment for farmers.He said, “We all know that the three laws passed by the Centre are against the farming community. Some of us who are active in political circles are opposing it just because of their political compulsions. Everyone needs to look beyond their political party obligations for once and see the truth.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-leave-for-delhi-with-pitchers-pulses-266207
10-06-2021||Amritsar||Unable to satiate your taste buds?  First, check the oil your pakoras are fried in||Repeated heating of oil changes its chemical composition and makes it rancid. Though the practice is harmful, it has been going on at local eateries without any check, thus endangering the health of consumers.Experts are of the view that the same cooking oil cannot be reheated more than three times. If heated again, it becomes rancid as its chemical properties get changed and becomes harmful for the human consumption.Balram Kumar Sharma, president of the Punjab Sudhar Sabha, said, thousands of outlets in the nook and cranny of the city were engaged in dishing out pooris, pakodas and other fried products. “Hardly, any of them change the oil three times after cooking. Majority of people engaged in the vocation are unaware of this and keep continuing the practice,” he observed.Another problem of rancid oil is that once it drains out through pipes, it turns into a solidified state and causes clogging, which upsets the sewage disposal.Surinder Singh, who is in the hospitality industry, said, some companies procure the used cooking oil around Rs 30 per litre, depending upon its quality. Subsequently, they process and clean it and then add it into bio-diesel in running gensets and those industries using furnaces. He said it can also be used in driving diesel run automobile vehicles, provided some desired changes are made in it.Officials of the Health Department said the Food Safety and Standard Authority of India (FSSAI) is promoting disposal of used cooking oil to ensure safety of citizens. They said all luxury and reputed hotels and restaurants were already selling the used cooking oil to private companies which, in turn, use this in preparing washing soaps and other non-edible commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unable-to-satiate-your-taste-buds-first-check-the-oil-your-pakoras-are-fried-in-266208
10-06-2021||Tarn Taran||1 held with lahan, illicit liquor||Man booked for abducting teenTarn Taran: Sajan Singh of Padhari Kalan village abducted a teenaged girl from his neighbourhood two weeks ago. The mother of the victim in her statement to the police said the accused abducted her daughter on the pretext of marrying her. Investigating Officer ASI Sarabjit Singh said a case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act had been registered in this regard and the police have initiated further proceedings. OCFIR against Punjabi singerJalandhar: Punjabi Singer Imran Khan, known as Khan Saab, a resident of Preet Nagar, Phagwara, was arrested for hosting a party, in violation of the Covid guidelines. Khan was arrested along with three of his accomplices present at the same party. He has been currently let off on bail. An FIR was lodged by the Kapurthala police here against four persons by name, while the rest of them remain unidentified. The arrests took place after a video was released from the party venue last night, which went viral. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-held-with-lahan-illicit-liquor-266209
10-06-2021||Children these days are mostly dependent on search engines to cull information||Amritsar libraries preserving a treasure trove of books||Sikh History & Reference Library, Khalsa CollegeThe Sikh history research department of Khalsa College came into being in 1930. Dr Ganda Singh, a noted Sikh historian, who headed this department from 1930 to 1947 developed it into the chief and the first of its kind research centre in the field of Sikh religion, Sikh philosophy, Sikh culture, Sikh politics and history of Punjab by establishing a reference library and a gallery of thousands of manuscripts, rare books, portraits and paintings of great historical significance and value. Some of these have been brought here from the museum in Britain and Lahore. Historian Dr Kirpal Singh also contributed a lot to the reference library. It has a collection of 601 manuscripts, newspapers from 1904, 675 files, rare books and journals. Of these manuscripts, 261 are in Persian and Urdu and 207 rare manuscripts in Punjabi. The manuscripts include ‘Pothi Mehrban’, Janam Sakhi of Guru Nanak Dev by Mehrban (1651) and copies of 1928. Of approximately 6,397 books, over 500 are a century old. Apart from this, two old ‘birs’ of Guru Granth Sahib are also present. The old and rare weapons and coins are among other treasures.Bhai Gurdas Library, GNDUThe Guru Nanak Dev University library has been named after the great Sikh Scholar Bhai Gurdas, who had the privilege of taking dictation from the reverend fifth Sikh master — Guru Arjan Dev — for the compilation of the Guru Granth Sahib. Bhai Gurdas Library was established in March 1970. The library building is a marvel of architecture. It is a five storeyed, inverted pyramid shaped magnificent building directly visible from the main gate of the university on the GT Road. It is centrally located with teaching departments all around. Bhai Gurdas Library has 1,516 rare manuscripts relating to Punjab history, culture, Sikh religion and other faiths. These manuscripts even have information about the present Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and North West Frontier Province of Pakistan. These manuscripts are in Punjabi (Gurmukhi), Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu, Persian and Arabic languages. In addition, the library has over 5,500 rare books. Most of these books relate to Indian as well as Punjab History, Sikh religion and various movements.Comrade Sohan Singh Josh District LibraryComrade Sohan Singh Josh District Library was established in 1982. It is one of the few public libraries active in the city. It has 1,600 members and a collection of over 51,000 books. Initially, the district library was initiated with 100 books in Government College for Girls and later it was shifted to the existing building in Rani Ka Bagh. The library has a good collection of literature of Punjabi, English and Hindi and religious books. Young Readers’ Book Club comprising youngsters, who come to the library regularly, is also constituted here. Now, the district administration has proposed to shift it to old DC office Hall, which has been renovated recently.Sikh Reference LibrarySikh Reference Library was established on February 6, 1947, by the efforts of eminent historian Dr Ganda Singh and the Sikh History Society under the supervision of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. Dr Ganda Singh and other Sikh scholars and historians contributed a large number of manuscripts and handwritten copies of Guru Granth Sahib, Dasam Granth and Janam Sakhis. During the attack on Golden Temple in 1984, the library building was put on fire. The SGPC claims that the Army took over the library and gave an impression that it was destroyed during the operation. Later, a CBI officer RS Nanda returned some articles, which were taken by the Army. The SGPC gave a call to the Sikhs to revive the library in the ’90s and tried procuring the old manuscripts and books. Now, there are more than 30,000 books about history, culture and Sikh religion here.Pandit Moti Lal Nehru Municipal LibraryPandit Moti Lal Nehru Municipal Library is one of the biggest and oldest libraries in the city, which was built in 1920. Despite having a collection of 20,000 books, it witnesses a few visitors every day. Newspapers are the main attraction for visitors. It hasn’t added any new book to its shelves for years. Apart from other prominent personalities, Sadat Hasan Manto used to visit the Municipal Library pre-Independence. He used to spend hours here. Residents fought against government’s plan to shift the library to Ranjit Avenue. Even renowned poet and filmmaker Gulzar, at a function of the Partition Museum, had advocated against the shifting of the library. Following that, books, which were packed for shifting, were once again displayed on the shelves. The MC General House has planned to hire a private firm to look after the library. The two-storey building has separate halls for reading newspapers, books apart from children’s reading room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-libraries-preserving-a-treasure-trove-of-books-266210
