11-06-2021||---||No curfew in Amritsar on Saturdays now||Amritsar, June 10Announcing more relaxations in the lockdown and curfew imposed due to the Covid-19 situation, the administration has done away with weekend curfew on Saturdays.Now, the curfew would be enforced only on Sundays. Earlier, the administration had imposed weekend curfew on Saturdays and Sundays.With the new orders, the market places would now be able to operate even on Saturdays. The administration had earlier this week relaxed the daily restrictions by an hour as shops were allowed to open till 6 pm instead of the earlier timings till 5 pm.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said private offices must try to run their businesses with 50 per cent of the staff strength so that physical distancing at workplace is insured.He also advised residents to go for vaccination at the earliest. “It has been seen that the persons who had received the vaccine even if they were infected, had experienced only mild symptoms,” he said, adding that the vaccination was the only solution available against the infection and people should not hesitate.The administration has also allowed opening of shopping malls in the district.“The relaxations have been given in view of the problems being faced by residents and shopkeepers but it still is the responsibility of every person to exercise complete caution and follow all safety guidelines,” said the Deputy Commissioner (DC) Gurpreet Singh Khaira.DC Khaira said the Covid situation in the district is normalising slowly as the number of cases and deaths due to Covid-19 were decreasing. “But we must understand that lowering the guard at this stage may result in worsening the situation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-curfew-in-amritsar-on-saturdays-now-266435
11-06-2021||---||Bioremediation going on at a snail’s pace at Amritsar's Bhagtanwala dump yard||Amritsar, June 10 The work related to bioremediation initiated by Averda, a solid-waste management firm hired by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, has been going on at a snail’s pace at Bhagtanwala dump yard. The MC had targeted to process 10 lakh MT garbage in two years, but things on the ground were quite opposite. Averda started bioremediation process in July last year and made considerable progress in solid-waste management.  The firm has been using trimble machines and ballistic separators for segregation of waste. The refuse derived fuel (RDF) segregated from garbage was being stored at the dump yard. The firm was reportedly not getting a buyer for the RDF, which slowed the speed of processing.  The MC officials said the RDF would be sent to cement factories. The company has a plan to install an energy plant after processing the waste. Municipal Health Officer Dr Ajay Kawar said, “The bioremediation work is under way and all machines are now functional. Earlier, there was some issue with lifting of the RDF, but now it’s being transported to Delhi. We hope that the company will process the garbage within stipulated time.” Meanwhile, office-bearers of the Sanjhi Sangharsh Committee who had been protesting to shift the dump, expressed dissatisfaction over bioremediation. Sanjay Sharma, general secretary, Sanjhi Sangharsh Committee, said, “Bioremediation is an eyewash and garbage is going nowhere. The firm has burnt the garbage instead of processing it. Congress leaders, including Capt Amarinder Singh, Manpreet Badal, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Gurjit Singh Aujla and Inderbir Singh Bolaria had promised to shift the dump. They should shift it as bioremediation is not a solution.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bioremediation-going-on-at-a-snails-pace-at-amritsars-bhagtanwala-dump-yard-266436
11-06-2021||Manmeet Gill||Two die of heatstroke in Amritsar||Tribune News serviceAmritsar, June 10Severe heatwave has gripped the region in the last two days, which resulted in two deaths in the city.With mercury hovering around 44°C, the heat has become unbearable for residents, especially children and senior citizens.The authorities reported death of an unidentified person who died of heatstroke in Maqboolpura. Another person, Jaspreet Singh, also died due to heatstroke, said B-Division police station.As the temperature would increase further in the coming days, medical experts asked residents to take precautions while going out of their homes, especially during afternoon.Assistant Prof Dr Sandeep Aggarwal, paediatrics, Government Medical College, said, “Parents need to take care of their children. Kids should be asked to drink more water and have proper meals. They should also be refrained from playing out in the open when the temperature is too high.” He said even others with underlying health conditions should exercise caution. “It’s important that you cover your head if you have to step out in the sun,” he said.Meanwhile, rise in mercury has resulted in increased sale of air-conditioners. Amanpreet Singh, who deals in electronic goods said, “We have been very busy during the last two days. We are selling around 40-50 air-conditioners daily. The demand is so high that it has led to scarcity of electricians who can install air- conditioners.”In market places, huge rush of people can been seen quenching thirst at ‘chabeels’ organised by residents. The heatwave has also impacted traffic on roads as people avoid stepping out of their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-die-of-heatstroke-in-amritsar-266437
11-06-2021||---||Mattewal youth’s body arrives from Saudi Arabia||Amritsar, June 10The body of 27-year-old youth of Mattewal village, who died in an accident in Saudi Arabia, arrived at his village last night.SP Singh Oberoi, founder, Sarbatt Da Bhala Charitable Trust, said Jobandeep Singh had gone to Dubai about three years ago to work as a labourer to improve the economic condition of his family. While working as a driver with a Dubai-based company, Jobandeep went to Saudi Arabia on his truck. On May 20, the front tyre of his truck exploded and the vehicle turned upside down. Jobandeep died of serious head injuries. The family members of Jobandeep and Majitha MLA Bikram Singh Majithia had contacted Sarbatt Da Bhala Trust and told about the incident. Following the poor financial condition of the victim’s family, Majithia asked them to assist in transporting the body back home. Oberoi said after contacting the Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia, the officials in the embassy sent Joban’s body from Saudi to Delhi via Dubai yesterday, after which it was further transported to Mattewal, the native village of Joban.Oberoi assured the victim Joban’s family that they would do their best to pay the relevant amount of insurance to his aggrieved parents.The trust has also decided to provide a monthly pension to the victim’s family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mattewal-youths-body-arrives-from-saudi-arabia-266438
11-06-2021||Amritsar||Collection agent robbed of Rs 1L at gunpoint||A collection agent of Bharat Finance was robbed by two armed persons when he was heading back to his office after making collections to the tune of Rs 1.05 lakh in Baba Bakala area on Tuesday. Rakesh Kumar (23), a resident of Muktsar, said he was entrusted with the job of collecting monthly instalments falling under Baba Bakala sub division. He said after making collections, he along with his companion was standing near Sathiala village, on their motorycle.  He said two youngsters approached them and pointed a pistol at him. Later, they asked to hand over the bag, said Rakesh. He said the duo snatched the bag, which contained a tab and documents, besides cash. Investigating Officer Kamalpreet Kaur said the police have registered a case under Sections 379 (B) and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. She said investigation was under way and footage of CCTV cameras will be scrutinised in the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/collection-agent-robbed-of-rs-1l-at-gunpoint-266439
11-06-2021||---||Amritsar Police freeze PO’s Rs 1.38-crore assets||Amritsar, June 10Around 16 years after a man was declared proclaimed offender (PO) by the court of sub-divisional judicial magistrate, Gurdaspur, in a kidnapping and rape case, the Amritsar rural police have frozen the property of the accused, identified as Sawinder Singh, alias Dabbu, of Bollewal village in Gurdaspur.Sawinder was booked by the Beas police under Sections 292, 342, 363, 366, 376 and 506 of the IPC and was declared PO in July 2005.In a statement on Thursday, SSP Amritsar Rural Dhruv Dahiya told that the police identified around 18 acres and 3 kanal of agricultural land owned by Sawinder Singh in Bollewal village falling under the Ghuman police station in Gurdaspur. The valuation of the said property was conducted by competent authority. It was valued at Rs 1.38 crore and it had been frozen by the police, SSP added.He said the police had adopted zero tolerance against the criminals, drug peddlers and proclaimed offenders. He said that the moveable and immovable properties of the drug peddlers and POs is being attached in order to nail them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-freeze-pos-rs-1-38-crore-assets-266440
11-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Gold jewellery, cash stolen from house||Five burglars struck at a house in Padhri Kalan village and took away gold ornaments, cash and other valuable articles by detaining family members on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The robbers committed the crime when family members were sleeping in the courtyard of the house. Baldev Singh, head of the family, in his statement to the police said the robbers snatched his licensed rifle with cartridges and then locked the family in a room. He said the robbers took away 180-gm gold ornaments and Rs 2.25 lakh, besides a Swift car parked in the house. He said the robbers were targeting NRI families in the border belt. The Chabal police had registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gold-jewellery-cash-stolen-from-house-266441
11-06-2021||---||8-month-old reunited with mother, husband arrested||Amritsar, June 10Following the intervention of the Punjab State Women Commission, the police have arrested a lawyer and reunited an 8-month-old child to his mother.The victim had approached the commission alleging that her husband (an advocate) and in-laws had thrown her out of the house and taken away the baby. The Cantonment police have registered a case against her husband and in-laws in this connection.Manisha Gulati, chairperson, Punjab State Women Commission, who held a meeting with residents and police officials of five border districts at the Police Lines said the victim was crying when she called her. She requested to get her child back. Gulati spoke to Amritsar Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira in this regard.The Police Commissioner deputed Assistant Commissioner of Police Kanwanpreet Kaur on the task and an SDM was also deputed by the Deputy Commissioner. She said the accused lawyer not only used objectionable language against his wife, but also used abusive language against the police and the Women Commission.Following this, a case was registered under relevant sections of the IPC and raids were conducted. However, the accused had escaped from their house with the child. Later, the police caught hold of the accused and handed over the child to his mother. Gulati said the court has also rejected bail application of the accused.Meanwhile, an Australia-based NRI Gurpreet Kaur approached the Women Commission and accused her NRI husband of domestic violence and mental harassment.She alleged the accused used to extort money from her and her family. Gurpreet alleged that her husband tried to kill her and thrashed her with an iron rod.Gulati also took serious note of pendening cases with the Police Department. She said the police officials were involved in the Covid-related duties and getting the lockdown implemented due to which pendency of cases increased manifold.She said the police have assured to clear the backlog within a week. She said the Women Commission was ready to hold a lok adalat of five districts if the need arises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-month-old-reunited-with-mother-husband-arrested-266443
11-06-2021||---||Wrong-side driving menace adds to traffic chaos at Amritsar's Bhandari Bridge||Amritsar, June 10 The traffic police have failed to rein in the vehicles on the wrong side of entry point on the Bhandari Bridge which leads to inconvenience and minor accidents as it is one of the most crowded stretches of the city.  The traffic police used to divert the commuters from the Kachari Chowk and railway Station towards the Crystal Chowk and direct entry was also not allowed. Barricades have been installed at the petrol pump corner to restrict the wrong-side entry near the Bhandari Bridge.  There is a space between the barricades for scooters and motorcycles. Many two-wheelers, taking advantage of this, enter through the wrong side on the Bhandari Bridge, hence causing traffic snarls. The cops on duty claimed that this relaxation is being provided to avoid traffic congestion at Crystal Chowk. However, some of the residents claimed that the wrong side entry on Bhandari Bridge can prove fatal for the commuters. Advocate Kuljit Singh, a visitor said, “Sometimes, the four wheelers also take the wrong route in the absence of police. Earlier, it was closed for commuters but with the intervention of some local politicians, it has been relaxed for two wheelers. The traffic police should follow the rules instead of instructions of politicians.”        Gopala Dhawan, a traffic expert said, “The relaxation to two wheeler riders does not serve any purpose as jams are still a routine affair at the Crystal Chowk. Fortunately, the construction of the bridge alongside the Bhandari Bridge ensures that the traffic moves slowly, otherwise it would be fatal for commuters to go on the wrong side. In the absence of cops, even the four wheelers also violate the restrictions especially in the early morning and late evening hours.” Gurmeet Singh, ACP, said, “There is no such relaxation by the police. We also issue the challans. But sometimes, when the Crystal Chowk gets choked we have to make some alternative arrangements. We are here for the convenience of the public. The construction of a new bridge is under way; the issue would be sorted out soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wrong-side-driving-menace-adds-to-traffic-chaos-at-amritsars-bhandari-bridge-266444
11-06-2021||Though there have many instances of caste-based disparity in rural areas||Tarn Taran diary: Caste biases even at crematoriums?||Literary tastes at a tender ageSukhmanpreet Kaur, a student of Class X of Dasmesh Parivar International School, Aima Kalan, has developed her literary tastes at this age and has come out with flying colours. Her father is a driver by profession and mother is a homemaker who is inclined towards helping her daughter outshine others. Jaswant Singh Khalsa, chairman of the school managing committee, said, Sukhmanpreet always bags top position and remains active in not just educational but also other extra-curricular activities. She also writes essays on several topics and takes part in several sports competitions tooGovt schools setting good precedentsFour schools of the district have been awarded with cash prizes by the Department of Education for good performance in all aspects, in their respective category. Shaheed Naib Subedar Paramjit Singh Government Secondary School, Vein Poin, which gained the top position in the secondary school category, was given a prize of Rs1 lakh. In the high school category, Government High School, Chuslewar (Patti), was awarded with Rs7.5 lakh. A cash prize of Rs5 lakh, which was to be given in the middle category, has been divided in two equal shares of Rs2.5 each among Government Middle School, Chack Kare Khan, and Government Middle School, Dinewal. The prize money will be used for the development of the respective schools to provide better facilities to students, said Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh. The school heads concerned Parveen Kumari (Vein Poin), Jugraj Singh (Chuslewar), Inderjit Singh (Chack Kare Khan-Dinewal) have expressed their happiness over the selection of their schools for a better performance and assured to work more hard for the cause of society.Appeasing farmers ahead of assembly pollAs the elections in Punjab are almost eight months away, the appeasement of voters has begun already. The Primary Agriculture Development Bank, Chohla Sahib, had reserved an amount of Rs5 crore meant to be lent to farmers and others for agricultural purposes. Baba Sahib Singh Gujarpura, chairman of the bank, said the step has been taken to protect the interests of farmers of the area. He said the amount was just Rs25 lakh last year. The bank had raised a target of 5 % to 10 % for the loan recovery, this year too. Meanwhile, Subeg Singh Dhunn, Chairman Market Committee, Tarn Taran, said in the current year, the committee had released Rs5.5 lakh to the victims who met with accidents while working in the fields. As many as 320 farmers out of 1,400 have been issued health card under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Beema Yojana, said the chairman. (Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-caste-biases-even-at-crematoriums-266452
11-06-2021||---||Capt Amarinder, Navjot Sidhu posters on each other’s turf||Amritsar, June 10Amid political crisis in the state Congress, a poster war has erupted to claim supremacy. In the latest development, posters in favour of Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh have emerged in parts of Amritsar. On the other hand, Navjot Singh Sidhu’s posters were spotted in Capt Amarinder’s home turf Patiala.Titled as ‘Punjab Da Ik Hi Captain’ with hashtag ‘Captain for 2022’, the big hoardings have Capt Amarinder’s picture with Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu’s image alongside. Another banner ‘Captain Ik Hi hunda Hai’ was also seen with the picture of Capt Amarinder and Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon.These hoardings were spotted on the main Bhandari Bridge, Crystal Chowk, bus stand and in other parts of the holy city. “It is just a gesture of the local Congress workers expressing their feelings for Capt Amarinder Singh,” said the Mayor. It is learnt that identical hoardings favouring Capt Amarinder were spotted in Patiala too.In Patiala, the posters depicted that the entire Punjab was with Sidhu. The posters termed him as the ‘voice of farmers’ who stood against the 2015 sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib with titles like ‘Sara Punjab Sidhu De Naal’, ‘Kisaana Di Awaaz Mangda hai Punjab Guru Di Beadbi Da Hisab’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/capt-amarinder-navjot-sidhu-posters-on-each-others-turf-266521
