12-06-2021||---||Workshop on Invest Punjab Business First Portal held||Amritsar, June 11The Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion in association with CII as a facilitating industrial body, organised a virtual awareness workshop on the Invest Punjab Business First Portal (IPBFP).Vishav Bandhu, Deputy Director, Policy Implementation Unit, Government of Punjab and Gulshan Garg, team leader, Business First Portal, held the session along with general managers of Department of Industries and Commerce (DIC) from Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Batala and Pathankot. Bandhu apprised the industry of various processes of BFP with regard to filling the common application form for seeking various permissions and processing timelines.Rajiv Sajdeh, chairman, CII Amritsar Zone, said the Business First portal was a single unified and transparent interface to the industry for all regulatory and fiscal services throughout investment lifecycle and it was high time that the industry required to be apprised of its features. He highlighted the problem with regard to obtaining the change of land use (CLU) permissions and suggested linking the Revenue Department in order to speed up the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workshop-on-invest-punjab-business-first-portal-held-267290
12-06-2021||Amritsar||Punjab BJP leaders spar over farm laws||Jiwan Gupta, state general secretary of the BJP and president Majha Zone-1, claimed that former cabinet minister Anil Joshi’s question on party leadership was a political stunt and he advised him to highlight the corruption and embezzlement issues of the Congress government instead of criticising the party leadership. Gupta was in the city to review the party activities and the meetings with zonal presidents of the party.BJP leader Anil Joshi takes on Centre over farmers’ protest“The Central leadership of the BJP was in coordination with the state unit and its leaders during talks with farmer leaders. The senior leadership discussed the issues of farmers with every leader in the state and Anil Joshi was part of the meeting,” said Gupta.Gupta said Anil Joshi should talk to the state leadership. “Senior leaders from Delhi often visit Chandigarh for feedback. Joshi should meet and tell them his grievances instead of media talks, he added. However, Gupta avoided responding to the question of disciplinary action against Joshi or speculation that Joshi would join SAD, he said, “The core committee of Punjab BJP has decided that senior party leaders from Delhi would talk to Joshi to address his concerns.” Talking about the party’s announcement about Dalit CM in Punjab, Gupta said a large number of Dalit activists were joining BJP daily.“Our party advocates that every group of society should get the opportunity to lead the state. Dalits are also eligible for CM candidate. We have witnessed overwhelming response from the people, especially Dalits”, Gupta said. During his meeting with zonal presidents of the party, Gupta asked them to strengthen the party setup on ground level and remove the shortcomings. — TNS‘In talks with farmer leaders’Jiwan Gupta, state general secretary of the BJP said the Central leadership of the BJP was in coordination with the state unit and its leaders during talks with farmer leaders. The senior leadership discussed the issues of farmers with every leader in the state and Anil Joshi was part of the meeting. However, Gupta avoided responding to the question of disciplinary action against Joshi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-bjp-leaders-spar-over-farm-laws-267289
12-06-2021||---||Carry out regular cleaning of sewer lines, says Amritsar Mayor||Amritsar, June 11Several wards of the North and East Amritsar Assembly constituencies have been complaining of faulty sewerage system. At times, the potable water being supplied in the area is also contaminated with sewage.In view of this, Mayor Karamjit Singh visited the Ward number 13, 15, 19 of the North constituency and Ward number 23, 24, 25 of the East constituency along with the officials of the Municipal Corporation.The Mayor reviewed the sewerage lines laid under theJapan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) project. During this, it was found that a temporary wall made by the Sewerage Board behind the Celebration Resort located at Majitha-Verka bypass under the JICA project, was not removed even after the completion of the project. Due to this, silt got accumulated in the main sewer line and main sewerage chamber was also broken. This led to choking of sewer lines in the entire area.Mayor Karamjit Singh instructed the municipal officials to clean the sewers and make a new sewerage chamber and immediately install a super-sucker machine and clean the line. He was instructed to fix responsibility of the firm for the poor sewerage system handed over to the MC under the JICA project.During inspection, it was found that the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) had started dumping sewer water into this sewage line during construction work at the focal point sewer line. Apart from this, the industrial waste from factories located on Valla-Verka bypass was also discharged into the MC’s sewer line. It is a clear violation of the National Green Tribunal and Punjab Pollution Control Board.In view of all these shortcomings, Mayor Karamjit Singh, taking strong cognizance and directed the corporation officials to issue legal notices to the owners of these factories. He also issued instructions to stop dumping industrial waste in sewer lines.He said since the rainy season was approaching, regular cleaning of the sewer lines should be carried out so that people do not face any problem. The Mayor said the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar was distilling sewerage lines throughout the city, keeping in view the upcoming rainy season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carry-out-regular-cleaning-of-sewer-lines-says-amritsar-mayor-267288
12-06-2021||Dear SSP Sahib||Gurdaspur Diary: An open letter to district top cop Nanak Singh||We, the residents of Gurdaspur, take pride in the fact that these days you often take a motorcycle ride of the city dressed up in civvies. This is a sight as rare as sighting an igloo in the Sahara. IPS officers normally do not leave the cosy confines of their house. They definitely do have a finger on the pulse of the common man but this result is reached often through other means rather than embarking on bike rides. We also know that till yet you have had a nightmarish experience because of the traffic bottlenecks you have had to encounter. Reason enough why you have decided to clear up the traffic congestion on your own. The traffic conundrum is indeed intricate as it is multifaceted. We also know that a young DSP on probation, Sumeer Singh, is helping you to get to the crux of the matter. The problem is indeed complex because it is not only the common man who is involved. Several factors are at work. For example, the politician will stop you more so because the assembly polls are around the bend. Obviously, he would like you to maintain a status-quo, a development which will not be to your liking. Like a trapeze artist, you will have to perform the balancing act to a nicety. Your recent visit to the Tibri road market proved to be a revelation of sorts. Banks-nationalised or otherwise, commercial establishments and malls do not have adequate space for people to park their two wheelers leave alone their cars! People tend to park their vehicles on the road which adds up to the chaos. Even you and your bike had problems meandering through the crowds. Private hospitals are the biggest villains. Here, you have a point to ponder. When the owners construct hospitals they invariably show in the map that they have a basement where patients, and their accompanying kin, can avail parking facilities. Now flip the coin and see the other side. Once constructed, these hospitals use these very basements to establish money-spinning pathological labs and chemist shops. Fearing the politician, MC inspectors are forced to ignore these violations. In utter contravention of norms, a reputed departmental store is operating from a large basement on the Jail road just under the premises of a state-owned bank. The rule book is indeed being shredded to smithereens. It is high time you act and clear out all the basements. We know this is a tall order but in no way an insurmountable one. You will be approached by the powerful doctor lobby. They will put you under sustained pressure. The politicians will also step in. This will be the time when you will have to prove your credentials as an IPS officer. Do meet the villains in the eye. Do not blink, come what may. Maintain a moral high ground. For if you will not act with conviction today, the traffic pandemonium is sure to get out of hand tomorrow. You have a reputation of calling a spade a spade. Make sure this reputation not only remains intact but is actually enhanced. We all know you have the cheek to take on the politicians as well as the establishment like you did during your tenures as SSP at Bathinda and Faridkot. Your first steps are bound to get you some criticism. But you have to make a start somewhere. Let it be by taking the private hospital lobby head-on. Throughout centuries, there have been men who took their first steps down new roads armed with nothing but their own vision. Their goals differed but they had one thing in common. That the step was the first, the road new and the vision unborrowed. Like the rock of Gibraltar, we, the residents of Gurdaspur, firmly stand by you. SSP Sir, please go ahead and clean up our city. The traffic problem is getting from bad to worse with each passing day. There have been instances when a traffic bottleneck has ensured that an ambulance could not save the patient lying in it. The city can breathe easy when the old bus stand moves to its new address on Tibri road. But when it is going to be shifted remains in the realms of speculation. We also know that there have been plans to construct an underpass on the Tibri road railway crossing. But the problem is that the project remains only on paper and is yet to get a practical shape. The proposal of making some roads accessible to one-way traffic can also be looked into. But the problem here is that a one-way traffic plan is sure to eat into the profits of the shopkeepers. Hence, you will have to bear the pressure of the shopkeepers too. Nevertheless, the entire city is looking forward to you. Just because the problem is gigantic in nature does not mean you cannot make a start. The beginning is always NOW. Get the basements vacated and you will have won half the battle.Regards, Vox populiNitin Laddi is Pathankot Mahajan Sabha ChairmanNewly-elected Municipal Councillor Nitin Laddi Mahajan has played a vote-spinning masterstroke. After failing to become the Mayor or his deputy in the recently concluded civic body polls, Mahajan has now chosen to become the Chairman of the Pathankot (Central) Mahajan Sabha. An election was held but that was a mere formality because he was already the chosen one. Financially, this post will give him peanuts but politically it will help him considerably. The Mahajan community has a 30,000 vote share in the Pathankot Assembly seat. Hence, Laddi will be a much sought after man once the polls are held. No politician can dare to annoy the Mahajan vote bank because of its sheer strength. Insiders say Mahajan may not have become the Mayor but he certainly is the de-facto one right now. His proximity to the MLA Amit Vij only adds to his stature.Pathankot MLA Amit Vij gears up for electionsPathankot MLA Amit Vij is a man busy with supervising the numerous ongoing civic works in the city. He has managed to get funds from the state government and is splurging them not only on unfinished projects but also on bringing in new ones. Roads are being widened and drains are being covered. The Dhangu road, APK road and Lamini road have got a new look. Obviously, the man has his eyes on the Assembly polls. He knows that his Assembly seat of Pathankot is predominantly an urban seat. This means the credit for whatever work the municipal corporation is doing, or has done, will go to him once the polls are held. His brother, Ashish Vij, is helping his brother in making the city clean and green again. More than the MLA himself, it is Ashish who is turning out to be the fulcrum around which all developmental projects revolve.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-an-open-letter-to-district-top-cop-nanak-singh-267287
12-06-2021||Amritsar||10 students get SGPC scholarship||Virtual ‘Panthic Assembly’ todayAmritsar: To discuss the sacrilege incident and other Panthic issues pertaining to Sikh principles, a ‘Panthic Assembly’ would be held virtually on June 12. Panthic Talmel Sangathan convener Jaswinder Singh said it was for the third time that such an event was being organised online during the pandemic. He said prominent Sikh personalities would take part in the discussion. “After the 2015 sacrilege incident and the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s verdict of scrapping the probe report, role of political parties has come under scanner,” he said. Other issues pertaining to SGPC elections, farmers’ crisis and education related problems would also be discussed. TNSSAD (Sanyukt) office-bearersTarn Taran: Jathedar Ranjit Singh Brahampura, patron, SAD (Sanyukt), has condemned Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for not punishing the guilty of sacrilege incidents held during the SAD regime. Jathedar Brahampura, while addressing a meeting of the party workers in Brahampura village on Friday, called upon the people to come forward and form fourth political front to give good governance in the state. He condemned the state government for not fulfilling the promises made to the people at the time of election. SGPC member Balwinder Singh Vein Poin was appointed vice-president of the party, while other office-bearers of the party were also appointed on the occasion. OCPak prisoner dies of illnessAmritsar: A Pakistani prisoner identified as Bakhu Ali of Dhahjahan in Kala Pathar (Punjab) died of illness here on Thursday. Ali was recuperating at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. According to jail officials, Ali was mentally unsound. He had inadvertantly crossed over to India in 2019 and was currently facing trial. He was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital a few days ago. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-students-get-sgpc-scholarship-267286
12-06-2021||---||Amritsar Municipal Corporation waives penalty on trade licence||Amritsar, June 11On the demand of the district executive of the Punjab Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Wednesday announced to waive penalty on trade licence. The waiver has been implemented with immediate effect. Now, traders have to pay only Rs 500 for renewal of their trade licence.Punjab Vyapar Mandal president Pyara Lal Seth, general secretary Sameer Jain, finance secretary SK Wadhwa, district president Surinder Duggal, district finance secretary Ravi Arora, Balbir Bhasin of the Electricity Market Association, Nehru Shopping Complex Association president Vikas Narang, counsellor Rajesh Maidan, CA Vijay Ummatt, Sunil Koti and Jagmohan Kapoor appreciated the MC move.The Mayor said it was demand of Punjab Vyapar Mandal to waive fine of Rs 100 per day on the renewal of trade licence. Earlier, the trader had to pay a fine of Rs 37,500, now Rs 37,000 has been waived off. He said, “People are already facing a lot of difficulties in this time of pandemic. Rs 100 daily fine for renewal of trade licence was a huge burden on the shopkeepers. So, the MC has taken a major decision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-waives-penalty-on-trade-licence-267285
12-06-2021||---||Woman among three arrested for snatching in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 11The police claimed to have solved the case in which a woman was robbed by three persons, including a woman after pointing a sharp weapon at her, by arresting the accused. They have been identified as Gulab, Panchhi and Seema, all residents of Jhuggian in Tarn Taran.Nirmaljit Kaur, a resident of Tung Pai area on Batala road, told the police that on Tuesday evening, she was returning home when a man tried to stop her scooter. However, she did not stop. A few meters away, a woman and a man travelling on a bike stopped her. In the meanwhile, their accomplice also reached there.She said the accused snatched her gold bangles and two gold rings and fled away after pointing a sharp weapon. The Mohkampura police have registered a case under Sections 379 B (2) and 34 of the IPC. On analysing the CCTV cameras in the area and some technical investigations, the police zeroed in on the three accused. The police recovered the two bikes used in the crime. They were produced in the court and brought on two-day remand for further interrogation. With their arrest, the police hope to crack some more snatching or robbery cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-among-three-arrested-for-snatching-in-amritsar-267284
12-06-2021||---||Daring robbery:  Rs 2L snatched in broad daylight from driver||Amritsar, June 11In yet another snatching incident, three persons robbed Rs 2 lakh from a school driver in Ajnala on Thursday.The vicitm, Patras Masih (30), a resident of Punga village, told the police that he has been working as a driver at Sacred Heart Convent School, Punga, for the past 12 years.Masih told the police that the accused pointed a pistol at him and threatened to kill him if he fails to hand over the bag containing money. I resisted, but the accused snatched the bag and fled away, said the vicitm.Masih said the school management asked him to deposit Rs 2.07 lakh cash at SBI Bank in Ajnala. He said as he reached near Talwandi Rai Dadu village, three persons with their faces covered came from behind on a motorcycle.The vicitm said the accused hit his bike with their leg and entered into a scuffle. Masih said the trio tried to snatch the bag from him and as he resisted, they took out a pistol and pointed at him. They also took away Rs 1,000 from my pocket along with my mobile phone, said Masih.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unknown persons.Gangster attacks DSP at Amritsar Central JailNotorious gangster Dalbir Singh, alias Beera, attacked Deputy Superintendent of Police (Security) Sanjiv Kumar at Amritsar Central Jail when the latter was entering the guard room.According to jail authorities, Beera suddenly came from behind and pelted a stone on the DSP, who escaped narrowly. The CRPF and IRB jawans deputed inside the jail overpowered Beera.A jail official said Beera, a drug addict was not mentally stable. He was under treatment at a de-addiction centre located inside the jail.Sources said the jail administration had implemented strict guidelines and reduced timings of gangsters and peddlers outside their barracks.The Islamabad police have registered a case for attempt to murder, obstructing government servant from discharging his duty and relevant sections of the Prisons Act against Beera.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/daring-robbery-rs-2l-snatched-in-broad-daylight-from-driver-267283
12-06-2021||---||Villagers hold protest with dead body in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 11Residents of Shingarpur village under the Sarhali police station on Friday held a protest by keeping the body of Kuldeep Singh (30) of the same village in front of the local District Administrative Complex (DAC) here.The victim and his elder brother Gurmeet Singh were injured on May 27 in an attack on them in the village. Kuldeep Singh was admitted to Guru Ram Das Hospital, Vallah (Amritsar), in a serious condition where he succumbed to his injuries on Thursday. His brother Gurmeet Singh was discharged from the hospital the next day.Fourteen persons of the village had been booked under Section 307 of the IPC (attempt to murder) and other sections of the Arms Act by Sarhali police on May 27. The police had added Section 302, IPC, to the FIR on Thursday. The relatives of the victim, residents of Shingarpur village and other villages, and workers of different farmer, political, social and other establishments participated in the protest.Addressing on the occasion, Pargat Singh, sarpanch of the village, Sarwan Singh, former sarpanch, and other representatives said from the day of the incident till June 10, the police conducted not even a single raid to arrest the accused.The residents started their protest at 11 am, which was on till the filing of the report in the evening. The police failed to convince the residents to lift the protest in which a large number of women were present in the scorching heat.DSP (PIB) Ravisher Singh said the accused would be arrested soon. Protesters ended their agitation at 8 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/villagers-hold-protest-with-dead-body-in-tarn-taran-267282
12-06-2021||---||Congress workers protest rising fuel prices, inflation||Amritsar, June 11The District Congress Committee (DCC), headed by its president Jatinder Sonia, on Friday held a demonstration against the sky-rocketing fuel prices by burning a car in the Mahan Singh Gate area. Congress workers and leaders raised slogans against the Central Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Speaking on the occasion, Sonia said the continuous rise in the prices of petrol and diesel had broken the back of the common man while the Central Government had failed to check its continuous upward trajectory. The rising fuel prices had a cascading effect on other items leading to a sharp rise in their prices.Sonia torched a car, which was brought on the spot.She said due to ill-conceived policies of the BJP-led Central Government, sources of income of people had dwindled while inflation was burning a hole in the common man’s pocket. It had become very difficult for people to run their houses. The unemployment had also increased manifold in the country. She said the autocratic policies were ruining the economic fabric of the country.She said the government had become a puppet in the hands of big corporate houses. She said there was nothing to show for the last seven years of the BJP government at the Centre.Police personnel in a spotSetting a car on fire in protest has put Punjab police in a spot. While many said it could lead to a mishap, SHO Gurwinder Singh said he had brought the matter to the knowledge of their seniors and the matter was being looked into.FIR against Congress leader soughtAn anti-crime and animal protection association led by Dr Rohan Mehra has demanded the registration of an FIR against the Congress leader under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. He said they brought a car on a horse cart. Several persons, including Congress leader Sonia, were also standing on the cart. He said the horse was made to stand in the sweltering heat for hours. He said as per the law nobody could load more than 500 kg weight on the horse cart, but they not only loaded the car but also stood on it during the protest. Dr Mehra urged the Police Commissioner to register an FIR in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-workers-protest-rising-fuel-prices-inflation-267281
12-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar residents lower guard as Covid restrictions eased||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 11After the district administration gradually lifted Covid-19 related restrictions in the district, residents seem to have lower their guard.What to talk of non-compliance of Covid guidelines in markets, masses gathered at Amritsar-1 tehsil and Amritsar-2 tehsil hardly cared to practise social distancing.Following the pressure of security guards, most people were seen wearing face masks, but were found seating without maintaining any distance. Thus, increasing the risk of contracting the virus manifold at the tehsil. Slow server was another spoilsport, which hampered smooth flow of work. Similar scenes were witnessed in markets throughout the city. People sitting and standing in close proximity of each other in corridors and showrooms was a common sight.Shopping areas, including Katra Jai Mal Singh, Guru Bazaar, Mai Sewan Da Bazaar, Majith Mandi, Lawrence Road and Ranjit Avenue witnessed huge rush. However, shoppers did not give two hoots about Covid norms.Moreover, the norm of carrying sanitisers and even placing them at the entrance of outlets was hardly followed in true spirit.Parminder Singh, a grocery store owner, said sale of disinfectants has dipped sharply. “Demand for face masks is there, but hardly anybody asks for disinfectant,” he said.Even the norm of wearing mask has been thrown to the wind due to soaring temperature and heatwave. A large number of people in markets were seen purchasing and commuting without wearing masks. Most complained of heatwave and breathing issues while putting on the masks.Six succumb, 103 test positive in districtWith six more Covid-19 related deaths in the district on Friday, the toll has increased to 1,526. The health authorities reported 103 new cases today. With this, the total count of positive cases has reached 45,993.The new cases include 58 influenza-like-illness cases and 45 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department reported recovery of 122 patients with which the recovery count increased to 42,687. At present, the district has a total of 1,780 active cases. Meanwhile, one death and 23 positive cases were reported in Tarn Taran district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-lower-guard-as-covid-restrictions-eased-266965
12-06-2021||---||48 foreign-made pistols, 99 magazines seized in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 11In a major seizure, the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) of the Punjab Police confiscated at least 48 foreign-made pistols and arrested a weapon smuggler, identified as Jagjit Singh (25), for allegedly having links with banned terrorist organisations in the US, UK, Canada and Pakistan.It is for the first time that seizure of such a huge quantity of automatic weapons, along with magazines and ammunition, had been made in Punjab, police officials said. Jagjit was working on the directions of US-based notorious gangster Darmanjot, alias Darman Kahlon. The police said open-ended warrants of Darman, a proclaimed offender in Punjab, had been obtained.First such recovery of arms: CopsIt is for the first time that seizure of such a huge quantity of automatic weapons, along with magazines and ammunition, had been made in Punjab, police officials said.Suspect Jagjit Singh was working on the directions of US-based notorious gangster Darmanjot, alias Darman Kahlon. The police said open-ended warrants of Darman, a proclaimed offender in Punjab, had been obtained.RN Dhoke, Additional Director General of Police, accompanied by ADGP Amit Prasad, in a press conference here on Friday revealed that Jagjit was intercepted by the SSOC team led by DSP Harwinder Singh from the Kathunangal area on the Amritsar-Batala road following specific inputs late Thursday night. He was travelling in a car while the weapon consignment was concealed in two nylon bags. He said the weapons which were smuggled from Pakistan were meant to carry out terrorist activities in different parts of the country.The weapons in the cache included 19 pistols of 9 mm (zigana, made in Turkey), 37 magazines and 45 rounds; nine pistols of .30 bore (made in China) and 22 magazines; 19 pistols of .30 bore (star mark), 38 magazines and 148 rounds; and one pistol of 9 mm (Baretta-Italian) and two magazines.A case under Sections 13, 17, 18, 18B and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and Sections 120 and 120B of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act has been registered in this regard. Jagjit was produced in the court and brought on police remand for further interrogation. Investigations were on to identify the supplier who had given the weapon consignment to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/48-foreign-made-pistols-99-magazines-seized-in-amritsar-267145
