13-06-2021||---||Six die, 100 catch infection in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12With six more deaths reported on Saturday, the toll increased to 1,531 in the district. The district health authorities have also reported 100 new cases, with which the total count of positive cases increased to 46,093.The new cases include 57 influenza-like illness cases and 43 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department has also reported recovery of 97 patients with which the recovery count has increased to 42,784. The district at present has a total of 1,777 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Bachiter Singh (86) of Guru Amar Das Nagar; Sawinder Kaur (69) of Kotla Majha Singh village; Renu (35) of Khandwala; Harjit Singh (66) of Cheecha village; Ramesh Chandra (66) of Purani Abadi Beas and Jagjit Singh (51) of Waryam Nangal village.One dies, nine test positive in Tarn Taran districtA Covid infected died in the district on Saturday taking the toll to 338 in the district. Nine positive cases were also reported talking the active cases to 264 in the district. 150 patients have been isolated at their respective homes.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the Health Department teams collected 977 samples and the reports of 638 samples were still awaited from the laboratories.Meanwhile, as many as 2,464 citizens were vaccinated against Covid-19 on Saturday and total 1,51,436 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far. As many as 29 patients were discharged today. The Deputy Commissioner appealed to people to abide by precautionary measures to avoid getting infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-die-100-catch-infection-in-amritsar-district-267765
13-06-2021||Keeping your mind positive and negative thinking at bay||‘Proper medication helped in beating virus’||In 2020, there was more panic and terror at that time as the virus was spreading at a brisk pace among people. Therefore, when I tested positive, my family and I remained in shock and worried for a couple of days. Moreover, my family members were at the risk of getting infected due to me. Later, I made up my mind to keep all the negative thoughts out of my mind and be positive and this worked wonders.-  Jatin Sharma, Lab Technician, GNDHJatin has been afflicted with the virus twice. Last year he caught the infection in July and this year in May. Being in the medical profession, we are more vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection even after taking all the necessary preventive measures, he pointed out.In 2020, there was more panic and terror at that time as the virus was spreading at a brisk pace among people. Therefore, when I tested positive, my family and I remained in shock and worried for a couple of days. Moreover, my family members were at the risk of getting infected due to me. “Later, I made up my mind to keep all the negative thoughts out of my mind and be positive and this worked wonders,” he said.I took proper medication provided by the government in the shape of Fateh Kit, besides doing yoga and breathing exercise daily. Moral support from the family members also helped me fight the virus. I used to talk to them on the phone as I had shifted to the upper floor of the house. High fever due to the infection leads to weakness in the body which needed a proper diet and rest. I used to do exercise at the rooftop during the period.Last month when I contracted the infection again, I was less worried. I took all the precautions so that the infection did not affect other members of the family. I have taken the first dose of the vaccine. I urge people to get themselves inoculated whenever their turns come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/proper-medication-helped-in-beating-virus-267767
13-06-2021||---||This farmer’s name is enough||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12He is famous far and wide. In the last eight years, Bhupinder Singh Gill (43), a farmer from Sohina village, has set up a nursery on 5 acre land and has now become so famous that he supplies it to various districts of Punjab and even neighbouring states.After working with vegetable seed firms for 15 years, he has now branded himself as Baba Buddha Nursery. His family owns 8 acre land but used to cultivate traditional wheat and paddy crops only.“In 2014, I decided to start my own nursery. I started on 1 kanal, as the business involves high risk. Now, we are growing all kinds of vegetable nurseries but are a major producer of cauliflower, onions, tomatoes and chilly. The area under the nursery is increasing day by day. Now, we are cultivating on more than five acre land and hopefully it will be increased in the next few years,” Gill said.Bhupinder kept in touch with experts from the Agriculture Department and Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Naag Kalan, but his personal experience with vegetable seed firms proved beneficiary and came in handy.“The business involves high risk. Change in weather or unpredictable rain, heat or cold can ruin investment worth lakhs. I have learnt from my experience. We got a major financial setback while doing experiments with seeds and soil. But still, it is more beneficial than traditional crops and my provisions job. More famers should join subsidiary occupations to improve their income,” he said.Gill visits several states of India and gathers first-hand experiences of farmers to grow a good nursery and use it in his fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-farmers-name-is-enough-267768
13-06-2021||---||Drone sighted near Indo-Pak border in Ajnala||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12A drone was sighted near the Indo-Pak border in Ajnala in the wee hours on Saturday. Alert BSF jawans fired at the drone following which it flew back towards Pakistan.A search operation was carried out near Sundargarh border outpost, but there was no trace of the drone.A BSF official said jawans heard the sound of drone at around 1.30 am. Taking prompt action, BSF jawans opened fire in the direction from where the sound was coming, however, it flew to the Pakistan side.A BSF official said a massive search operation was launched at Sundargarh village to find if the drone had dropped some consignment of arms or narcotic substance.It’s pertinent to mention that Pakistan-based anti-national elements had been regularly using drones to sneak in arms or drugs in the Indian territory. It has become a big headache for the BSF.The Punjab Police had busted a module which got arms smuggled from Pakistan with the help of drones. Several drones were also recovered by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-sighted-near-indo-pak-border-in-ajnala-267769
13-06-2021||---||1.38L intoxicating pills seized||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12Following investigation into the seizure of 4,500 sedative pills from Shubham Kumar, a resident of Katra Bhai Sant Singh, the Amritsar (rural) police have confiscated 1.38 lakh intoxicating tablets from a medical store situated in Pashchim Vihar in Delhi.Amritsar (rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Dhurv Dahiya said the police party headed by Inspector Mohit Kumar recovered more than 1.38 lakh of intoxicants from the medical store, besides 2,640 syrups.No arrest has been made in connection with the seizure. The police had arrested Shubham on May 29 from Ajnala.He could not produce any documents regarding sale or purchase of 4,500 intoxicating tablets seized from him.The probe into the backward links in the case took the police to Delhi-based firm M/s Shiva Traders, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-38l-intoxicating-pills-seized-267770
13-06-2021||Tarn Taran||College lecturer dies in accident||Sandeep Kaur (33), a lecturer of Nursing College Goindwal Sahib, died in a road accident on the National Highway No. 54, near Khabbe Dogran village, on Friday.The deceased was on her two-wheeler (PB-03, BE-3770) and returning home to Nangal Pannuan (Majitha) village after college. She was hit near Khabbe Dogran village on the national highway by some unidentified vehicle that fled soon after the accident. Investigating Officer ASI Mukhtiar Singh said she was admitted to the local Civil Hospital by the 108 ambulance, where she succumbed to her injuries. She used to cover more than 55 km stretch daily from Nangal Pannuan to Goindwal Sahib. The ASI said the vehicle that hit her had not been traced so far. The district police have installed CCTV cameras on the NH but to no avail. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/college-lecturer-dies-in-accident-267771
13-06-2021||---||Amritsar district reported no black fungus case in last four days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12A meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the district was held under the chairmanship of Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni on Saturday.Soni said the number of Covid positive cases was decreasing with each passing day and this had occurred due to the cooperation of the general public and dedication of the employees performing various duties. He added that no new case of black fungus had been reported in the last four days.He said ventilators sent by the Center which were found faulty would be repaired by the concerned company and would be put to use. Soni said relaxations in lockdown had been given due to decrease in number of cases but people should continue to take precautions.The medical education minister has said four medical colleges are being setup at Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Malerkotla at a cost of Rs 1,500 crore. “With this the number of MBBS seats in state will increase by 500,” he said.Prominent among others who were present in the meeting, included Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himashu Agarwal, Commissioner Municipal Corporation Komal Mittal, Principal Medical College Rajiv Devgan, Medical Superintendent Dr KD Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reported-no-black-fungus-case-in-last-four-days-267772
13-06-2021||---||AAP demands action against Dharmsot||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12Alleging a scam in the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme, workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest at Bhandari Bridge on Saturday. The AAP’s activists burnt an effigy of Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot and raised slogans against the state government.Dr Inderpal, district chief, AAP, said stern action should be taken against the ministers and officials involved in the scam. The AAP also launched a helpline number 78272-73487 for the Dalit students.Dr Inderpal said, “The government is trying to portray that it has improved education infrastructure in the state, but more than 2 lakh SC and ST students will not be able to appear for exams due to non-payment of fee.” The AAP demanded a white paper on the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.Parminder Singh Sethi and Harwant Singh of the AAP said, “Though the government has announced to release the final instalment of the SC Post-Matric Scholarship for the academic year 2020-21, but future of students in remaining three sessions is yet to be decided.” Seema Sodhi, another AAP leader said the Joint Association of Colleges has made it clear that they would not release the roll numbers of students. Protesters demanded that criminal cases should be registered against Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Dharmsot and officials concerned who destroyed future of the students.Protests held in Tarn TaranThe Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) activists protested against the alleged SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme issue on Saturday.Protesters burnt an effigy of Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, among others.Gurwinder Singh Beharwal, district chief, AAP, said the state government has failed on all the fronts.Baljit Singh Khehra, joint secretary, AAP, said the SC post-matric scholarship issue has affected future of two lakh Dalit students as they would not be allowed to appear for exams due to non-payment of their fee.They said the AAP has launched a helpline number 78272-73487 for affected the students. The AAP demanded a white paper on the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.Activists led by Gurdev Singh Lakhna, Ranjit Singh Cheema, Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, Laljit Singh Bhullar, Gursewak Singh Aulakh and Manjinder Singh Sidhu were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-demands-action-against-dharmsot-267773
13-06-2021||---||Civic body takes back possession of 5 parking lots||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12The estate wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation took back possession of five parking lots on Friday evening. The contractors of the parking lots — including Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Market Bhandari Bridge, court complex and the Guru Nanak Bhawan City Center — had not deposited the pending amount to the MC. Now, the MC is going to blacklist these contractors.Estate Officer Dharminder Jeet Singh along with his team and police personnel took back possession of the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Market Stand, Guru Nanak Bhawan parking lot and the parking stand around the court premises and deployed MC employees to manage the lots.The Estate Officer stated that employees of the contractors would stay there so that the owners of the vehicles parked there did not face any problem.The contracts of the parking lots ended on May 15. Though the contractors at the Kairon Market and Machhi Mandi Market parking lots had deposited the dues, the MC also took back possession of these two parking lots.Earlier, the civic body had sent a notice to the contractors of all these parking lots for the payment of their pending dues. There are a total of five parking lots which are functioning under the land wing of the MC. The civic body had allotted these parking lots through e-tendering and contractors paid 50 per cent of the amount before getting a work order. The contractors were not paying the remaining 50 per cent amount.The MC has floated a tender for the parking lots and it will open on June 21. Till the parking lots are allotted to the new contractors, the MC will manage them on its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-takes-back-possession-of-5-parking-lots-267774
13-06-2021||---||Kabul through her eyes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12A visit to Kabul, a city that is haunted by its troubled history with Taliban and is often picturised through war-torn, militarised narrative, can surprise anybody with its love for Bollywood! In her book — Shadow City: A Woman Walks Kabul — Taran Khan, a journalist from India, presents an interesting and counter-narrative of Kabul, capturing the city’s eccentricities as well as its unrelenting pursuit to function as any other city in the world.“Kabul is like any other city in the world, despite being war-torn. It might surprise many but there are swanky eating joints where you can blow up hundreds of dollars on food, and then of course there are residential as well as poor areas also. The people are very hospitable. As far as women are concerned, they enjoy fashion. They are chic and elegant and beautiful. People, like in India, turn to Bollywood for entertainment. Even at their weddings, Bollywood songs are played,” shared Taran Khan, who was hosted by Majha House to talk about her book. Winner of Tata Literature Live! First Book Award and also the Stanford Dolman Travel Book of the Year award, Khan’s book is a memoir documenting her multiple visits to Kabul. Writer Padmini Mongia, who was in conversation with Khan, asked her about her experience of covering Kabul on foot.Drawing parallels between two cities — Kabul and Aligarh — she says, “Walking in a city like Kabul can be seen as an assertive stance where you are claiming your space. But what is important to me is that you put yourself out, your body, out on the streets and you become one with the streets and the place.” She said one is not really expected to just loiter in the bazaars or the streets. Similiarly, having grown up in Aligarh, when you walk the streets of Aligarh, you kind of expect people to stare at you for it is not expected out of women.”Another parallel she drew between the two cities was that one is always under scrutiny in Aligarh as if someone is watching over you all the time.Sharing a similar anecdote of Kabul, Taran says, “I remember once I was with a group of friends and one of them lit a cigarette in a public area. He immediately got a call from his father in Europe asking him if he was smoking. So, you can imagine how many eyes are on you all the time! It is quite an unnerving thing.”Her book examines the city’s white and dark corners through stories that she collected. “While Kabul is seen as always battling with bullets and missiles because of the never-ending war, there is another war going on within the city and that is the battle with drugs. So many people, are addicted to opium which grows in abundance in Afghanistan that it is quite shocking.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kabul-through-her-eyes-267775
13-06-2021||---||GNDU to take call on semester exams after summer vacation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12Decision on conducting examinations through online/offline mode will be taken by Guru Nanak Dev University after July 2, when the university reopens after summer vacations.The statement comes when students of even semesters are waiting for examination schedule that has already been delayed due to the second wave of Covid-19.The university had earlier issued a notice to students last month, contemplating giving choice to students to appear in offline or online mode of exams. The university had also created a portal to take students’ feedback. “The purpose was to reach a decision in accordance with students’ wishes. The university wants to maintain the sanctity of examinations thus we will only reach a decision as per the state government guidelines and based on the further SOP’s issued by the government. So far, we managed to complete the offline exam schedule for constituent and affiliated colleges in April in a short span,” said Prof Manoj Kumar, Controller Examination, GNDU.Kumar said the students too wanted the examinations to be held in offline mode. “Going by the feedback that we received, 80 per cent students want the exams to be held in offline mode. The university had declared summer vacations from June 19-July 2. Any further decision would be taken after that.”Meanwhile, parents of outstation students of university have been demanding that examinations be conducted through online mode. “Panjab University too has announced to conduct online exams. Though lockdown and restrictions are relaxed, there are several issues of travel and boarding that students, especially those from outside the city, will have to take care of,” said Tejpal Singh Chopra, father of a student from Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-take-call-on-semester-exams-after-summer-vacation-267776
13-06-2021||Tarn Taran||‘Child labour a curse for entire Indian society’||‘World Day against Child Labour’ was celebrated online at the local Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School on Saturday. Ranjit Bhatia, school principal said the students participated enthusiastically in the event. The students talked about the child labour and health issues faced by the under-age children going for work. Harjit Singh and Gurinder Singh of the school management said child labour was a bane for society and it was ruining innocence of children. Principal Ranjit Bhatia appreciated students and asked them to come together to uproot this evil so that every child could study. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/child-labour-a-curse-for-entire-indian-society-267777
13-06-2021||---||Special Secy visits Customs K9 Centre||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12OP Dadhich, Special Secretary and Member, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Ministry of Finance, took an overview of the training facilities and training pattern of the Customs Canine Squad during his visit to the Customs K9 Centre at Attari on Saturday.Wrapping up his two-day visit to the holy city, he launched the latest edition of quarterly newsletter ‘Mudhol’ of the Customs K9 Centre.He also planted saplings as a part of the Swachhta project. Then, he visited the Integrated Check Post, Attari, where he overviewed the entire customs clearance process of people and cargo.Addressing the officials, he said the Customs Department had always acted as a guardian of the economic frontiers being a significant contributor to the government. He reviewed the performance in key areas of Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Amritsar and Customs Commissionerate, Ludhiana, on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/special-secy-visits-customs-k9-centre-267778
13-06-2021||Amritsar||BBK DAV pupils shine in exams||Students of BBK DAV College for Women here brought laurels to the college by securing top positions in BCA Semester III university exams. Bhavleen Kaur Sethi bagged the fourth position in university by scoring 81 per cent marks. Sakshi bagged the fifth position in the university by scoring 80 per cent marks, while several other students secured above 70 per cent marks. On this achievement, Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia congratulated the students as well as the faculty and encouraged them to do well in the future too. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bbk-dav-pupils-shine-in-exams-267779
