14-06-2021||Residents say number of enrolments of Indian students in foreign universities/colleges may fall significantly||Future of students with plans to study abroad in jeopardy||Right decision in view of CovidIn the alarming situation created by the deadly pandemic, cancellation of Class XII exams is the best course of action. Under the given circumstances, government can’t put to risk the lives of lakhs of students. We should understand that the pandemic has forced many changes in our routine life. This is a part of it. At the moment, two factors weigh heavily on the government, one is lives of the students and other is their career. The government is also concerned that many schools may inflate the internal assessment of their favourite students and to solve this problem the CBSE had formed a panel of 13 members to suggest alternative assessment methods within 10 days. Another problem that arose due to this decision is that those students who had not performed well in the past may lose the chance to improve their marks. The percentage of such students would be much less, but even then they would get a chance to appear for exam as and when the situation improves. The government is time-bound to declare the results by July end or in the beginning of August, hence there won’t be any problem for admission to foreign universities. Under the given circumstances when flights are banned, chances of students going abroad in near future are less. Moreover, to get admission in foreign universities clearing entrance exams is mandatory. So, keeping in view the grave situation, the government has taken a wise decision.Naresh Johar QUESTIONEven in the third phase of the inoculation drive, we are still running short of jabs for the 18+ category. Do you think the government needs to go a long way in strategising a way out so that it can be well-prepared to handle such a situation in future? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 17).Won’t impact their plans muchCancellation of CBSE/ICSE examinations has put those students in a dilemma who aspire to study in foreign universities. They are in a quandary about how to plan their future. However, keeping the concerns of the students in view, the examination boards have given assurance to chalk out a method of evaluation of students to prepare results and declare them on time, so that they do not face any problem in getting admission in the institutes of higher studies. Many universities abroad have suspended physical lectures or limited the number of students in classes and have switched over to virtual classes. Still, some universities intend to start classes after going through quarantine period and following pandemic protocols. Many universities are also giving enough time to students to decide on the option of attending classes online in the beginning and later switch to physical classes on the campus. The decision to assess students based on criteria to be prepared by experts and declare results within stipulated time augurs well for them. Sportingly, many students are taking pandemic as an opportunity to study abroad as many universities have reduced their tuition fees in response to the prevailing pandemic. The students also need not worry about the impact of cancellation of their examinations as these will minimally impact their future academic plans as all examination conducting bodies such as GMAT, SAT and CAT are switching over to virtual exams. Deferring admission by a year can be another option for those who want to attend physical classes on university campuses. Nevertheless, travel restrictions due to pandemic put a major hurdle in the future plans of students aspiring to study in foreign universities.Anil KhannaCollege admissions will be affectedCancellation of Class XII exams might lead to a compromised academic future for meritorious students. As the nation is moving towards a new era of e-learning, web-learning, online testing and interviews and home assignments, boards could have some of the prominent alternatives that could be considered to assess the ability of students. It will impact the future of students as they were not being able to concentrate on competitive exams such as NEET, JEE, CET. It will also lead do injustice to students in a way that some colleges are planning not to conduct entrance tests and merely rely on marks so it seems to be an unfair practice particularly to those who received coaching and were hoping for a good percentage. It will also impact the future of students who had plans to pursue higher studies in foreign nations. There is also a proposal under consideration to allow students to take offline exams at a later date if they are not satisfied with the score given by the school now, but this decision has left a few students worried since most colleges and foreign universities will start the admission process in a few weeks and an exam score that comes several months later will have no value.Ankur GuptaStudents with foreign plans baffledThe move has drawn concocted responses. Many students who are wishing to pursue higher studies abroad are baffled. Yes, the decision will definitely impact the future of students who were wishing to enrol themselves in foreign universities. Exams are held to look into our mistakes and probe our capability in academic. Class XII is significant in a student’s life as it is the base of our future. Enrolling in foreign universities is not a piece of cake. It takes a lot of procedures, amendments and other formalities. I too am a Class X student and don’t want that my exams be cancelled on these lines. The education sector has suffered the most during these times. Teachers, parents and students are already facing hardships and their life has also become complicated.If we stand together we can win against the pandemic and help the education sector.IzleenMove reasonable owing to pandemicCancellation of exams has evoked mixed reaction. Truly speaking, the board was left with nothing but Hobson’s choice and in view of the pandemic it took a reasonable and plausible decision for the well-being of students. However, students and their competencies are assessed based on exams so as to provide a direction to their future endeavours. So, the cancellation has not gone down well with students aspiring to seek admission in foreign universities. Having set their eyes on January 2022 session, they are not sure if foreign universities will admit them without proper exams. It is likely to impact the future of those students who wanted to enrol themselves in foreign universities. International universities have their own admission process according to which Class XII marks are often taken into consideration. The UK and the US had regular schools, thus students fear that these countries may not consider their admission as Class XII exams have not been conducted here. This has left them at wit’s end. There is ambiguity about what rules Canada would frame for Indian students after the cancellation of Class XII board exams. Hence, the plans of students seeking admission abroad are likely to go haywire. In the hindsight, cancellation of exams is not a permanent solution in eventualities like the pandemic. Exams are impersonal and appear to be a reliable and accurate method of assessing students’ ability, skills, talents and knowledge. So, the need of the hour is to replace exams by one which takes greater cognisance of the originality and individuality, encouraging students to find their own intellectual paths.Tarsem S BumrahDecision credible amid pandemicThe decision is pretty credible. The unpredictability of exams was a mental burden for every grade 12 student. One day, ‘sources’ used to say that the exams would be conducted while the other day denied. Now that the government has cancelled the exams, we students are relieved from this stress. The decision has cleared this confusion, which had students scratching their heads for months. Like many other students, my whole online academic year had its ups and downs, but I figured that I could still finish off my grade 12 by doing majestically in boards but alas! Fate had its own game, as happy as I was when the CBSE took the final decision of cancelling exams, later when I profoundly thought about it, I recognised how it could affect my grades for my conditional acceptances, not to mention how it would affect my scholarships as well, since my grade 12 finals were going to be my final ticket into these universities. My future was in the hands of my present before but now it’s in the hands of my past, seems a bit unfair isn’t it? Just like me, I’m sure there must be other students as well who must be going through the same. Covid has not only taken lives but also ruined lives. The decision taken by the government in regard to our health is understandable; since there wasn’t any ‘right decision’ which could have been taken one or the other would have had its own consequences. Talking about the students who did not apply for early acceptances and were waiting to be done with the exams, they find themselves in a nasty situation as well confused about when they will receive their results so they can further apply for universities.Gurjas SinghRelaxations expected from foreign varsitiesClass XII board exams have been rightly cancelled in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The PM said the decision had been taken in the interest of students. Admissions to foreign universities have become a matter for concern. With this, students can also expect a tougher competition this year to study abroad. Indian students wishing to enrol in universities abroad, should expect, the number to rise this year with students who had deferred their 2020 admissions or were waiting for relaxations in restrictions around the world. To prevent wastage of time, parents should also be prepared with finances, accommodation plans, visa preparation etc. Due to closure of many visa application centres owing to the pandemic, obtaining an international study visa has also become a challenge. Universities abroad have their own admission process and guidelines vary from university to university. Students who have taken admission in foreign university should reach out to respective university and discuss the predicament and situation. With unforeseen circumstances, a relaxation is expected to be offered. Many universities had relaxed requirements in 2020, and no doubt they shall do it this year too especially when bright minds from India make for diverse campuses.Dr KS ManchandaStudents undeterred to give up their dreamsThe whole world is fighting with the pandemic and global colleges and universities are expected to provide students with certain relaxations. The second Covid wave has put Indian aspirants in a muddle. The cancellation of exams has further caused a ripple effect for students dreaming to study abroad. Despite all uncertainties, students seem to be undeterred in giving up their foreign dream. Over 91 per cent of Indian students expressed strong interest in studying abroad, as per a study. Many universities across the world have reported a higher number of enrolments despite the current pandemic situation. Universities are also offering scholarships and providing students with all necessary support to attract them from around the world. Countries have also announced new guidelines for students applying for work visa on the basis of online classes. It depends upon a university and their guidelines and how they are conducting their enrolments.VanshikaBoards shouldn’t have cancelled examsWith the cancellation of Class XII exams where most of the students and parents are happy, hard working students and their parents are surprised and disappointed with the decision. The results of Class XII exams play an important role in getting admission to various courses, colleges and getting higher education abroad. Scholars, educated people and parents are of the view that the boards should not have canceled the examinations. If offline examination was not possible, online examination could be conducted and objective type pattern could be followed, questions could be asked more to prevent copying, students could have been instructed to keep the camera on while attempting the exam. In addition, most people are of the opinion that if ICSE and CBSE had to cancel Class XII exam, they should have canceled it along with the Class X exams, so that by now the result of Class XII could be readied. As the basis of admission to various courses, college admissions and foreign studies is Class XII marks only. Due to this late decision, consequently, results are delayed, next academic year too will be affected.Sucha SagarExam cancellation right & justBelieve it or not, Covid has, even if by default, compelled us to examine our archaic system of education, our primitive methods of teaching and unreliable methods of testing, particularly our 101 point scale and thrown us into the middle of the problem we had been somehow shelving for ‘later on’. Now it is immediacy. After the right and just cancellation of the Senior Secondary Part II examination, CBSE think tanks are busy to fish out some valid formula for converting scores in lower examinations, practicals and internal assessment awards supported by the average scores of the last two or three years, to provide a credible mark of the attainments of the candidate and his or her eligibility for higher education courses whether commerce, computer, science, arts or agriculture. It is good tidings. Punjab has stolen headlines in school education though most of the parameters for which it has shown ‘improvement’ are concerned with administration. The number of unfilled posts of teachers is no one’s baby. The real content of education, after the schools reopen is a challenge. The new Class XI and Class XII students will come unexposed to real time classroom environment. I think the CBSE might choose to slip back into the old system of evaluation. It is a tricky problem. But by and large, the student population is happy over the cancellation of examination.Prof Mohan SinghForeign institutes might change rulesI think students already knew that there was a chance of the board exams being cancelled and they had prepared themselves for it accordingly. Grading of students will now be done on the basis of a specific mechanism which will be disclosed by the government anytime soon. Both parents and students must understand that health is a bigger priority than holding exams right now and as the second wave of the pandemic has started receding; there are fears of the third wave which is predicted to be affecting children more. Moreover, foreign universities too are aware of the devastating impact of the pandemic on mental health of students. So, they might change their evaluation criteria.Jatinderpal Singh BatthBest possible way outThe decision of cancellation of Class XII exams is appropriate in view of the ongoing pandemic. The disease is feared to affect children more in the coming days thus appropriate steps needed to be taken. No doubt the decision will cause turbulence in the lives of students, who were in the final stage of school-level education, but owing to the pandemic their lives could not be risked and thus the move came. The issue is sensitive as there was no perfect solution available to tackle the problem and the government had to go with the best possible way out to deal with it.BM SinghVarsities have relaxed admission normsThe problem is global and all universities have adapted themselves by setting new admission requirements. The CBSE and ICSE boards are equipped to assess a student and award the results, based on school assessment, a student’s academic performance and capabilities. Foreign universities have also relaxed their entry grade boundaries, keeping this form of assessment in mind. Students, who want to apply abroad, should not be baffled. There is enough support available, ensuring that their future is not adversely impacted.Indu AuroraGetting int’l visa more challenging nowAs per the Ministry of External Affairs in 2020, more than 11 lakh Indian students were studying abroad. After the announcement of cancellation of Class XII exams, admissions to foreign universities have become a matter for concern for aspiring students and their parents. Cancellation of exams means that the board results will be delayed and expected to be out by August end, which will leave very little time for students for other activities such as writing college applications, taking standardised tests or other profile-building activities. Further, there will be a shorter time window between admission confirmation and course commencement in certain countries where board results are mandatory. The development will also result in difficulty for students to have their required admission documents in place to be submitted in time along with the applications. Indian students are an important community to members of the global college campuses, support can be expected from universities in these countries in the form of relaxed requirements and timelines. In a pre-pandemic era, there used to be a longer period for parents to help their kids through their move to a foreign country. But that will not be the case this year.Pankaj Kumar SharmaUS aspirants may not be affected much||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/future-of-students-with-plans-to-study-abroad-in-jeopardy-268273
14-06-2021||Tarn Taran||One held with 268-gm heroin||Cyclist killed in road accidentTarn Taran: A cyclist was killed in an accident caused by a speedy vehicle on the Tarn Taran-Goindwal Sahib road on the outskirts of the town on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Buta Singh (70) of local Nanaksar locality. The victim was a daily wage worker and was returning home on his bicycle. He was crushed under the vehicle and died on the spot. Kanwaljit Singh, driver of the National Highway Ambulance, reached the spot and brought the body to the Civil Hospital mortuary. ASI Baldeep Singh of the city police said a case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC had been registered against unknown vehicle driver. OCJagmeet Singh is PYC spokespersonTarn Taran: Brinder Singh Dhillon, president of the Punjab Youth Congress (PYC), on Saturday appointed Jagmeet Singh Dhillon of Gandiwind Saran as spokesperson of the PYC. Earlier, Jagmeet Singh was NSUI president at Guru Nanak Dev University. Lawyer by profession, Jagmeet is active in social activities and providing legal aid to needy and underprivileged sections of the society. His father is chairman of the Gandiwind Block Samiti. OCThree arrested under NDPS ACTTarn Taran: A team of the Patti Sadar police, led by Sub-Inspector Gurdeep Singh, arrested three persons and seized 2,600 intoxicant tablets from them. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused had been identified as Pritam Kaur of Jhugian Peer Bakhash, Harjit Singh, alias Bholu of Toot village in Tarn Taran district, and Ankush Dhawan of Mallanwala in Ferozpur district. The SSP said accused Harjit Singh and Pritam Kaur were arrested from the border area with 1,700 intoxicant tablets. During interrogation both revealed that they took the tablets from Ankush Dhawan. The police team conducted a raid and arrested Ankush Dhawan with 900 intoxicant tablets. The SSP said Pritam Kaur, who was facing trial in two NDPS cases, is mother of Gurdev Singh, a notorious drug peddler. The accused had been booked under Sections 22,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. In another case, the Valtoha police arrested Jaskaran Singh of Dibbipur with 180 intoxicant tablets. The accused told the police that he had procured the tablets from Dilbag Singh of his village. Both have been booked under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-268-gm-heroin-268266
14-06-2021||---||Wishing speedy recovery from the rooftop||Amritsar, June 13With its churches closed on account of the pandemic, the Diocese of Amritsar (DoA), Church of North India (CNI), adopted a novel way of allowing its members to assemble for prayers, as per the Christian tradition, by holding a rooftop worship service at Mission Compound, Court Road, Amritsar, on Sunday.In yet another first, the DoA also celebrated the Holy Communion (an observance commemorating the Last Supper of Jesus Christ) for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak. The holy rite entails distribution of bread (symbolic of the body of Jesus Christ) and sacramental wine (symbolising Lord Jesus’ blood that he shed on the Cross) among worshippers.Giving details, Most Rev Dr PK Samantharoy, Bishop, DoA, CNI, said the enthusiasm of the members of the CNI was palpable from the fact that an overwhelming number of Christians and people of other faiths residing in the Mission Compound assembled on their rooftops, braving the downpour, in response to the call of worship early Sunday morning.Bishop Samantharoy said besides regular praise and worship, including rendition of traditional hymns, sermon, the Holy Communion and prayers, special intercessory prayers were offered for Covid-19 victims, casualties, Covid-19 warriors and their families.“The DoA stands by them in this hour of calamity. Besides offering regular prayers for them through initiatives as rooftop worship services and inter-faith prayer sessions, the DoA is also working to proffer relief to those affected by the pandemic through various social outreach programmes entailing the welfare of women, children, elderly and entire families, particularly in the rural areas of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, J&K,” he said.Stating that people’s response to this rooftop Sunday service was really inspiring, he said the initiative aims at reviving the Sunday gatherings, which, as of now, stand suspended.“The DoA has come up with this initiative considering the fact that rooftop services allow Christians to assemble for worship every Sunday. As families gather on their respective terraces in the fresh air, social distancing is also maintained, which minimises the threat of the spread of the virus. Due care is taken to ensure that people observe all other safety measures including wearing of masks to minimise any possibility of the spread of infection,” he said.Rev Lily Samantharoy, Rev Ayub Daniel, Rev Uday Singh, Rev Raj Kumar, Rev Stephen Masih, Rev Rajni Bala, Rev Marcus Masih, were among the presbyters of DoA, who participated in the rooftop service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wishing-speedy-recovery-from-the-rooftop-268256
14-06-2021||---||One booked for abetting suicide of priest, woman||Amritsar, June 13  In a bizarre incident, a man has been booked for abetting suicide of two persons, including a woman in separate incidents, following alleged harassment at his hands. Both the incidents occurred at Jasraur village.  The deceased have been identified as Jagjit Singh, who was a priest, and Gurjit Kaur. The accused has been identified as Manpreet Singh of the same village.  Harjit Singh, a resident of Jasraur village, told the police that he worked as a sewadar at Bohri Sahib gurdwara while Jagjit performed sewa as a granthi (priest).  Harjit said Jagjit had told him several times that the accused was defaming him by levelling baseless allegations and was harassing him. He said around 10 am on Saturday, Jagjit met him and looked very upset. He said Jagjit again told him that Manpreet was not relenting from his acts and he would end his life. Harjit said after soothing him, Jagjit went to his house. Later, he came to know that Jagjit consumed some poisonous substance. He was immediately rushed to a hospital where he succumbed. In the second FIR registered against Manpreet, Gurpreet Singh of Ludhar village told the police that his sister Gurjit Kaur was married to Gurpreet Singh of Jasraur village around 12 years ago. He said she had two daughters and a son from the marriage. He said around one and half year ago her husband Gurpreet went to Malaysia and she was living with her in-laws. He alleged Manpreet was brother-in-law of his sister.  He said Manpreet was allegedly harassing her of getting his share of property. He said around 7 pm on Sunday, Gurjit was alone and ended her life by hanging with a ceiling fan. The Bhindi Saida police have registered two separate cases under Section 306 of the IPC against the Manpreet. The police said raids were on to arrest the accused. Two booked on attempt to murder charge Two unidentified persons were booked on the charge of attempt to murder after they allegedly thrashed Gursajan Singh of Bhoewali village falling under Ajnala police station here. He is currently recuperating at Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital.  Victim’s wife Sumanpreet Kaur, told the police that her husband went to work on Thursday on his bike, which he parked at the residence of Sunny of Panj Garaiyan village. She said then he along with Sunny reached near a gurdwara in the village, when two persons met Gursajan Singh and took him with them. Sunny returned to home on his bike.  She said the next day they got the information that Gursajan was lying injured near Raipur village canal. She said they rushed him to the Civil Hospital in Ajnala, where doctors referred him to a private hospital in Amritsar city. From there, he was shifted to Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital at Vallah.  The police authorities said a case under Sections 307, 323 and 34 of the IPC was registered against two unidentified persons for now and further investigations were on. They said Gursajan Singh was not fit for recording his statement right now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-booked-for-abetting-suicide-of-priest-woman-268257
14-06-2021||PK Jaiswar
||10 FIRs in 24 hrs for sharing child porn||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, June 13 For the first time, the Amritsar city police have registered as many as 10 FIRs and booked 28 persons in a single day for allegedly forwarding and sharing objectionable videos of children on social media.  The cases were registered on June 12 following the complaints forwarded by the authorities of messaging mobile apps (applications).  On June 11, the city police booked eight persons in three FIRs under similar offence.  Police officials said the cases were registered on the basis of the complaints, while further investigations would be carried out to nail the perpetrators.  Police Commissioner Dr Sukchain Singh Gill said the state cyber security cell passed on the information regarding the circulation of objectionable and porn videos, especially of children, which prompted the city police to take stern action against offenders besides launching a drive in this regard.  “There is absolute zero tolerance about such acts, especially against uploading, sharing and forwarding child pornography. It is an offence and those involved in it would be dealt with strictly,” he said. “Those who were encouraging any kind of explicit content will attract strict action. Our cyber team has been keeping a watch on different social media platforms for this,” he said.  Cases were registered under Section 67-B of the Information Technology Act at Division D police station, Verka, Sultawind, Civil Lines, Division B, Sadar, Cantonment, Maqboolpura, Division A and Islamabad police stations. State cyber cell officers and station house officers were complainants in these cases.  Police officials said the mobile phones of the accused would be seized for forensic analysis.  Manpreet Kaur Shimar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime and Forensic, said cyber cell got the information about sharing of explicit content on different message and video-sharing mobile applications and therefore cases were registered. The accused would be taken into custody for further probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-firs-in-24-hrs-for-sharing-child-porn-268253
14-06-2021||Amritsar||2 NRIs among 3 seek Rs 2-cr ransom, 1 held||The Civil Lines police have booked three persons, including two Non-Resident Indians residing in Canada, for allegedly demanding a ransom of Rs2 crore from a trader. Victim, Naresh Kumar Khanna, said he and his two sons received the ransom call on WhatsApp.  The accused have been identified as Mohpreet Singh and Sahil Singh, both residents of Brampton, Canada, and Harmanpreet Singh of Chowk Mehta. Khanna said his son Gagan has been living in Canada for the last five years. He said they fixed Gagan’s marriage with a girl who originally hailed from Haryana, but has been residing in Canada for the last seven years. He said his son received a call in which the accused threatened him not to marry the girl. Initially, we preferred to ignore, said Khanna. Later, Khanna and his other son got calls from abroad on WhatsApp. Khanna said the accused demanded a ransom of Rs2 crore pointing out that he had not paid any heed about marrying his son with the girl. He said the accused asked us to put money near their factory on the given day. The police have booked the trio and arrested Harmanpreet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-nris-among-3-seek-rs-2-cr-ransom-1-held-268254
14-06-2021||---||Rain lashes Amritsar city, mercury dips||Amritsar, June 13 Rain lashed the city in the early morning hours on Sunday. Some areas of the city witnessed light showers till noon.  Residents got the much-needed respite from the scorching heat with a dip in the day temperature. The maximum temperature was recorded 32 degrees Celsius in the city. Though the paddy transplantation started on June 10, farmers are waiting for more rain to start transplantation. The majority of fields have not been irrigated yet. The shortage of migrant labour is also one of the reasons that farmers have not started puddling. With moderate rain in periphery areas, the vegetable growers in Majitha and Jandiala areas have started the puddling of fields and preparing for paddy transplantation. Harjeet Singh, a farmer from Khankot village, said, “We have ploughed the fields and prepared for puddling. There was good rain in the wee hours. We puddled two acres and the paddy is being transplanted. These pre-monsoon showers are enough to start the transplantation of paddy.” Sukhbir Singh, an agriculture expert, said, “The farmers, who are aware of the environmental crisis and depleting groundwater levels in the state, are ready to transplant the paddy even after June 20. The monsoon is around the corner. If we plant paddy after June 20, we don’t need much groundwater. The rain is sufficient to feed the crop.” Owing to the shortage of labour, a number of farmers have adopted direct sowing of rice crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-lashes-amritsar-city-mercury-dips-268255
14-06-2021||GS Paul||Vandalised in Jan 2020, statues of folk dancers find a new home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 13Over one-and-a-half years on, the statues of folk dancers that were dismantled from the multi-crore Heritage Street leading to the Golden Temple, have finally found a new home.Now, the bhangra and giddha dioramas have been re-installed in the newly built District Administrative Complex (DAC), also known as the mini-secretariat. These statues, made up of costly black metal depicting Punjabi folklore and fitted on specially erected pedestals, match with the heritage contours of the new complex.These statues were installed with much fanfare during the inauguration of the Heritage Street, a Rs160 crore project, in October 2016, by the SAD-BJP government. This was also known as ‘Selfie Spot’ and was very popular among visitors on their way to the Golden Temple.On January 15, 2020, these statues were vandalised by the activists of some Sikh organisations during the wee hours in a fit of emotional outburst. They justified their action by claiming that these statues never correspond to the Sikh Rehat Maryada (Sikh tenets) and hence should never be on the path leading to the Golden Temple.As the video went viral, the police swung into action. Under the stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the police had slapped cases against seven Sikh youth for the alleged vandalism.Following the incident, the Akal Takht, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, Shiromani Ragi Sabha (including kirtanis of Golden Temple), Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Shiromani Dhadi Sabha and Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committees, had come out in support of the accused arrested by police.The caseWhen the CM had to interveneTaking into account the sentiments of the Sikh community, which had taken exception to the statues of folk dancers at the Heritage Street in the vicinity of the Golden Temple, the CM had to intervene. He ordered the Cultural Affairs Department to shift and relocate the same to some other appropriate place in Amritsar. The cases against the youth, too, were reviewed and later withdrawn. Following this, the statues were sent to the historic Gobindgarh Fort and stored in the custody of the Punjab Tourism Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vandalised-in-jan-2020-statues-of-folk-dancers-find-a-new-home-268252
14-06-2021||---||Covid-19: 7 die, 64 test +ve in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 13With seven deaths, the district toll increased to 1,539 on Sunday. The district has also reported 64 new cases, with which the total count has increased to 46,157.The new cases include 41 influenza-like illness cases and 23 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities said 146 patients have recovered in the last 24-hours with which the total recovery count has increased to 42,930. The district at present has a total of 1,688 active cases.Those who lost their battleThe deceased have been identified as Madan Lal Sharma (74) of Ranjitpura; Darshan Kumar (81) of Rani Ka Bagh; Surinder Kaur (62) of Chattiwind Gate; Ravinder Kaur (51) of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony; Shanti Devi (71) of Islamabad; Ramesh Kumar (55) of Indira Colony and Harbhajan Singh (63) of Jalapura.3,889 persons inoculatedMeanwhile, 3,889 residents were inoculated during the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive on Sunday. Those vaccinated included 1,654 residents in the age group of 18-45 years. The health officials said so far 29,899 healthcare workers, 72,791 frontline workers, 2,32,749 residents above 45 years of age and 25,663 residents in the 18-44 age category have been partially vaccinated. Further 15,200 healthcare workers, 17,193 frontline workers, 41,983 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated.Two die, 9 test positive in Tarn TaranThe district reported two deaths taking the toll to 340 on Sunday. Nine positive cases were also reported, which with the number of active cases reached 271 in the district. As many as 150 patients have been isolated at their respective homes and 23 patients were taking treatment from other districts. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,804 citizens were vaccinated against Covid-19 on Sunday, while total 1,53,240 persons have been vaccinated so far.The Health Department teams collected 700 samples on Sunday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-7-die-64-test-ve-in-amritsar-268251
