15-06-2021||---||A quiet, colourful corner to unwind & relax||Amritsar, June 14Minna Bagga, Assistant Professor of Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics, SR Government College for Women, feels that one’s garden radiates immense spiritual energy. Nature has every element required to refresh, reinvent your soul and body. Hence, she believes in nurturing her garden with great care.“My love for gardening runs in the family as my parents has always been avid gardeners. We grew up to love flowers. Surrounded by the lush colorful plants gave a fillip to our spirits. We automatically absorbed the beauty of nature into our growing minds. This was the osmosis which encouraged an aesthetic and spiritual love for nature which my brother and I share. For us it is a very relaxing and soul satisfying hobby,” she said. Minna is a member of several flower and gardening societies, including Dalhia Society, Amritsar Chapter, Gardening and Green India, the Adenium Group India and Euphorbia Group India.“I have tried my hand at growing different varieties of flowers such as gerberas, carnations, chrysanthemums and annuals. But these days, I concentrate on growing adeniums or dessert roses as they are popularly known, succulents, indoor plants and bonsai. Recently, I have learnt to make ‘Kokedama’ a variety of Japanese bonsai out of native varieties of plants. I love to make fresh and dry flower arrangements and have won many prizes. I have helped my students also to participate and win top prizes in youth festivals,” she says.She is also a votary of using organic material such as cocopeat, vermicompost, perlite, neem cakes, etc, for gardening. “I am happy to note that the younger generation is also turning towards this fulfilling hobby, yet, many efforts have to be made to make people realise the value of green environs. Oxygen generating plants are a fad now-a-days. They help in purifying the environment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-quiet-colourful-corner-to-unwind-relax-268739
15-06-2021||---||Students with job offers in a tight spot in absence of DMCs||Amritsar, June 14Around 300 students of Guru Nanak Dev University who recently graduated from the university had got job offers from multinational companies at handsome packages. But these students are now facing a peculiar situation on account of non-availability of detailed marks certificates (DMCs) of their intermediate semesters, as they were promoted last year on the basis of the cumulative average of their grades of previous semesters as per the directions of the government in the wake of the Covid.Amit Chopra, Assistant placement officerThe GNDU placement cell is in contact with the recruiters and making efforts to sort out the issue. We have already intervened in the matter by sending correspondence to several MNCs. Some of the companies offering jobs are finding it difficult to evolve a criterion to hire prospective employees in the absence of a concrete and comprehensive evidence of their academic performance in the form of DMCs of all semesters. As a result, their job offers have been held and the students had to turn to the university to look for a solution. “Most of these students had appeared in off-campus recruitments and received jobs offers. We are working on all possible ways to resort the issue. The companies are not asking for DMCs but an aggregate of marks. We’re working on it,” said Dr Hardeep Singh, Dean Academic Affairs and Welfare, GNDU.Reservations are also expressed on the system of conduct of non-proctored email-based examinations of the exit class students. The system of conducting non-proctored email-based examinations by sending question papers and then receiving answer sheets of students through email has not been taken very kindly by students and their employers.“The GNDU placement cell is in contact with the recruiters and making efforts to sort out the issue. We have already intervened in the matter by sending correspondence to several MNCs,” said Amit Chopra, assistant placement officer, GNDU. We have placed around 700 students from various professional courses through on-campus online recruitments and most recruiters, knowing the special circumstances created by the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-with-job-offers-in-a-tight-spot-in-absence-of-dmcs-268738
15-06-2021||---||175 units of blood collected during camp at EMC hospital||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14Youth for Global Peace and Tansformation organised a blood donation camp at EMC Hospital, situated in posh Green Avenue locality here on Monday. As many as 175 units of blood were collected during the camp.Half of the collected blood went to Guru Nanak Dev Blood Bank and another half went to EMC Blood Bank.Former cabinet minister Anil Joshi, ADC Himanshu Aggarwal, DCP PS Bhandal, DCP Mukhwinder Singh and Dilraj Sarkaria. DCP Mukhwinder also donated blood.Youth for Global Peace and Transformation had received a request letter from Guru Nanak Dev Blood Bank to organise a blood donation camp amid the Covid pandemic lockdown. The letter stated that Guru Nanak Dev Blood Bank does not have enough blood units to fulfil the daily needs of the patients admitted in the hospital. Even patients suffering from thalassaemia were facing shortage. Volunteers present were Sukhamrit Singh, Anoop Mahajan, Hargun Sachdeva, Prateek Verma, Dhruv Goswami, Satyam, Sakshi and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/175-units-of-blood-collected-during-camp-at-emc-hospital-268737
15-06-2021||---||‘Imbibe teachings of Guru Arjan Dev in life’||Amritsar, June 14The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) observed the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev by organising a kirtan at gurdwara Sri Kalghidhar Sahib. Rendition of hymns by Prabhjot Kaur, ragi jatha of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, GT Road, created an aura of mysticism and spirituality on the occasion.Nirmal Singh, chief, Chief Khalsa Diwan, said Guru Arjan Dev emerged as a force for the Sikh community and his sacriifices for the community can be recognised only by imbibing his great teachings in one’s personal life. Honorary secretary Sawinder Singh Kathunangal and vice president Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar motivated students to follow the teachings of the fifth Guru.Dharam Parchar Committee member Prof Hari Singh threw light on the life of Guru Arjan Dev. The event culminated with an ‘ardas’ followed by langar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/imbibe-teachings-of-guru-arjan-dev-in-life-268736
15-06-2021||---||Teachers gherao MLA’s residence over written test for vacant posts||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 14Members of the district unit of the Kacche Adhyapak Union, Punjab, gheraoed the residence of the local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri here on Monday. They were protesting against holding the written test for filling the vacant posts of pre-primary teachers. The protesting teachers took out a rally and marched through the town to reach the MLA’s residence.The MLA was not present in the house at that time and the protesters appealed to the official concerned to take a memorandum from them, but no official came outside to receive a charter of demands. They remained present outside the MLA’s residence for hours.Addressing on the occasion, Satinder Kang and other leaders said they had been working in a government primary school at a low salary since 2003, but their services had not been regularised till date.They said the Education Department had now issued orders to conduct the written test for filling the posts of pre-primary teachers.The test has been slated for June 27. The union was demanding that they should be recruited without conducting any test as they had already been working on these posts for over the last 18 years and had enough job experience. They lifted the dharna when the local tehsildar came to receive their memorandum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-gherao-mlas-residence-over-written-test-for-vacant-posts-268735
15-06-2021||---||Amanpreet: Rising mercury lifted this electronics retailer’s business||Amritsar, June 14While Covid robbed many shopkeepers of their revenue, this electronics goods seller is thankful that demand for his products such as air-conditioners, coolers and fans, amid scorching heat, kept him afloat financially.As the mercury keeps rising, he gets no time to rest. Sometimes the days do get long and hectic for Amanpreet Singh, an electronics goods shopkeeper, but increased sales despite pandemic keep him upbeat.With the cut-throat competition in the market and many people preferring to make online purchases, retail shopkeepers have to multiply their efforts to increase the volume of their sales.Amanpreet said with summer season at its peak, the sales for his products have increased. “I did not have to convince people to buy my products. Excessive heat prompted them to place orders in bulk. My work does not end even after the ACs are packed and the payment has been made,” he said.Sometimes, his day begins at 6 in the morning as his customers start calling frantically regarding the problems they face with the ACs the previous night! “Next few hours are spent contacting the mechanics, and fixing the problem,” he said. Talking about the threat posed by e-commerce to brick and mortar stores, he said, “With the cut-throat competition in the market and many people preferring to make online purchases, shopkeepers have to multiply their efforts to increase the volume of their sales.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amanpreet-rising-mercury-lifted-this-electronics-retailers-business-268734
15-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Girl abducted from village in Tarn Taran||Farmers leave for Tikri borderAmritsar: Pragatisheel Lekhak Sangh national general secretary Sukhdev Singh Sirsa along with members Ramesh Yadav and Folklore Research Academy president Surjit Judge on Monday condemned the farm laws and the Centre’s indifference towards the farmer movement. In a flag-off event on Monday, a contingent, including farmers and their supporters, left for Tikri border in large numbers. Before leaving, several farm union leaders received a large quantity of medicines, sanitisers and literary books from the Pragatisheel Lekhak Sangh. The relief was handed over to Bharti Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan vice-president Shangara Singh Mann. tnsWoman’s purse snatchedTarn Taran: An unidentified motorcycle-born miscreant snatched a purse from a woman near the residence of the SSP on Saturday. While trying to hold it tight, the victim received injuries in the incident as she fell down on the road and lost it to the snatcher. The victim, who has been identified as Anita Nagpal of the Khalsapur road, was returning home in a rickshaw. When she reached near the SSP’s residence, which is situated along the main road of the town, the culprit came on a motorcycle (without registration number) from the rear. After committing the crime, he managed to flee from the spot. The victim told the police that the purse contained two mobiles and Rs 5,000 cash. A case under Sections 379-B (2) and 323 of the IPC has been registered against the accused by the police. ASI Harwant Singh is investigating the case. OCMinority panel member’s visitTarn Taran: Lal Hussain, member of the Punjab State Minority Commission, visited Bania village in Khadoor Sahib subdivision, and inquired about encroachment efforts by some mischievous elements at the graveyard of the Muslim community. Some mischievous element with the backing of the ruling side not only made a bid to encroach the graveyards of the Muslim community, but also axed a number of century-old mango trees without any permission. The graveyard of national-level wrestler Rustam-e-Hind, Hehardin, who was given shelter by villagers at the time of Partition, is also at the village. Members of the Muslim community submitted a memorandum to the commission member regarding the disrespect shown. The commission member taking serious note of the incident instructed the DSP Goindwal Sahib to conduct detailed inquiry and submit a report to his office in seven days. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-abducted-from-village-in-tarn-taran-268726
15-06-2021||Amritsar||Snatcher arrested with 55-gm heroin in Amritsar||The police have nabbed a notorious robber Sukhpreet Singh, alias Gurpreet Singh, alias MP, and with 55-gm heroin. Recently, he had escaped from TB Hospital where he was undergoing treatment.Sukhpreet had around six cases of snatchings and robberies, besides a case of the NDPS Act registered against him. Interestingly, this was for the third time that he had dodged cops and managed to flee from the police custody.According to the police, Sukhpreet was admitted to the TB Hospital on May 25. He fled away from hospital on June 8. Earlier, he had escaped from the police custody in April 2018 and December 2020.A fresh case of the NDPS Act was registered against him for possessing 55-gm heroin. He was brought on the police remand in order to ascertain the source of the contraband. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatcher-arrested-with-55-gm-heroin-in-amritsar-268704
15-06-2021||---||3 die in separate road accidents in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 14Three persons including a Home Guards jawan died in two separate road mishaps in Bhindi Saida and Kathunangal police station area, respectively, while another Home Guards jawan was injured in another mishap in Pandori Waraich village on Sunday.Kala Singh and his son Gurpreet Singh, both residents of Fattewal village, died in an accident in Kotla Suraj village. Amar Singh, brother of Kala Singh told the Bhindi Saida police that Kala Singh, his wife Santo and son Gurpreet Singh, had gone at the cremation of a relative at Bhindi Saida. After the cremation, they were returning on their bike (PB-14-D-3697) and reached Kotla Suraaj village village, when a speedy and rashly driven goods carrier hit them. They fell on the road and suffered grievous injures. They were immediately rushed to a hospital in Ajnala, where doctors declared Kala Singh and Gurpreet Singh dead, while Santo was serious.The police have booked an unidentified driver of the goods carrier (Chhota Haathi) (PB-06-M- 2653) in the case and further investigations were on to identify and arrest him.Similarly, Home Guards jawan Malkit Singh was found dead near Fattubhilla village. Apparently, he was hit by an unidentified vehicle at night. His wife Jasbir Kaur told the police that Malkit was posted at Majitha police station. She said she received a call from him around 10.30 pm on Saturday and his duty was over and he was returning home. However, he did not come. Yesterday, they started searching for him and his body was found near Fattubhila village road. His bike was badly damaged.The Kathunangal police have booked an unidentified person under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC. Further investigations were on.In another incident, Gurdeep Singh, a Home Guards jawan posted at Government Railway Police in Amritsar was injured when his bike was hit by a goods carrier near Pandori Waraich village on Sunday. He said the drivers of goods carrier and a tractor trailer laden with wooden logs fled from the scene. The police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-die-in-separate-road-accidents-in-amritsar-268548
15-06-2021||---||Recovery of property tax: Amritsar Municipal Corporation meeting today||Amritsar, June 14Amritsar Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal has called a meeting on June 15 to review recovery of property tax.The MC Commissioner has asked superintendents of the property tax and water supply wing to attend the meet and bring the latest status report.The MC had set a target to recover Rs 42.5 crore for the property tax wing and Rs 35 crore for water supply wing.However, in the last two months, the property tax wing could collect only Rs 1.55 crore and water supply wing Rs 2 crore.During scrutiny of self-assesment of property tax, a number of owners have been identified who paid less tax than actual. Now, the civic body has been sending notices to defaulters after recalculating their tax.Sushant Bhatia, Secretary, Amritsar Municipal Corporation, has conducted physical verification of more than 15 commercial buildings and found massive differences in self-assesment forms.Now, the MC aims to recover crores of pending property tax from defaulters.Officials asked the superintendents concerned to come along with status report of notices issued in the respective areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recovery-of-property-tax-amritsar-municipal-corporation-meeting-today-268549
15-06-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||A library of sorts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14To develop reading culture among residents and encourage people to read and share their books with others, Sunshine Youth Club, formed by a group of zealous youngsters, has set up a public library booth near Chattiwind Chowk.Club members feel that people need to read books to be able to make informed choices and contribute towards social and political uplift.At the booth, anyone is allowed to take home a book without having to ask anyone. “All you have to mention is the name of the book you are taking home. Mentioning your name, phone number or address is not compulsory. We expect that you will return the book after reading it. But we will not contact you even if you have mentioned your personal details,” said Arshdeep Singh Judge, one of the founding members of the Club.Arshdeep Singh Judge, one of the founding members of the ClubAt the booth, anyone is allowed to take home a book without having to ask anyone. All you have to mention is the name of the book you are taking home. Mentioning your name, phone number or address is not compulsory. We expect that you will return the book after reading it. But we will not contact you even if you have mentioned your personal details.The unmanned booth has been installed outside Soni Pharmacy. Sirjan Kaur Sehmi, whose family owns the pharmacy, has taken it upon herself the task to manage the booth. So far, there are around 50-55 books at the booth. “I will keep a check on which books have been donated on a particular day and which have been borrowed. I will also lock the booth at night and unlock it in the morning,” she said.Arshdeep said the purpose of monitoring was to ensure that nobody keeps a book which is controversial or banned. “We have also requested people not to donate any religious book. It will create an issue if someone donates a religious book and some miscreant desecrates it in one way or other,” he said. Book lovers are also allowed to donate books that they want people to read.Arshdeep said they had earlier set up such a booth in Moga. “We are planning to set up 256 such booths across the state. We earlier did a project at martyr Bhagat Singh’s ancestral village — Khatkar Kalan — and villagers had assured us that they will donate books on Bhagat Singh for these booths,” said Arshdeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-library-of-sorts-268550
15-06-2021||---||Dasehra train tragedy: Where are jobs, ask victims’ kin in Amirtsar||Amritsar, June 14The kin of victims of Amritsar train tragedy have urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to provide government jobs as per the decision taken during the Cabinet meeting in March this year.In a letter to the CM, they said they have lost their bread earners in the tragedy that claimed over 50 lives while watching the Dasehra festival on the railway track near Jaura Phatak railway crossing on October 19 in 2018. A ray of hope emerged among victims’ families after the state Cabinet’s approval to offer jobs to the next of the victims’ kin. Jobs were assured to 34 eligible family members.In the letter, the kin of the victims alleged that even after over two months, they have received no communication from the government, while the district administration also failed to give any information regarding this. They urged the CM to give them jobs assured by the government, as their economic conditions had deteriorated during the pandemic followed by lockdown restrictions.Deepak Kumar, who lost his father and uncle in the tragedy, pointed out that the government should not delay in clearing the formalities.The Centre and the state had given an ex-gratia of Rs2 lakh and Rs5 lakh, respectively, but the affected family members alleged that the amount could hardly secure their future.An FIR was registered against unidentified people. However, no arrests were made. Lately, a departmental action was taken against two civic officials for negligence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dasehra-train-tragedy-where-are-jobs-ask-victims-kin-in-amirtsar-268551
15-06-2021||---||Covid-19: Amritsar district reports 2 more deaths, 55 fresh cases||Amritsar, June 14The district health authorities reported two deaths and 55 fresh Covid cases on Monday. The district toll has now increased to 1,541 and the infection tally stands at 46,212. The deceased on Monday have been identified as Surjeet Singh (62) of Subhash Colony and Parkash Kaur (60) of Nangli Udhonangal. The fresh cases include 29 influenza-like illness cases and 26 contacts of positive patients.The health authorities have also reported recovery of 144 patients, with which the total count of recovered persons has increased to 43,074. The district at present has 1,597 active cases. Meanwhile, 4,659 persons, including 2,262 under the 18-44 age group, were inoculated against Covid during the ongoing vaccination drive.2 die in Tarn TaranTwo persons died of Covid in Tarn Taran and the district reported nine fresh positive cases on Monday. The number of fatalities in the district has increased to 342 while there were total 279 active cases. Of the total cases, 165 were under home isolation.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,805 citizens were vaccinated on Monday and 1,55,044 persons had been vaccinated till date in the district. A team of the Health Department had also collected 671 samples today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-reports-2-more-deaths-55-fresh-cases-268552
15-06-2021||---||Chemists in Amritsar go underground||Amritsar, June 14Days after busting an illegal unit involved in the manufacture of tramadol tablets, the police have tightened the noose around several medical store owners in Katra Sher Singh area here.Some shopkeepers have gone underground following raids by teams of the Amritsar rural police which have reportedly arrested one person, though the police authorities were tight-lipped over his arrest. It has been learnt that the man was brought on police remand and whose interrogation was underway.On May 28, the police had nabbed factory owner Manish Mohan and two others following a raid conducted at an illegal tramadol manufacturing unit in Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur. The police had confiscated illegal drugs worth Rs 15 crore from the factory.The firm was zeroed in following the seizure of 50,000 tramadol capsules by the Mattewal police on May 18. The police had nabbed three drug peddlers, identified as Samir Kumar and Suraj Kumar of Majitha Road and Gurmukh Singh of Mallunangal village. The bills were issued in the name of HR Enterprises. However, the probe found that the firm did not exist. Several persons from Chandigarh and Mohali had mediated in the delivery of the drug consignment and they were being identified, according to the police.The police have also brought Prem Kumar Jha, a medical store owner, on production warrant from Kurukshetra, Haryana. Jha used to run a medical store in the name of Mansi Medicos in Mayur Vihar in Delhi from where tramadol was smuggled into different parts of Punjab and Haryana, besides Delhi.Following the seizure from Paonta Sahib, the Amritsar (rural) police raided in Delhi where they came to know about Jha’s arrest by the Haryana Police in a similar case.Case in a nutshell||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemists-in-amritsar-go-underground-268553
15-06-2021||Amritsar||Guru’s martyrdom day observed||Amid the Covid-19 threat, the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev was observed in a subdued manner today. The ‘bhog’ of ‘akhand path’ of Guru Granth Sahib was performed at the historic Gurdwara Ramsar where the Guru had edited Guru Granth Sahib and wrote Sukhmani Sahib. This year, no grand event was organised, except for ‘chhabeels’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurus-martyrdom-day-observed-268429
