16-06-2021||---||Power shortage: Paddy farmers burn effigy of state govt||Amritsar, June 15Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee blocked traffic near Gurwali on the Amritsar-Harike highway on Tuesday to protest against insufficient power supply to tube wells amid the paddy transplanting season.The farmer leaders said the government had failed to provide 8-hour daily power supply to tubewells as announced by it. KMSC general secretary Gurbachan Singh Chabba said: “The tubewells are being given power supply of 5-6 hours daily. We demand that a minimum 8-hour uninterrupted power supply be insured.”The association members raised slogans against the state government and the Power Corporation. They accused the government of running away from its promise of providing 8-hour power during paddy transplantation season. “We also want that the Power Corporation should not unnecessarily harass farmers in case a transformer is stolen or damaged. All such transformers should be replaced within 24-hours,” said Chabba.Farmers complained that paddy transplantation is getting delayed due to shortage of power. They said they need water for puddling fields so that paddy saplings could be planted.They alleged that late sown paddy would ripen up late when temperature decreases and it would have more moisture than the permissible limit. They said farmers would face trouble in selling produce with more moisture.The farmers’ association said they would protest against any move to cut subsidy on power to agriculture sector. They said the protest against the three agriculture bills and Electricity (Amendment) Act would continue till these laws are repealed.Border area Farmers submit memo to DC Tarn Taran: A deputation of the Border Area Sangharsh Committee, led by its president Arsal Singh Sandhu, on Tuesday presented a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh on the problems being faced by farmers of the border area. Daljit Singh Dialpura, leader of the organisation, apprised the DC of the farmers’ problems. He said farmers having their land across the fence had not been paid compensation of Rs 10,000 per acre a year for the last three years. He said the farmers were already facing acute financial hardship due to anti-farmer policies of the government. He said roads in the border area were in worse condition and even the Amritsar-Khemkaran national highway inundated with water at several places. The organisation alleged that the farmers, who go across the fence in their fields, were being harassed by the BSF personnel on one pretext or another. The organisation warned the administration of redressing their problems at the earlier otherwise they would be compelled to launch an agitation. The Deputy Commissioner has forwarded the memorandum to the District Revenue Officer for further action. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/power-shortage-paddy-farmers-burn-effigy-of-state-govt-269034
16-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||Eight mobile phones, 9 bidi bundles, intoxicants seized from Central Jail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 15In yet another seizure, the Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated as many as eight mobile phones, six SIMs, nine bidi bundles and 105 intoxicating tablets from the high-security complex.The seizure was made during a special search operation under Operation Clean on late Monday evening.Four mobiles were recovered from notorious drug traffickers and criminals, while two mobiles were found unclaimed in the dustbin. Bidis and intoxicants and two mobiles were recovered in two packets, which were seized by the patrolling party inside the jail complex. The two packets were apparently thrown from outside.According to jail officials, mobile phones were recovered from prisoners Harjinder Singh; Ajay, alias Aju; Sahil, alias Shallu; and Anoop Singh. Harjinder and Ajay were drug peddlers and lodged in jail since 2018 and 2019, respectively. Sahil was facing cases of murder, attempt to murder and robberies and Anoop has a murder case against him in Tarn Taran and was lodged since 2014. They were lodged in room number 1 of barrack number 2. Two mobiles were found from a dustbin, when search was carried out in room number 4 of barrack number 3. The dustbin was located outside the barrack.Similarly, two mobiles without SIM, nine bidi bundles and 105 intoxicating tablets wrapped in two packets were found by the patrolling party between the watch towers number 3 and 4 located on the backside of barrack number 7.Two separate cases were registered with the Islamabad police station under relevant sections of the Prisoners Act and the NDPS Act. The police said the accused would be arrested after being brought on production warrant for further investigations to ascertain how they sneaked mobile phones inside the high-security jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-mobile-phones-9-bidi-bundles-intoxicants-seized-from-central-jail-269036
16-06-2021||---||Cases drop significantly, only 49 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 15For the first time in last three-and-a-half months, the daily positive cases reported from the district have dropped below 50.The district reported a total of 49 positive cases on Tuesday with which the total count increased to 46,261.2 deaths, 15 +ve cases in Tarn TaranThe district witnessed two deaths and 15 positive cases on Tuesday. The toll reached 344 and number of active cases 270, of which 155 persons have been kept in home isolation. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 2,476 citizens were vaccinated at different health centres on Tuesday and total 1,57,520 persons have been vaccinated so far. OCEven the number of deaths reported due to the disease has gone down significantly. The district health authorities reported three deaths on Tuesday, with which the toll has increased to 1544. There were days in the last three-and-a-half months, when the second wave of Covid-19 was at its peak and more than 20 deaths were reported in a day on more than one counts.The health officials said the number of cases and casualties was decreasing constantly as a result of which the active caseload has dropped to 1,503. At peak, the active caseload had reached the 6,000-mark.The new cases include 24 influenza-like illness cases and 25 contacts of positive patients. The district has reported recovery of 140 persons in the last 24-hours. The deceased have been identified as Jyoti (50) of Anand Vihar, Ranjeet Kaur (67) of Lakhowal (Ajnala) and Kuldeep Kaur (65) of Ajnala.6,073 residents inoculatedThe district health authorities said a total of 6,073 residents were inoculated on Tuesday during the ongoing Covid vaccination drive. Of these, 3,475 were residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The health authorities said so far 30,214 healthcare workers, 74,386 frontline workers, 2,35,401 residents above 45 years and 31,462 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years have been partially vaccinated. Additionally, 15,221 healthcare workers, 17,298 frontline workers and 42,307 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cases-drop-significantly-only-49-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-269037
16-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Technical glitches delay registrations at tehsils||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 15Regular technical glitches have been delaying document-related work at two tehsils of the city. Known as Amritsar-I and Amritsar-II, both the tehsils are situated in the district court complex.Navjot Kaur, an applicant, said, she came to the tehsil for some document-related work regarding the sale of her house in the morning. But she had to keep waiting for the server to resume till evening. Upon inquiry, the officials told her that all of them would have to stay till the server becomes active.Another applicant Gurmeet Kaur said she had visited the tehsil for execution of some important document work last week and had to wait for over five hours at tehsil despite the fact that the Covid-19 restrictions are in place.Deed writers, who earn their living by assisting people to carry out their document work, said the slow server has been a persistent problem since the introduction of the online format. However, the trouble was further compounded when tehsils were opened on June 9, exactly 18 days after the strike by employees. They have to remain online till midnight for securing appointments.As per the norm, deed writers have to take prior appointment for all kinds of work, including registries, sale deeds, general power attorney, special power attorney, will, mortgage deed, child adoption deed and other services being offered by tehsils. Fee for the appointment is Rs 500 and for tatkal service it is Rs 5,000. The fee is paid through credit card, debit card and Unified Payment Interface (UPI).The number of applications to be daily handled by both the tehsils is fixed. As per the norm Amritsar-I has to handle 160 cases, including, 10 Tatkal and Amritsar-II has to look into 120 cases, including 10 tatkal per day.Parampreet Singh Goraya, Sub registrar, said he was communicating with the officials of the Punjab Land Record Society at Chandigarh handling entire online process and has brought the trouble to their notice. They said the workload increased manifold after the office began functioning regularly, which caused the server to crash. He said the staff concerned would remain stationed at work till the issue is resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/technical-glitches-delay-registrations-at-tehsils-269038
16-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||From conventional furnaces to CNG, switch ‘impossible’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 15The proposed switch over for 95 industrial units from pollution emitting conventional furnaces to Compressed natural gas (CNG) has failed to take place due to high price difference.The Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC) has offered piped natural gas to the local industry at Rs41 per kg, which includes 3.3 per cent VAT which gives 8,350 calorific value (Kcal).Krishan Kumar Kukku, who is holding a discussion with the company on behalf of the industry, said the transformation was impossible due to wide price gap. He said industries were getting pet coke, rice husk and other material for fuel between Rs14 and Rs16. All of these fuels give calorific value (Kcal) equivalent to a kilogram of CNG.“It means that the fuel cost of industrial units will hike by 3.5 times. It is impossible as we are operating at a border city and depend on most of the raw material from outside, which hikes their input cost.” Simply put, an industry spending Rs69,000 on six tonnes of conventional energy daily will have to invest Rs2.41 lakh for the same quantity of CNG, he said.Another impediment is that these industrial units would require to invest crores of rupees over their machineries to change them according to the new fuel.Kamal Dalmia, an industrialist, said another company was supplying the CNG to the industries of Mandi Gobindgarh at about Rs24 per kg. He said the government must introduce one more company here to end the monopolistic market trend prevailing in the district.Harpal Singh, Environmental Engineer, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), said all these units utilising the conventional source of fuel have installed two stage alkali scrubbers for pet coke and air pollution control devices to curtail the emission of pollution. Officials of the PPCB routinely check these equipment besides keeping a track online. Even then, they were putting efforts to shift these industries to green energy with zero emission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/from-conventional-furnaces-to-cng-switch-impossible-269040
16-06-2021||---||Woman seeks justice from minority panel||Amritsar, June 15Alleging police inaction, Ramandeep Khokhar, a resident of Bakha Tara Singh, Ajnala, has approached the minority commission for justice.She said even after elapsing of five months, the police have failed to take action against her husband and in0-laws. She said she got married to Gurpreet Singh of Chabba village in November 2017. She said three years later, her in-laws threw her out of the house.She was physically assaulted a few months after the marriage and after the birth of her daughter, their attitude changed and they started taunting her for giving birth to a girl.She said her in-laws kept her in the dark that her husband was already married and had a case registered against him. He was currently out on bail.In her complaint to the Emanaual Nahar, chairman of the minority commission, she said she filed a complaint to the SSP Amritsar Rural police, who marked probe to DSP Ajnala, who further marked the complaint to Ajnala police in January this year.She alleged that no concrete action has been taken so far. She has further urged the commission to provide her justice.Dr Subhash Thoba, member of the commission, has assured her that appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-seeks-justice-from-minority-panel-269041
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent 
||AAP begins hunger strike over Post-matric scholarship scam||Tarn Taran, June 15  Senior leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) begun their weeklong chain-hunger strike in front of the District Administration Complex (DAC) here on Tuesday. The party was protesting against the alleged post-matric scholarship scam in the state. The protesters alleged that Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was responsible for the scam.  Baldev Singh Pannu, district AAP president of the SC wing, alleged the state government was not taking seriously the issue raised by the party leaders.  Gurwinder Singh Beharwal, district president, Baljit Singh Khehra, state leader, and Gursewak Singh Sheikh addressed the protesters on the occasion and demanded action against the minister who had played with the future of more than two lakh students of the SC community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-begins-hunger-strike-over-post-matric-scholarship-scam-269042
16-06-2021||---||‘Need to preserve biodiversity to ensure ecosystem services’||Amritsar, June 15 DAV College Department of Botany organised a webinar on biodiversity and ecosystem services, sponsored by the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, under the Star College scheme.  The resource person of the webinar was Gurharminder Singh, Principal Scientific Officer, Directorate of Environment and Climate Change, and Punjab Biodiversity Board, Government of Punjab. The speaker highlighted the value of biodiversity and the need to preserve it, to ensure the availability of ecosystem services.  He elaborated the threats to biodiversity and causes of ecosystem degradation. He stressed upon the fact that community participation was the key to ecosystem restoration.  He threw light on the biodiversity profile of Punjab and informed the audience about the mission “Tandarust Punjab” launched by the state government. He said the CM had outlined some goals under the mission, where in early development projects worth Rs115 crore would be taken up.  The projects will be focused on achieving success in safe food, clean water, green Punjab, road safety, waste management, land security, clean air and preventive health. He discussed various conservation strategies being taken up by the state government at various levels. He also talked about sacred grooves in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-preserve-biodiversity-to-ensure-ecosystem-services-269043
16-06-2021||---||Kot Khalsa govt primary school sets pace for enrolment drive||Amritsar, June 15 Riding high on the recent success of the state in the county in the field of education, the district Education Department too has been on its toes inviting enrolments for new sessions.  With a series of grants received by the department for upgrading facilities and setting up smart playgrounds, another milestone that the department has received is that the Kot Khalsa Government Primary School has become the first government primary school in the district to have 1,000 students.  State Coordinator, Punjab, Admission Campaign, and District Education Officer (Sec), Satinderbir Singh, said: “Usually, average student strength for a government primary school stands at 300-400. That’s why it’s commendable that Kot Khalsa Primary School has become the first primary school in Amritsar where the number of students has crossed 1,000,” he said.  “In the past two months, we have been launching enrolment drives, upgrading facilities, building strong infrastructure and various schemes run in the interest of the students to ensure that more students choose government school education. Recently, the department had received a grant for buying school uniforms (Rs600 per student) that will be distributed free of cost to all students,” he added.  Meanwhile, Kot Khalsa Government Primary School Principal Kamaljit Kaur said enrolments done through street plays, door-to-door campaign, rallies and parent-teacher meetings made it possible for the school to get more students. “Last year, our student strength was 826, higher than any other government primary school in the district,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kot-khalsa-govt-primary-school-sets-pace-for-enrolment-drive-269044
16-06-2021||---||Asst prof commissioned as Lt in NCC||Amritsar, June 15 BBKDAV Department of Physical Education assistant professor Amandeep Kaur has been honoured with the rank of Lieutenant in NCC under 1 Punjab Girls Battalion. She completed three-month training programme i.e. PRCN course at OTA, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. She was among the 14 trainees, who got A-grade out of 76 trainees in this programme. While sharing her experience, she said the training module at Gwalior groomed her with leadership qualities, basic military training, firing, map reading skills, weapon and field training, tent pitching and camp coordination for cadets. She also shared that she won a gold medal and silver medal in volleyball and table tennis games respectively, as well as a certificate of excellence in map reading skills while training. Principal of the college Dr Pushpinder Walia congratulated her for the achievement and motivated her to work with full zeal as an Associate NCC officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asst-prof-commissioned-as-lt-in-ncc-269045
16-06-2021||---||GNDU bags Gold rating||Amritsar, June 15In the QS I-Gauge survey conducted by an independent agency for various higher educational institutions in the nations, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) is positioned in the Gold category for all parameters adopted by the QS I-GAUGE rating system.Also bagged diamond ratingGuru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) is positioned in the Gold category for all parameters adopted by the QS I-GAUGE rating system. The university has also bagged Diamond category rating in the field of 'Research, faculty quality and infrastructure'. Guru Nanak Dev University has got h-Index of 113, indicating high quality research publications by qualified faculty using state-of-the-art facilities.The university has bagged Diamond category rating in the field of ‘Research, faculty quality and infrastructure’. Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has got h-Index of 113, indicating high quality research publications by qualified faculty using state-of-the-art facilities.Regular updates of course curricula to lead high quality education and high employability of its programmes has also earned the university Gold rating in ‘Employability’ criteria by the agency.While congratulating the faculty, students and staff, Vice-Chancellor Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu expressed confidence that the university rating would go up in the near future as it is making its sincere efforts to further improve its laboratory facilities to facilitate innovative research by the students and faculty.Guru Nanak Dev University committed conduct for its social responsibilities and on organising various training events and awareness campaigns regularly helped it bag Gold rating in the particular category.He opined that high quality teaching-learning and research is crucial to attain higher ratings by various agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-bags-gold-rating-269046
16-06-2021||---||Mahajan, Bajwa are members of child welfare council||Gurdaspur, June 15 Romesh Mahajan, project director of the Gurdaspur District Red Cross Drug De-addiction Centre, and Dr RS Bajwa are the two Gurdaspur-based persons who have been elected as members of the executive council of the Punjab State Council for Child Welfare (PSCCW). A total of five members have been elected to the executive council. Two members are from Chandigarh while one is from Jalandhar. Prajakta Neel Kanth, wife of IAS officer Neel Kanth Awadh, has been elected as the president of the executive council. Punjab Governor V.P Singh Badnore is the president of the PSCCW while Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is its vice-president.  Mahajan has already been nominated as a life member of the Indian Council of Child Welfare and also holds the post of honorary secretary of the Gurdaspur District Council of Child Welfare. He is a social activist and has been running the Preliminary Education Study Centre in Ram Nagar, a slum area of this city, for the last several years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mahajan-bajwa-are-members-of-child-welfare-council-269047
16-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to award scholarships to meritorious students||The Dharam Prachar Committee (DPC) of the SGPC conducts Dharmik Prikhya (religious examination) for students studying in different schools and colleges across the country. About 50,000 students participated in the religious examination conducted during the annual session of 2019-20. SGPC assistant secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said a total of 990 students who appeared in the religious examination secured scholarships in the categories including first (Class VIII & IX), second (Class XI & XII), third (graduate) and fourth (postgraduate). Also, a total of 17 students have secured first, second and third positions with excellent performance in these categories. “The students listed in the merit would be distributed the scholarships by the SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur on June 17, at an event to be held at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall, Sri Amritsar. The meritorious students will be distributed scholarship amounts worth Rs 5,100, Rs 4,100, and Rs 3,100 respectively and would be honoured with mementoes.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-to-award-scholarships-to-meritorious-students-269048
16-06-2021||---||City-based artistes come up with short film on Covid-19||Amritsar, June 15 Four theatre artistes from the city have come together to keep up the awareness momentum for Covid as restriction are relaxed. Members of the Radiance Manch, a theatre group that has been engaged in creating content for awareness on social issues, has now made a short film on the impact of Covid and the health safety measures required.  Directed and produced by Gurinder Singh, a noted theatre director, the cast includes actor Arvinder Bhatti and Amar Sher Singh. The poster of the film was released by DC Gurpreet Khaira, which has been shot and complied within a week and on minimal budget.  Gurinder and Arvinder Bhatti had earlier made creative content for Swachh Bharat awareness and Bhatti is also the district brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat. “To beat the seriousness around any social message and to break the monotonous tone and repetition, we decided to come up with this creative short film that is essentially a guide to health safety practices to be followed. People are exhausted due to lockdown and it can be seen that post-relaxations, many have again crowded public places. We can successfully reach masses and spread the message on following guidelines through such films,” said Gurinder. Arvinder Bhatti, who had been actively supporting Covid relief efforts, said: “One has to consider that after relaxations, people might get complacent and not exercise caution. Our film is a few minutes long and at this time, such content can be used to remind people about significance of precautions. We are making all out efforts to ensure that it reaches maximum number of people and the purpose is served.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-based-artistes-come-up-with-short-film-on-covid-19-269049
16-06-2021||---||SGPC wants CM to intervene||Amritsar, June 15 SGPC has sought the intervention of CM Capt Amarinder Singh in getting vacated the illegal occupation from General Shivdev Singh Diwan Gurbachan Singh Khalsa College in Patiala, being run by the Sikh body.  SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said that the management of Khalsa College, Patiala had come under the SGPC on May 15, 1991. The land in the name of the Khalsa College, Patiala include 110 bighas and 15 biswas, out of which, 25 bighas and 9 biswas was occupied by Mata Sahib Kaur Girls Khalsa College, Damo Majra, Patiala. “The land mafia has been making efforts to illegally occupy a total of 57 bighas and 19 biswas of the land of this college. The SGPC has erected boundary walls after getting vacated some land from the illegal occupation by the land mafia”, said Bibi Jagir Kaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-wants-cm-to-intervene-269050
