17-06-2021||Amritsar||3 mobile phones seized from jail||MAN arrested with 1-kg opiumTarn Taran: The police party from the local CIA staff led by Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh arrested Sahib Singh, alias Sabi, a resident of Timmowal (Amritsar) with 1-kg opium on Tuesday, from near Ekal Gadda village. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused had been booked under Sections 18-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act by the Verowal police. The SSP said the accused was arrested with intoxicating material four months ago as well. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-mobile-phones-seized-from-jail-269778
17-06-2021||The United Nations Environment Programme||Baba Sewa Singh’s works attain global recognition||An officer par excellenceDr Amandeep Singh Saini (pic), Deputy Economic and Statistical Adviser, Tarn Taran, has remained the first choice of every Deputy Commissioner due to his abilities. Dr Saini after doing his BSc (Hons) in agriculture from Khalsa College, Amritsar, did masters in agriculture from Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, and PhD from Punjabi University, Patiala. Belonging to a mediocre family of a school teacher, Dr Saini is differently abled due to post-polio paralysis but he never considered it hurdle in attaining the highest level of education and working in different spheres. From the very childhood he was seen in every social activity in Tarn Taran town. At the age of 17, Dr Saini joined Nehru Yuva Kendra as volunteer and worked as president of the blood donation organisation for almost 15 years. He was adjudged the best youth of Amritsar district when Tarn Taran was part of it and honoured with state youth award. Before joining the Punjab Government job he worked as project coordinator for the Punjab region in British High Commission’s funded project on STD/ HIV prevention from 1997-1998 and as project director in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment’s project of drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centre from 1998-2000. Funds pertaining to different plan schemes are released though the office of Deputy Economic and Statistical Adviser. Government of India allocates Rs 5 crore per annum per MP under MPLADS. Proper accounting, careful release, monitoring and reporting are conducted by the office. Dr Saini has also been given the role of coordinator of GOGs ( Guardian of Governance) , nodal officer for Mission Tandrust Punjab at district level, Additional District Census Officer, etc. by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh. When asked, “Don’t you feel political pressure while working on this post?” he replied, “As I have proper knowledge of rules with honesty and commitment towards hard work there I feel no political pressure in my work and it gives me pleasure.” Bicycle is his first choice as vehicle.Narrow bridge without railingIs anyone worried about a very narrow bridge on Lalpur- Sheikhchak village link road? The said road is very busy because it further links to another number of villages like Warana, Shangarpur, Vein Puin and Dhotian. The railing is missing from the bridge for the last more than 30 years and it may cause any major accident. The matter has been brought to the notice of authorities concerned many times but to no avail. There are many more such type of bridges on the link road in the border area.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baba-sewa-singhs-works-attain-global-recognition-269782
17-06-2021||---||Admissions to ‘online courses for Punjabi diaspora’ begin at GNDU||Amritsar, June 16 Guru Nanak Dev University has initiated admissions to  UGC entitled/approved online courses for Punjabi diaspora under the newly established Directorate of Online Studies. These courses are started by keeping in view the demand of Punjabi diaspora settled outside Punjab, especially in foreign countries. The online courses started by the university to promote the Punjabi language and culture for the Punjabi diaspora settled abroad have already been inaugurated virtually on May 3 by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Prof (Dr) Jaspal Singh Sandhu said these online courses would go a long way in helping youngsters to learn Punjabi and the true spirit of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiat. “This endeavour would also help Punjabi youth to abreast Punjab’s rich and glorious heritage, thus connecting them with their ancestral roots. The UGC had granted permission to start courses to 37 universities out of the 981 universities of the country. The GNDU is the only state public university in the state to have been given this honour by the UGC,” he said.  The university shall be offering course in Punjabi at certificate, graduate, and postgraduate levels, he added. In addition, technical and skill-based courses in the areas of computer science, commerce and management shall also be included for the students of state and other parts of the country under online studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admissions-to-online-courses-for-punjabi-diaspora-begin-at-gndu-269773
17-06-2021||Amritsar||Family alleges police inaction in suicide case||Alleging police inaction, the family of suicide victim along with the residents of Fateh Singh Colony held a demonstration outside Anngarh police station here. The agitators raised slogans against the Punjab Police and demanded registration of an FIR in the case in which a youth committed suicide in the colony in April this year.  Maninder Singh ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan at his house. The family alleged that the police had not registered an FIR even after two months.  Lakhwinder Singh, his father, said they believe a girl, who had an affair with him and her family forced him to commit suicide. Though the police had launched inquest proceedings, it was yet to register an FIR. He said they came to know about her involvement two days after the incident from their neighbours as they saw the girl and the family visiting the house just before Maninder ended his life.  Rajwant Kaur, SHO Gate Hakima police station, said initially the family said they sought no action. “I have assured them of appropriate action after completing the probe within a week,” he said.  Amarjit Singh Asal, CPI leader, said following the assurance, the dharna was lifted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-alleges-police-inaction-in-suicide-case-269774
17-06-2021||---||LPG distributors, workers protest against gas pipeline||Amritsar, June 16A large number of LPG agency workers and distributors on Wednesday held a demonstration against laying of gas pipeline here. The protest was held at the Ranjit Avenue area. The agitators demanded withdrawal of the project which they alleged would render hundreds of workers attached to LPG gas agencies jobless.The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has been executing the city gas pipeline projects in Amritsar and many other districts in Punjab.Gopal Singh Mann, president, federation of LPG distributors Punjab, speaking on the occasion said the project was another example of toeing the line of corporate houses. The project would only help them while leaving hundreds of people associated with the LPG gas agencies unemployed.I urge the government to cancel the project which would otherwise could create a law and order problem as the governments gave no heed on the rehabilitation of the people associated with the gas agencies, he said. Mann said the federation would be forced to launch agitation across Punjab if the government failed to pay heed to this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lpg-distributors-workers-protest-against-gas-pipeline-269776
17-06-2021||---||Release activists held for Bhima-Koregaon violence, says sabha||Amritsar, June 16Activists of the Jamhoori Adhikar Sabha and other like-minded organisations on Wednesday staged a protest and carried out a march while seeking immediate release of those who were booked and arrested for the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence.Holding banners and raising slogans against the Central Government, they accused it of pursuing fascist agenda and appeasing the majority government. The protesters assembled at the Company Garden and later marched to the Hall Gate to send out their message among masses.Sumit Singh, leader of Tarksheel Punjab, said intellectuals from diverse fields were put behind bars by naming them in violence and booked under the stringent norms of the UAPA. He said those held were famous as democratic rights activists, counsels, writers, stage artistes, journalists and from other professions. He said the government was steadfastly violating democratic rights of individuals and eroding the value of high offices to pursue its fascist agenda.Dr Parminder Singh, leader of the sabha, sought that democratic rights of those lodged for the 2018 violence must be restored as no investigative agency of the country managed to prove their involvement in the violence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/release-activists-held-for-bhima-koregaon-violence-says-sabha-269777
17-06-2021||Amritsar||Faux metal mural workshop at DAV||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/faux-metal-mural-workshop-at-dav-269800
17-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Two young lives lost to road accidents||Tarn Taran, June 16Two persons died, while one was injured in two separate road accidents in the area on Tuesday.The deceased have been identified as Amritpal Singh (20) of Bachre village and Avtar Singh (25) of Kairon village. The injured Anmoldeep Singh, cousin of deceased Amritpal Singh, who was admitted to a local private hospital has been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.Giving details, the police said Amritpal and his cousin Anmoldeep were coming back from nearby Sangha village on a motorcycle after fetching milk. A car hit their bike on the main Tarn Taran-Goindwal Sahib Road. Both were injured seriously. They were admitted to a private hospital, where Amritpal succumbed to his injuries. The car responsible for the accident has been identified. Investigating Officer ASI Harjinder Singh said a case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC has been registered against the car driver.Meanwhile, Avtar Singh met with an accident at Patti crossing on the National Highway on Tuesday. He was on his bike and returning to his village — Kairon, when, he was hit by a car which was coming from Patti side. He was admitted to a nearby hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. The car has been identified (PB-02, CY 6782). The sadar police have launched further probe and ASI Devinder Singh is the Investigating Officer.Amritpal Singh and his cousin Anmoldeep were coming back from Sangha village on a bike after fetching milk, when a car hit their bike on the main Tarn Taran-Goindwal Sahib Road. Both were injured seriously. They were admitted to a private hospital, where Amritpal succumbed to his injuries, while Anmoldeep Singh, who was admitted to a local private hospital, has been referred to the PGI, ChandigarhAvtar Singh met with an accident at Patti crossing on the National Highway on Tuesday. He was on his bike and returning to his village - Kairon, when, he was hit by a car which was coming from Patti side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-young-lives-lost-to-road-accidents-269771
17-06-2021||---||Rising to the occasion, 16-yr-old raises Rs2L for Covid relief||Amritsar, June 16Ever since the PM called on the support of ‘Bal Mitron’, asking country’s youth to chip in with Covid-19 relief efforts, many rose to the occasion.Bir Singh Uppal, a16-year-old from the city, has been single-handedly raising funds and running Covid-19 relief work, reaching out to the vulnerable groups.A student of Doon School, Dehradoon, Bir has been in Amritsar since the studies continued online due to the pandemic. He has managed to raise Rs2 lakh, which were used to procure and distribute relief material.“I was pushed to do something, as I heard stories of how frontline workers were facing the dangers of the pandemic head on, while we sat safely in our homes. I discussed it with my family and started an online fundraiser through social media platforms. The response was overwhelming and people were really generous and we were able to raise Rs2 lakh within a month’s time,” said Bir. He received donations from across the country and even from family and friends settled in the US and Canada.He has used the funds to distribute 10,000 N95 masks to police personnel, sanitation workers, residents of Nushera village and provide relief material to the Institute of Blind, Amritsar.“I wanted to reach out to vulnerable groups like the police personnel, who have been on duty despite the danger of infection and also the rural population, especially daily wagers, who work in fields. Nearly 5,000 masks were given to the police personnel and another 5,000 to sanitation workers and people in villages. I also provided food items such as edible oil to the blind school and things that they required, as they have been facing fund crunch during the pandemic,” he said. He has also shared the details of the funds spent with all his donors.For him, these efforts led to a realisation as well. “I felt quite content that I was able to raise funds beyond my expectation. Also, I now feel motivated, more than ever, to continue my efforts to help the community through any possible means,” he says.His mother Vinit Uppal said its time the youth of the country realise their social responsibility and proved that they can be the change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-to-the-occasion-16-yr-old-raises-rs2l-for-covid-relief-269765
17-06-2021||GS Paul||Efficacy qualms hit vaccination drive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 16The slow pace of Covid-19 vaccine supply and hesitation among residents may take its toll on the government’s target of getting its citizen immunity from the pandemic.According to Dr Amarjit Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon, the implementation of the vaccination programme was being hampered, especially in rural areas.The Health Department in the district has come up with a novel idea to achieve its vaccination targets — using religious institutions and heads of the villages to convince people to go in for their shots.Also, the mobile vaccination units were being constituted with the assistance of Accredited Social Health Activists (or ASHAs) which could provide doorstep service in the rural belt.Dr Amarjit said the supply was irregular. From January 16, 2021, approximately 4.01 lakh people could be vaccinated in Amritsar, including over 3.27 lakh were administered the first dose and around 74,000 the second dose.Taking into account the estimated ‘to be vaccinated’ beneficiaries of Amritsar (between the age group of 18-44 years and 45 above categories), nearly 16 lakh have to be vaccinated so far. “Around 50 per cent of 45 plus age group have been administered the first dose and only 12 per cent between 18 and 44 age group could be vaccinated till date,” he said.Mangal Singh, proprietor of St Soldier School in Jandiala, viewed that there was a communication gap between the Health Department and the beneficiaries, as no prior intimation was being provided about the availability of the vaccination.There are 21 Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) in the urban areas and around 186 in rural areas.SMO Dr Santosh Kumari, who looks after the rural border belt Ramdass, told that around 65,000 persons who fall in the eligible categories were to be vaccinated in the 30 centres, but till date only 18,000 to 19,000 have been covered.At Lopoke, SMO Dr Alok Narayan said the vaccination drive was undertaken in 47 centres. Against 2 lakh of eligible beneficiaries of the area, only 16,000 have been vaccinated till date, including 13,000 (between 18 and 44 years) and 3,000 (45 years and above).Illiteracy, superstition a deterrent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/efficacy-qualms-hit-vaccination-drive-269766
17-06-2021||---||Carjacker kills driver of goods  carrier, arrested||Amritsar, June 16 A driver of a goods carrier was killed by a man in order to snatch his vehicle. The incident came to light when a cop spotted him while throwing the body of the deceased, later identified as Vinod Kumar of Ludhiana.  The police have arrested the accused identified as Dharvinder Singh of Bhalaipur village and a case of murder and destruction of evidence was registered against him at the Beas police station. The police have recovered the mobile of the deceased from him. ASIMahinder Singh said he was deputed at the Beas river bridge on Tuesday night, when he spotted a goods carrier (Chhota Haathi) stopping in the middle of the bridge. He said a man alighted from the driver’s adjoining seat and opened the door from the driver’s side. He pulled out the man, who appeared to be unconscious, out and threw him into the river. On seeing this, he raced to the spot and nabbed the accused and informed the officials.  Preliminary probe revealed that Dharvinder was going to Jalandhar to find a job. He said he took lift from a goods carrier. He said on the way, he planned the carjacking and hit him with an iron rod killing him on the spot and later threw his body into the river.  The police said from his mobile, the police identified the deceased as Vinod Kumar of Mundiya Kalan village in Ludhiana. They said divers were called to find the body of the deceased, which was yet to be located.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacker-kills-driver-of-goods-carrier-arrested-269767
17-06-2021||---||Robbery, murder bid: No clue so far||Amritsar, June 16The Jandiala police are clueless in the robbery case, in which a finance firm employee, identified as Chamkaur Singh, was looted by two armed bike-borne persons near Makhanwind village on Tuesday.Chamkaur was seriously injured when he tried to resist the attempt. The accused attacked him with sharp weapons. He was operated upon at a private hospital here on Wednesday.Karanbir Singh, field credit officer of Annpurna finance company, headquartered at Bathinda, told the police that on Tuesday, Chamkaur got monthly instalments collected from the clients and they were returning to deposit the same at the Jandiala Guru Branch. He said when they came outside Makhanwind village, two bike-borne persons armed with sharp weapons came from behind and tried to snatch the bag containing Rs1.06 lakh. When he resisted, they attacked him with a datar leaving him seriously injured. They fled with his bag from the spot.He said he was coming behind on another bike. As he saw the victim seriously injured, he immediately raised an alarm and informed his higher officials. With the help of onlookers, they rushed him to a private hospital in Amritsar.Sub-Inspector Nishan Singh said Chamkaur was operated upon by the doctors and his condition was stable. He suffered injuries on the forehead, shoulder and several other parts of the body. He said there was no clue in the case so far. He said CCTV cameras on the route where the accused fled is being examined. A case of murder bid and robbery has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbery-murder-bid-no-clue-so-far-269768
17-06-2021||---||Trickster couple held with 7 gold rings||Amritsar, June 16Five days after a goldsmith was tricked by a couple and decamped with gold rings, the police have arrested the accused Jaspal Singh and his wife Sapinder Kaur.The police recovered seven gold rings weighing 24 gm from them. During interrogation, the couple confessed to committing three more crimes in a similar way, said Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, at a press conference here on Wednesday.He said the couple had duped a goldsmith in Gurdaspur in March and in Gate Hakima and Cantonment police area here in similar fashion four days ago. They were produced in the court and brought on police remand for further investigations, he said. More cases are likely to be traced, he said. While Jaspal had five cases of fraud, theft and NDPS Act registered against him, his wife Sapinder had four cases against her.Meanwhile, a notorious criminal Vikramjit Singh, alias TT, of Mustfabad area, was arrested with 90-gm gold and a country-made pistol with five live bullets. Vikramjit, who had 10 cases of robbery and theft against him, had looted a doctor couple along with other accomplices after making her family hostage in January. He has been evading arrest since then. He had also admitted to robbing an elderly in Dilavari Street, Putlighar, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trickster-couple-held-with-7-gold-rings-269769
17-06-2021||---||Lack of awareness, hesitation keep foodies, gym goers away||Amritsar, June 16In another step towards the return of normalcy in public life, eateries and gymnasiums opened in the city with 50 per cent capacity on Wednesday after the state government further eased the lockdown norms.The state government has allowed restaurants and gyms to operate with 50 per cent of their capacity. However, the owners of these establishments are still confused about the timings, as they said the detailed instructions have not been released.The general public’s response, too, was unexpectedly low, as eateries and gyms received only a few customers on the first day. Reasons can be both — lack of awareness regarding the opening of these facilities or the hesitation to go out.“Most people are still not aware about the new government orders. Things will improve in the next few days. We have made all arrangements for the safety of customers,” said Satinder Singh, manager of an eatery in Ranjit Avenue area. The government has also allowed cinemas to open with certain conditions, but none of these opened on Wednesday. The movies at the cinemas are generally released on Fridays.Residents, especially restaurant and gym owners, are elated as they had been suffering losses. Some of them especially gym operators and gym lovers had also raised the issue and demanded that they be allowed to operate.Abhi Kapoor, a gym enthusiast, said: “I had been working out at home, but it was very difficult. We are very happy that gyms have opened.” He said he had been feeling low, as most of the markets were closed. Another youngster Yogesh said: “We visited the gym today to enquire about the timings.” He said parents are still reluctant and are not allowing them to workout at gyms. Until today, eateries in the city were allowed to provide take-away services and dining-in was totally prohibited. Even street food venders were allowed till 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lack-of-awareness-hesitation-keep-foodies-gym-goers-away-269770
