18-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar City’s ‘high-security’ jail in name only?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 17The Amritsar Central Jail authorities have seized as many as 48 mobile phones from the “high-security” jail under ‘operation clean’ in the last 17 days.The newly constructed jail is surrounded by densely populated areas already notorious for crimes and drug abuse. Unscrupulous elements sling prohibited materials, including mobile phones, safely wrapped in plastic bags, which are later recovered by patrolling parties. -  A jail officialThe jail staff has taken appropriate measures for nailing perpetrators. Seizures indicate that we have adopted zero tolerance against such elements.- Hemant Sharma, Additional Superintendent, Central jailJail authorities have launched ‘operation clean’, under which regular search operations are being carried out to seize objectionable materials that have been sneaked into the high-security jail by unscrupulous elements.The jail not only houses notorious gangsters and petty criminals, but infamous drug peddlers, terrorists and foreign nationals as well.On Thursday, three mobile phones were confiscated from a notorious gangster and another prisoner. Davinder Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said a search operation was carried out in room number 7 of barrack number 6.The staff confiscated a smartphone from a prisoner Pargat Singh, alias Mandeep Singh, alias Deep, while another keypad phone was recovered from notorious gangster Nitin Nahar of Lawrence Bishnoi gang. The third mobile phone was found hidden in the exhaust fan of the bathroom.The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against them and further investigations were on, the police authorities said.A jail official wishing not to be quoted said the newly constructed jail is surrounded by densely populated areas that are already notorious for crimes and drug abuse. The unscrupulous elements sling prohibited materials including mobile phones safely wrapped in plastic bags, which are later recovered by patrolling parties.Hemant Sharma, Additional Superintendent of the jail, said the Amritsar Central Jail staff has taken appropriate measures for nailing perpetrators. Seizures indicate that we have adopted zero tolerance against such elements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-citys-high-security-jail-in-name-only-270307
18-06-2021||GS Paul||Poster war between Amarinder & Sidhu camps finds prominence yet again in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 17With the core issues of residents apparently taking a back seat, a poster war between the Capt and Sidhu camps has found prominence, yet again!In reply to posters addressing Capt Amarinder Singh as Punjab Da Ek Hi Captain with hashtag ‘Captain for 2022’ and Captain Ik Hi Hunda Hai, Sidhu’s supporters erected fresh posters on unipoles in various parts of the city with slogans reading: Punjab Da Captain Sidhu, 2022 Da Hovega Sidhu Sir Taaj, and Fateh Kar Ke Banawange SarkarAmid political crisis in the state Congress, it was the turn of Navjot Singh Sidhu camp this time to show its supremacy over Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp.In reply to the posters addressing Capt Amarinder Singh as Punjab Da Ek Hi Captain with hashtag ‘Captain for 2022’ and Captain Ik Hi Hunda Hai, Sidhu supporters erected a fresh lot of posters on unipoles in various parts of the city with slogans in bold Punjabi reading: Punjab Da Captain Sidhu, 2022 Da Hovega Sidhu Sir Taaj and Fateh Kar Ke Banawange Sarkar.This ‘service’ was done on behalf of councillor Parminder Kaur Hundal from Ward No. 21, Verka, falling under the East Constituency represented by Sidhu as a lawmaker.Justifying it, her husband and Congress worker Master Harpal Singh said residents’ emotions have been expressed in these slogans.“Captain Amarinder was the ‘Captain’ when he served in the Army. In politics, his influence worked during the 2003 Congress era, but after that, he lost it. During the current term, not a single promise — be it eradication of drug menace, justice in 2015 sacrilege and firing cases or employment to jobless — could be fulfilled. We demand to change the command and urge people to give Sidhu a chance to serve them by voting him to power in 2022. He is the voice of Punjab,” he said.These hoardings were spotted on Verka roads, main Bhandari Bridge, Ranjit Avenue, bus stand and in other parts of the holy city.Earlier, City Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu had got erected posters favouring Capt Amarinder Singh.As the tussle between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu grows on social media, both groups are trying hard to garner support before the Congress high command reaches a conclusion.In Amritsar, local Congress leaders had maintained a distance from the Sidhu couple since the differences between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu came to light leading to ‘attacking’ each other, especially after the alleged leniency in handling the sacrilege incidents and on farm crisis.Sidhu and his wife, a former lawmaker from Amritsar East, too, have shifted their focus from Amritsar to Patiala in the last few months. The couple had hoisted a black flag atop their residence in Patiala and the same was done by their daughter Rabia in Amritsar to express solidarity with farmers’ cause on May 26. These events were never assisted by local Congress leaders at either of the places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poster-war-between-amarinder-sidhu-camps-finds-prominence-yet-again-in-amritsar-270308
18-06-2021||---||SGPC scholarship to meritorious students||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 17As many as 990 students who appeared in Dharmik Prikhya (religious examination) for 2019-20 session received scholarships worth Rs22 lakh and mementoes from SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur during a ceremony held at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on the Golden Temple complex.To encourage youth towards Sikh values and culture, the SGPC conducts the religious examination, in which thousands of students from different schools and colleges participate every year. This time, too, around 50,000 students appeared for the examination, of which 990 secured scholarships, while 17 performed exceptionally well and secured positions in the merit list - Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC PresidentJagir Kaur said children and youth were the future of the community and it was important for them to be aware of their faith.Teachers and principals of the schools who performed excellently in the religious examination were also honoured. Special prizes were awarded to 17 students, who secured first three places in the religious examination. In the annual religious examination conducted during the 2019-20 session through the Dharam Prachar Committee, 17 students under four categories secured the first, second and third positions in the merit list. They were awarded special prizes of Rs5,100, Rs4,100 and Rs3,100, respectively.In the first (Class VIII & IX) category, the first position was secured by Navpreet Kaur of Guru Arjan Dev Public School, Barath Sahib, Pathankot; second by Sanmeet Kaur of Baba Diwan Singh Model School, Raipur Araiyan, Kapurthala; and third by Palakpreet Kaur of Guru Nanak Dev Academy, Batala.In the second (Class XI & XII) category, the first position was secured by Ramanjot Kaur of Guru Nanak Dev Public School, Basia, Ludhiana; second by Jaskarandeep Singh of Guru Nanak Kindergarten School, Kala Afghana, Gurdaspur and Ashandeep Kaur of Virrakat Senior Secondary School, Talewal, Barnala; and third by Gurwinder Singh of Guru Arjan Dev Collegiate School, Chohla Sahib, Tarn Taran.In the third (graduate) category, the first position was secured by Mandeep Kaur of Baba Aya Singh Riarki College, Tugalwala, Gurdaspur; second by Lovejot Kaur of the same college and Loveleen Kaur of Baba Namdev University College, Kishankot Gurdaspur; and third position by Shubhpreet Kaur of Baba Aya Riarki College, Navpreet Kaur of Baba Namdev University College Kishankot and Mandeep Kaur of Khalsa College, Garhdiwala, Hoshiarpur.In fourth (postgraduate) category, Manpreet Kaur of GNDU, Amritsar came first; Sukhbir Kaur of Baba Aya Singh Riarki College, Tugalwala second; and Harpreet Kaur of Khalsa College, Patiala and Kiranbir Kaur of Guru Nanak College for Girls, Muktsar Sahib third.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-scholarship-to-meritorious-students-270309
18-06-2021||Amritsar||55-year-old Amritsar hotelier shoots himself||Hotelier Sanjiv Bindra (55) allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself on his hotel premises situated in Bagh Ramanand on Thursday. The police have started inquest proceedings.Senior police officials led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Jaspreet Singh reached the hotel and took first-hand information. According to sources, Bindra ended his life with his licenced revolver.The Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) said as per family members, Bindra was in depression due to his ill health. He went to a room to get some rest, but did not come out, said the ACP, adding that his wife went to wake him up around 3.30pm where she saw him lying in a pool of blood. She immediately rushed him to a private hospital, where he succumbed.The ACP said statements of the victim’s family were being recorded and it would be premature to say anything at the moment. The police have not found any suicide note, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/55-year-old-amritsar-hotelier-shoots-himself-270310
18-06-2021||---||Amritsar District reports 2 deaths, 46 new cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 17With two more deaths, the district toll increased to 1,549 on Thursday. The district Health Department also reported 46 new positive cases, taking total count of infections to 46,347.The deceased have been identified as Savinder Kaur (65) of Malluwal village and Parchotam Das (67) of Park Avenue near Doburji. The new cases include 22 influenza-like illness cases and 24 contacts of positive patients.With the recovery of 157 patients, the recovery count has also increased to 43,515. The district at present has a total of 1,283 active cases.Meanwhile, 7,752 persons including 6,682 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday. The health authorities said so far, 30,440 healthcare workers, 74,744 frontline workers, 2,36,547 residents above 45 years of age and 42,113 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years have been given the first dose of the vaccine, while 15,236 healthcare, 17,439 frontline workers and 42,672 residents above 45 years of age have been completely vaccinated.Congress MLA Sunil Dutti, while speaking at a vaccination camp, said the injection would be made available to students above 18 years of age in schools and colleges from June 21. He said the teachers of schools and colleges in the age group of 18 to 44 years would also be vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-2-deaths-46-new-cases-270311
18-06-2021||TarnTaran||Farmers burn Agri Minister’s effigy||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-burn-agri-ministers-effigy-270312
18-06-2021||Amritsar||Man booked for raping woman, sexually harassing her daughter||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-woman-sexually-harassing-her-daughter-270313
18-06-2021||Paddy is not an easy crop to grow. A gym-crafted body is a no match for a physique shaped by working in the fields. Growing paddy requires staying out in the sun during peak summer season. The initial process begins in May or June and ends in late September or mid November depending on the variety of the crop. Throughout these hot and humid months||Herculean task!||The first thing after harvesting wheat is that farmers prepare a bed for nursery. The procedure involves ploughing the plot two-three times. A healthy nursery is the most important aspect. Apart from watering nursery at regular intervals, removing weeds is a massive task.Levelling the fieldsBefore transplanting paddy, fields are ploughed to dampen the soil and then a wooden leveller (suhaga) is used to create a flat bed. When the muddy water settles down, it is the perfect time to transplant paddy.Repairing bundhsTo retain water in fields, cleaning of water channels and repairing of bundhs is very important. The first and major repair is done before paddy is transplanted. Afterwards, a farmer looks for leakages and rat holes. Even farmers know that water is a precious and scarce commodity.Direct Seeding of RiceAnother option to manual transplanting is direct seeding of rice (DSR). In it, seeds are drilled into the soil using Happy Seeder or Super Seeder. The technique requires the knowledge of germination process. The technique is still evolving and the government is trying to make it cost-effective by providing susbsidy on machines.Traditional transplantingTransplanting seedlings in time is very important. As the work is labour intensive, labourers (local or migrants) are hired. The process requires a worker to bend and push the seedling in flooded field. At noon when mercury rises, water heats up, which tests the nerves of labourers and farmers.Uprooting of seedlingsBefore transplanting, seedlings are uprooted from nursery manually. Small bundles are made to facilitate easy transportation to fields overnight. The work requires labour to uproot one seedling at a time to ensure that there’s no damage to roots.Mat and tray type nurseriesAs farmers have started transplanting paddy through machines, such nurseries are raised in a special mat or tray so that it can be fed into the machine. It requires high-level of technical knowledge than the traditional method.Ploughing fieldsAfter preparing nursery, farmers focus on preparing fields for transplanting paddy. It includes ploughing, levelling, cleaning water channels and repairing bundhs. While harrowing and levelling is mainly done using a tractor, physical labour is required for bundhs and water channels. And, if you think that driving a tractor is easy, you are mistaken. Hot weather, dust, noise and rough ride on a tractor is a back-breaking and painful experience.Mechanical transplantingOf late, a few alternatives to manual transplanting have been developed. One of these is transplanting with machines. Four-five healthy workers can transplant an acre daily, while four-row machine can transplant four acres per day. This technique is at a nascent stage and has not become popular with the farming community so far.Kids’ day careAs all members of family, including teenagers work, taking care of children becomes quite difficult as they cannot be left at home. Toddlers are usually handed over to elder siblings and taken along where their mothers or other women keep an eye on them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/herculean-task-270314
18-06-2021||---||3 die, 40 test +ve in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 16Three persons lost their lives to Covid-19 on Wednesday with which the toll increased to 1,547. The health authorities have also reported 40 new positive cases, with which the count has increased to 46,301.The new cases include 18 influenza-like illness cases and 22 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 144 patients, the recovery count has also improved to 43,358. The district at present has a total of 1,396 active cases. Meanwhile, the deceased have been identified as Sahil (30) of Putlighar; Baldev Singh (78) of Kot Harnam Das and Ranjit Kaur (64) of C-Block Ranjit Avenue.5,130 persons inoculated on WednesdayThe health authorities said 5,130 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Wednesday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine on Wednesday included 133 healthcare workers, 273 frontline workers, 568 residents above 45 years and 3,475 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The second dose was given to five healthcare workers, 44 frontline workers and 181 residents above 45 years.3 die in Tarn TaranThe district reported three Covid-related deaths and eight fresh positive cases on Wednesday. The death toll has increased to 345 and the number of active cases is 189. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 115 patients had been isolated in their respective homes and 16 infected persons were being treated in other districts’ hospitals.The DC said the total number of persons vaccinated in the district was 1,59,801, with 2,324 persons being administered the dose on Wednesday. Teams of the Health Department had collected 1,024 samples to be tested for Covid today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-die-40-test-ve-in-amritsar-269772
18-06-2021||Amritsar||4 SGPC staffers sacked for service rules’ violation||The SGPC has dismissed four of its employees and transferred other staff members posted at Gurdwara Gangsar Sahib, Jaito, in Faridkot district, after they were found guilty of violating service rules and “defaming” the gurdwara management.The sacked employees are gurdwara manager Kulwinder Singh, clerk Sukhmandar Singh and sewadars Gurbaj Singh and Lakhbir Singh. They allegedly stored liquor on the gurdwara premises and indulged in immoral activities. This was opposed by local residents who staged a dharna outside the gurdwara.Action has been taken on the basis of a report submitted by SGPC junior vice-president Baba Buta Singh, executive committee member Navtej Singh Kauni and the SGPC’s flying squad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-sgpc-staffers-sacked-for-service-rules-violation-269664
