19-06-2021||Among various socially relevant initiatives||Food for thought||Will Batala be made a full-fledged district?A day before Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, chairman, Gurdaspur Planning Board, met Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh, he had done his homework and research, well on the reasons as to why Batala should be upgraded into a full-fledged district. The doctor had a discussion with the CM on this issue. Over the years, the debate on this matter had become monotonous. However, Dr Nijjar picking up the ghost it again assumed urgency. After Malerkotla was declared a district, voices to make the city into one has become shriller. Observers say Batala deserves the status because it is not only the eighth largest city in Punjab, but also because it’s the second oldest after Bathinda. It already is a separate police district. The municipal committee got upgraded into the Municipal Corporation in March 2019 giving a fillip to the argument of upgrading the town. It is also a highly industrialised township following which it has earned the epithet of being the ‘steel town’ of Punjab. On the flip side, the argument to have the city as a separate district acts as anathema to the purists and old-timers alike. They claim that after Pathankot was carved out as a separate entity, Gurdaspur district lost its importance. Now, they say, after Batala is made a separate district, Gurdaspur will further lose its relevance and will be virtually rendered a lame duck. The coin falls both ways. If Nijjar is in the forefront, there are others too like social activist Jagjot Singh Sandhu who are holding protests to ensure their city gets the exalted status.Tokyo — a bridge too far for this judokaJudoka Jasleen Saini’s(pic) hopes of qualifying for Tokyo Olympics have disappeared into thin air. Three members of the Indian contingent tested positive for Covid in the Asia-Oceania championship, which was held in Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan in April. This development forced the entire team to huddle into isolation in a local hotel and skip the tournament. The championship offered crucial ranking points. Saini was just a few points away from making the grade in 66-kg weight category for the Olympics through the Asian continental quota. Bishkek would well have become the springboard for his participation in the Olympics. Saini is a product of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh judo centre, which has produced more than a hundred national and international-level judokas. He would have been the second player to have made it to the quadrennial sporting extravaganza from a small town like Gurdaspur. Local lad Avtar Singh has already donned India colours in the 2016 Rio Olympics. Amarjeet Shastri is the coach at the centre. A teary eyed Saini said, “I can accept failure. Everyone fails at something or the other. I tried my level best for Tokyo Olympics, but then some things simply do not play out as you would like them to have. As every sportsman knows, the ultimate level of competition is to be found at only the Olympics and nowhere else. Everyone wants to be an Olympian. Now, I will have to wait for another four years.”— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/food-for-thought-270891
19-06-2021||Amritsar||Manik Sareen first in MSC Maths||Vaccination camp organisedA vaccination camp was organised at Shri Ram Ashram Public School.This camp was held under the supervision of Vikas Sarpal along with his team. As many as 350 persons took advantage of first and second dose as per their requirement in the camp. They were informed about the precautions to be taken after the vaccination.School president Balbir Bajaj and Principal Vinodita Sankhyan shared that the school fully supports this life saving vaccination. They said that the motive behind this camp was to provide facility of vaccination to those who are unable to get themselves vaccinated due to one or the other reason.College gym inauguratedBBK DAV College for Women’s open gym “Health Hub” was inaugurated by Shwait Malik, Member Parliament, Rajya Sabha. The gym has been built with an amount of Rs 7,00,000/- sanctioned to the college by him. Speaking on the occasion, Malik said that under schemes like ‘’Khelo India’’ and ‘’Fit India’’ various future projects will also be undertaken to make city beautiful and healthy. Two gyms are installed in the college, one in front of the swimming pool complex and another in the hostel. The equipment installed in both the open gyms includes one cycle, one cross-trainer, one twister, multi gym stations and other machines. The aim of this gym is to encourage faculty and students for better health and fitness. Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia said that such open gyms are the need of the hour and it is the best endeavor anyone can make during pandemic.Webinar on recycling of clothingTarn Taran: The fashion designing department of local Majha College for Women organised a webinar on the topic ‘recycling of clothing’ on Thursday. The college students and staff members were apprised of different aspects of topic. Ambika Khurana, assistant professor, fashion designing department, Khalsa College for Women, Amritsar, in the webinar gave detailed information to the students and others on the topic. She said old clothes may be used for dusting and cleaning floors in houses, shops, offices and other commercial establishments. College Principal Dr Hardeep Kaur too addressed the students on the topic. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/manik-sareen-first-in-msc-maths-270890
19-06-2021||Amritsar||33-yr-old man commits suicide||Two nabbed with 321-gm heroinTarn Taran: The Sarhali police have nabbed two persons and seized 321 grams of heroin from them. One of the accused has been identified as Harpreet Singh, a resident of Benwalipur village, while identity of the second person was not disclosed. The duo was arrested from Jallewal village after being intercepted by the cops. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a case under Sections 21,29,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. In another incident, the Bhikhiwind police have nabbed a proclaimed offender with 1000 intoxicanting tablets on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Sursingh village. The accused was arrested four years ago under the NDPS Act and was declared the PO. A case under Sections 22,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against Lakhwinder. OCHrithik Arora is NSUI state secyTarn Taran: Hrithik Arora, president of the local district unit of the National Student Union India (NSUI), on Friday was appointed state secretary and district in-charge of the NSUI. He received a letter issued by Akshay Sharma, state president of the union. Hrithik worked hard for needy people of society during the peak of the first wave of the Covid pandemic. He said he was committed to helping down-trodden sections of society. OCDSP’s reader held for fraudAmritsar: The Vigilance Bureau on Friday nabbed a reader attached to a DSP for corruption. The accused, Tejinder Bali, allegedly demanded Rs3 lakh as bribe for dropping the name of a suspect from an FIR. The incident came to light when SSP Parampal Singh was apprised of the matter. The accused tried to escape from the office, but was chased and caught by sleuths of the Vigilance Bureau. TNSHotelier suicide: Partner bookedAmritsar: A day after hotelier Sanjiv Bindra (55) committed suicide by shooting himself with his licensed revolver at his hotel in Sultanwind Gate, the police have booked his partner Rajan Malhotra, a resident of East Mohan Nagar, on charges of abetment to suicide. No arrest has been made till now. Mridul Bindra, son of the deceased, told the police that his father was upset for the last two months and Malhotra was harassing him and wanted to usurp the hotel without giving him his share. Assistant Commissioner of Police Jaspreet Singh said a case has been registered on the statement of deceased’s son and further investigation was under progress. TNSMan booked after year of incidentAmritsar: A year after a man allegedly raped a woman in Kherabala Chak village, the police have registered a case against the accused, identified as Rajbir Singh. The 30-year-old victim filed a complaint with the IG Border Range in December 2020. She alleged that the accused entered her house by jumping over the wall in May 2020 and started vulgar activities. Sub-Inspector Simarjit Kaur said the probe conducted by an SP rank-officer. A case has been registered under Sections 376, 506 and 354-C of the IPC against Rajbir. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/33-yr-old-man-commits-suicide-270889
19-06-2021||---||Kin of five hockey players honoured||Amritsar, June 18Five youngsters from the district have made it to the Indian men and women hockey squads for the Tokyo Olympics. Hockey lovers hailing this development stated that it revived the memories of a time when the border district used to contribute the maximum number of players in the hockey squad.Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh and Harmanpreet Singh will be part of the Indian hockey squad to play in the Tokyo Olympics, while Gurjit Kaur will be part of the Indian women hockey team. Family members of all these five hockey players were felicitated by the district administration on Friday.Hailing from Miadia Kalan village, which falls in Ajnala border subdivision, Gurjit is a drag flicker. She is employed with the Indian Railways and is currently posted in Allahabad.Her sister Pardeep Kaur, who had been a goalkeeper with the national women team from 2010 to 2016, said, “Our village did not have any hockey ground yet we were attracted towards hockey during our school days at Government Senior Secondary School, Kairon”.Dilpreet Singh’s father, Balwinder Singh, who had played the nationals from 1990 to 1996, said he was extremely happy that his son realised his dram of donning national colours and to represent the country in Olympics. He informed that Dilpreet participated in Commonwealth Games held at Australia, practice matches in New Zealand, Champions Trophy in Holland, Asian Games at Jakarta, Asian Champions Trophy in Oman, Pro League Match in Argentina and many more.Dilpreet’s grandfather late Subedar Gurnam Singh was a member of the national athletics team from 1957 to 1964.Shamsher Singh’s father, Hardev Singh, a farmer by occupation, said he was the first person in the family to play hockey. “I vividly remember he used to watch youngsters play hockey in the village ground and gradually joined them to learn the game”, he said.Gurjant is a forward in the Indian squad and was part of the Indian team that won the gold at 2016 men’s hockey Junior World Cup in Lucknow. Harmanpreet Singh is a defender in the Indian team. He had participated in the 2016 Summer Olympics and Junior Hockey World Cup 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kin-of-five-hockey-players-honoured-270857
19-06-2021||Amritsar||Biker killed in road accident||Identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of the Mohkampura area died in a road mishap in Beas on Thursday.  The victim was returning from Jalandhar when his bike collided with an oil tanker. The driver of the tanker has been identified as Shamsher Singh. Kunal, brother of the victim, stated to the police that his brother works in the marketing wing of a private company in Jalandhar. He said like his daily routine, he was returning home when the incident took place. He said he got a call at around 3.30 pm that his brother had died in the accident. A case under Sections 304A, 427 and 279 of the IPC was registered against Shamsher. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/biker-killed-in-road-accident-270858
19-06-2021||---||Pandemic impact: IT, pharma top placement trend||Amritsar, June 18 The post-pandemic placement trend for several city colleges shows a boom in IT sector and pharmaceutical sciences as students from vocational and professional courses have been able to secure jobs despite the economic slump. While all recruitments shifted to online mode due to restrictions, the paradigm shift towards digitisation in post-pandemic world has helped boost the IT and technology-based sectors to offer employment opportunities.  GNDU’s placement cell this year managed to get maximum placements done in IT sector, with digital marketing specialists leading the pack. “Students with skill set in their field of specialisation are proving to be an asset for companies and IT sector is going to witness surge in the coming years as well. Apart from IT, pharmaceutical and related branches such as research and development, too, are witnessing a boom as companies such as Serum Institute and others have hired from us,” said Amit Chopra, assistant placement officer of the university.  Related fields such as agriculture science, biotechnology and industrial chemistry, too, are offering new opportunities. Chopra said while traditional sectors such as engineering and technology have not lost much, service sectors such as hospitality, hotel management and tourism have been hit due to the pandemic. “These sectors were doing fine before the pandemic and maximum hiring was done through local tourism industry. But since tourism and hospitality are now among the most hit sectors due to Covid-19, the temporary slump will result in reduced jobs,” he said.  Another factor, hitting placements post-pandemic is the decreased international recruitments and local industry slump. “While mass media, journalism and IT remain popular industries offering jobs, local industry seems to be missing while hiring students this year. We used to get recruiters from Punjab, Himachal and other nearby states, but due to slump in the local industry, hiring has been less this year,” said Manoj Puri, dean, placement in-charge, BBKDAV College. GNDU students have registered an average package of Rs5 lakh per annum this year, with maximum hiring from MBA and IT sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-impact-it-pharma-top-placement-trend-270859
19-06-2021||---||‘Expel CKD members for joining saffron party’||Amritsar, June 18  Prof Baljinder Singh, a senior member of the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), has asked the president of the organisation, Nirmal Singh, to expel the two members who have recently joined the BJP, the political wing of the RSS.   He said recently six Sikh personalities were inducted into the BJP, including Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon, a member of the CKD and honorary secretary of the education committee. Apart from this, Iqbal Singh Lalpura, who is spokesperson of the BJP, is a member of the CKD.  Referring to the Hukamnama issued by the Akal Takht in July 2004, he said the RSS was declared anti-panth and all Sikh sangats, sabhas, organisations, societies and gurdwara managements were instructed to have no ties with the RSS.  “If both the BJP members were not disqualified from the CKD membership, the issue will be taken up with the Akal Takht.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expel-ckd-members-for-joining-saffron-party-270860
19-06-2021||---||Tramadol seizure: Financial Intelligence Unit to probe case||Amritsar, June 18 The Amritsar rural police have written to the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) for carrying out investigation on the suspects nabbed in the case of seizure of huge quantity of opioid-based painkiller tramadol from two places in Himachal Pradesh. The step was taken for threadbare investigation into financial transactions made by them. The police have so far arrested 10 persons, including alleged owner of the HP firm — Unique Formulation — Munish Mohan and Delhi Mansi Medical Store owner Prem Kumar Jha. SSP Amritsar Rural Dhruv Dahiya confirmed the development, adding that they had written to the FIU in this regard.  Meanwhile, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is also likely to interrogate the suspects in connection with the seizure of a huge quantity of the banned drug from two places in Delhi. The NCB had confiscated 10 lakh tramadol capsules, 5 lakh tablets besides, 2,200 syrups in the NCR this month. One consignment originated from a firm in Kala Amb in HP and the other was from Unique Formulations. One of the consignments was to be delivered to Prem Kumar Jha, said an official privy to the investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tramadol-seizure-financial-intelligence-unit-to-probe-case-270861
19-06-2021||---||Weapon seizure: Police remand of smuggler extended by 4 days||Amritsar, June 18The local court on Friday extended the police remand of alleged weapon smuggler Jagjit Singh. Jagjit was nabbed by the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) with 48 automatic foreign weapons believed to be smuggled from Pakistan a week ago.Following investigation carried out so far, the SSOC produced Pargat Singh, aka Mandeep Singh, a resident of Dhilwan, who was arrested from Amritsar Central jail before a court. Pargat was held by the Batala police in 2019 in connection with the murder of Akali leader Dalbir Singh Dhilwan. Pargat, along with his father Balwinder and brother Major Singh, had shot Dhilwan dead over an old enmity in November 2019.Pargat allegedly established links with prime suspect Darmanjot Singh, alias Darman Kahlon, having a link with the banned terrorist organisations Babbar Khalsa International and Khalistan Liberation Force based in Pakistan and having operatives in the US, the UK and Canada.The local court extended Jagjit Singh and Pargat Singh’s remand by four days, respectively.Nevertheless, the police were yet to arrest the “first courier”, who handed over the weapon consignment to him. According to the police, his arrest would clear further links, besides ascertaining the route through which the weapons were smuggled into Indian territory.The weapons were smuggled from the Pakistan side for carrying out terrorist activities in Punjab. Sources said the police had been analysing the CCTV cameras and other technical inputs to track the “first courier” who had escaped from the spot just a couple of minutes before the police arrested Jagjit Singh.The prime suspect Darman, a gangster, had migrated to the US several years ago. He was involved in arranging funds from different sources to fuel militant activities, besides facilitating youths’ (with no previous criminal record) joining the banned Khalistani organisation.The confiscation of a huge quantity of automatic weapons has left many security and intelligence agencies in a tizzy. They were trying to ascertain how the consignment got sneaked into India. Representatives of different agencies have also been interrogating Jagjit Singh.Moreover, the Amritsar Central Jail had confiscated a mobile phone from Pargat Singh during a search operation on Thursday. The SSOC would also take his mobile into custody for forensic analysis for finding his links with Darmanjot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weapon-seizure-police-remand-of-smuggler-extended-by-4-days-270862
19-06-2021||---||Day after, Sidhu’s posters vanish||Amritsar, June 18Posters rooting for Navjot Singh Sidhu as ‘Captain of Punjab’ got disappeared within 24 hours from unipoles, thus leaving his supporters bewildered.Sidhu’s supporters had installed posters in response to Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp that they should not take Sidhu for granted when it comes to leading the state.Nonetheless, nobody knew who removed Sidhu’s posters had come up at various key locations in the city on Thursday. Master Harpal Singh Verka, a staunch Sidhu’s aide, said, “Not the Opposition, but Congress workers are involved in this shameful act. Capt Amarinder’s posters have been left untouched as they are jealous of Sidhu’s popularity and felt insecure when his posters emerged in the holy city. They cannot stop Sidhu in the 2022 Assembly election.”When asked that Sidhu was missing for the last six months from Amritsar and ignored his constituency, Verka said, “As Sidhu was not keeping well, he shifted to Patiala temporarily. He will be back soon with a top position as the Congress high command was about to announce it shortly.” A poster war has cropped up between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-sidhus-posters-vanish-270863
19-06-2021||Neha Saini||Finally, tourist spots reopen after two months||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 18After a gap of almost two months, the authorities have reopened Gobindgarh Fort and Partition Museum for masses. The move comes after the state government had relaxed curbs and restriction on the movement. A partial lockdown was implemented in March due to the second wave.Footfall at Gobindgarh Fort was encouraging on the first day. Upinder Singh, general manager, Gobindgarh Fort, said, “Tourists thronged the fort from morning till evening. Amritsar is an important stopover destination for those returning from Himachal and Jammu & Kashmir. It’s important that tourists places are allowed to operate during peak season. Now, the weekend lockdown has been lifted and we hope to serve more tourists as we can function at our full capacity.”The fort has resumed all its activities except the light and sound show due to evening curfew (6 pm) restrictions.Partition Museum, too, reopened all its galleries and activities for general public. Rajwinder Kaur, curator, Partition Museum, said, “Tourism industry is reeling under stress from the last one and a half year. Reopening will at least ignite a hope of revival.” She said they were waiting for another set of SOPs to be followed after June 25.Punjab War Heroes Memorial and Museum will resume operations from June 22. Col HP Singh, project director of the museum, said, “ We need some time to prepare our galleries and update our technology. We will open our gates for public on June 22.”Apart from religious shrines, including the Golden Temple, Durgiana Temple and Ramtirath Temple, most of the tourist spots, including Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, a panorama depicting life of the legendary king, Pul Kanjri, a tourism site associated with the Maharaja, Jallianwala Bagh and Sadda Pind have been reopened for tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finally-tourist-spots-reopen-after-two-months-270864
19-06-2021||---||2 die, 47 test +ve in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 18Two persons lost their lives to the Covid-19 disease on Friday with which the toll increased to 1,551. The health authorities also reported 47 new positive cases, with which the count has increased to 46,394.The new cases include 19 influenza-like illness cases and 28 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 140 patients, the recovery count has improved to 43,655. The district at present has a total of 1,188 active cases.Meanwhile, the deceased have been identified as Dalbir Singh (46) of Baba Deep Singh colony in Chheharta area and Manpreet Kaur (23) of Jabowal village.5,369 persons inoculatedThe health authorities said 5,369 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Friday. Now, the total count of people vaccinated with both doses in the district has reached 4,64,560. Those who received the vaccination today included 4,542 persons in the 18-44 age group.The health authorities vaccinated 15,252 healthcare workers, 17,492 frontline workers, 42,873 residents above 45 years. The second dose was given to five healthcare workers, 44 frontline workers and 181 residents above 45 years.Tarn Taran sees 1 deathThe district reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Friday, taking the death toll to 350, while eight persons tested positive for Covid on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-die-47-test-ve-in-amritsar-270865
19-06-2021||Tarn Taran||1 dead, three injured in firing over land dispute||A dispute over the land of a family in the border village of Gehri claimed one life and left three injured when about 30 armed men fired indiscriminately here this afternoon.  Villagers accused the police of not taking timely action though the victim brought the matter to the notice of the police station and police helpline much early. The deceased has been identified as Resham Singh (50) while one of his associates, Multan Singh, was seriously injured and admitted to the Community Health Centre at Kasel. The bone of contention was a piece of eight kanal land of the family. The victim’s brother Dilbag Singh had sold his eight kanal parental land to Manjinder Singh of the same village some time back. Dilbag wanted to give possession of the land which deceased Resham Singh was cultivating. For the last three weeks, Manjinder Singh along with Dilbag Singh had been intimidating Resham Singh with arms. Resham Singh approached the Sarai Amanat Khan police to take action in this regard. On Friday, Manjinder Singh, Dilbag Singh and other armed men reached the plot on Friday and tried to encroach upon it but Resham Singh stopped them from doing so. The armed men opened indiscriminate firing on Resham Singh and his associates. Resham Singh, who was hit in the stomach, died on the spot. His associate Multan Singh received gunshot injuries on his body. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-dead-three-injured-in-firing-over-land-dispute-270866
19-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Docs protest attacks,||Tarn Taran, June 18On the call of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), district unit of the association observed a protest against attacks on doctors on Friday. A deputation of the organization, led by Dr Dinesh Gupta, district secretary of the IMA, submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner to be forwarded to the Prime Minister.The doctors from across the district, including civil surgeon, officials of the health department, SMOs and doctors doing private practice too participated in the protest. Doctors from Patti , Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Khalra, Harike, ect. also participated in the protest.The protesting doctors were wearing black badges and carrying placards against the attacks on their colleagues and healthcare professionals.Dr Dinesh Gupta said the association was demanding central act against violence, settings of fast tract courts to do away cases of violence, declaration of hospitals as protected zones and non-bailable offence in case of violence against healthcare workers.IMA members wear black badges, seek protectionAmritsar: On a call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the Amritsar branch of IMA observed protest day to highlight the menace of violence against doctors. In this regard, all members of IMA wore black badges and raised black flags in their respective clinics, nursing homes and hospitals.Banners saying stop violence against profession and professionals were also put up. An executive meeting was called upon in IMA hall under state president Dr Kuldeep Arora and branch president Dr Amandeep Kaur.In the meeting, the members said in spite of laws, violence is unabated in hospitals and clinics against doctors and health workers.Dr Kuldeep stressed upon need of a law that will give strict punishment to the offenders. He stressed that the stir would be intensified if doctors were not protected. JDA, pharma association, chemist association, number of NGOs including VOA extended their support to the cause of doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/docs-protest-attacks-270867
19-06-2021||Raj SadoshAbohar||Unemployed, para players to return awards to Punjab CM||Unemployed para national and international players of Punjab have decided to stage a dharna outside Chief Minister’s residence in Chandigarh on June 24 over the failure of the state to ensure government jobs to them. They will also return awards conferred on them by the state.Sanjeev Kumar of Telupura village, a Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Sports Award recipient, will lead the protest.PPCC president Sunil Jakhar had arranged his meeting with CM Capt Amarinder Singh on January 17, 2019, and recommended a job. Sanjeev even met Minister of Sports Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi four times, but nothing was done by the authorities.Sanjeev, a para badminton player, has to his credit five gold, a silver and seven bronze medals in international events. Retaining his No. 1 position in the country since 2012, he has won 17 gold, five silver and three bronze medals in national para badminton competitions.After his father retired from a government school in Khuyiansarwer village, making ends meet became difficult for the family.Sanjeev said along with him, other differently abled sportspersons would also return the state’s most prestigious Maharaja Ranjit Singh Sports Award to the Chief Minister. In January 2019, when a protest was held by sportspersons outside CM’s residence, OSD Sandeep Singh Sandhu had assured that their grievances would be resolved, but to no avail.Expressing anger, he said the state government made tall claims on the “Ghar-Ghar Rozgar” project, but could not arrange a few jobs for disabled sportspersons. He said: “By winning medals at the international level, we made Punjab proud, but the government has failed to come up with a policy that would ensure us jobs.”Other para players and Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Award recipients who are expected to join the dharna are Shripal, Baljinder, Ajay, Ranjit, Hardeep, Gurvinder, Mahavir, Suman and Arjuna Awardee Raj Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unemployed-para-players-to-return-awards-to-punjab-cm-270472
