20-06-2021||While we celebrate motherhood as one of the greatest feats||A child’s first superhero & role model||‘I have become more aware as a father’For Dr Chander Mohan, an eye specialist and senior medical officer at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital, a father’s involvement in routine affairs of children is very important. And, he has been balancing his duty as a doctor and as a father throughout the pandemic. “Gone are the days when it was believed that raising children is the duty of women only. Nowadays, for working couples, it is the duty of both partners,” he said.His professional responsibilities as a frontline warrior during the pandemic divided his time and his children supported him throughout. “My daughter is in MBBS first year. By the time I reach home every day, she already has many questions related to my day and medical science. Even if I am exhausted, I try to help them out in their studies,” he shared.He said the pandemic has changed the way he feels. “Earlier, I used to rush home and sit for a while. Now, I come back, take shower and change clothes before meeting any of the family members. These are the precautions you have to take if you are working in the medical field. I have become more aware about my responsibility towards my family, my children,” he said, adding that being a father he tries to be available to his children all the time. “Physical availability might be an issue due to working hours, but I call them in between to enquire if they are taking their online classes or if they have had their meals on time,” he said. — Manmeet Singh‘Want to make every minute spent with dad count’Ssujata (14) and her younger siblings Aadika (12) and Moksh (9) are busy in making plans to celebrate the day with their father Neeraj Kumar, an inspector in the Punjab Police.They plan to bake a cake, make a card and spend quality time with him. Every year, they celebrate together this day.Nevertheless, this year, the day acquires different meaning, because of the unprecedented health crisis that has engulfed the world, especially for the family members of frontline warriors, including doctors and policemen.Neeraj, who was involved in social service besides law and order duties, had been on field all throughout last year, when he caught the infection in June 20 last year. He had to be hospitalised as his health deteriorated. Though he recovered, Covid-related complications took a toll on his body and he is still recovering.“For most of the time, Papa used to remain in field, distributing ration to the needy besides maintaining law and order. This used to keep the entire family worried,” said Sujata, adding that though he used to take precautions, still the infection caught him. “Being a cop, the call of duty is supreme for him and he used to remain in the field during those difficult times,” she proudly says. “I am proud of him for his commitment towards his duty, but a concern always remains. But the bad time is over and now, we want to make every minute count and spend quality time with him,” she said. When asked what she has planned for the day, she quipped: “It’s a secret.”Neeraj’s perception towards fatherhood, too, has changed after the pandemic. “Earlier, when I used to come back home from duty, children used to be asleep. I used to leave for duty the next day before they woke up. Now, I want to make an extra effort by spending time with my children and therefore, I decide to take some time out for them,” Neeraj said.Back on duty, he still fears taking the infection back home. “We have a joint family and my elderly parents also live with us. It always remains a challenge not to carry infection home so that nobody gets infected because of me,” he said. As for Father’s Day, Neeraj plans to celebrate the day with his kids and his father. — PK JaiswarHe begins & ends his day with an unfaltering determinationFor the last one year, teachers, too, are having a mix of good and bad times. While a sudden shift of the entire education system to digital mode has brought in a desperate need to evolve technologically, the pandemic has added to their woes by making it challenging to give their services on the frontline.Vikas Parashar, a mathematics teacher at DAV Senior Secondary School, Hathi Gate, too, had to struggle to manage his online and offline duties as a teacher and a father.Parashar’s 18-year-old son Shauvik and 14-year-old daughter Pankhuri talk about his daily routine throughout the pandemic. “My father has always been my role model as we have seen him learning and evolving consistently as a professional and an individual. He begins and ends his day with an unfaltering determination and smile daily. Since he is also an NCC officer in his school, he used to wake up early to chalk out his plans for the day. He used to actively lead relief campaigns and give duty everyday during migrant retreat last year when the pandemic was at its peak. At that time, he used to leave home early in the morning and return late at night and we would constantly worry about his health,” shared Pankhuri.These days, she said, his day begins with conducting online classes. “As a teacher, he has constantly been involved with his students continuously making sure that they do not miss out on learning due to the pandemic. He creates innovative methods to teach his subject, which otherwise is considered tough. His conduct with his students is always smooth and light as students can be seen laughing and enjoying during long periods,” she said.Pankhuri added that throughout the pandemic she had seen her father juggle his duty as a teacher and a socially responsible citizen without complaining. “That’s why he is my role model. There are days when he comes back home tired and exhausted. But he never lost his enthusiasm and has been seen getting ready to return to work with greater determination.” Vikas said he always makes sure that he is able to take out some time to cook ‘rajma-chawal’ for his daughter and nurture his plants, while performing his other duties. The family ends its day by having rich talks about their daily happenings. — Neha SainiFor this 31-yr-old bizman, his father is guiding lightFor Amarpreet Singh, 31, his father is a guiding light who not only raised him single-handedly but also shaped his career.“I was only 9-year-old and elder sister Tejinder Kaur was 10-year-old when my father and mother parted ways. I vividly remember him getting up early and helping our granny in getting them ready for school,” says Amarpreet Singh. He could not expand his business and had to be content with a PCO shop outside the residence, so that he could take care of his children.Gurwinder, 55, recalls: “Those were very difficult days when he had to sit for hours at the shop as well as ensure that the children got wholesome food, devoted enough time to studies, got new garments and their other requirements were fulfilled.” At times, his basic job of earning livelihood was relegated while looking after the kids.Gradually, as the kids grew he started focusing on his trade. As the PCO business became non-profitable, he shifted to cosmetics by opening a shop in Pratap Nagar area. Then he moved to selling CDs on the Lawrence Road. After sometime it also became a non-profitable venture and he opened a garment shop in a shopping tower.Looking back at his past life, he said agony had a full share. “I was only three when my father Khajan Singh passed away. His elder unmarried brother had passed away when he was just 23 and his young handicapped unmarried sister also passed away at a very young age.”Gurwinder said his son-in-law Prem Singh died due to brain haemorrhage just eight months ago, leaving behind a 7-year-old girl Japji Kaur.So many setbacks in life did not shake his faith in humanity. He along with his friends floated Sri Guru Ramdas Welfare Society, which is providing monthly ration to 350 needy families. — Neeraj Bagga||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-childs-first-superhero-role-model-271285
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Month-old baby among 2 lose battle against Covid in Amritsar||Two persons, including a month-old child lost their lives due to Covid-19 on Saturday. With this, the toll has increased to 1,553. The Health Department has reported 30 new cases with which the total count has increased to 46,424.The new cases include 14 influenza-like illness cases and 14 contacts of positive patients.The deceased have been identified as Ajit Kaur (78) of Prem Nagar on Khairabad Road and Kaka (month-old), son of Gursharanjit Singh of Chheharta.Meanwhile, with recovery of 142 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 43,797. At present, the district has a total of 1,074 active cases.The health authorities said 6,278 beneficiaries in the district were inoculated today. Those who received the first dose included 32 healthcare workers (HCWs), 103 frontline workers (FLWs), 292residents above 45 years and 5,735 residents in the age group of 18-44 years. The second dose was administered to 18 HCWs and 176 residents above 45 years.One dies, 11 test positive in Tarn TaranThe district reported one death and 11 new positive cases on Saturday. The toll reached 351 and there are total 154 active cases in the district of which 96 have been isolated at their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 2,515 persons were vaccinated on Saturday, adding that total 1,68,451 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far. The Health Department teams collected 1,118 samples and the reports of 727 were yet to arrive. As many as 14 patients were given discharge after treatment on Saturday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/month-old-baby-among-2-lose-battle-against-covid-in-amritsar-271288
20-06-2021||Amritsar||New Amritsar rural SSP takes charge||Newly appointed Amritsar rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khuranna assumed office here on Saturday. He was presented a guard of honour and thereafter he held an introductory meeting with senior police officials.He was earlier posted as SSP Pathankot. He was transferred to Amritsar after Amritsar rural SSP Dhurv Dahiya who proceeded on Central deputation two days ago.Khuranna said he was feeling blessed for serving in the holy city. He said that eradicating drug abuse besides maintaining law and order was among his priorities.“Being a border district, it is a very sensitive region while cross border drug and weapon smuggling is always a challenge for us. There would be zero tolerance against drug traffickers,” said Khuranna.He said implementing guidelines in view of the pandemic would also be a priority. We will seek cooperation for implementing the guidelines in letter and spirit, he said. He said the drive against bootleggers active in the village would be continued.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-amritsar-rural-ssp-takes-charge-271289
20-06-2021||Amritsar||His tryst with writing||Noted Punjabi writer Gurmeet Karyalvi took part in an interactive web session with journalist and critic Nirupama Dutt. It was organised by the Majha House, in collaboration with the Prabha Khaitan Foundation. Under the literary initiative Aakhar, Karyalvi shared insights about his life and his work. Gurmeet said his tryst with the literature came when he was assigned the task of writing essays for his teacher. As he read what he was writing, he felt that this was what he could do easily.“I found that I had many stories, personal experiences, inside of me waiting to just come out, and be put into words. I have faced discrimination; suffered the brunt of terrorism. So, I found that I just had to open the floodgates of my consciousness and the writer inside me took care of the rest and the stories just flowed,” shared Gurmeet. When Nirupama asked him about the writers and books that influenced him and inspired him to become a writer, Gurmeet cited Sohan Singh Seetal’s ‘Tootan Wala Khoo’ and Gurdial Singh’s ‘Marhi Da Deeva’. ‘Both these books are milestones in the annals of Punjabi literature as they are quite a departure from the usual, run-of-the-mill books written in those days. They are honest and realistic,” said Gurmeet.Talking about the representation of Dalits and Sikhs in literature, Gurmeet said earlier Dalit Sikhs were very stereotypical characters, presented as addicts or buffoons. They were always the sidekicks, cast in a small role usually just to create humour. “But slowly this caricaturist approach changed over the years. It is heartening to see Dalit Sikh characters presented as the main character of the novel. These characters are realistic; their experiences and pains are realistic; you can relate to them and their experiences.”Gurmeet said although he chose novel as his medium, he later improvised with short story writing and plays. “To my surprise, my story ‘Aatu Khoji’ was widely acclaimed; it was even selected in an anthology of Sahitya Academy Award winning stories. Even my first play received a standing ovation!’ he shared.His latest novel ‘Oh Ikki Din’, Gurmeet said is based on his experiences during the pandemic. “My wife is a health worker and was assigned duty in a Covid ward. One day, I went to drop her to work and came across some patients, I observed them closely and found that their stories were very interesting. I scribbled down my ideas and showed them to my wife who liked it and encouraged it. This is how the novel took birth, which was warmly received by everyone,” said Gurmeet. Talking about the Dalit consciousness pervading through his novels, Gurmeet said it was only natural that this should be so. He also expressed regret and disappointment that novels and stories in the Punjabi language do not receive wide appreciation or audience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-tryst-with-writing-271290
20-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Sarpanch’s son shot dead||Woman among 5 POs arrestedAmritsar: The city police nabbed five proclaimed offenders who were evading arrest after they went absent from the court hearings. Those arrested were identified as Sushil Singh, alias Sheelu, a resident of Niven Tung; Sukhchain Singh of Chohla Sahib; Jatinder Kumar of Verka and Bawa Singh of Ram Tirath Road. Besides, a woman wanted in the immoral trafficking case registered in 2010 was also arrested by the police. Sukhchain Singh, a drug peddler, had escaped from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in 2016. He did not appear before the court and therefore was declared a proclaimed offender in 2018. Later, he was recently arrested and sent to the Central Jail. ASI Jaspal Singh said that he was now arrested in the case and would be produced in the court. Similarly, the Civil Lines police nabbed PO Bawa Singh from near Dr Kitchlew Chowk. He was wanted in a robbery case registered in year 2009. He was also absent during court hearings since 2014, therefore, the court declared him PO. TNSTwo held with illicit liquorTarn Taran: Joint teams of the Punjab police and Excise Department conducted raids at two places in Bhikhiwind township and arrested two persons with material used in the manufacturing of illicit liquor. Excise Inspector Jatinder Singh said the arrested persons were identified as Karm Singh and Gurmej Singh. Karm Singh was arrested with a working still, 150 kg of lahan and 50 bottles of Illicit liquor, while 20 bottles were found from the possession of Gurmej Singh. Cases under Sections 61,1 and14 of the Excise Act had been registered against the accused , said the Excise Department here on Saturday. OCCollege students bring laurelsTarn Taran: Students of Shri Guru Angad Dev College of Education, Khadoor Sahib, bagged top three positions in Tarn Taran district in the ETT results. Simarpreet Kaur, Principal of the college, said, the students performed well in the results declared on Saturday. She said Anupreet Kaur, Manjit Kaur and Rana Partap Singh got the first, second and third position by securing got 92.52%, 90.63 and 88%, respectively. Meanwhile, five students got 85% marks, while 19 other got 80 per cent marks. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarpanchs-son-shot-dead-271292
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Transporters withdraw 40% vehicles from active operations||With diesel price hovering at Rs 90.32, transporters have withdrawn nearly 40 per cent vehicles from active operations, thus leading to wage loss and laying off employees and labourers.Anandjit Singh, a leading transporter, said, “It’s not practically possible to operate cargo carriages as diesel occupies 75 per cent of the entire operational cost.”He said there were around 400 small and big transporters operating 10,000 trucks, which gives livelihood to thousands of families. “Each truck offers employment to at least 15 persons. Drivers, cleaners, labourers engaged in loading and unloading, spare part shopkeepers and mechanics, among others earn their livelihood,” he said.Members of the All-India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) held a zoom meet recently and decided to hold a token strike at the fag end of this month to draw the attention of the government. They feel that high diesel price is not only hurting the government, but transport industry as well.The government has been continuously extending the last date for depositing fee for national permit, road taxes, driving licence and insurance fee of goods carrier for the last one-and-a-half year. Now, it has been extended to September 30. Initially, these were to be paid on February 1, 2020.Meanwhile, farmers’ stir proved a blessing in disguise for beleguared transporters as they have been saved from paying toll in Punjab and Haryana.A single-axle truck has to pay between Rs 800 and Rs 1,200 for a to and fro trip from Amritsar to Ludhiana. Similar distance on a multi- axle truck costs between Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transporters-withdraw-40-vehicles-from-active-operations-271293
20-06-2021||Amritsar||3 booked for firing in Ranjit Avenue||Neeraj, a resident of Housing Board Colony, had a narrow escape when three armed persons sprinkled bullets at him on Friday evening. Neeraj ran away from the spot in order to save himself. The incident led to panic in the area.According to police, one of the accused has been identified as Kartik, a resident of Baba Meer Shah Colony, on Majitha Road. A case has been registered while further investigation was under way.Neeraj told the police that Kartik along with his two unknown accomplices came on a scooter and fired around six shots at him. He said he narrowly escaped while the accused fled away from the spot.Neeraj’s mother Rajni asked the police authorities to arrest the accused who had been threatening his son repeatedly.ASI Narinder Singh Investigating Officer said the accused was known to the victim. Kartik came on a scooter and fired in air in order to intimidate him. As per the preliminary probe, the duo had a fight over a minor issue during which Neeraj slapped Kartik. Later a compromise was reached.The ASI said the accused kept a grudge and called Neeraj out of his house on Friday evening and fired in air. He said raids were on to nab Kartik. The entire family has absconded after the incident.A case under Section 336 of the IPC and Sections 25,27,54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-booked-for-firing-in-ranjit-avenue-271294
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Planting saplings to fight hunger & climate change||An NGO Dilbir Foundation has initiated an afforestation programme — ‘The 5Tree project’. Under the project, it will engage and inspire every citizen to plant saplings of five trees, preferably of native fruit varieties, at their houses or at community spaces.Also, various institutions shall be motivated to scale up these numbers and plant saplings in order to increase the number of fruit-bearing trees in the city. Traditional varieties which are being encouraged include mulberry, jamun, mango, jujube, moringa, tamarind and gooseberry. The logic behind the project is that planting fruit-bearing trees shall enable food production and enable atmospheric oxygenation for the needy, be it humans, animals or avian species.They will make available the required saplings to all who come forward and in case of large plantations, assistance will also be provided. “We have already received requests and orders from institutions and residents willing to participate in this initiative. We are awaiting readiness of pits and monsoon to begin plantation. A number of farmers, citizens and NGOs have shown much interest and are preparing pits already,” said Dilbir Foundation president Gunbir Singh.They have also circulated instructions for pit readiness to those interested in plantation. “A pit or a ditch must be at least 3-feet deep and 2-feet in diameter, with a minimum of 20-feet distance between two ditches. A safety boundary is also a must around the planted sapling to ensure its protection against animals. Ditches should be left open for four days and once planted the sapling may require watering daily for one year when the land is not moist,” said Gunbir. The push to resuscitate green cover, he said, is the need of the hour, especially after witnessing the horrific impact of pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/planting-saplings-to-fight-hunger-climate-change-271295
20-06-2021||Amritsar||GNDU, police ink pact to improve traffic management, road safety||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Punjab Police to set up an institutional mechanism for interaction between the two organisations for a period of five years. The MoU was signed by Vice-Chancellor Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu and Additional Director General Police Dr SS Chauhan.Under the MoU, both the organisations will carry out activities and events conducive to help measurably reduce the death toll and serious injuries caused by road incidents in the state or the region of the state.ADGP appreciates efforts of varsity and CPPunjab Police Traffic Advisor Navdeep Asija said under the MoU, both the parties would develop scientific temper, reforms in pragmatic methods applicable for road safety, traffic control, and management.Speaking about the collaboration, Dr Sandhu said, “This is a landmark occasion as it brings together two organisations from different walks of life and has the potential to be mutually beneficial. The initial phase of interaction will be important so that a good foundation is laid for sustained collaboration. Moreover, both organisations will develop state’s own technical expertise on traffic management, control, traffic, transportation and road safety engineering, eg. conducting joint road safety audit and training with the state police.Dr Chauhan said: “It’s an endeavour to do actionable research. The Punjab Police strives to have academic practitioner collaboration to have problem solving oriented research which can serve the people of the state. This will also create resource person for the state and is instrumental in creating valuable human resource.The ADGP also appreciated the efforts of the University Industry Linkage Cell and the Commissioner of Police for facilitatingthe MoU.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-police-ink-pact-to-improve-traffic-management-road-safety-271296
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Traders up in arms against cumbersome provisions of  Finance Act 2021||Traders and their associations are up in arms against the Central Government for introducing cumbersome provisions of 194Q of the Finance Act 2021, which will come into effect from July 1.Small and medium GST dealers said they were facing liquidity crunch in the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, in which it had become hard to survive.The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) suggested to increase the threshold of buyer’s turnover limit in the preceding year from Rs10 crore to Rs50 crore and single party limit from Rs50 lakh to Rs1 crore for levying TDS on purchases so that small businesses, who are already complying with law through a part-time accountant with limited manpower and financial resources, get a sigh of relief.Piara Lal Seth, president of the PPBM, said: “Practical implementation of both Sections 194Q and 206C (1H) is a bigger task. If by mistake TDS is not deducted, then 30 per cent of the purchase amount shall be disallowed under Section 40 (a) (ia) and will be added to the total income. Every seller having a turnover of more than specified limit is already charging TCS on its sale bills. It would be a very complex task for both the buyers having more than specified limit turnover to intimate all their buyers that they will be deducting TDS and not charging TCS on sale bills.”Sameer Jain, GST dealer, said in this edition of the Union Budget the provision of Section 194Q was laid, wherein TDS would be required to be deducted at the rate of 0.10 per cent on the purchase made after July 1, wherein the purchase from a specific person during the year exceeds Rs50 lakh and the company has a total turnover exceeding Rs10 crore in the previous year. According to Section 206C (1H) if a transaction is subject to TCS u/s 206C (1H), then buyer shall have first obligation to deduct tax. If he does so, the seller will not have any obligation to collect tax u/s 206C (1H). Seller shall be liable to collect tax only if the purchaser is not liable to deduct tax or purchaser failed to deduct tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-up-in-arms-against-cumbersome-provisions-of-finance-act-2021-271297
20-06-2021||Amritsar||A session with women cops||FICCI FLO Amritsar, in collaboration with Punjab Police and Saanjh, hosted a webinar ‘On the Frontlines: Policing During the Pandemic’ to salute the real heroes of our lives— the police— for always going the extra mile to ensure that people are safe and smiling.Through this webinar, Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO Amritsar, aimed to highlight the role of the robust policewomen, who have been second to none in dealing with unprecedented pressures and challenges with resilience and patience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-session-with-women-cops-271299
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Havan held on Rahul’s b’day||Congress workers, led by district urban president Jatinder Kaur Sonia, on Saturday assembled at the party office and performed a havan seeing long and prosperous life of former party president. Rahul Gandhi has asked party workers not to celebrate birthday and instead help people in distress due to the ongoing pandemic. Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka on the occasion inaugurated the new building of Government Elementary School, Kot Khalsa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/havan-held-on-rahuls-bday-271301
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Action sought against DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa over code ‘violations’||A Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) member has sought action against own president Manjinder Singh Sirsa for allegedly violating norms laid down for Amritdhari Sikhs.Bhai Chaman Singh gave a memorandum to the Akal Takht secretariat here today and met Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, who promised a probe into the allegations.In the communique, he alleged Sirsa was an apostate and “ignorant of Gurmat”, as he used to trim beard. “Despite asking him to mend ways, he did not heed to the advice. Eventually, a devout Sikh went to court against him over violation of the Sikh religious norms.” On this, Sirsa said, “Bhai Chaman Singh is a compulsive opponent. He was a puppet in the hands of the BJP. So he stood against every work of the DSGMC in Delhi.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/action-sought-against-dsgmc-chief-manjinder-singh-sirsa-over-code-violations-271238
