21-06-2021||Amritsar||Woman ends life, four booked||Gang of robbers busted, 7 heldTarn Taran: A team of CIA staff has busted a nine-member gang of robbers responsible for a number of robbery incidents in the border area. While seven of them were arrested, two others fled from the outskirts of Bainka village here on Saturday. The police also recovered arms and ammunition being carried by them. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said here on Sunday that those arrested were identified as Yadwinder Singh, Jagdev Singh, Jarnail Singh, Harwinder Singh Saba, Ram Singh Rama, Sarabjit Singh Sabba and Jashandeep Singh. The two absconding accomplices have been identified as Gurlal Singh and Jagpreet Singh. The SSP said one rifle, two revolvers and sharp-edged weapons were recovered from them. The accused had gathered at Bainka village to commit a robbery in the area when the police team, led by Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh (CIA staff), on receiving information reached the spot on time. SP (Investigation), Tarn Taran, Mehtab Singh said the gang members were already facing criminal cases. A case under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered. OCTwo schools burgledAmritsar: Unidentified persons burgled two government schools at Madchhaga and Jheeta Kalan villages falling under the Ramdass and Chatinwind police stations, respectively. Rajpreet Kaur, principal, government elementary school at Madchhaga village, told the police that on Saturday, she went to the school and found the locks of the kitchen broken and utensils stolen. She said a submersible pump was also found missing from the school. The school was closed due to the summer vacation, she said. During a preliminary probe, the police identified the suspect as Shera Singh of the same village. He has been booked by the police. Similarly, Monika Maini, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Jheeta Kalan village, told the police that on Saturday, unidentified burglars took away utensils, ration, a furnace, an LPG cylinder and a battery from the school premises. The police have registered cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-ends-life-four-booked-271701
21-06-2021||Do you think the govt needs to go a long way in being well-prepared to handle the vax drive?||Rope in more pharma firms to boost vax production||Proper planning must to face the problemFrom successfully running a small shop in a locality to a multi-national enterprise, a common formula of 5Ps — proper planning prevents poor performance — is always useful. Amid the pandemic, our authorities ignored the same time and again. When the first Covid-positive case appeared in China in 2019-end or the first case in Kerala in the beginning of 2020 we did not take it seriously. Instead of making a plan to face it we were busy in welcoming US President Donald Trump. Later, all of sudden in March 2020, without caring for the fate of millions of migrant workers we imposed a national-level lockdown with a notice of just four hours. When the whole world was facing the brunt of second wave of pandemic, instead of making preparations to face it, our leadership was engaged in campaigns in West Bengal and four other states and UT, which implied our failure in planning.Naresh JoharHealthcare system not sound enoughOur healthcare system had never been sound enough to deal with regular patient caseload thus its collapse was obvious. It’s the duty of a democratic nation to ensure free and quality healthcare services and education to its citizens besides providing them with means of livelihood that takes care of their basic needs. There is amity and brotherhood in society offering a helping hand to anyone in trouble. Unless we realise that we ourselves have made a farce of our democracy by electing wrong representatives by voting under the influence of religion, caste, creed, region, fear, greed etc, nothing will change. We will have to go a long way in strategising a way out so that we can handle such a situation in future.HL SharmaVaccination only way to fight pandemicUncontrolled spread of Covid in one country could have serious repercussions for the rest of the world as the virus mutates to lethal variants if it is left to proliferate. So, it becomes a collective global responsibility to vaccinate the entire population. Due to vaccine shortage, the fight against the deadly virus has become more challenging. India is no exception. Initially, the strategy could be vaccination of densely populated areas to keep a check on the spread of the virus. Other measures such as low mobility, detection and isolation of infected persons and adoption of Covid-appropriate behaviour are a must. The Centre could also invoke well-tried policy of procurement of all vaccine itself and negotiate lowering of prices as a bulk buyer and distribute it to states to be made available for free.Anil KhannaPublic health infra needs a boostThe third phase of the inoculation drive moved in fits and starts, much to the chagrin of jab seekers. A majority of people were unaware of the conditions and criteria of vaccination not made crystal clear. The government does need to go a long way in strategising a way out so that it can be well-prepared to handle such a situation in future. In future, the public health infrastructure should be kept in a tip-top condition. The government should stock up on vaccines before embarking upon inoculation. Strenuous and all out efforts should be made to procure vaccines from manufacturers. The issue of shortage of vaccines should be sorted out well in advance. The Health Department should remain in touch with the Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India. All eligible jab seekers must be asked to register themselves for vaccination.Tarsem S BumrahUnion, state govt must work in tandemThe government should take the vaccination drive seriously and do proper planning so that masses are vaccinated as soon possible. The Union and state governments should take measures to inoculate as many persons possible to ensure that the possible third wave is not as devastating as the previous ones. The government needs to focus on preparing a strategy for ensuring effective vaccination policy to ensure that we are prepared to fight any kind of such pandemics or diseases.TS BhattiNeed to prevent system from collapsingThe inoculation drive for those above 18 years was scheduled to start from May 1, but due to low stocks of vaccine it had been delayed several times. The government must make sure that enough doses are purchased through pre-shipment. Arrangements should be made in advance to make sure that the vaccination drive for any eligible beneficiary group is not halted. Steps should be taken to address any mismatch between demand and supply in future. For an effective response to deal with any such situation in future, the government needs to boost health infrastructure to prevent the collapse of the health system. Health infrastructure should be sound enough to bear the burden when such pandemic waves are on peak. The Centre and state must work in tandem. Lastly the government must focus on rural belts too.Ankur GuptaDiligent road map need of the hourThe government must plan and devise a proper and diligent road map for this. The companies that are manufacturing vaccines should be given all possible assistance and the necessary timely payments along with strict orders and surveillance to produce the required doses in the shortest span of time with utmost quality control. All raw materials required from other countries should be negotiated at the earliest. Adequate transportation and cold chain maintenance facilities should be pumped in with utmost priority.Dr Raman GuptaWork zealously to avoid such problemsMeticulous planning and its execution will be the key to combat such a situation if it arises in the future and which is likely to happen in the coming days only. The accessibility of data linked through Aadhaar cards can prove to be a bench mark but requires only zeal of the government to do so beyond political boundaries. Even for this inoculation derive the delay and lack of planning in vaccination would certainly prove devastating.Dr Arvinder ChamakGovt must pull up its socksThe government certainly needs to pull up its socks and put efforts in making a better strategy to handle vaccine roll out in the best possible manner. For a country with almost 2 billion people, the government should not be slacking in this department at all. We can only hope that the government crafts more flawless and ordered plans if future throws another unfortunate situation upon us.Gurjas SinghExperts’ opinion should be takenWell time is never enough to prepare for an unforeseen situation. Nonetheless that shouldn’t be the case when it comes to a government. Everyone has the responsibly to protect someone’s interest and in this case, it’s the government to protect ours. They should have prepared for the worse in advance. I think to deal with such a situation in future, the first step that our government needs to take is to accept that we are sinking deep into this crisis and not to be ashamed of that. Another important aspect that needs to be taken into considerance is the experts’ call to deal with this biological enemy as they are more skilled and capable of knowing the possible repercussions of taking illogical decisions.Sukhmani SadanaEnhance vax productionNeed of the hour is to create a vaccination roadmap for a fast and widespread vaccination. Vaccine production and procurement should be enhanced. Use of digital platforms to assist in managing and calibrating the vaccine deployment should be promoted. There’s a need to prioritise and vaccinate high risk groups such as vendors, transport workers, office employees, construction workers, essential service providers and congested slum dwellers. Dedicated vaccination camps for areas with high viral positivity and high mortality rates during the second wave should be organised.Dr Simarpreet SandhuTransparency is the keyThe government should announce a comprehensive vaccination policy with absolute transparency on various phases of implementation, the projected period and the target population percentage of each phase, along with the plan of vaccination procurement to fulfil the set targets. We are grappling in the dark with no clue to where our vaccination policy is headed to. Hence, a definite, realistic, well deliberated policy heading towards a planned conclusion will provide the necessary assurance.Deepa SwaniAnalyse response to first two wavesIt is imperative to analyse our response to the first two waves to learn lessons for preempting any likelihood of a third or possibly fourth wave as experts have been warning. Vaccines remain our most potent shield in this vicious battle. The government must show urgency and transparency in its approach to ensure all eligible citizens get the jab at the earliest. Ordering enough jabs, providing emergency use authorisation to all vaccine candidates approved across the globe, to hand holding Indian pharmaceuticals to ramp up manufacturing of vaccines would be crucial and must be taken up immediately.Akshay Sharma.Ensure enough stock to keep drive onIn the third phase of the inoculation drive, the government should emphasise on ensuring more supply of vaccine stocks to prevent the situation when it has to halt the drive. As many experts have warned of a possible third wave of Covid which is feared to be hitting children more, the government should act in time and make the required arrangements to deal with any such challenges in future.Nitish SabharwalAct on lines of pulse polio driveTo meet the vaccine requirement, more home pharma firms should be given the licence to produce the vaccine. The government should make arrangements with overseas manufacturers to procure vaccine at the earliest. As government hospitals and vaccine centres are not geared to face huge rush, more private hospitals should be allowed to administer free vaccine to 18 plus group. There’s a need to change the strategy. The authorities must take steps to take inoculation drive on the lines of pulse polio drive which has been a success and acknowledged worldwide.Anil VinayakForeign firms should be roped inIf the vaccine crisis in India continues, there will be serious consequences in future too. Bharat Biotech and Astra Zeneca should be provided with raw materials by the government to increase production. In addition, foreign agencies should also be approached to supply vaccines. Recognising the urgency of the time, the Centre should work with state governments and medical experts to formulate such a policy that everyone in India can be vaccinated against Covid.Sucha SagarMust learn lesson from Israel’s driveWe must learn from Israel as it lifted its ‘Indoor mask mandate’ after completion of a successful vaccination campaign. There is no denying the fact that India has a huge population and administering vaccine to all is a Herculean task. But considering the fact that India is the largest vaccine-maker in the world, strictness and sincerity can help us achieve this challenge with ease.Jatinderpal Singh BatthRamp up vax buying, productionNo doubt that vaccinating all in this huge country is a Herculean task, but the situation can be improved by ramping up manufacturing, procurement and transfer of doses. The government will have to change its strategy. To begin with, there’s a need to do away with prior-registration, let it be walk-in policy for 18 plus age group. Door-to-door vaccination is the need of the hour. The government must procure enough doses. Export of vaccine to third world countries should be halted till our citizens are fully vaccinated. Medical experts along with researchers and scientists should see the impact of vaccine on mutant strains.Jaspreet GroverA contingency plan mustMedical infrastructure could be developed to meet the need on a war-footing. A contingency plan must be put in place now, to meet any future unforeseen threats. If the government can spend nation’s wealth on Central Vista, statues, Kumbh, elections, etc, then why not on health sector?BM SinghNeed to bridge gap between demand & supplyKunwar Vijay Pratap Singh (IPS)QUESTIONThe CBSE has given the 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of Class XII results. Do you think this will be a correct and satisfactory assessment for the students?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 24).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rope-in-more-pharma-firms-to-boost-vax-production-271705
21-06-2021||---||Father’s Day celebrated online||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fathers-day-celebrated-online-271689
21-06-2021||---||958 teachers appear for master cadre examination||Amritsar, June 20A total of 958 teachers appeared for exams held to promote them to master cadre in the state on Sunday. The state government has been trying to fill several vacancies in the government schools by conducting mastre cadre examinations.Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary), who is also coordinator of admission campaign, said the examination was conducted for teachers of English subject in four different schools during the morning shift.Out of 828 teachers who had applied for the master cadre of English subject, 744 appeared for examination today, said Satinderbir.In the evening shift, 214 teachers out of 238 who had applied appeared for exam of science subject, said the District Education Officer (Secondary).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/958-teachers-appear-for-master-cadre-examination-271690
21-06-2021||---||Medical, dental college faculty to boycott services for 3 hours||Amritsar, June 20In protest against the 6th Pay Commission report, the doctors at Government Medical College and Government Dental College have announced to boycott all duties except for emergency and Covid care on Monday for three hours.The services which would be affected would include the OPD, IPD, operation theatre and classes of medical students. Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association general secretary Dr DS Bhullar said the Cabinet decision on Pay Commission report would result in drastic cut in the salaries of medical and dental teachers instead of any financial benefits as the non-practice allowance (NPA) has been decreased from 25 to 20 per cent and delinked from the basic pay for the first time in the history of Punjab Pay Commissions.“NPA is part of the basic pay and considered as pay for the calculation of other allowances, including dearness allowance and house rent. Even the Supreme Court of India has upheld the decision of the Tribunal and the High Court by holding that 25 per cent of the pay as NPA will mean 25 per cent of the basic pay inclusive of the benefits,” he said.Dr Mridhu Gupta, working state president, said doctors working in government medical and dental colleges in Amritsar and Patiala have outrightly rejected the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report related to the medical and dental faculty passed by the state government, which has resulted in huge financial loss to them in the present form and doctors have categorically decided to oppose it tooth and nail.She said in its emergency meeting, the association has decided to oppose any such financial loss to the faculty and has urged Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to personally intervene to undo injustice to the medical and dental teachers and fix the new pay of government doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/medical-dental-college-faculty-to-boycott-services-for-3-hours-271691
21-06-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Angry farmers question Cong MLA’s long absence||Tarn Taran, June 20 Congress MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki from Khadoor Sahib constituency had to face great resentment of farmers and other residents on his visit to Lalpur village on Saturday.  The MLA was in the area regarding the Vidhan Sabha elections.  As soon as the farmers of the village got the information regarding his visit, they rushed to the spot and gheraoed him. The MLA tried his best to pacify the farmers but in vain and he had to return without holding any corner meeting in the village. The protesting farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab , led by Pakhar Singh, Dula Singh, Sardool Singh and others asked him the reason behind his long absence of about four-and-a-half years from the constituency. They said that they had been facing acute problems from the administration’s side as in spite of eligibility, their loan had not been waived. They questioned the MLA about his long absence from the constituency even after his ‘missing’ posters were pasted on the walls <in the area.  They warned that they would not allow any of the politicians to enter the village until the farm laws were rolled back. Despite repeated attempts, the MLA could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/angry-farmers-question-cong-mlas-long-absence-271692
21-06-2021||---||Four booked for Rs12-lakh fraud||Amritsar, June 20The Ramdass police have booked four persons, including a woman, for allegedly duping a resident of Rs12 lakh on the pretext of getting her daughter-in-law admission in a college in Canada.Those booked have been identified as Sarabjit Singh Mahal of Dahuria village, Satnam Singh of Dhadiala village in Batala, Jagroop Singh and his wife Jobanpreet Kaur of Makowal village. No arrest has been made so far.A case has been registered following a probe conducted by DSP Ravinder Singh of Punjab Bureau of Investigation. The complaint lodged by the complainant in November 2020.Sukhdev Singh of Haler village told the police that his daughter-in-law Paramjit Kaur had cleared IELTS exam. He said Jagroop was their neighbour. He said in December 2019, he along with his father had come to Ranjit Avenue for some work where Jagroop and his wife Jobanpreet Kaur met them. They introduced them with Sarabjit, Satnam and Sachin.He said the accused said they were travel agents and assured a study visa for Paramjit (AIMS College in Canada). He said the accused took Rs 12.50 lakh from him. Sukhdev said they gave Rs 11.90 lakh on March 5, 2020 and took a cheque of Rs 50,000. He said on March 3, when Paramjit went to the above mentioned college in Canada, the insitute said that they did not receive any payment. He alleged when they contacted Jagroop and asked them to return the amount, he refused.The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120 of the IPC against the accused while no arrest was made till now. The police said further investigation was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-booked-for-rs12-lakh-fraud-271693
21-06-2021||---||Tramadol seizure: One more arrested||Amritsar, June 20In a significant development, the Amritsar rural police have arrested another banned drug (tramadol) supplier Manu Chohan in connection with the seizure of the banned drug — tramadol — from Paonta Sahib in Himachal Pradesh on May 28.Chohan was evading arrest since the arrest of another chemist Amarpreet Singh, alias Sunny. A police official privy to investigation said he was nabbed from Mohanke village in Ferozepur where he was hiding. He said Chohan was instrumental in the supply of tramadol from Prem Kumar Jha of Mansi medicos in Delhi to Amritsar and other parts of Punjab.“Manu Chohan’s name figured during the interrogation of three drug traffickers who were arrested with 45,000 tablets of tramadol on May 18,” said sources. During the investigation of their forward and backward linkages, the rural police had landed at the Paonta Sahib firm and thereafter at the Kala Amb factory.Earlier, Manu Chohan used to work with a liquor vend owner. Later, he started supplying tramadol finding it more lucrative.With his arrest, the number of accused arrested so far has risen to 11. Among those arrested included Munish Mohan, the alleged owner of Himachal Pradesh-based firm Unique Formulation and Prem Kumar Jha, owner of Mansi medical store in Delhi. Sources said following Chohan’s arrest, the police have also applied for the production warrant of Sunny who was currently in jail. Sunny had introduced him to Jha and later he started supplying the opioid-based painkiller in Amritsar and other parts of Punjab.The police have also written to Financial Intelligence Unit for carrying out financial investigation of the suspects nabbed in connection with the seizure of a huge quantity of the opioid-based painkiller from two places in Himachal Pradesh.The Narcotics Control Bureau is also likely to interrogate the suspects in connection with the seizure of drug from two places in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tramadol-seizure-one-more-arrested-271694
21-06-2021||Amritsar||Gambling den busted, Rs2.75L seized, six held||The police have busted a gambling den in Hussainpura on late Saturday evening and seized Rs2.75 lakh. Cops also nabbed six persons while several managed to flee. Those arrested are Paras of Jamalpur Focal Point, Ludhiana; Narinder Kumar of Katra Khazan; Sanjiv Kumar of Gali Sheikhan wali; Shibu Mahajan, alias Ankush, of Ghas Mandi; Sunil of Katra Khazana and Deepak of Lahori Gate. Rohit Kumar, alias Logi, of Bazaar Borian wala and Rohit Kalyani of Hussainpura are still at large. The CCTV cameras were being scrutinised. It’s learnt Logi was close to a politician, besides having links with notorious elements. It’s being alleged that Logi was let off following the pressure. However, the police denied any such political intervention. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gambling-den-busted-rs2-75l-seized-six-held-271695
21-06-2021||---||Residents want Sunday lockdown to go||Amritsar, June 20 A complete response was observed during the lockdown on Sunday in the city with a view to contain Covid-19, but people from different walks of life want that it should be lifted. Rickshaw pullers and auto drivers said curbs and fear of getting infected have already dented their income. They complained of struggling hard to make both ends meet in these circumstances.  Rajesh Kumar, an auto driver, said lifting the lockdown may have provided relief to many professionals, but their source of income remain limited as all educational institutions are still closed. All these odds are amplified with the fact that the diesel price is hovering at its highest.  Navdeep Singh, a restaurant operator, said dine-in has been allowed by the government, but it was yet to bring in a good number of customers. He demanded that the Sunday lockdown be lifted to bring in more customers. He said families love to eat out on Sunday as people go to work on all other days.  Piara Lal Seth, president of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), urged the government to lift the lockdown on Sunday as well. He said the pandemic induced restrictions and lockdown impaired the business badly and both union and state governments were reluctant in coming forward to help out micro and medium businesses. He said: “All wholesale markets remain open in the city on Sunday to felicitate buying for customers coming from rural and remote parts of the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-want-sunday-lockdown-to-go-271696
21-06-2021||Amritsar||Covid: One dies, 52 test +ve in dist||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-one-dies-52-test-ve-in-dist-271697
21-06-2021||Amritsar||Jathedar Dhyan Singh Mand tenders apology to Takht||Akal Takht’s ‘parallel’ officiating Jathedar Dhyan Singh Mand today submitted an apology while performing ‘ardas’ before Akal Takht for culminating the Bargari morcha (sit-in) prematurely on the “false” assurances of the Congress.Mand, who led the Bargari morcha against the sacrilege and firing incidents of 2015, said that it was his biggest blunder to rely on the state Congress leaders for justice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jathedar-dhyan-singh-mand-tenders-apology-to-takht-271700
21-06-2021||GS Paul||Arvind Kejriwal in Amritsar today, ex-IG may join AAP||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 20With Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab AAP head Bhagwant Mann visiting Amritsar tomorrow, rumours are rife that former Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh is likely to join the AAP on the occasion.Kunwar, who took pre-mature retirement, has been holding meetings with residents of the Amritsar (North) constituency from where his candidature for the Assembly elections could be announced. There is a buzz that some disgruntled BJP leaders too may join the AAP.Expressing ignorance about Kejriwal’s proposed visit, Kunwar said whenever he makes up his mind to join a party, he would disclose it.“I had opted to quit my remaining nine-year IPS service due to corrupt political intervention in the system. If I join politics, it will be for bringing reforms, not for vested interests like the traditional party leaders. Barring exceptions, a majority of them do their ‘own development’ and amass wealth after coming to power,” he said.On the other hand, AAP workers are busy in welcoming the party’s national convener, who will briefly stay at the Circuit House.“Punjab wants change. The only hope is the Aam Aadmi Party. See you tomorrow at Amritsar,” Kejriwal tweeted in Punjabi.Kunwar was a part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that conducted a probe into the sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura in 2015. However, the report was quashed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Talking to a section of the media, Kunwar launched a scathing attack on the state government’s functioning, saying that it was difficult to differentiate who was running the affairs in Punjab — the Congress or the Akalis.Alleging collusion between both parties, he said the report of the SIT, which he headed, was manipulated to save a particular family.He pointed out that the new SIT formed by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was not likely to yield any result. “At present, my focus is to get the High Court order challenged in the Supreme Court. I might meet the CM in this regard. If not, then I intend to fight the legal battle on my own,” he added.  ‘Bid to save one family in firing probe’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arvind-kejriwal-in-amritsar-today-ex-ig-may-join-aap-271628
