22-06-2021||---||CKD expels Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon for joining BJP||Amritsar, June 21Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon, who reportedly joined the BJP recently, was dismissed from the post of the honorary secretary on Monday, as per a unanimous decision taken during the meeting of the Chief Khalsa Diwan Educational Committee. Members of the Educational Committee strongly condemned Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon for joining the political party, which they said has been ‘anti-panth’ and ‘anti-farmers’.President, CKD, Nirmal Singh, said during the last eight months of the farmers’ agitation on the borders of Delhi, the Central Government was directly responsible for the physical and mental torture being afflicted to the protestors. “Nearly 500 farmers have been martyred due to the bigotry of the central government. To join a political party with an ideology opposed to the CKD is against the sentiment of pro-peasant movement that Chief Khalsa Diwan is supporting. It is a betrayal and disgrace to the Sikh community,” he said.All members jointly condemned this anti-panth and anti-farmer decision of Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-expels-dr-jaswinder-singh-dhillon-for-joining-bjp-272295
22-06-2021||---||PSEB Class XII evaluation: ‘Decision only a quick fix’||Amritsar, June 21The PSEB’s decision to evaluate Class XII board results on the same pattern as that of the CBSE might be seen as a last resort under prevailing circumstances, but the teachers from the city have a mixed response. When most of the state boards have cancelled the Class XII exams and decided to opt for alternate evaluation process, PSEB’s announcement seems to be like the most reasonable alternative. But there are some apprehensions over the marking system adopted.“The pattern followed by the CBSE to consider past performances itself has many loopholes, especially for students, who did not have a consistent academic record. Now, PSEB is also doing it without considering that there are so many students, who probably come from different backgrounds and families with limited opportunity and did not have good academic results in Class X. It would not be fair to them. I hope that they re-think their decision and consider student’s benefit,” said Mala Chawla, a teacher from government school in Chehrherta.Endorsing her point is Harvinder Kaur, another government school teacher from the walled city, who says there is a huge variation in the results of Class X and XII, the academic performance of a student might show a huge variation. “In Class X, most students do not have a choice of subjects they excel in. Class XI onwards, they have different streams, so sometimes, their performance becomes better. There is also a scope for the students to work hard and improve his/her academic graph in the senior secondary exams. But with this system of evaluation, the past record might hamper the total performance.”Another teacher from Government school, Bhoewali, Pankaj Sharma, feels that in the present situation, anything is better than nothing. “The results of students have already been delayed and the academic year has already been pushed too far. Many of them are now just waiting for results to be declared, so that they can apply for higher education. It’s the best we can do in present scenario, even if it’s a quick fix solution.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pseb-class-xii-evaluation-decision-only-a-quick-fix-272292
22-06-2021||---||Martyrs’ kin seek entry into Jallianwala Bagh||Amritsar, June 21Members of the Jallianwala Bagh Shaheed Parivar Samiti held an hour-long silent protest, seeking access to the bagh, outside its locked gate here on Monday.A group of nearly a dozen members took part in the protest which started at 1 pm. They raised their concerns over the beautification work being carried out at Rs 20 crore inside the bagh. They demanded that some members of the samiti must be included in the Jallianwala Bagh Trust to make them aware of proceedings of the trust.Mahesh Nehal, president of the samiti, said, “Being descendants of the martyrs, do we not reserve the right to know what is happening inside the Bagh where our ancestors shed blood to liberate the country.” He questioned the need to maintain secrecy behind the development. He added that the bagh remained out-of-bounds for the public for the past nearly one and a half months.Gian Chand Saggu, another martyr’s kin said, the government closed the bagh for the visitors after a grant of Rs 20 crore came for its beautification and renovation. He warned “if the government did not allow them access inside the bagh, they would be compelled to hold a protest at the Rajghat in New Delhi in the coming days to make their grievances heard.”Earlier, the martyrs’ kin held a protest over being denied permission to enter the bagh to pay tributes to the martyrs. Police and district administrative officials had denied them access inside the bagh due to government directions banning all public gatherings, including political rallies, in view of an increased number of Covid-19 infections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-kin-seek-entry-into-jallianwala-bagh-272288
22-06-2021||---||Armed robbers target fuel station in Amritsar village, flee with Rs 63,000||Amritsar, June 21Petrol pumps have become easy targets for robbers, who are striking at their own will in the rural belt.In the latest incident, two armed persons looted a petrol pump JC Fuel Point in Navan Kot village at gunpoint.The police are yet to make any breakthrough in the incident. According to the petrol pump owner, the accused threatened to kill his employees and fled with over Rs63,000 from the filling station.Rajiv Bhandari, complainant and owner of the petrol pump, told the police that yesterday around 1.30am, he got a call from his sales manager Germanjit Singh. He informed him that two boys with shorn hairs looted the pump at pistol point. They decamped with Rs63,000 from the spot. He said he immediately rushed to the pump and watched the CCTV cameras besides informing the police.Germanjit told the police that the two youth came inside while one of their accomplices remained outside on a bike. He said the accused threatened to shoot him and took out the money from the cash box.Assistant Sub Inspector Durlabh Darshan Singh, Investigating Officer, said the police got the CCTV grab and investigations were on to identify the suspects. So far, there has been no breakthrough in the case, he said. He said the pictures of the suspects were circulated to all police stations for finding any clues.Man loses bike to snatchersTwo unidentified persons snatched a bike from a local resident Gurjit Singh. The incident occurred four days ago while a complaint was lodged with the police on Sunday. The complainant told the police that he was going from Bauli village bus stop to Kotla Dal Singh village on his bike PB-02-EC-5156. He said when he reached near Wadala Bhittewad village, two youth came on a bike and snatched his motorcycle. The police have registered a case in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-robbers-target-fuel-station-in-amritsar-village-flee-with-rs-63-000-272287
22-06-2021||Tarn Taran||40-year-old farmer electrocuted||Online event on fertiliser usageTarn Taran: The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh (Tarn Taran), organised online programme on balanced use of fertilisers in crops. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Associate Director (T), stressed on soil testing to reduce expenditure on costly fertiliser inputs, which is the mean to ensure balanced fertilisation, and improves soil health as well as sustainable crop production. Soil scientist Dr Anil Kumar stressed upon adoption of scientific techniques for improving soil health and emphasised to conserve soil. OC‘Molestation’ case: Justice soughtAmritsar: A woman accused the husband of a member panchayat of her village, who lived in her neighbourhood, for sexually assaulting her. The incident occurred in Jodhe village falling under the Beas police station here. The victim has now approached the Punjab SC Commission for justice. The Commission has directed SSP Amritsar Rural Gulneet Singh Khuranna to submit a status report in the case with the commission before July 10. In her complaint, the victim alleged that the accused, who was the husband of a member panchayat of the village, tried to rape her. She said the accused was forcing to make physical relations with him and when she refused, he thrashed her. She said she also submitted a complaint to the local police in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-year-old-farmer-electrocuted-272282
22-06-2021||---||Elderly woman found murdered in Amritsar, theft suspected||Amritsar, June 21An elderly woman was allegedly murdered at her home by an unidentified person in the Putlighar area. The incident came to the fore in the evening, when the maid came for work and found her dead. Robbery is suspected to be the reason behind the murder.Senior police officers, including Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar and the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, reached the spot and started investigation. Forensic experts were also pressed into service.The deceased, identified as Surjit Kaur (74), was alone in the house while her husband Sukhminder Singh was at the shop.Bhullar said unidentified accused decamped with cash and valuables from the house. He said CCTV cameras in the adjoining areas were being analysed to find clues about the perpetrators.According to the police, Sukhminder Singh runs a cycle repair shop. Their son is settled in abroad and the couple used to live alone. The police said Surjit Kaur was suffering from some orthopaedic ailment and therefore was attending physiotherapy sessions.The DCP said their maid servant used to drop and pick up from a physiotherapy centre and today also she left Surjit Kaur in the house and went away. She used to live in another property belonging to the victim located a few metres away from their house.In the evening at around 6pm when she returned to work, she found her dead in the lobby. He said there was strangulation marks on her neck while the house was found ransacked.He said the involvement of some insider could not be ruled out.“We have some clues and police teams were working on it,” he said, while adding that the case would be cracked soon.Sukhminder Singh told that there was around Rs 75,000 cash and gold ornaments in the locker which the accused took away.He said he did not know the exact details of the valuables.Interestingly, the DCP said there was around Rs 3.5 lakh cash and US Dollars were in the same locker. The robbers apparently could not locate the same, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/elderly-woman-found-murdered-in-amritsar-theft-suspected-272278
22-06-2021||---||Ex-IG aboard, Kejriwal says Sikh to be CM face||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 21AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today announced that the party’s CM face for the 2022 Assembly elections will be from the Sikh community. Kejriwal was here to induct former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the party fold.Bid to tarnish SAD’s imageThe cat is out of the bag! It’s clear now how AAP & Congress, using services of Kunwar Vijay Pratap, have done everything to tarnish SAD’s image. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, sadIn the presence of party’s state president Bhagwant Mann, Punjab affairs in charge Jarnail Singh, co-in charge Raghav Chadha and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Kejriwal said while discussions were on within the party to select the right candidate as the CM face, he was certain the entire state would be “proud” of the party choice.“I can tell you that a member of the Sikh community will be our CM face. Punjab is the only state having a Sikh CM,” he said.Asked whether Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu was would join the party, Kejriwal said Sidhu was with the Congress and he respected him. “I believe such loose talks should be avoided with respect to Sidhu,” he said.Addressing Kunwar as ‘Afsar bhai’, Kejriwal said like him, Kunwar too didn’t belong to any political family. Pointing out that the former IG, who recently took voluntary retirement from service, played a vital role in “digging out the truth” behind the Bargari sacrilege and police firing cases, the Delhi CM said Kunwar invited the wrath of the entire system and had to take voluntary retirement.Kejriwal claimed his party would deliver “justice” in the sacrilege and subsequent police firing cases. “Entire Punjab is watching how the masterminds of the Bargari sacrilege and Kotkapura firing cases are roaming freely. If voted to power, the culprits will be put behind bars and justice will be done,” he said.Kejriwal and Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh later paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir. At Durgiana Temple, senior BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla made a surprise appearance and presented them with a shawl and a picture of the shrine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-ig-aboard-kejriwal-says-sikh-to-be-cm-face-272241
22-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Two booked for abetment to suicide in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 21Two persons were booked for abetment of suicide by the Sarai Amant Khan police on Sunday.The accused have been identified as Sunil Bedi of Gurgaon and Madhu Sharma of Delhi. The deceased identified as Harkesh Bojihok (48) of Chheharta (Amritsar), was found in an unconscious state at a roadside in Kasel village on April 1 by the police. He breathed his last soon after being admitting to a private hospital. A report under Section 174 of the CrPC was registered by the police on the statement of Meera Bojihok, wife of the deceased. Meera after getting the post-mortem report lodged a fresh complaint with the district police alleging that her husband committed suicide as he was swindled of Rs1.5 crore by the accused in a flat dealing matter in Delhi. DSP Sucha Singh Bal said on the basis of the post-mortem report and other relevant documents, it had come to record that the accused forced Harkesh to take the extreme step as he was under great mental tension.The fraud made him so poor that he had to leave Dehli and come to Chheharta, where he started working in a factory. He came to Kasel village, where he consumed some poisonous substance and died later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-tarn-taran-272276
22-06-2021||---||Hooked to drugs, man hacks father to death in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 21In a shocking incident, a drug addict hacked his father to death when he refused to give him money for procuring his daily dose of drugs in Sarangrad village, falling under Lopoke police station, here on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Sukhchain Singh. The police have booked his son Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, and his neighbour Jaswinder Singh in this connection. It is alleged that Jaswinder used to provoke Rana for the same.The police took the body into custody and sent it for the post-mortem examination. Both accused were absconding, while a case of murder has been registered against them, said Kapil Kaushal, SHO Lopoke police station. Raids were on to nab the suspects.Kulwant Kaur, wife of the victim said Sukhchain Singh had some land in his name in the village. She said his elder son Jaswinder fell in the trap of drug abuse and used to regularly demand money leading to often quarrels in the house. She said Rana used to provoke him for seeking his share and money from his father Sukhchain Singh.She said recently Sukhchain sold a portion of his land and the accused knew he had money in the house. Today, he started a quarrel with him. During heated arguments, the accused hacked him to death with sharp weapon and fled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hooked-to-drugs-man-hacks-father-to-death-in-amritsar-272272
22-06-2021||---||International Day of Yoga: ‘Adopt yoga as a way of life to remain healthy’||Amritsar, June 21International Day of Yoga was celebrated at Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, popularly known as Company Bagh, on Monday.Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Chandigarh Circle, under the aegis of the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, organised the event in association with Sangeet Natak Academy.Mayor Karamjit Singh and other dignitaries also participated. Yoga Guru Pramod Sodhi from Bhartiya Yoga Sansthan taught various asanas to participants and urged them to adopt yoga as a way of life to remain healthy.This programme was a part of events being organised as a campaign named ‘Yoga-an Indian Heritage’ at 75 cultural heritage locations across the country. These places are also associated with India’s freedom struggle as the programme was also linked with the ongoing campaign “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”.Event at GMC to mark dayAn event to mark the day was also organised at paediatric department of Government Medical College here. HoD Dr Manmeet Sodhi said yoga helps in keeping body and mind healthy. Dr Babica Mohindru from the Civil Hospital taught the faculty members about various aspects of yoga.Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC) in collaboration with Isha Foundation celebrated the day, where over 500 students and faculty members joined the virtual held session through Zoom app. Dr VK Banga, Principal, ACET, appreciated the participants and said yoga not only provides physical and mental relaxation, but also develops strength and resilience.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira also joined an event organised by the Department of Ayurveda to raise awareness about health benefits of different asanas. Khaira said practicing yoga in daily life can help people fight stress and lifestyle diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-day-of-yoga-adopt-yoga-as-a-way-of-life-to-remain-healthy-272271
22-06-2021||Neha Saini||International Day of Yoga: Yoga and its many ‘faces’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 21The modern and more commercial variations of yoga such as power yoga, Bikram yoga, nude yoga and others have been popular in the West, turning the humble, strictly traditional concept of wellness and fitness in fads.Among the growing list of popular streams of yoga is face yoga. For the uninitiated, the concept of face yoga is not new to the West, where it is being practiced as a natural replacement for anti-ageing treatments such as botox and fillers.In India, the trend has recently caught on. Face yoga practitioner Vibhuti Arora made city’s women aware about the benefits of face yoga in a web session held to mark International Day of Yoga. “It took people in India some time to understand the concept of face yoga, which is basically yogic exercises focussing on your face muscles. It helps in muscle strengthening, anti-ageing and essentially improving your skin quality, without having to go through an expensive skin care regime. One doesn’t have to spend a fortune to get a good, glowing skin,” she said. In her session with FICCI-FLO, Vibhuti demonstrated a few asanas popular in face yoga for massaging and sculpting the face.“The beauty and wellness industry has a humungous market because women and men are investing in their skincare. When you can do so without using a number of products with just one or two dedicated minutes everyday, practising easy exercises, it doesn’t sound like a bad deal,” she said.Another webinar on yoga conducted by GNDU’s Equal Opportunity Partnership Cell (EOC-PWD), had yoga experts and practitioners Raman Agrawal and Radhika Aggarwal, spell out the rooted benefits of yoga for the mind, body and soul.“Yoga has a multi-pronged approach towards health and wellness. Traditional forms of hatha yoga have been modernised and yet are rooted in the original concept of wellness. Kriyas like pranayama and kapal bhati etc which are the most effective breathing exercises help in a healthy lifestyle, when practised regularly. Sutras of yama, niyama, asana, pranayama, pratyahara, dharana, dhyana and samadhi and adopting karma yoga, jnana yoga and bhakti yoga in life, we can connect ourselves to the message of Bhagavad Gita,” he said.“The ancient art of wellness helps in boosting self-confidence, relieves negative thinking and stress,” said Radhika.ExpertspeakIt took people in India some time to understand the concept of face yoga, which is basically yogic exercises focussing on your face muscles. It helps in muscle strengthening, anti-ageing and essentially improving your skin quality, without having to go through an expensive skin care regime. One doesn't have to spend a fortune to get a good, glowing skin. The beauty and wellness industry has a humungous market because women and men are investing in their skincare. When you can do so without using a number of products with just one or two dedicated minutes everyday, by practising easy exercises, it doesn't sound like a bad deal. Vibhuti Arora, Face yoga practitioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-day-of-yoga-yoga-and-its-many-faces-272268
22-06-2021||---||‘Kejriwal go back’ hoardings all over the Amritsar city||Amritsar, June 21Ahead of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s visit to Punjab, hoardings of ‘Kejriwal Go Back’ surfaced in Amritsar.Seeing resistance from Congress in poll-bound Punjab, Kejriwal was also shown black flags by SAD leaders at the Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport on his arrival and by the urban Congress unit activists at the Circuit House, where he had addressed the media.Raghav Chadha, AAP State Affairs Co-incharge It was very much anticipated that some kind of chaos would be created to scuttle AAP Surpremo's visit to Amritsar. We demanded the Amritsar administration to provide us security, which they did. Otherwise, no chance was spared to create a ruckus. With Kejriwal's visit, a sense of insecurity has cropped in the Opposition party leaders.Kejriwal visited Amritsar to induct former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, who took VRS, into AAP in the presence of party’s state head Bhagwant Singh Mann, Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema.Hoardings of ‘Kejriwal Go Back’ were put up in city’s different locations by Congress leader Mithu Madaan, who shares close proximity with Navjot Singh Sidhu.District Youth Congress general secretary Vivan Khurana said: “Kejriwal’s visit was nothing more than a political stunt. How many times has he come here in the last four years? The visit to the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir comes on his schedule only during elections. He should focus on Delhi, Punjab is not his cup of tea.”Reacting over this, AAP’s state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha said it was very much anticipated that some kind of chaos would be created to scuttle AAP Surpremo’s visit to Amritsar.“We demanded the Amritsar administration to provide us security, which they did. Otherwise, no chance was spared to create a ruckus. With Kejriwal’s visit, a sense of insecurity has cropped in the Opposition party leaders,” he said. Last week, the Delhi CM had visited Gujarat to strengthen the party and announced to contest elections on all Assembly seats in the two states, scheduled next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kejriwal-go-back-hoardings-all-over-the-amritsar-city-272267
22-06-2021||---||Open to alliance, but no talks with AAP: Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa||Amritsar, June 21With a pledge to execute all historic pacts and declarations made by Shiromani Akali Dal, including Anandpur Sahib Mata (resolution), consolidation of federal structure and incorporation of Chandigarh in Punjab, the entire chief executive of SAD (Sanyukt), led by Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on Monday.The duo pledged to liberate Gurdhams from the clutches of Badals and prayed for high spirit of the Kisani movement, party and Panth.Brahmpura ruled out any hope of getting justice from the Congress government in Bargari sacrilege and firing cases in the remaining tenure of six months.Dhindsa said they were open to coalition, but ruled out any possibility of an alliance with the Congress, SAD and BJP. When asked about the AAP, Dhindsa said no talks have been held so far.He said the Centre and the state government were on a same page when it comes to conducting elections of the SGPC. He said the Centre had formed a commission for conducting the elections around six months ago, but the state government has not provided it any office, staff and support. Brahmpura claimed that under Badals, the SGPC strayed from basic principles of Sikhism.“As Badals have authoritative control on all major Sikh institutions from a long time, they are accountable for all the deviations,” said Brahmpura. He alleged that Badals tried to put values of the Sikh community at stake for votes.Dhindsa also slammed Modi-led government and said the BJP would have to pay the price for not complying with the demands of farmers who feed the nation.He said even Capt Amarinder Singh’s government has not kept its promises and has failed miserably in resolving the issues over which it had garnered votes during the 2017 Assembly poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-to-alliance-but-no-talks-with-aap-sukhdev-singh-dhindsa-272266
22-06-2021||---||Covid-19: After 3 months, no fatality reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 21The district health authorities have reported no deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday. Previously in the last three months it was on March 14 that the health department had not reported any deaths due to the disease.The department has, however, reported 29 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 46,505. The district has reported a total of 1554 deaths due to the disease till date.The new cases include 14 influenza-like illness cases and 15 contacts of the positive patients. The health authorities have also reported the recovery of 139 patients with which the total count has increased to 44,082. The district at present has a total of 869 active cases.The health authorities stated that 8,323 persons in the district were inoculated against on Monday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine on Monday, including 2,290 residents above 45 years of age and 51,11 residents in the age group of 18-44 years. The second dose was given to 740 residents above 45 years of age and 182 residents in the age group of 18-44 years.1 die, 4 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe district on Monday reported the death of one person due to the Covid-19 disease, pushing the toll to 352. The number of positive cases had dropped to 131 and 78 of these were isolated in their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said a total of 1,73,099 citizens have been vaccinated in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-after-3-months-no-fatality-reported-in-amritsar-district-272265
22-06-2021||---||Doctors protest against pay panel report in Amirtsar, services hit||Amritsar, June 21The faculty at Government Medical College and Government Dental College boycotted the medical services on Monday to protest against the 6th Punjab Pay Commission.The faculty members boycotted the Out Patient Department (OPD), Operation Theatre services and teaching duties for three hours to express their resentment against the Pay Commission.However, emergency and Covid care services were continued as announced by the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association. Dr Mirdu Gupta said: “The 6th Pay Commission of the state government is against the interests of medical and dental college teachers.”She said as per the commission report, the non-practicing allowance (NPA) has been reduced to 20 per cent from the existing 25 per cent. She said NPA has been delinked from the basic pay. She said earlier NPA was considered a part of the basic pay for calculation of all allowances. She said new norms are against the financial interests of doctors.The protest call given by the association received complete response from the faculty members as all services were boycotted. The protest resulted in inconvenience to the general public as they were unaware of the announcement by doctors and reached the institute for medical services.Dr Gupta said the government had forced the employees to protest as it had failed to consider the interest of the employees. She demanded that the issues raised by the doctors be addressed at the earliest. She said they would be forced to intensify the protest if the state government failed to address their issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-protest-against-pay-panel-report-in-amirtsar-services-hit-272013
22-06-2021||GS Paul||AAP’s Punjab CM face to be from Sikh community, says Kejriwal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 21Aam Aadmi Party convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said discussions were on within the party for choosing the right candidate as the CM face, but he could say for sure that entire Punjab would be proud of their choice.Also read: Former Punjab IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap joins AAP, claims those guilty of Kotkapura police firing dictating terms to govt“I can for sure tell you that a member of the Sikh community will be our CM face. This is the only state which has a Sikh CM and we will ensure that even our CM face is from the community. Punjab needs a new leadership for which we are holding discussions within the party,” he said.Asked if disgruntled Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu was joining AAP, Kejriwal said Sidhu is with the Congress and he respected him. “I believe such loose talk should not be done with respect to Sidhu,” he said.Kejriwal was in Amritsar to induct former Punjab Police Inspector General Kunwar Vijay Pratap into AAP.Welcoming him into the party, Kejriwal said that like him, Kunwar also didn’t belong to any political family and wasn’t aware as to how to do politics. “We only know how to serve people with dedication,” he said.Pointing out that the former IGP, who recently took voluntary retirement from service, played a vital role in digging out the truth behind the Faridkot sacrilege and police firing cases, the Delhi CM said Kunwar invited the wrath of the entire system and had to take VRS when he named the accused in the case.Kejriwal claimed that his party would deliver “justice” in the Bargari sacrilege and subsequent police firing cases. “One party in Punjab is defamed for corruption and sacrilege...the other party representatives are facing public wrath...The Congress never did anything productive for Punjab. Now, Punjab wants a change...You have tested other parties for 70 years....I appeal to people to give us one chance to transform Punjab,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aaps-punjab-cm-face-to-be-from-sikh-community-says-kejriwal-271873
22-06-2021||GS Paul ||Former Punjab IG Kunwar Vijay Partap joins AAP, claims those guilty of  Kotkapura police firing dictating terms to govt||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 21 Former Punjab Police Inspector General Kunwar Vijay Partap on Monday joined the AAP in the presence of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and party state head Bhagwant Mann in Amritsar.Also read: AAP’s Punjab CM face to be from Sikh community, says KejriwalAAP's Punjab affairs incharge Raghav Chadda was also present on the occasion. After joining the AAP, Partap said till justice is done in sacrilege and firing incidents, the prevailing state of affairs for the common man is "meaningless".Citing the 2015 sacrilege and Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing probe, he reiterated that "conclusion was given without taking into consideration the outcome of the report that was filed in the Faridkot court...Those guilty are dictating terms to the government"."Now we are going to start a revolution from land of the holy city. People's power must go to the people....we are here to establish a new political sphere....where we will be instrumental in bringing reforms...If no justice is there ...it's the sign of failure in the system," he said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had initially refused to accept Partap's resignation letter after he had sought premature retirement from service.The Chief Minister had said the officer was highly competent and efficient, and his services were needed in the border state, especially at a time when Punjab was faced with various internal and external security threats.  However, Partap remained firm on the resignation, saying he felt he "did my part ......No regrets....." and "I request everybody not to glamourise or politicise the issue...." in a Facebook post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-punjab-ig-kunwar-vijay-partap-joins-aap-claims-those-guilty-of-kotkapura-police-firing-dictating-terms-to-govt-271865
