23-06-2021||Amritsar||Spring Daleans shine in NTSE Exam||Webinar on yoga and holistic healthBBK DAV College for Women organised a series of events on “Yoga and Holistic Health…Context and Perspectives”. Vishal Mahindru, president, Yogpath Sansthan, Haridwar, Dr Amandeep Singh, Assistant Professor, Department of Physical Education, Guru Nanak Dev University, Narpinder Singh, Sr vice President, Punjab Yogasana Sports Association were the speakers in the web session.The speakers talked about various yogic postures and Yogsadhnas like Raj Yoga and Hath Yoga and said that all these yogic activities establish body- mind balance. While addressing the webinar, Vishal Mahendru, referred to eight limbs of yoga called; Yama, Niyama, Asana, Pranayama, Pratyahara, Dharna, Dhyana and Smadhi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spring-daleans-shine-in-ntse-exam-272867
23-06-2021||---||More health staff unions oppose pay panel report||Amritsar, June 22After the protest by faculty members of medical and dental colleges against the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission report, more organisations of the Health Department have come out to express their resentment.In a press conference here on Tuesday, leaders of the Multipurpose Health Supervisors Union, Health Employees Association, Pharmacy Officers Association, Medical Lab Technicians Association, ESI Employees Federation, Staff Nurses Union, ANM Union, Paramedics Union, Multipurpose Health Workers Association and others stated that the pay panel was against the interests of the health employees.The associations stated that copies of the pay panel report would be burnt on June 25 to protest against the state government decision.ESI Employees Federation president Ashok Sharma said there was no uniformity in the pay panel report regarding the salaries of senior and junior officials. He said the report would benefit higher officials while the class III and IV employees would have to face salary cuts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/more-health-staff-unions-oppose-pay-panel-report-272866
23-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||This Amritsar housewife turns kitchen waste into ‘black gold’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22At a time when the unprecedented health crisis in the face of Covid pandemic has made people more conscious about their health, they are now preferring organic produce instead of pesticide-laced farm practices.However, getting fresh and organic vegetables is a daunting task for common people, but not for Renu Sharma, a resident of posh Ranjit Avenue area here. She has been tending to her kitchen garden at her terrace for nearly two-and-a-half decades now. She grows different types of seasonal vegetables besides several fruits.“As I belonged to an agriculturalist family, growing organic farming was not a difficult task, though maintaining it really is a Herculean task. I look after my terrace garden for nearly two hours twice daily,” she pointed out.Now, her husband Dr Raghunandan Sharma, a retired deputy director from the Animal Husbandry Department also provides a helping hand to her.While sharing her experience, she said she started gardening as a hobby, when they shifted their new home at Ranjit Avenue. The 200-yard home provided enough space for her to cultivate her hobby for greens. Initially, she used plastic waste bags, bottles and some other waste materials for growing vegetables. This has now been replaced by big pots and grow bags.To ensure that the entire produce remains organic, she prepares organic pesticides and do composting from kitchen waste. I have installed around four plastic buckets with holes drilled for proper aeration for preparing compost from kitchen waste added with layers of soil and dry leaves. It takes around two months for turning the kitchen waste into ‘black gold’ she said.She also uses orange peels and lemon peels for preparing liquor pesticides, adding that alovera can also be used in similar method for making liquor fertiliser or pesticide.During lockdown, we also experimented different things for making healthy soil mix for healthy plants, she said.Renu Sharma grew bitter guard, brinjal, turmeric, ginger, bottle guard, tomatoes, lady finger or okra in her kitchen garden. This summer, untimely rain and storm destroyed our vegetable vines to quite an extent. She also has a fig tree, kinnow, lemon and also grew strawberry in pots. Besides vegetables, she also loves decorative and floral plants to grow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-amritsar-housewife-turns-kitchen-waste-into-black-gold-272865
23-06-2021||---||400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur: Girls bag top ranks in Amritsar dist poetry recitation contest||Amritsar, June 22A series of state level events dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur are being organised by the state government under the leadership of Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and state School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar. In this series, district-wise poetry competitions were held in Amritsar in senior secondary and middle category.District Education Officer (Sec) Satinder Bir Singh and Educational Competition District Nodal Officer Adarsh Sharma declared results of these competitions. Aditi, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Katra Karam Singh, bagged the first position in the senior category while Khushi Sharma, from the same school, bagged the first position in the middle category. The winning students were awarded by Deputy District Education Officer Harbhagwant Singh.Several literary competitions, including essay writing, poetry writing and literary composition reading, are being held across the district government schools. Students who secure top positions at district-level will compete in state-level competitions to be held in July.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-girls-bag-top-ranks-in-amritsar-dist-poetry-recitation-contest-272864
23-06-2021||---||Construction industry facing labour shortage||Amritsar, June 22Construction and allied activities have been greatly affected due to acute labour shortage in the city.Raj Kumar, a contractor of down ceiling, said plenty of work was available after a large number of housing projects started in the city following the initiation of unlocking process. However, an adequate number of men were not available. He said most of the labourers were not in a position to buy the expensive return ticket.Budh Ram, who along his son Manish, returned from his native place Gonda on Saturday, said they came by a private bus after paying Rs2,500 per head. “The fare for the same distance by train on an unreserved ticket costs Rs450 per head. How can a labourer’s family afford such an expensive travel?” he asked.Balkirat Singh Sonu, a construction contractor, said labour shortage had slowed down the pace of his many projects. “Same is the condition with sanitary, white washing, tile and granite laying works. As 80 per cent of workforce in these jobs are migrants.”Ram Bhawan, general secretary, Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad, said there was a shortage of labourers in all those professions where migrants were engaged. He said the railways must restart maximum number of trains between Punjab, UP and Bihar to bring back the labourers. He said, “A labourer has to pay nearly Rs3,000 per head to reach from Bihar, which was highly exorbitant.”He urged the Punjab Government to intervene in the matter and convince the railways to restart more trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/construction-industry-facing-labour-shortage-272863
23-06-2021||---||Former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap’s entry into AAP speaks volumes: Bikram Majithia||Amritsar, June 22With ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh’s entry into the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said the Punjab and Haryana High Court while indicting him had made it clear that he was indulging in political theatrics to fulfil the purpose of creating post-retirement greener pastures.Majithia alleged that the former IG was a co-conspirator who had misused his position to conduct a biased and politically motivated probe into the Kotkapura firing incident and it was necessary to register a case against him and subject him to narco test to get to the bottom of the case.“His entry into the AAP speaks volumes. The AAP-Congress conspiracy to malign the Shiromani Akali Dal in sacrilege cases,” he said. Taking a dig at Kejriwal’s announcement of Sikh to be a CM face, Majithia said he had never projected even one Sikh face in Delhi despite forming the government thrice.“How can we expect justice from such a party?” he asked. Majithia also pointed out that Kejriwal did not utter a single word about the farm agitation and farmers who lost their lives protesting. “Is this how much concerned he is about Punjabis? He is only playing politics on the issue of sacrilege,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-ig-kunwar-vijay-partaps-entry-into-aap-speaks-volumes-bikram-majithia-272862
23-06-2021||Amritsar||CE visits power substations||In order to ensure an 8-hour power supply to farmers during the paddy season, chief engineer of border zone Skattar Singh Dhillon, along with other officials of the Powercom, visited different power substations in the Beas area on Monday. They visited 220kV substation at Butari and discussed ways to deload 66kV lines which were overloaded and were often resulting in power disruptions. Speaking on the occasion, Dhillon said the officials also visited the newly-constructed 66kV Butari Beas Line, which would be connected with 66kV power substation at Liddar village road. This line has been feeding four 66kv substations at Bead, Lidhar, Sathiala and Butala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ce-visits-power-substations-272861
23-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Webinar on impact of Covid on livelihood||The Arts Department of Majha College for Women on Tuesday organised a webinar on “Covid-19: Socio-Economic Implications in Punjab” as it badly affected normal life of state’s residents. Students and staff members of the college participated in a big number in the webinar.Dr Hardeep Kaur, Principal of the college, said that Dr Iqbal Singh, assistant professor, political science department of KMV College, Jalandhar, was the chief spokesperson in the webinar. Dr Iqbal Singh in his key address said the Covid-19 affected badly the economy of the state as labourers from other states migrated to their native land on a very large scale during the lockdown period. The ongoing Covid-19 period had affected all sections of the society, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-impact-of-covid-on-livelihood-272859
23-06-2021||Amritsar||Transformer oil stolen, 5 held||Tips on veggie productionTarn Taran: The KVK, GADVASU, Booh (Tarn Taran); ICAR-ATARI Zone-1, Ludhiana, and ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, held a webinar on “Vegetable production in India: problems and prospects”, wherein over 100 progressive farmers, students and experts of the Horticulture Department participated. It focused on enhancing the income of farmers through quality seed production, processing and post-harvest management scope and development nutri-foods, vegetables as a component of the integrated farming system, new avenues for supply chain management and entrepreneurship development with special reference to vegetable crops. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transformer-oil-stolen-5-held-272857
23-06-2021||Neha Saini||We need filmi & illmi music, enjoyable yet immersive: Kailash Kher||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, June 22Kailash Kher needs no introduction, yet there was a time when the Padma Shri singer-composer was desperate to find work.It was an era, when pop-indie music wave in India was being led by commercially hit and talented singers such as Shaan, Sonu Nigam and Shankar Mahadevan. “It was a time, when English speaking, metropolitan culture was getting popular and music was being marketed. I was just trying to make a living as a musician, but I was rejected and told to do something else so many times that I started believing that I don’t deserve to be a musician,” he said.Getting candid in a web session hosted by Ehsaas- women of Amritsar, Kher shared his journey and his thought process behind making music. Talking to Shinjini Kulkarni, he said breaking barriers in music was not really what he had in mind, when he started. “We need both — filmi and illmi music, songs that make us learn something, It can be enjoyable and immersive. Even when I was struggling, I did many odd jobs while training as a student for noted musicians. I never really understood the concept of selling music as a product. But then artistes who come from poor backgrounds do not really get many opportunities. So, I kept singing with my heart,” he said.From his first live concert in Delhi, where he performed with a harmonium, to collaborating with Grammy winning South African musician Wouter Kellerman, Kher has come a long way.“My worth as singer got noticed with ‘Teri Deewani’ and I am grateful for that. I believe that when you are untrained and new in the trade, you do not have much to lose and so your performance is fearless. It’s the mind that limits us to defined constraints and I am a person of heart.”Speaking about his latest song ‘Gratitude’ released on International Day of Yoga this year, Kher said he collaborated with six celebrated musicians from across the globe and top names from India, including Sonu Nigam, Shaan, Shankar Mahadevan, Chitra and Daler Mehendi. “The song is about bringing positivity and hope after the tumultuous times we have all been through during the pandemic. It has received a good response and even the PM tweeted about it,” he said.As far as music is concerned, he believes there is no bigger unifying power. “After the last two years, I think we must think about how big a role music can play in uniting the world that is divided already in so many ways.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-need-filmi-illmi-music-enjoyable-yet-immersive-kailash-kher-272853
23-06-2021||---||Marital dispute leads to firing, one injured||Amritsar, June 22A matrimonial dispute took an ugly turn in Ajnala when a girl along with her family members fired at her in-laws in Sarai village on Monday. This lead to an injury to Ajit Singh (60).Following the complaint by Ajit, the police have booked his daughter-in-law Kiranjit Kaur, her father Balkar Singh and several relatives, including Gurpreet Singh, Navpreet Singh and Gurjit Singh, on charges of attempt to murder, criminal trespass and the Arms Act.Ajit told the police that he along with his son Guriqbal Singh and wife Jaswinder Kaur were at home. He said Kiranjit called her family and relatives around 10.30 pm. He alleged the accused were equipped with weapons. Ajit said the accused entered the house and Gurpreet fired at Guriqbal. He said he caught hold of Gurpreet following which Gurjit fired at him and a bullet hit his arm. Later, the accused fled away while threatening to kill them.He said Guriqbal rushed him to the Ajnala Civil Hospital and the accused tried to intercept them again near Government ITI College.Sub-Inspector Gagandeep Singh said Guriqbal and Kiranjit had a marital dispute and both the groups had lodged complaints against each other. He said the police have registered a case and raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/marital-dispute-leads-to-firing-one-injured-272850
23-06-2021||Tarn Taran||One dies in road mishap||Rakesh Kumar (49) of Amritsar was crushed by a speedy truck near Jamarai village on Monday. He was a mechanic and used to attend complaints of customers of ACs, washing machines etc.He was going to Chohla Sahib village on his bike, when a truck hit him from behind. He received serious head injuries and died on the spot. Truck driver Karamjit Singh of Sakhira village escaped and the truck was impounded. IO ASI Manjit Singh said he was booked under various sections of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-in-road-mishap-272848
23-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Price hike: CPI slams Centre, state govt||Activists of the CPI protested in Bhikhiwind on Tuesday against the Centre and the state government for increasing price of essential commodities, besides petroleum products. Prithipal Singh Marimegha alleged that anti- people policies of the Central Government has made life of a common man miserable. The CPI leaders said a big section of society has lost jobs due to the pandemic and the same time, prices of essential commodities were touching sky.Activists demanded that daily need articles should be provided to the needy at minimum rates. Protesters said decision of the state government to provide jobs to kids sons of MLAs was like putting salt on wounds of unemployed youths. Devinder Sohal and Sukhdev Singh Kala, among others, addressed the CPI workers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/price-hike-cpi-slams-centre-state-govt-272845
23-06-2021||Manmeet Gill||Canal irrigation in a shambles in Amritsar dist||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22As canal irrigation system is in a shambles in the district, farmers are solely dependent on groundwater (tubewells) for irrigating their paddy fields.Canal minors and irrigation channels in most of the villages have either gone dry or encroached upon by farmers in the last few years. Threat to groundwater“There is no canal water available for irrigation. The entire system has collapsed. Farmers have to use groundwater, however, if canal water is made available, dependence on groundwater will decrease manifold,” said farm leader Rattan Singh Randhawa.Officials of the Irrigation Department said the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) draws only 40 per cent water of its sanctioned limit as the distribution system needs repairs and restoration.Paddy needs huge quantity of water as fields have to be waterlogged for weeks.Due to high evaporation rate and seepage of water, farmers need to irrigate their fields regulalry.Water table in the district has gone down drastically as high-powered submersible pumps were being used to draw water. “Around 20 years ago, monoblock pumps were used. Now, submersible pumps of minimum 7.5 horsepower are used. If canal water is made available, apart from saving groundwater, electricity, too, can be saved,” said Rawel Singh, a farmer.The Irrigation Department said a proposal for an overhaul of the UBDC canal and its distribution channel was earlier sent to the Central Government for approval. Officials said that department has been making efforts to reclaim the encroached land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/canal-irrigation-in-a-shambles-in-amritsar-dist-272843
23-06-2021||---||Amritsar reports 2 deaths, 31 new cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22With two more deaths reported in the district on Tuesday, the toll increased to 1,556. The district health authorities have also reported 31 new cases, with which the tally increased to 46,536.The new cases include 18 influenza-like illness cases and 13 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, the deceased have been identified as Kulwant Kaur (55) of Kotla Tarkhana village and Balwinder Kaur (52) of Jandiala.The Health Department has reported recovery of 149 patients with which the total count has increased to 44,231. The district at present has a total of 749 active cases.The health authorities said 9,470 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Tuesday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine include 2,411 residents above 45 years of age and 5,913 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The second dose was given to 987 residents above 45 years of age and 174 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years.Three die, five test positive in Tarn TaranThree Covid-19 infected persons died in the district on Tuesday taking the toll to 355. As many as five persons also tested positive in the district on Tuesday taking the active cases to 95. As many as 62 persons have been isolated at their respective homes. The Health Department teams had collected 1,136 samples to be tested for the infection.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 3,261 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday and total 1,76,360 persons have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-2-deaths-31-new-cases-272829
23-06-2021||---||Drug haul: SAD leader Masih’s kin allege extortion by STF||Amritsar, June 22Over a year after the Special Task Force (STF) arrested former Subordinate Services Board member and Akali leader Anwar Masih in connection with the seizure of massive drug haul for his property in Sultanwind village, his family members along with several Christian organisations accused the cops of extorting Rs9 lakh from him.His son Joel Anwar Masih at a press conference on Tuesday alleged that the cops took money for not ‘implicating’ Anwar Masih in the case. However, the STF officials denied the allegations.Joel said the then AIG STF Rashpal Singh, DSPs Vavinder Mahajan, Arun Sharma and Sikander Singh had demanded an SUV or Rs14.50 lakh from them. However, his father had refused their illegitimate demand saying that he was innocent and he would not bribe the cops. While showing the sale agreement copy, he said the property from where the seizure was made, had already been sold by him (Anwar Masih) by taking token advance payment (byana). He alleged that he personally gave Rs9 lakh in two insstalments to the cops.When contacted, the then AIG Rashpal Singh termed these allegations as baseless. He said multiple agencies including NCB, IB, BSF and enforcement directorate were involved in the investigations into the seizure as some of the accused were from outside the country. The entire investigations were being looked by the DGP himself and therefore the question of corruption by one or two cops does not arise.“Anwar Masih himself admitted in his statement that he had demarcated the said property for sale two days before the raid and confiscation of huge quantity of drugs including heroin,” he said, adding that how come he did not know about the heroin manufacturing unit running on the complex.Vavinder Mahajan said the STF was planning to file a revision petition against the bail of Anwar Masih and his family was playing pressure tactics, so that we could not file the same. DSP Arun Sharma and DSP Sikander Singh also denied the allegations.Masih, who was booked under Section 25 of the NDPS Act (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises). The STF had seized 197-kg heroin and narcotic material and arrested around 20 persons in the case.Claims & Counterclaims"The then AIG STF Rashpal Singh, DSPs Vavinder Mahajan, Arun Sharma and Sikander Singh had demanded an SUV or Rs14.50 lakh from them. However, my father refused, saying that he was innocent and he will not bribe the cops. The property from where the seizure was made, had already been sold by him by taking token advance payment (byana). He personally gave Rs9 lakh in two instalments to the cops."Joel Anwar Masih, Akali leader Anwar Masih's son"These allegations are baseless. Multiple agencies including NCB, IB, BSF and Enforcement Directorate were probing into the seizure as some of the accused were from outside the country. The entire investigations were being looked by the DGP himself and therefore the question of corruption by one or two cops does not arise. Anwar Masih himself admitted that he had demarcated the said property for sale two days before the raid and confiscation of huge quantity of drugs." Rashpal Singh, AIG||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-haul-sad-leader-masihs-kin-allege-extortion-by-stf-272827
23-06-2021||---||Amritsar man killed for not giving passage||Amritsar, June 22An employee of a wine contractor was killed, while two others were injured when a group of youngsters attacked them following a verbal duel over a minor issue of not giving passage in a narrow road at the Kot Mit Singh area located on the Tarn Taran Road late Monday evening.The deceased was identified as Avtar Singh Gill, while his brother Heera Singh was also injured in the incident.The police have booked Antarpreet Kahlon, son of a sub-inspector posted with the CIA staff here, among eight persons for murder. Antarpreet already has several cases including that of attempt to murder registered against him. Raids were on to nab the suspects, the police said.According to information, Avtar Singh worked with a private contractor Arora Wines. He along with around six persons were roaming in an SUV in the area late in the evening. From Rajindera Palace on Tarn Taran Road, they entered a street in Kot Mit Singh area. The road was dug up from the sides due to some construction work and there was enough space for the passage of one SUV.When their vehicle was crossing the stretch, another SUV came from the opposite direction in which several youth were sitting. They had come to attend some function in the area. Occupants of both vehicles became adamant for not reversing their vehicle and giving passage to each other. This led to a verbal duel, following which the youth called their accomplices on the spot.Around 15-20 persons, including Antar Kahlon, attacked the wine contractor employees with baseballs and iron road. They brutally thrashed Avtar Singh and hit some blunt weapon on his head leaving him critically injured. When his brother Heera Singh tried to save him, he was also injured. Later, they were rushed to a private hospital, where Avtar succumbed.However, Manjit Singh, brother of the deceased and resident of Ranjhe Di Haveli, alleged that Antar Kahlon had an old enmity with his brother and he was threatening to kill him for quite some time.Meanwhile, following preliminary probe, the police have identified around eight persons. Besides Antarpreet, among others who were booked include Happy, Jaskaran Bholu, Vimal, Ghulla, Gursimran and Jagroop Singh.Perneet Dhillon, SHO Sultanwind police station, said an FIR was registered under Section 302 and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against them. He said raids were on to nab the suspects.How it all happenedAvtar Singh worked with a private wine contractor. He was roaming in an SUV in the area along with around six persons. They entered a street in Kot Mit Singh area. The road was dug up from the sides due to some construction work. When their vehicle was crossing the stretch, another SUV came from the opposite direction, in which several youngsters were sitting. They had come to attend some function in the area. Occupants of both vehicles became adamant for not reversing their vehicle and giving passage to each other. This led to a verbal duel, following which the youth called around 15-20 persons, including Antar Kahlon, who attacked the wine contractor's employees with baseballs and iron road. They brutally thrashed Avtar Singh and hit some blunt weapon on his head leaving him critically injured. When his brother Heera Singh tried to save him, he was also injured. Later, they were rushed to a private hospital, where Avtar succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-killed-for-not-giving-passage-272825
23-06-2021||GS Paul||Seven Amritsar hospitals off ECHS list for faking bills||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22The Union Ministry of Defence has dis-empanelled seven hospitals and a lab of Amritsar for their alleged involvement in the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) scam, wherein huge amounts of government funds were bungled by claiming fake medical bills.What Army probe suggestedThe hospitals and the lab named by the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare in a notification dated June 18, 2021, include Verma Hospital, Meerankot chowk; Neelkanth Hospital, Fatehgarh Churian Road; Life Kare Hospital, Nirankari Colony, Fatehgarh Churian Road; Gupta Multi-specialty Hospital, Race Course Road; Akashdeep Neuro Trauma and Multi SS Hospital; Madaan Hospital (Multi-specialty) Majitha Road; and Nijjar Scan and Diagnostic Centre, Court Road.Sandeep Malik, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Amritsar, had been holding an investigation into the case. “At least 12 arrests have been made so far. Others who evaded arrest had managed to procure interim bail from the High Court, but they have been asked to join the investigation. We are also awaiting some forensic records pertaining to the case,” he said.Gurmeet Singh Bablu, president of the Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Bhagat Singh Youth Front, alleged that the police gave immunity to various doctors and hospitals from the FIR without involving the Army authorities. He demanded a CBI or at least a vigilance probe into the case. “Why were the police taking the Army probe leniently? I shot a letter to the Punjab Chief Minister with copies to the Punjab DGP and Bureau of Investigations as the city police acted in a biased manner while investigating the case,” he said.Army authorities found that several veterans misled genuine ECHS beneficiaries and collected their cards. Later, in connivance with the hospital managements and doctors, records were fabricated to usurp claim funds from the Department of Ex-servicemen Welfare.A 204-page Army inquiry report was submitted to the Cantonment police by Brig MD Upadhyay, Station Commander, Station Headquarters, Amritsar Cantonment. Following this, an FIR was lodged against 24 persons, including owners, managing directors and doctors of six private hospitals on October 2.Brig Upadhyay, in his complaint to the police, alleged that hospitals had made false admissions with an intention of fraud with the cardholders “without providing them the services that are as per the files of the hospitals”. Also, the cardholders were kept in the hospitals “for a few days” even when the records suggest they stayed longer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-amritsar-hospitals-off-echs-list-for-faking-bills-272737
23-06-2021||---||‘Off active politics’, BJP’s Laxmi Kanta Chawla junks rumours of joining AAP||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22Senior BJP leader and former minister Prof Laxmi Kanta Chawla has dispelled rumours of switching from the saffron party to any other party.Chawla’s presence in Durgiana Mandir during the visit of AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, along with the newly inducted former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, had triggered a debate.Kejriwal touched the feet of Chawla out of respect and she also reciprocated and honoured him with a siropa.When Kunwar was to join AAP, buzz was that more disgruntled leaders from other parties could switch to AAP. But nothing of the sort had happened. Chawla said she was present on the occasion in her capacity as ‘sanrakshak of Durgiana Mandir’, a post in the shrine committee.“I could never think of changing parties. I was there to honour them. It was Kejriwal’s greatness to shower me honour. He touched my feet and photos were clicked, giving it another dimension without any base. It happened earlier also when I met him just by chance,” she said.This was for the second time in the past three months when Chawla met Kejriwal.Chawla, who left no chance in questioning the BJP-led central government’s ill-conceived policy matters in public interest, made it clear that she was away from active politics now and that there was no plan to come in the mainstream politics.Earlier, meeting between Kejriwal and Chawla had taken place on March 21 at the Circuit House complex. Kejriwal had reached here after attending ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Baghapurana to take a flight back to Delhi. Amritsar was his transit route.The meeting came to light after a picture went viral on social media, showing the two and AAP MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur having a tea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/off-active-politics-bjps-laxmi-kanta-chawla-junks-rumours-of-joining-aap-272744
