24-06-2021||GS Paul||Jobless, Punjab para players to return awards||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23Dejected by the false assurances of government jobs, Amritsar-based Paralympian Veena Arora, along with other para players of national and international repute, have decided to return their state sports awards in protest.Along with her, at least seven para players of various disciplines from Punjab including international wheelchair para badminton player Sanjeev Kumar, state awardees Kuldeep , Gurdeep, Rajeshwar, Varinder Khanna, Gursewak and Jatinder from various parts of Punjab, will stage protest outside the CM’s residence in Chandigarh on Thursday. Recipient of prestigious Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award, Veena (46) said on the one hand Capt Amarinder-led government offered jobs to its effluent MLAs’ sons for political gains, whereas on the other, the deserving ones were left in the lurch. Launching a scathing attack on policy matters, she pointed out that more than a sportsperson that too disabled who brought laurels in the sports field, a ‘tiktok’ star Gurnoor finds prominence on Capt Amarinder’s priority list, whose father was inducted into the police.“Similarly, the kin of those who died by consuming illicit liquor, too, gained government’s attention and were offered jobs. What about us who had put the state on global map?” she asked. She said a dharna was staged outside the CM’s residence in 2019, too, but it culminated with hollow promises made by his OSD.Over two decades ago, Veena lost her right hand to the negligence on the part of doctors. “I was 25 then. My right hand had to be amputated as it had developed gangrene due to wrong prescription. Another jolt was that my husband left me and our 3-year-old child. It took me some time to rebuild my will power,” she said. With no assistance from the state government or district administration, Veena ran a block printing business to make both ends meet. About her interest in sports, she said in 2010, she came across a person in New Delhi, who inspired her to try special sports. “I never knew about para sports. It took me two years to build my confidence and I took admissions to Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium to undergo training.” There was no looking back after that.Achievements aplenty||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jobless-punjab-para-players-to-return-awards-273206
24-06-2021||---||1 dies, 24 test Covid +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 23With one more death in the district due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the toll has increased to 1,557. The district also reported 24 new cases in the last 24-hours, with which the total count has increased to 46,560.The deceased has been identified as Prem Lata, a 49-year-old resident of Indira Colony. The new cases include nine influenza-like illness cases and 15 contacts of positive patients.The district health officials have also reported recovery of 130 patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 44,361. The district at present has a total of 642 active cases.The health authorities stated that 5,794 persons in district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Wednesday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those given the injections included 3,382 residents in the age group of 18-44 years.The district authorities stated that till date, 30,345 healthcare workers (HCW), 75,116 frontline workers (FLW), 2,44,658 residents above 45 years and 72,893 residents in the age group of 18-44 years have been partially vaccinated while 15,299 HCW, 17,562 FLW and 45,921 residents in the age group of 18-44 years have been completely vaccinated.1 dies, 9 +ve in Tarn TaranA person died on Wednesday, taking the district Covid toll to 356. The number of active cases has reduced to 95. Of these active cases, 57 persons have been isolated at their respective homes. Six patients were discharged on Wednesday. DC Kulwant Singh said total 1,79,840 persons have been vaccinated so far, which includes 3,480 persons who were vaccinated on Wednesday. The Health Department teams collected 1,116 samples and the test report of 738 samples is yet to be collected from the laboratories. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-dies-24-test-covid-ve-in-amritsar-district-273207
24-06-2021||---||Domestic help’s sister arrested for murdering elderly woman in Amritsar's Putlighar area||Amritsar, June 23The police have arrested the sister of a domestic help for murdering an elderly woman at her residence in the Putlighar area on Monday.The accused has been identified as Mandeep Kaur (in pic), wife of Manjinder Singh, who was residing at Ram Tirath Road. She was the sister of Manjot, alias Jyoti, who was hired by the couple to take care of the elderly woman.The police said Mandeep entered the house when Surjit Kaur (74) was alone at home. Surjit’s husband Sukhminder Singh runs a shop near the railway station, while their son lives abroad.On the day of the incident, Jyoti took Surjit to a clinic for her physiotherapy, and later brought her home. Afterwards, Jyoti went to her accommodation which, too, was provided by the couple nearby. Ironically, it was Jyoti, who saw Surjit lying in a pool of blood, and then she informed Sukhminder.The police had found strangulation marks on the neck. The murderer had ransacked the house and decamped with Rs75,000 and some jewellery. DCP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said: “From the beginning it appeared that the crime was committed by an insider, who had an easy access to home.” He said so far they were not aware of the involvement of any other person but they were still investigating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/domestic-helps-sister-arrested-for-murdering-elderly-woman-in-amritsars-putlighar-area-273209
24-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Big fat weddings in Punjab a passé, blame it on Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23Big fat Punjabi weddings are a passé now, blame it on the pandemic. Once the budget of wedding photography used to run in crores in Amritsar offering employment to a large number of professionals, but now, the profession is seeing a steep downturn due to the Covid-19 pandemic for the last one-and-a-half years.Restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid-19 such as not having more than 20 persons at a marriage ceremony, unable to travel in flights or trains have made once big fat Punjabi wedding a pygmy affair.There are hundreds of photo studios in the city catering to wedding photography. Nearly 20 of these cater to high-end marriages engaging them for Rs 2 lakh and above. So, the high-end shops used to engage 10 to 20 persons to discharge the job efficiently. Barring a few, a majority of them have retrenched their staff.Vijay Malhotra, running two photo studios in the city, said those families who used to spend Rs 2 lakh and above on photography and cinematic shooting stretching for 10 days have now brought it down to one or two-day affair. He said he is paying salaries to all his 15 employees, but this cannot be afforded by all photo studios.NRI weddings and people from agriculture background used to form a major chunk of customers. Air travel restrictions brought down their arrival. Major embargo on not more than 20 persons in the wedding has taken away locals as well, who are now investing their money in giving gifts of gold ornaments and fixed deposits.Earlier, these families used to invest in asking for pre-wedding shoots, four-k quality cinematic candid shoot, equal to shooting a Bollywood movie. Candid photography was another genre in which persons used to be clicked in their natural background without their prior intimation.Similarly, the 10-day long wedding programme has been reduced to a two-day affair. Earlier, wedding celebrations used to start with a bangle ceremony, DJ night or ladies sangeet, then bachelorette party, mehandi shoot, dress shoot, parlour or make-up shoot, ribbon cutting, milni, sehrabandi, baraat, jai mala and phere among others.Rakeshwar Sharma, whose family is operating a photo studio on a prime commercial location Crystal Chowk for the last over five decades, said many families were conducting the wedding in a day. “Now, no bill amount crosses the Rs 30,000 mark. With this amount in hand, I cannot afford to keep the staff of seven persons. So, all of them have been laid off,” he said. Each cameramen is equipped with superior quality cameras costing Rs6lakh and above. With paltry liquidity, it is not economically viable to engage men and material.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/big-fat-weddings-in-punjab-a-pass%C3%A9-blame-it-on-covid-273210
24-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Gehri murder: One more held||Old pension scheme soughtAmritsar: Members of Council of Diploma Engineers, district unit, and employees of different departments of Water Supply and Sanitation, Amritsar, sat on a dharna for over three hours against the 6th Pay Commission and Punjab Government on Tuesday. Convenor of the Council’s district unit, Ashwani Kumar, said the government’s anti-employee policies have put government employees in the state under extreme distress. “The engineers working in water supply and sanitation department received upgraded pay scales recommended in 2006 in 2011, after a long struggle for our rights. Several incentives that were given to the employees have now been either rolled back or cut down. We demand the resumption of old pension scheme, a promotion quota of 75 per cent on the same pattern followed by Chandigarh,” he said. The council members said if the government did not listen to their demands, they will intensify the stir with more employee unions and organisations joining in protest. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gehri-murder-one-more-held-273212
24-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Punjab Govt employees up in arms against 6th Pay Commission report||Tarn Taran, June 23The state government employees, including doctors, are up in arms against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report calling it anti-employees.The district unit of the joint Punjab Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee held protests at various hospitals in the district against the report and submitted a memorandum to the DC.Dr Jaspreet Singh, president, Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA), said as per the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission, non-practice allowance (NPA) has been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and it has been delinked from the basic pay, which will result in financial loss to doctors. A delegation of doctors headed by Dr Jaspreet Singh, Dr JS Pannu, Dr Karanveer Singh, Dr Sukhraj Singh Bal (Veterinary Association), Dr Pankaj Arora (Dental Association), Dr Harinderpal Singh Vegal (Homeopathic Medical Officers’ Association), Dr Sandeep (Ayurvedic Department) and Dr Gursimran Singh (Rural Medical Officers’ Association) submitted a memorandum to the DC.The other ministerial employees of different state government departments on the call of the Punjab State Ministerial Services Union (PSMSU) are observing a week long pen-down strike that started on Tuesday.Contractual staff seek regularisationAmritsar: Contractual employees at Government Medical College, TB Hospital and Guru Nanak Dev Hospital took out a protest march seeking regularisation. These employees are working as Class IV workers, multitask workers and Sulabh employees. They said they were working at meagre salaries for the last 12 years hoping that they would be regularised. Punjab Contractual Class IV and Ancillary Employees’ Union leader Narinder Singh said: “It is been a long wait for the contractual staff. Every time, the employees are assured that they would be given regular appointments but nothing is done.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-govt-employees-up-in-arms-against-6th-pay-commission-report-273218
24-06-2021||---||Doctors submit memorandum to Amritsar Deputy Commissioner||Amritsar, June 23 A joint delegation of veterinary doctors, PCMS association, dental doctors, Ayurveda Department doctors and others met the Deputy Commissioner and submitted a memorandum to apprise the state government of their reasons for opposing the 6th Punjab Pay Commission. The delegation included representatives of Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association, Punjab State Veterinary Officers’ Association, PCMS (Dental) Association, Rural Medical Officers’ Association and Ayurvedic Medical Officers’ Association. Dr Gagandeep Singh Dhillon, president of Punjab State Veterinary Officers’ Association, said: “There is great resentment and anguish among doctors as the non-practicing allowance (NPA) has been decreased and delinked from the basic salary. The move will greatly affect employees as their salaries will be decreased.” Dr Madan Mohan of PCMS Association, said: “The medical fraternity has been demanding that the NPA be increased to 33 per cent of the basic salary. However, the government has decreased it to 20 per cent from 25 per cent.” He said the associations want that NPA should be considered a part of the basic salary. The associations said medical fraternity including that of Veterinary Department have been at the forefront throughout the pandemic and serving the general public. They demanded that those serving during the pandemic should be given special allowance to encourage them. The associations said any decrease in salaries would result in demoralising the medical staff. The association leaders said while meeting Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira on Wednesday, they requested him to forward their memorandum to the Chief Minister’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-submit-memorandum-to-amritsar-deputy-commissioner-273220
24-06-2021||---||SAD (Sanyukt) expands set-up||Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) president and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa expanded the party’s organisational structure and released the list of SC, women wing and district presidents.The list has been released in consultation with the party’s patron and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura. Disclosing this here today general secretary of the party Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad and office secretary Maninderpal Singh Brar said former MP Paramjit Kaur Gulshan has been appointed patron of women’s wing while Harjit Kaur Talwandi, daughter of late Jathedar Jagdev Singh Talwandi, will be the president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-sanyukt-expands-set-up-273066
