25-06-2021||Amritsar||No lockdown this Sunday in Amritsar||Keeping in view the reduced number of cases being reported from Amritsar these days and in compliance with the orders of the Department of Home Affairs and Justice, DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira on Thursday ordered lifting of the Sunday lockdown.New rulesAccording to the new orders passed on Thursday evening, all essential and non-essential goods shops are now being allowed to open on Sunday from 5am to 8pm.The DC in his orders stated that all other restrictions shall continue to remain in force until further directions.Earlier on June 10, the district administration had done away with the Saturday curfew, announcing more relaxations and opening of the market places throughout the week. The administration has also allowed the opening of shopping malls in the district.While restrictions on timings remain, large social gatherings, too, remain banned. The DC said the relaxations have been lifted in view of the problems being faced by the pubic and small business owners and shopkeepers. But he warned of caution and asked people to exercise all precautions and follow all safety guidelines.Meanwhile, schools and educational institutions remain closed and a few commercial establishments have also been allowed to reopen with only 50 per cent capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-lockdown-this-sunday-in-amritsar-273678
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Govt urged to allow reopening of IELTS centres||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-urged-to-allow-reopening-of-ielts-centres-273681
25-06-2021||Amritsar||No death in district, 47 +ve in Amritsar||The district Health Department reported 47 positive cases on Thursday, with which the total count increased to 46,607. The district has not reported any death due to the disease in the last 24 hours.The new cases include 21 influenza-like illness cases and 26 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department has also reported recovery of 126 patients with which the total count has increased to 44,487. At present, the district has a total of 563 active cases.The health authorities said 7,139 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Thursday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine included 1,746 residents above 45 years and 4,238 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The second dose was given to 858 residents above 45 years and 297 residents above 45 years.Two die of Covid, three test +ve in Tarn TaranTwo deaths and three positive cases were reported in the district on Thursday. The toll has reached 358, while the number of active cases has reduced to 86. As many as 49 of the 86 active cases have been isolated at their respective homes. The teams of the Health Department collected 942 samples to be tested for the infection. The test reports of 645 samples were yet to be received.On June 1, there were 503 active cases in the district and six citizens had succumbed to the virus that day.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said as many as 1,82,633 persons have been vaccinated so far, including 2,823 persons who were vaccinated on Thursday. 7,139 persons inoculated in district on ThursdayThe health authorities said 7,139 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Thursday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine included 1,746 residents above 45 years and 4,238 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The second dose was given to 858 residents above 45 years and 297 residents above 45 years.2,823 vaccinated in Tarn TaranTarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said as many as 1,82,633 persons have been vaccinated so far, including 2,823 persons who were vaccinated on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-death-in-district-47-ve-in-amritsar-273709
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Snatcher fires at police party in Majitha, held||The Majitha police have nabbed a snatcher while his accomplices managed to escape after firing at the police party at a checkpoint in Majitha here on Wednesday.The accused had snatched Rs45,000 from a finance firm employee in Kotla Tarkhana village hours before his arrest.The caseWhen Baljit Singh, who works with a finance firm in Batala, was collecting instalments from clients, two unidentified persons snatched Rs45,000 from him at gunpoint around 4.30 pm and fled towards Majitha. An alert was sounded and nakas installed in Majitha, during which two bike-borne persons were signalled to stop. Instead of stopping the motorcycle, the accused fired at the police party. They starting chasing them and arrested Bika who was equipped with a country-made pistol. His accomplice Raja, however, managed to flee. He has been identified as Bikramjit Singh, alias Bikka, of Kotla. Raja, a resident of Rasul Kalar village, near Vallah vegetable market in Amritsar, accompanied him in the crime. The police have seized a country-made pistol from him. Two separate cases of snatching and murder attempt were registered against them at Kathunangal and Majitha police station here, respectively.Baljit Singh, who works with a finance firm in Batala, informed the police that he was collecting instalments from their clients and had reached at the residence of Manjit Kaur for the same. He said when he reached there, two unidentified persons entered the house and snatched Rs45,000 from him at gunpoint and fled towards Majitha. The incident occurred around 4.30 pm.Following the information, an alert was sounded and nakas installed in Majitha, during which two bike-borne persons were signalled to stop. ASI Jagdeep Singh said the accused, instead of stopping the motorcycle, fired at the police party which escaped narrowly. The police team starting chasing them. A few meters away, they fell from the bike. The two accused started running into the fields. The police chased Bika who was equipped with a country-made pistol. The police overpowered and arrested him, while Raja managed to flee towards Naag village.While the Kathunangal police have registered a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC and Arms Act, the Majitha police have filed an FIR under Sections 307, 353, 186 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act against them.ASI Jagdeep said Bika was produced in court and brought on police remand. Preliminary probe found that he already had a criminal case against him. Further probe is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatcher-fires-at-police-party-in-majitha-held-273712
25-06-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran ||Cops attacked in Chabal, 6 booked||The police party was attacked and uniform of a cop was torn in the melee at Majjupur village falling under the jurisdiction of Chabal police station on Wednesday.The accused have been identified as Chamkaur Singh of Behluwal (Gurdaspur), Balwinder Singh, his wife Ramandeep Kaur, mother Gurmeet Kaur, brother Diwan Singh and his son Jagtar Singh.Cops had gone to the village to trace Alpa, who was abducted from Ahmedabad (Gujarat), by Chamkaur.The abducted woman’s husband and Chamkaur used to work in the same firm. The Gujarat police had traced the duo in Chabal through their mobile location.Chabal Station House Officer Jaswant Singh was supervising the raid, which was conducted by Assistant Sub-Inspcetor Amarjit Singh.Cops found the woman and Chamkaur from the residence of Balwinder.As the police personnel asked them to sit in the police van to take them to the police station to verify their details, Chamkaur indulged into a verbal spat with cops, and his sister Ramandeep along with other members entered in the fray. They attacked the police party and also tore the uniform of constable Jobanjit Singh. Chamkaur and Ramandeep were arrested while four others absconded from the spot.The SHO said the accused have been booked under Sections 353, 186, 332, 506 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-attacked-in-chabal-6-booked-273713
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Civic body warns employees against accepting cheques||The Municipal Corporation Commissioner has issued instructions not to accept any payments in cheques after the recent rise in incidents of banks dishonouring the cheques given by residents to pay their taxes, bills and fees for services.According to new instructions, action would be taken against any employee who accepts cheques. The corporation commissioner has asked the heads of different departments to ensure compliance of orders.As per the new instructions, payments would be accepted in cash, demand drafts, debit/credit cards, NEFT and RTGS. The orders also make it mandatory for the employees to take prior approval of additional commissioner MC in case of any emergent need for accepting cheques.The MC had earlier passed on the instructions verbally but still many payments were accepted through cheques. The sources in the department stated that cheques amounting to Rs 25 lakh in total were dishonored by the banks.The officials said in case of cheque bounce, the corporation has to adopt legal recourse which is time consuming and costly. They added that the recoveries of dues against the residents are delayed due to cheque bounce, as a consequence of which people would now be encouraged to use online modes of making payments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-warns-employees-against-accepting-cheques-273715
25-06-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Patti double murder case: 1 more arrested||The CIA staff on Thursday arrested one more accused in the Patti double murder case. The accused has been identified as Sumes Singh, alias Billa, a resident of Patti town.His name came to the light after the interrogation of Malkit Singh Laddu of the Patti town who was arrested in the beginning of this month.Amandeep Singh Fauji and his Prabhdeep Singh, alias Pooran both, of Patti town were shot dead in the early morning of May 27, 2021 by car-borne armed men.A case under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC, and Sections 25,27,54 and 59 of the Arms Act had already been registered by the Patti police .SSP Dhruman H Nimbale informed reporters here on Thursday that the incident was the result of personal enmity between two groups having the support of area gangsters and it was a contract killing.With the arrest of Sumes Singh, the police have arrested four persons in the case till date. The other three were Malkit Singh Laddoo of Patti, Paramjit Singh Pamma of Harike and Manpreet Singh, alias Manna, of Manochahal .The master mind of the murder, a Canada-based NRI Lakhbir Singh Landa, and shooter Preet Sanghwan (Amritsar), were still at large. The police have yet to issue look out warrants against Lakhbir Singh Landa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-double-murder-case-1-more-arrested-273716
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Now, deceased’s vehicle stolen||Even as the city police have failed to nab the suspects, who allegedly killed a wine contractor’s employee Avtar Gill, three days ago, the theft of the victim’s vehicle, in which he and others were travelling, has raised many eyebrows.Road rage, murder Avtar Singh worked with a private wine contractor. He was roaming in an SUV in Kot Mit Singh area along with six persons. When their vehicle was crossing a stretch, another SUV came from the opposite direction, in which several youngsters were sitting. Occupants of both vehicles became adamant on not reversing their vehicles and giving passage to each other. This led to a verbal duel, following which the youth called around 15-20 persons, including Antar Kahlon, who attacked the wine contractor’s employees with baseballs and iron road. They brutally thrashed Avtar Singh and hit some blunt weapon on his head leaving him critically injured. When his brother Heera Singh tried to save him, he was also injured. Later, they were rushed to a private hospital, where Avtar succumbed to his injuries. The police had booked Antarpreet Kahlon, son of Sub-Inspector Tejinder Singh, posted with the CIA staff here, along with other accused for murder and attempt to murder. Kahlon already has several cases of murder bid and creating law and order problems registered against him.The family members of the deceased alleged that due to involvement of Antarpreet Kahlon, the police were trying to erase the evidence to save him. They said instead of taking the vehicle into possession following the incident, the police were waiting for the family members to hand over the same. The SUV was stolen by unidentified persons from outside Ranjhe Di Haveli area.Heera Singh, brother of the deceased pointed out that the police should have taken the vehicle into the possession immediately after the incident. However, it failed to do so even after three days of the gruesome murder of Avtar Singh. “This shows the seriousness of the police in arresting the perpetrators, who had made mockery of the law and order situation in the city,” he said.Ravi Mahajan, victim’s lawyer, said it was the duty of the police to collect evidence from the crime scene besides taking medico-legal report from the hospital. However, it failed on both fronts and it has seriously raised doubts on the intention of the police in investigating the case in an impartial manner.Initially, the police had claimed that Avtar Gill was killed following a verbal duel over giving passage in a lane.Perneet Dhillon, SHO Sultanwind police station, said no arrest has been made so far, while raids were on at suspected hideouts of the accused involved in the crime, adding that they would be arrested soon. The police had booked around eight persons by name. He denied allegation of impartiality, adding that the police were sincerely doing its work. He said he was not aware of the theft of the vehicle involved in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-deceaseds-vehicle-stolen-273718
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Suicide: husband, in-laws booked||3,499 peddlers held in 4 yrs: SSPTarn Taran: The police have registered 2,861 cases against drug peddlers and arrested 3,499 smugglers since April 2017 so far. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the property of 98 drug smugglers worth Rs125 crore has been freezed to teach them a lesson. The SSP said they had seized 241- kg heroin, 568-gm smack, 66-kg opium, 1,425-kg poppy husk , 36 kg ganja, 1.37-kg narcotics powder and 20,41,421 intoxicanting tablets in the last four years. Nimbale said vehicles were being inspected round the clock. OCBSF, police seize 1.2 kg of heroinAmritsar: Acting on a tip-off, the Amritsar rural police and BSF in a joint operation on Thursday confiscated 1.2-kg heroin from the Daoke border post area here. It was concealed in hollowed iron draw bar used to connect the tractor-trailer. A case was registered against unidentified persons with the Gharinda police. Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, confirmed the seizure. The iron bar was apparently concealed by the Pakistan-based smuggler. He said probe was on to identify their Indian accomplice who would have come to take the drug consignment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suicide-husband-in-laws-booked-273719
25-06-2021||The farmers ongoing struggle at Delhi borders is more than six months old and it had seen many ups and downs during this period. Inspite of tough conditions||Support for farmers||Enriching Pbi literatureAge has no significance for this 66-year-old retired teacher Jaswinder Singh Manochahal. He is a mass leader, a literary personality and a social activist with a kind heart. He is still busy in his hobby of writing literature besides social and other activities. He is an established fairy-tale and is seen to do more and more creativity in his favourite fields. His first book of short stories in Punjabi language ‘Verdy Da Mull’ (Price of the uniform) attracted a big number of readers. It came just three years back in the market and was greeted by many sections of the society. His stories were putting light on prevailing corruption, police atrocities, violence against women, problems of Dalit community and people of other sections living below the poverty line. Being a person of leftist thought of school, he heads a leftist political party at the district level and is always seen active in approaching working class at the grassroots. He has sufficient material to give shape of writing regarding the plight of these weaker sections and its living conditions. He has just six kanal of agriculture land and is well aware of the farming dilemma. He had written a number of articles on the working class and the farming community. Manochahal had collected a remarkable material to be given a book shape regarding the half century of Punjabi culture. The changing scenario in the Punjabi culture was focused in the material.‘Police soft on peddlers’A video of drug addict’s mother, that went viral on social media, has created ripples in the Police Department. The victim, 55-year-old woman Ninder Kaur of Goindwal Sahib, had raised a finger at the functioning of Police Department, which failed to nail the drug peddlers and break the drug network. She in the video revealed that her younger son who got into bad company, started consuming drugs easily, which were easily available in the area. He died three years ago and her elder son, too, went on the same lines but was somehow saved. Ninder Kaur alleged that the drugs were not only easily available in Goindwal Sahib but in every corner of villages in the area. She said the police were helpless and it was due to this a large number of youths were involved in drug addiction. It is a hard fact that Congress came to the power on the promise that the party would break the backbone of drug peddlers in the state. Amandeep Singh Bhullar, DSP, Goindwal Sahib, said revelation in the video of Ninder Kaur was beyond to be believed as the police had verified all points raised by Ninder Kaur. He said even though the police had cross checked the role of the persons at whom Ninder kaur had pointed her finger in the video but nothing had been found objectionable. In Bugha (near Tarn Taran) a group of 200 residents launched a signature campaign against the then ruling party (SAD-BJP) and extended support to the Congress candidate in Khadoor Sahib constituency in the Vidhan Sabha elections. A woman, who played a key role in campaign against drug peddlers, said 10 days after formation of the Congress government in the state the same drug peddlers were seen on the Congress side. The woman had been regularly raising her voice against the peddlers. The miscreants fired at her house in which her husband was injured.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/support-for-farmers-273720
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Democratic Teachers’ Front rejects 6th pay panel report||As massive protests and dharnas are being organised across the district over the past few days against the 6th Pay Commission recommendations, the Democratic Teachers’ front too has rejected the recommendations of the state pay commission. While objecting to the commission’s recommendation of cutting down nominal multipliers and several allowances, the members of the front, led by DMP state president Bhupinder Singh Wardach, said that the decision was like rubbing salt on the wounds of employees.“Instead of increasing the salaries and allowances through the recommendations of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission and Punjab Finance Department, the committee is seeking to cut off our allowances. The Democratic Employees Federation (DMF) and the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) have protested against the decision to not restore the old pension system and not releasing the honorarium to employees within the scope of the recommendations. Instead of releasing the report in its entirety, only selected sections have been made public, out of which the salaries of the employees do not appear to be increased. The Punjab Government has not clarified anything about the pending installments and arrears of DA. Various allowances available to different sections of the Punjab have been discontinued. All these are anti-employee policies and directly impact the livelihood of state government employees,” said Ashwani Awasthi, a member of the DTF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/democratic-teachers-front-rejects-6th-pay-panel-report-273722
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Now, a museum with portraits of militancy victims at Durgiana Temple||Durgiana Temple threw open a museum, highlighting pictures of the Hindus killed during the militancy in state, on Wednesday.Arun Khanna, general secretary, Durgiana Committee, said the museum was an attempt to apprise the present generation of the atrocities meted out to their forefathers. “If you want to end a community, disconnect them with its history.” Government figures stated that 25,000 persons were killed during those black days of militancy but we symbolically installed some of the photographs.For a long time, the government and non-government organisations were conspiring to disconnect the new generations from its horrific past. “It took us four years to compile all photographs and information to set up the museum,” he said. The culture of Punjab is not just limited to cuisines only.Seven sections have been established in the museum. He added that the then Punjab had extended from Peshawar to Delhi. Photographs of the great men born in the land of five rivers have also been displayed in the museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-a-museum-with-portraits-of-militancy-victims-at-durgiana-temple-273723
25-06-2021||Amritsar||‘Killing’ it with fast fashion||Fashion Industry is probably among the most pollution-causing industries in the world and when an expert in the field of designing from the IIT backs this argument, it definitely calls for attention. BBKDAV College’s Department of Design and Crafts organised a webinar on sustainability concepts in the field of design to acquaint students with sustainable techniques being used world over in the field.How it is harmfulFast fashion is mass production of cheap, poor quality, disposable clothing. It has an enormous environmental footprint for both its production and disposal. Clothing production requires a considerable amount of energy and resources, while it depends on toxic fabric dyes and other chemicals that contaminate fresh water. Fashion produces a tenth of the world’scarbon emissions. According to Levi Strauss & Co., producing a pair of jeans emits as much carbon as driving a car 80 miles.Leading the webinar as panelist was Prof Raghuraman Iyer, a master of Design in Product Designing from IIT, Mumbai, and Head of Punyaa Education and Research Foundation. Prof Iyer asserted facts that point out the malpractices of fashion and design industry, including use of chemicals, synthetics and excessive wastage that contributes in pollution of environment resources.“The need to move towards sustainable practices in designing and crafting of the products is more than ever now. Sustainable and sensible crafting will lead to less textile waste, less harm to animals, fairer wages and working conditions and a better tomorrow for the future,” he said. He mentioned that given the economical distress and suspension of operations in last year or so due to pandemic, the design industry needs to capitalise on recycling and reuse for saving expenditure and promoting sustainability.The fast-changing fashion trends that have been leading to clothes, shoes and other products being thrown away after being used just once or twice is also leading to a wastage problem. Taking up all these issues and more, the participating faculty promoted sustainable ideas that could be taken up by the students, who will be a part of the industry in longer run.“We have been promoting the concepts of recycling of fabrics, using natural elements and dyes, instead of chemicals for our students studying fashion, textile and interior designing. Over the years, we have seen emergence of the Fashion Industry as one of the biggest revenue churners, but the high demand-supply network comes at a cost of the nature.Even while investing in furniture of the house, one needs to be cautious as the chemical polish used on it releases toxic fumes. We can overcome such issues by keeping high oxygen generating indoor plants or having good ventilation system,” said Prabhjot Kaur, Assistant Professor, Department of design, BBKDAV.Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia too said after experiencing the pandemic, our generation must become more responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/killing-it-with-fast-fashion-273724
25-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Saplings planted in school||Students shine in NTSEAmritsar: Puneet Singh of Shri Ram Ashram Public school cracked NTSE Stage 1, securing 3rd position in the city. NTSE-2021 result was declared on June 22, with the first round of this National Level Talent Search Examination, organised by National Council of Education, Research & Training (NCERT), conducted at the state level in the month of May, 2020. The school has been producing NTSE scholars since 2014. The NTSE is one of the most prestigious national-level scholarship programmes in India.Shreesh Savlani, a student of Class X of DAV Public School also qualified for the second round of the NTSE.SR College inks pact with open varistyJyoti Bala, Principal, SR Government College for Women, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Patiala, in the presence of Dharam Singh, Registrar of the university and in the presence of council members of the college. The university that has been established in Patiala to commemorate the celebrations of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev aims to build a collaboration with SR Government College to impart quality education and disseminate knowledge in accordance with the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev and strive to enable the students with skill-oriented courses for gainful employment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saplings-planted-in-school-273726
25-06-2021||Amritsar||Bhai Vir Singh Niwas Asthan gets new director||Bhai Vir Singh Niwas Asthan situated in the heart of the busiest routes in city has always been a breath of fresh air in the otherwise congested commercial lanes of the Lawrence road. The place has a historical significance as it was the residence of Bhai Vir Singh, a writer, environmentalist and founder of many reputed institutions. Dr Sukhbir Kaur Mahal  took charge as the director of the Niwas Asthan, succeeding Dr Joginder Singh, and she shall among other needs, look after its academic and administrative upkeep. Dr Sukhbir Kaur has been the principal of Khalsa College for Women for 16 years. She comes with a vision to ensure that the intangible and tangible heritage is preserved for generations.“It will be my priority and responsibility to begin restoration or conservation work on the memorabilia and literary works of Bhai Vir Singh. Already documentation work of Khalsa Samachar, one of the oldest Punjabi newsletters started by Bhai Vir Singh, is underway,” she said. Gunbir Singh, vice-president, Bhai Vir Singh Niwas Asthan and Dr Joginder Singh, former Director of Asthan was present at her official welcome ceremony.Dr Mahal said she takes great pride in getting this opportunity to render her services to a rich heritage. She assured that she would carry out this responsibility with full dedication. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bhai-vir-singh-niwas-asthan-gets-new-director-273727
