26-06-2021||---||Amritsar: Congress ex-dist chief booked in tramadol seizure case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25Days after prominent Himachal Pradesh political leader Chetan Parmar was nominated to the FIR in connection with the recent seizure of tramadol capsules, the Amritsar rural police have booked yet another politician in the case.Joined AAP recentlyFormer district Congress committee president and lawyer Rajiv Bhagat has been booked under the NDPS Act. Bhagat had switched over to AAP two months ago.SSP (Amritsar rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana said raids were on to arrest him. He has been absconding since the police asked him to join the investigation.According to sources privy to the investigation, Bhagat was among the kingpin of the racket. He along with Amarpeet Singh, alias Sunny, and Manu Chohan used to supply tramadol, a banned drug, to other parts of the city.Bhagat was looking to contest the upcoming Assembly polls on AAP ticket.Sources said following Chohan’s arrest, Sunny was also brought on production warrant from jail. Their interrogation revealed they used to run the racket and supply ‘Schedule H’ drugs in different parts of the city after getting delivery from Delhi.On May 18, the police had nabbed three persons with 45,000 tramadol capsules. This further led to the seizure of the drug worth Rs 15 crore from a factory in Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district in HP on May 28.The police had nabbed the alleged owner of factory ‘Unique Formulations’ Munish Mohan. During the probe, the police booked Parmar in the case.The police have so far arrested 10 persons in the case. Besides Mohan, those arrested included Prem Kumar Jha, who runs a medical store in Delhi and his employee Bablu; Ranu Bhargav of Mohali; Rajesh Wadera; Parmod Bisht; Amarpreet Singh, alias Sunny, a chemist from the Katra Sher Singh area, and Manu Chohan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-congress-ex-dist-chief-booked-in-tramadol-seizure-case-274201
26-06-2021||Amritsar||SAD to file complaint against Rahul Gandhi, Sunil Jakhar||The SAD has decided to file a police complaint against Congress leaders and other officials for politically influencing the investigation into the Kotkapura firing case and indulging in criminal conspiracy to implicate and defame former CM Parkash Singh Badal and SAD president Sukbir Singh Badal.SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar had disclosed that Rahul Gandhi had issued orders to CM Capt Amarinder Singh to frame the Badal family in the sacrilege case. “This constitutes a criminal conspiracy,” he said.Majithia said the SAD would file a complaint against Rahul Gandhi, Sunil Jakhar, Vigilance Director BK Uppal, as well as the SIT team led by LK Yadav, retired Director (Prosecution) Vijay Singla, DAs Jatinderbir Singh and Dev Dutt and CM’s adviser BIS Chahal, with the Chandigarh Police soon.Prosecution officials were present at the residence of Badal in Chandigarh when the SIT came to question the former in connection with the Kotkapura firing case. He said Section 156 CrPC clearly stated that the police alone had the power to investigate a case and the role of the prosecution would start only when a challan was presented in court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-to-file-complaint-against-rahul-gandhi-sunil-jakhar-274261
26-06-2021||The Gurdaspur administration||Gurdaspur Diary: Vaccinating the villagers||Braveheart rememberedFor the past 21 years, Assistant Commissioner (Excise) Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa has never forgotten to pay homage to her late husband Major Balwinder Singh Bajwa. She is the same woman who has bootleggers on the run in this border district where production of hooch is a rule rather than an exception. Her daring raids, particularly on liquor smugglers operating their ‘businesses’ from swampy areas where raiding parties often get unnerved, have become part of folklore. Earlier, this week Bajwa and her family garlanded the bust of her husband at ‘Fish Park’ in the presence of civil and police officers. She is the proud wife of a proud husband who died fighting insurgency in J&K. Incidentally, Bajwa is unhappy at the way the media still writes ‘Fish Park’ when in all official records it has already been renamed as ‘Martyr Balwinder Singh Bajwa Park’. On the occasion, she reminded all and sundry that “we sleep peacefully in our beds at night because tough men, like her husband, stand ready in battlefields.” “Heroism does not always happen in a burst of glory. Sometimes small triumphs and large hearts change the course of history,” she said. Pointing to her husband’s bust, Bajwa reminded everybody standing around her that, “A coward dies a thousand deaths. A soldier dies just once.” Everybody in Gurdaspur agrees with this as stories of the Major’s courage and resilience can still be heard in the labyrinthine lanes of this city—a good 21 years after he laid down his life. Indeed, as they say, good soldiers never die, they just fade away. Just like the Major.Batala cops donate bloodYour blood is replaceable, your life is not. This was the motto of the Batala police as they organised a one-day blood donation camp. Senior officers including SSP Rachpal Singh and DSP Parvinder Kaur were present. DSP Kaur was standing near a young man who was busy sending messages on his phone. The officer said: “When you can share messages, why can’t you share blood? After all, life is all about sharing, isn’t that true?” The man was left dumbfounded. Later, it was revealed that before he left the venue, he had donated his quota of blood. He surely deserved a pat on his back. And quite rightly, the DSP did pat his back leaving him flummoxed at the turn of events. Indeed, every blood donor is a life saver including this young man! The bottom line is that blood will keep circulating forever but only if you keep donating it.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-vaccinating-the-villagers-274303
26-06-2021||---||Banda Singh Bahadar’s martyrdom day observed in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 25The SGPC organised a Gurmat Samagam (religious event) at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex to mark the martyrdom day of Baba Banda Singh Bahadar, the great General of the Sikh Qaum (community).After the bhog of Akhand Path, the Gurbani Kirtan was performed by the group of hazuri raagi Bhai Bhupinder Singh of Golden Temple and ardas (prayer) was offered by Bhai Sultan Singh and the holy Hukamnama was recited by kathawachak Bhai Harmitar Singh.Officiating jathedar Akal Takht Sahib, Giani Harpreet Singh shared Gurmat (teachings of the Sikh Gurus) views with the sangat (devotees) and introduced the unparalleled history of the martyrdom of Banda Singh Bahadar.“Baba Banda Singh Bahadar was the General who established the Sikh state and became the first king. Along with Baba Banda Singh Bahadar, 700 associate Sikhs including his 3-year-old son were martyred”, said Giani Harpreet Singh.Jathedar inspired the sangat to take inspiration from the life of this great General of the Sikh Qaum and to be ready for the Charhdi Kala (high spirit) of the community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/banda-singh-bahadars-martyrdom-day-observed-in-amritsar-274302
26-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Doctors, DC office employees observe pen-down strike in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 25PCMS doctors, homoeopathic, ayurvedic as well as veterinary doctors on Friday protested against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission report. Employees of other state government departments too came out against the pay panel report.Doctors under the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, PCMSA doctors on Friday observed one-day pen-down strike in all government hospitals in the district. Dr Jaspreet Singh, district president of the PCMSA, said the 6th pay commission had reduced the non-practicing allowance of doctors to 20 per cent from the earlier 25 per cent, besides delinking it from the basic pay, which will result in financial loss to the doctors. Dr Sukhraj Singh Bal (veterinary association), Dr Pankaj Arora (dental association), Dr Harinderpal Singh (homeopathic medical officers association), Dr Sandeep (ayurvedic doctors association) also participated in the protest.Employees working in the DC office, besides SDM and tehsil offices also observed a pen-down strike. Veterinary hospitals in the district remained closed today.Protest against cut in NPAAmritsar: On a call of the Sanyukt Mulazam Morcha, members of local units of the PCMS Association and Employees Welfare Association of the Health Department held a strike against reduction in the Non-Practice Allowance (NPA) and its de-linking with the basic pay in the recently introduced pay commission here on Friday. OPD services, Zoom meetings and other services remained closed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-dc-office-employees-observe-pen-down-strike-in-tarn-taran-274301
26-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Traders in Amritsar feel the heat as steel prices skyrocket||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25Industrialists using steel as a raw material are irked as its price has shot up around 50 per cent during the last four months. Harwinder Singh, who manufactures weighbridges, said he was compelled to pay from his own pocket as price of steel has increased manifold.Harwinder Singh, a weighbridge manufacturerEscalating diesel cost is also squeezing our profit. Weighbridges are transported across the country on trucks.He said the kind of steel used to manufacture weighbridge costs Rs 78 per kg, including 18 per cent GST. In February, the steel used to cost Rs 48 per kg, he said. “It takes two to three months to deliver an order. In the meantime, price of raw material escalates so much that input cost exceeds the profit. For how long can I pay salary to 600 employees?”“Escalating diesel cost is also squeezing our profit. Weighbridges are transported across the country on trucks,” he said.City-based manufacturers said their basic investment has skyrocketed due to rise of steel price. Samir Goyal, a manufacturer of hardware products, said demand for these products fell sharply after constant rise in rates of steel and diesel. He said, “Price of steel is rising in the domestic market as iron ore is being sold to China.”Goyal said the Centre does not have any policy to support the MSME sector except offering loans, which compound the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-in-amritsar-feel-the-heat-as-steel-prices-skyrocket-274300
26-06-2021||---||SGPC celebrates parkash purb of Guru Hargobind at Akal Takht||Amritsar, June 25The parkash purb (birth anniversary) of Guru Hargobind, who concepted Miri-Piri (Sikh doctrine of a relationship between faith and politics), was celebrated with devotion by the SGPC along with sangat (devotees) at Akal Takht.Officiating jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh, SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhittewad, general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka, and other prominent personalities were present on the occasion.After the bhog of Akhand Path, the group of hazuri raagi Bhai Satnam Singh Koharka of Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib connected the sangat with Gurbani Kirtan.During the event, Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said the life of Guru Hargobind Sahib, the sixth Guru, is incomparable.“The sixth Guru fought four wars against the Mughal ruler and won all of them. At that time there was a belief in the minds of the people that no one could defeat this tyrannical Mughal rule, but Guru Hargobind broke this centuries-old notion and preached to fight against tyranny and oppression”, he said. Jathedar encouraged them to follow the teachings of the Guru.SGPC member Kuldeep Singh Terha, member of Dharam Prachar Committee Bhai Ajaib Singh Abhayasi, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, head granthi of Akal Takht Giani Gurmukh Singh, additional head granthi Giani Malkit Singh and manager of Golden Temple Gurinder Singh Mathrewal were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-celebrates-parkash-purb-of-guru-hargobind-at-akal-takht-274299
26-06-2021||---||Enrolments pick up in govt schools in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 25Riding high on the success of the Performance Grading Index (PGI) for 2019-20 released by the Centre, the state government and the Education Department have started working to increase enrolments in government schools for the academic year 2021-22.The state had got maximum points in the category of infrastructure and facilities and access to education and governance.Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary), Amritsar, said, “All these achievements are being highlighted. Enrolments seem to have increased by an average of 13.04 per cent across all the government schools in the state.”“In Amritsar district, there has been 10 per cent increase in enrolments in primary schools and up to 13 per cent enrolments have gone up in secondary schools. We are expecting further increase of up to 2 per cent this academic year, which will continue till August 31,” said the District Education Officer.Primary schools in district have seen a surge in enrolments, including kindergarten classes, which the government introduced four years ago. As of June 24, total enrolments in primary schools across the district stood at 1,11,829. Maximum enrolments in pre-primary classes have been witnessed in Verka, while primary schools in Amritsar city also saw a surge.“Earlier, average enrolment in primary schools stood somewhere between 500 and 700. This year, we saw over 1,000 enrolments in a primary school at Kot Khalsa,” he said.The admission booster teams constituted across the district have been carrying out door-to-door enrolment campaign and performing street plays to draw attention of parents towards government schools. “From providing e-prospectus to carrying out online classes, we have been upgrading school infrastructure by setting up smart classrooms, playgrounds, providing learning material, including books, activity sheets, learning tools and kits for primary and pre-primary schools. Facelift of schools during the pandemic has changed the perception of the government school,” said Satinderbir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/enrolments-pick-up-in-govt-schools-in-amritsar-274298
26-06-2021||---||No Covid death in Amritsar district for second consecutive day||Amritsar, June 25For the second consecutive day on Friday, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district, freezing the total number of deaths to 1,557.The district Health Department reported 30 new positive cases on Friday, which pushed the infection count to 46,637. The new cases included 18 influenza-like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 120 patients on Friday, the count had reached 44,607. At present, the district has a total of 473 active cases.A total of 7,478 persons in the district were inoculated on Friday. The health authorities have given jabs to 15,299 HCWs so far. Similarly, 17,562 FLWs and 48,081 residents above 45 years have been vaccinated with both doses.Tarn Taran logs 2 deathsThe district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the toll to 360, while five new coronavirus cases were reported on Friday. There are 84 active cases in the district, of which 49 are home isolated, while seven persons were discharged today. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,85,961 persons had been vaccinated in the district, including 3,298 today. Teams of the Health Department collected 1,024 samples for testing on Friday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-covid-death-in-amritsar-district-for-second-consecutive-day-274274
26-06-2021||---||10 months on, this border village in Amritsar is waiting for authorities to act||Amritsar, June 25Residents of Kalewal village in the border area of the district have failed to get any response from the local administration, especially Panchayat Department, even after making several complaints citing encroachment upon the village pond’s land.A resident Kanwaljit Singh said: “We had first highlighted the issue around 10 months ago. Since then, we have made numerous rounds of the panchayat office. Every time, we are given assurances that action would be taken, but nothing has been done so far.”He said a few persons from the village, who are politically connected, had started constructing residences on the pond’s land. “After completing the construction work, they have now moved in new homes but the department was yet to wake up,” he said.The Kalewal village in Attari sub-tehsil has a pond measuring 11 canals in government records. The waste water and rainwater from the village is discarded in the pond. Residents fear that the absence of action against encroachers would encourage more people to occupy the land.The encroachment on common lands is common in the rural belt as encroachers are often politically connected. The department, too, sits on such complaints and takes no action.Another resident said if the pond would be encroached, streets would be water-logged during rain. He said though people were facing trouble, most do not want to file a formal complaint.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader from the border belt, said: “The encroachers usually enjoy the support of ruling party leaders. There are numerous examples, where complaints were filed but no action was initiated by the administration.” He said the administration should ideally thank residents, who report damage or illegal occupation on public lands, but in reality they are harassed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-months-on-this-border-village-in-amritsar-is-waiting-for-authorities-to-act-274271
26-06-2021||---||Land dispute: Man murders grandfather in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 25A land dispute turned ugly when a grandson killed his grandfather at Chimyari village falling under the Ajnala police station here on late Thursday evening. The deceased has been identified as Ajaib Singh (90).The accused has been identified as Sandeep Singh. Along with Sandeep Singh, the police also booked his mother Jasbir Kaur and wife Sandeep Kaur for murder. No arrest has been made as the accused are absconding, said the police.The complainant, Mandeep Singh, told the police that his grandfather, Ajaib Singh, had divided the land between his cousin Sandeep Singh and him (Mandeep). He said he used to till three parts of the land and had two turns for watering the fields. Due to this, his uncle Gurdev Singh and his son Sandeep Singh used to quarrel with Ajaib Singh.He said today also the accused were using abusive language against his grandfather over the watering of fields. He said he along with his mother Lakhbir Kaur and wife Kiranbir Kaur intervened and pacified them.He said at around 5.30pm, Ajaib Singh was sitting on a chair near the tubewell when the accused along with Jasbir Kaur and Sandeep Kaur came to him. He said Sandeep Singh attacked Ajaib with a spade on his head leaving him critically injured. He said they raised an alarm and rushed him to the hospital while the accused fled from the scene. He said he succumbed during treatment at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. Mohit Kumar, SHO, Ajnala police station, said raids were on to nab the suspects while a case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/land-dispute-man-murders-grandfather-in-amritsar-274267
26-06-2021||---||Road rage, murder: Deceased’s family alleges police inaction in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 25While alleging the police inaction in murder of a wine contractor’s employee Avtar Singh Gill, family members of the deceased appeared before the Joint Police Commissioner Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu and demanded justice.Sandhu assured the family that impartial probe would be conducted and the suspects would be arrested soon.Avtar’s mother Amarjit Kaur, wife Seema along with her children, urged the Joint Police Commissioner to arrest Antar Preet Kahlon, son of Sub-Inspector Tejinder Singh, who’s posted at the CIA Staff here. They family alleged the police have been sheltering the accused.The family members alleged that they were being pressurised to strike a compromise with Kahlon.Gill was beaten to death by Kahlon and his accomplices on June 21. The police had claimed that the incident was an outcome of a verbal dual over not giving a passage.Gill’s brother Heera Singh was also injured in the attack. The Sultanwind police had booked around eight persons for murder and attempt to murder. However, no arrest has been made so far.The alleged theft of the SUV in which the victim’s were travelling also raised eyebrows as family members said the police should have taken the vehicle into its custody after the incident. The family members had accused police of destroying the evidence to saving the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-rage-murder-deceaseds-family-alleges-police-inaction-in-amritsar-274266
26-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Peddlers attack Chabal police, two cops injured||Tarn Taran, June 25The police party was attacked at Khairdeenke village on Thursday by peddlers who also helped their two accomplices to escape from the custody. Three, including two policemen, were injured in the melee and the police vehicle was badly damaged. The injured have been identified as constable Tajdeep Singh, Home Guard Jatinder Singh and Varinder Singh, a police informer.A total of 16 persons have been nominated in the case. Besides Baramdarshan Singh Ladda of Khairdeenke and Soni Pehalwan of Pandori Ran Singh, the other accused include Sukhbir Singh (brother of Baramdrshan), Manpreet Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Harpreet Singh, Vishal Singh, Jagpreet Singh, Gurmej Singh, Kali, Ghungri, Mittar Singh, Karanbeer Singh, Banti, son of Gurnam Singh, Banti, son of Balwinder Singh and Bakhshish Singh of Khairdeenke village.The police had received a tip-off that Baramdarshan and Soni were involved in drug peddling. The police party led by Assistant Sub-Inspector Narinder Pal Singh contacted the duo through their informer to purchase drugs.As soon as the duo delivered 50-gm heroin to the police informer, they were detained by cops. When the police personnel were taking them to police station, the accused armed with sticks, swords and baseball bats chased and attacked cops. Both Baramdarshan and Soni escaped from the spot.A case under Sections 307, 353, 186, 332, 333, 427, 224, 225, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 21,29,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused by the Chabal police. The police have been able to arrest only one person so far.The Chabal police had been attacked at Majjupur village on May 23 as well with one of its cop left injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-peddlers-attack-chabal-police-two-cops-injured-274265
26-06-2021||Neha Saini||Pandemic became an excuse to relapse for recovering drug addicts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25Staying sober under lockdown, with a raging pandemic outside, has been a battle that most in-recovery addicts from the city seem to have lost. While the Covid pandemic has thrown unique challenges for the healthcare professionals and people in general, for recovering substance abuse patients, the pandemic has become a reason to relapse and fall prey to the vicious cycle of addiction and mental health issues.In 2019, Amritsar had become the first district in Punjab to launch Darpan, an online portal to reach out to those in the process of drug rehabilitation and de-addiction. In 2020, the lockdown and subsequent year long break in the process of treatment and healing, many have relapsed.Mohinder Kaur, whose 20-year-old son had been addicted to synthetic drugs for past seven years, had begun his treatment in November 2019. A student of graduation at the time, Rahul (name changed) had also been suffering from mental breakdowns.“Since he refused to get admitted, we continued his OPD treatment. Initially, he used to get counselling, along with medication and started showing results. But when Covid 19 hit, it broke the process of visits and counselling. Medication too did not help as his mental health deteriorated in lockdown. We do not know when he started using again but it’s been six months since we first knew that he has relapsed and started taking drugs again,” said Mohinder, who is a resident of Patti. Hers is not the only case.Preeti (26) (name changed) from Tarn Taran, has been in the recovery mode for the past three years. Formerly addicted to heroin, she has been walking a tight rope ever since lockdown was imposed as the fear of her falling back into the trap always loomed. “The lockdown has been difficult for us as a family. I lost my father long time back and my mother and I are dependent on farm income. There have been several times during the last one-year period when I nearly relapsed and my mother had to put me on online counselling. My counselor also visited my home twice to make sure that I do not relapse. Drugs have been easily available for those who want it and so it is easy for addicts to lose their way.”The initial lockdown last year happened so suddenly that several de-addiction programmes being run by administration and the Health Department got suspended. DAPO and Buddy programme too relied heavily on door-to-door reach out and visits. Though the medication for treatment was later revived by the administration through online portal, many recovering addicts relapsed as their medication cycle broke. “It’s a hard fact that many of the recovering addicts relapsed during initial lockdown as de-addiction centres, hospitals, providing treatment shut OPDs and no visitations were carried out. For many in recovery, mental health conditions worsened including anxiety, depression, mental breakdown that resulted in relapse. Withdrawal symptoms were quite high and with alcohol and drugs easily available even during lockdown, which disturbed the family system. It is a no brainer that those under treatment had easy excuse to resort to drugs again,” said Dr Aman Saluja, a clinical psychologist at Bhatia Drug De-addition Centre. Dr Saluja feels that it was a struggle for doctors to treat patients. “Online counseling doesn’t work like physical session or OPD treatment.One cannot keep a track of the patient’s recovery process consistently and treat them accordingly. After re-opening for treatment, we had to start from scratch with our patients who had earlier been sober. It takes a long time to detoxify psychologically.”Even OOAT (outpatient opioid-assisted treatment) clinics were also closed during lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-became-an-excuse-to-relapse-for-recovering-drug-addicts-274259
26-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking: Lockdown restrictions fail to dent drug business, smuggling in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25Though the Punjab Government has planned a comprehensive action against rampant drug abuse in the border state, the continuous seizure of drugs by the Border Security Force as well as the city police has suggested that the illegal trade continues to thrive as usual. Even the lockdown restrictions imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic have failed to dent the illegal drug market.The Border Security Force recovered as many as 230-kg heroin pushed in by Pakistan-based smugglers during the past six months along the 533-km-long Indo-Pak border in Punjab while Amritsar city police seized over 9-kg heroin during the period.It is evident to mention here that this has been the biggest drug haul seized by the BSF if we compare it with the corresponding periods in the last two years. In 2020, it recovered over 130-kg heroin while in 2019 it was pegged at approximately 75 kg. Nevertheless, the BSF confiscated a total of 225-kg and 500-kg contraband in 2019 and 2020, respectively.On the other hand, as the city police records, they seized 51 kg of heroin, besides over 1 kg of smack, 28 kg of opium and 24 kg of charas and nearly 11 kg of narcotic powder during the last four and a half years. They arrested as many as 2,230 drug traffickers during this period.As per details, 2018 had seen a maximum seizure of 20 kg heroin. In 2017, they recovered just over 3 kg heroin while in 2019 and 2020 they confiscated 6.2 kg and 11.2 kg heroin, respectively. The police nabbed 353 drug-peddlers in 2017 and the number was pegged at 621, 536 and 383 in 2018, 2019 and 2020, correspondingly. This year the number of traffickers arrested so far is 337.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said during their concerted drive against rampant drug abuse launched by the Punjab Government, the police broke the supply chain by arresting over 2,200 drug peddlers. He said Punjab Police adopted a zero tolerance against drug traffickers and their properties were being frozen by the government.A BSF official requesting anonymity said an unprecedented prolonged foggy season provided advantage to smugglers. Nevertheless, BSF jawans remained vigilant and they kept thwarting the nefarious designs of anti-national elements across the border fence of pushing drugs. Drones have also been a challenge for the BSF in the recent past. Recently, the BSF had also nabbed a Pakistani smuggler while another was shot dead.Action plan against drug abuse soonFor tackling the rampant drug abuse efficiently, the Punjab Government is likely to announce a comprehensive action plan against drug abuse which will not only include enforcement and treatment but also prevention programmes. It would also include the earlier initiatives such as drug abuse prevention officers (DAPOs) and Buddy programmes launched by the Punjab Police. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh may launch this campaign on SaturdaySeized drugs to be destroyedThe Punjab Police would destroy a huge quantity of drugs seized from different parts of the state at the local Khanna Paper Mill tomorrow. The exact quantity of the seized drugs to be destroyed would be ascertained only tomorrow. The Police Commissioner said an incinerator at the mill would be requisitioned for this. He said the Chief Minister would inaugurate the same on June 26||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-day-against-drug-abuse-and-illicit-trafficking-lockdown-restrictions-fail-to-dent-drug-business-smuggling-in-amritsar-274256
