27-06-2021||---||7 months of Singhu border protest||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 26On a call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a large number of farmers on Saturday took out a protest march and went up to the Governor’s house in Chandigarh. The march marked the completion of seven months of the protest at Delhi borders.The farmers are not tired as they know that it is no time to rest. We will continue with the protest till our demands are accepted by the Central Government and the controversial agri laws are repealed. - Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, state vice-president, All India Kisan SabhaFarmers are united under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and believe they have provided good leadership during the agitation. -  Rattan Singh Randhawa, member of Border Area Sangharsh CommitteeLed by Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, state vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, and president of the Vegetable Growers Association, the farmers started from Chandigarh in several buses.The farmer leaders stated that though paddy transplantation was on in full swing, farmers and workers turned up in large numbers. They stated that the government’s tactics to prolong the protest and exhaust farmers had failed.“The farmers are not tired as they know that it is no time to rest. We will continue with the protest till our demands are accepted by the Central Government and the controversial agri laws are repealed,” said Nizampura.A different group of farmers also started for Singhu border to be a part of the ongoing protest. The farmers boarded a train for Delhi from the railway station here early in the morning on Saturday.Farm leader Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Border Area Sangharsh Committee said, “The farmers are united under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and believe that they have provided good leadership during the agitation.”Randhawa said apart from the controversial agri laws, the ever-increasing prices of oil, especially diesel, has baffled the common man. “In Punjab, demand for diesel during the paddy season is highest. It has led to increase in input costs,” he said.Meanwhile, members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association also staged a protest outside the DC office to protest against the high prices of diesel and petrol and to express solidarity with the farmers. Association leader Kanwaljit Kaur said the rising prices of essential items had affected poor and middle-class families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-months-of-singhu-border-protest-274791
27-06-2021||Amritsar||Students excel in Semester exams||Best Emerging Higher InstituteKhalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (KCVAS) has been declared as the Best Emerging Higher Education Institution of the year 2020 (Veterinary and Animal Science) by the “Pearl Education Excellence Award for Higher Education in India for the year 2020”. The award was announced at a “National Conference on SMART SUMMIT-2021”. Principal Dr P K Kapoor received the award and citation today during the virtual award ceremony organised by PEARL Foundation. The award ceremony was inaugurated by Honorable Justice B. Pugalendhi, Judge, Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, Tamil Nadu. Progressive Education Advanced Research Laureate (PEARL) Foundation Educational Excellence Awards is a prestigious National Award presented to various personalities and institutions in the field of agriculture, arts and humanities, engineering, veterinary science, medicine, science etc in recognition of their contributions in higher education and excellence in their impact in the society and contribution to the well-being of our fellow citizens.Webinar on Yoga benefitsHindu College organized an online national webinar on the yoga by Indian Council of Philosophical Research, New Delhi. Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Principal of the college and Head of Department of Philosophy Prof Anu Kandhari and physical Joint Head of Education Department Dr Ranjit Singh, presided over the webinar. The webinar touched upon the subjects like ‘’’’Yoga and Balanced Diet’’’’ for professors, research scholars and students who participated. Keynote speaker Dr Karunesh Kumar said that depression among people during the Covid-19 global pandemic, and mental health problems such as nervousness, anxiety, fear and restlessness has been rising. He told that a major part of yoga is meditation and through practicing breathing techniques, one can reduce stress and improve mental health. Yoga expert Shakuntala Devi performed various yogasanas for participants.Lecture on Leadership, MotivationDr Jasveen Kaur, Head, University Business School, Guru Nanak Dev University, in an online webinar organised by the Commerce Department of DAV College, Amritsar, addressed the students on the topic “Leadership and Motivation”. She said that personal growth is very important for acquiring good leadership qualities. “The development of leadership qualities starts from childhood. You cannot learn it by paying money or learn it in a college or university. Difficulties, hardships, difficulties of life, personal experiences of a person help in making him a leader. If you take some examples, you will find that the world’’’’s best leaders were from a normal family and they created history despite the lack of resources. There are often many changes in our life, if we want to move forward in life then it is very important for us to stay motivated,” she said. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar, while addressing the lecture, said that it is more important to control oneself in difficult situations than it is necessary to work hard to achieve any objective. “There are no shortcuts to the success, the road to the top is not quick or easy, and good things are not learned quickly. That is, no work is done at a fast pace, success comes at the right time and in the right condition,” he said.KCVAS signs MoU with CEDSIKhalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (KCVAS), Amritsar on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Centre of Excellence for Dairy Skills in India (CEDSI) Gurugram for the development of dairy system. The MoU was signed virtually through a zoom meeting by KCVAS Principal Dr PK Kapoor, while CEDSI was represented by its vice-president Anupam Lal. Dr Kapoor said the MoU intends to initiate cooperation between the two parties to collaborate and conduct activities and training to establish and promote sustainability and profitability in the dairy sector through skill and capacity building, policy advocacy, knowledge management and research for the betterment of various stakeholders in dairy industries, small farmers, undergraduates and post-graduate students.17 students get placementAs many as 17 students of Amritsar Group of Colleges bagged job offers in virtual campus placement drive for BYJU’s company. Selected students have been offered an average pay package of Rs 10 lac PA and belong to several specialities of BTech. While announcing the campus placement figures for the 2021 batch, Dr VK Banga,Principal, said “As the recruitment process shifted to online mode this year, the number of offers drastically increased in comparison to 2020. This year has been extremely good for placements even though, some other leading recruiters like TCS, Nagarro, SopraSteria, Accenture, Infosys, Capgemini Wipro Technologies, Mind Infotech, Xtramarks, Ralson IndiaNewgen, Cogneesol, Infogain, Sobha Ltd, Luminous Power Technologies, Just Dial, Xl Dynamic 10, Chimic, Samundra,Manjushree, HDFC BankPagar Book, SopraBanking etcconducted successful placement drives at AGC, Amritsar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-excel-in-semester-exams-274792
27-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga 
||Joint ventures with foreign universities: A panacea in Covid times||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, June 26 Irrespective of the pandemic upsetting the educational apparatus completely, Dr Akashdeep Singh of Global Educational Institutes is positive of limping back to normalcy once the situation normalises.  To catch that situation, his institution is ready to enter into joint ventures with foreign universities through student and faculty exchange programmes. Already the impact of globalisation was being felt on the education industry as more and more students were going overseas. So, they prefer admission to those courses that brighten their prospects of going abroad.  Beginning from BTech and MBA courses with a faculty of 40 and 280 students in 2008, the educational institution now boasts of 200 teachers and 2,000 students.  On how the idea of setting up an educational institution germinated, he recalled that during the course of doctorate, he had to conduct the surveys of management educational institutions in the state. He found that there was a big gap between the perceptions and expectations of students and parents from the institutions and what was being actually delivered. To eliminate the gap, he decided to introduce the education industry.  Earlier, he finished BTech in mechanical engineering from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, and did MBA from Guru Nanak Dev University. Later, he taught business management at Punjab College of Teaching Education, Ludhiana, for a year.  He is happy to say that the maiden batch of BTech managed to bag two gold medals, a feat which is still unbroken.  Immediately shifting to online mode of education was a challenge which was deftly handled by specifically designing the curriculum accordingly, power point presentations were prepared which were mailed along with class notes and corresponding texts to students for their comprehension in the evening. Besides, a lot of webinars were held in which leading industrialists were invited to encourage students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joint-ventures-with-foreign-universities-a-panacea-in-covid-times-274522
27-06-2021||Amritsar||Gang-rape: Six months on, four booked||A minor girl was allegedly gang-raped by four youth in Mahal village here. Though the incident occurred in December last year, an FIR was registered only on Friday after the victim approached SSP Amritsar Rural Gulneet Singh Khuranna.  The 14-year-old victim said she had lodged complaints with Kamboh police earlier also. However, they failed to take action. Khuranna marked a probe which was handed over to inspector Sneh Lata. The IOsaid a case under Sections 376-D, 506 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act has been registered against the suspects identified as Bhinda Shah, Bimbu and their two unidentified accomplices.  She said they raped her several times and threatened to kill her. She said she was initially afraid of them but repeated harassment forced her to lodge a complaint.  Sneh Lata said the accused have been on the run since the registration of case. She said the medical of the victim would be conducted on Monday. She said raids were on to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-rape-six-months-on-four-booked-274523
27-06-2021||---||Aujla takes up farmers’ issues with BSF officials||Amritsar, June 26Lok Sabha member Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Saturday took up the issues of farmers tilling their land across the barbed fence on the international border with Pakistan in the Ajnala area with officials of the Border Security Force (BSF).Aujla said entry pass for farmers, their families and their workers, permission to drill borewells for tubewells, installation and repair of electricity transformers and issues related with revenue records were also taken up with the officials of civil administration and BSF officials. Aujla said complaints of farmers were resolved on the spot. He took a round of the border outposts Kakkar, Fatehpur, Wadai Cheema, Kot Razada. He was joined by DIG BSF Bhupinder Singh, SDM Ajnala Deepak Bhatia, Commandant PS Bhatti, Superintending Engineer Irrigation Manjeet Singh and other senior officials. The team also took stock of the damage done to river banks due to change of route of Ravi in the border area. Aujla said all departments with which the farmers had unresolved issues assured to prepare a report within next few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aujla-takes-up-farmers-issues-with-bsf-officials-274525
27-06-2021||---||Noted writers read pieces from their memoirs||Amritsar, June 26 The Majha House hosted an event where noted writers were invited to read pieces from their memoirs. The event moderated by Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, invited eminent names like celebrated scholar and music exponent Madan Gopal Singh, writer and noted psychiatrist Anirudh Kala, author Pratyaksha, Madiha Arsalan, award winning filmmaker Gurvinder Singh and city-based poet Sarbjot Singh Behl.  “We all love reading memoirs as they offer a glimpse into the lives of people we like and admire. It is a window into a fascinating world. That is why we thought we would give our audience a little piece from the lives of our beloved writers,” said Preeti Gill. The first reader of the event was Madan Gopal Singh, a Sufi exponent, who shared his childhood years in Amritsar. “My maternal grandmother’s house was a musical one. When we descended the stairs, our footsteps created a rhythm, a beat, sense of music to it. And then of course there was actual music. Songs from Hindi films played out in our house all through the day. Music slowly seeped into me without even my knowledge. I think it was then that the seeds of music were sown slowly, rhythmically in my soul. It was only natural that I devote my life to music,” he read. The second writer was the award-winning writer Pratyaksha, who read from her diary that she has written and maintained during the lockdown period. Noted psychiatrist Anirudh Kala, founder of the Indo-Pak Punjab Psychiatric Society and proponent of cross-border collaboration between mental health experts, recounted memories from his journal that he maintained post-Partition as he dealt with patients suffering from the trauma of Partition. He shared memories of his meetings with a French nurse called Nicole who he met in Ranchi. “She used to be a patient there but by then she was healthy enough to be helping with other patients. When she asked me what I thought about her case and her schizophrenia, I told her that if she was schizophrenic then I was Chinese.” He also shared stories of several patients he treated for post-Partition trauma. In one of the most emotional readings of the session, Gurvinder Singh, national award-winning writer and director of films like ‘Chauthi Koot’ and ‘Anhe Ghode Da Daan’, read a short piece from the newspaper article titled ‘Displacements: Past and Present’ that he had written after his father’s death. He talked about three examples of displacement while reading his piece. ‘My father, nicknamed ‘baghi’ due to his revolting nature, passed away in May this year. As a child, he was saved from their burning house by his mother and together they sought refuge in the Golden Temple while thousands were killed in cold blood in 1947. He returned to his neighbourhood the next day only to find it torched down. During the period post Operation Blue Star in 1984, as a child, I heard people whispering that these Sikhs should be taught a lesson. I saw Sikhs being burnt alive; I saw them being dragged out of their houses and killed mercilessly. Displacements were rife once again as Sikhs left Punjab and North India to find safety and home somewhere else.’ He ended with a recounting of the displacement caused by Covid-19 and the migrant crisis. The last speaker for the session was Sarbjot Behl who recited his moving poem ‘Main Gujranwala Chhod Aaya’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/noted-writers-read-pieces-from-their-memoirs-274526
27-06-2021||---||Police honour former drug addicts||Amritsar, June 26The city police organised a number of programmes to mark International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on Saturday. Cops honoured several former substance abusers who returned to mainstream and became a source of inspiration for other drug addicts. They were honoured during a programme organised by the Airport police in Heir village here today.The youth participated in a run organised by the police in association with the village Panchayat to mark the occasion. SHO Airport police station Khushbu Sharma read out a message of Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill who said they were true examples that if you are determined to shun the drugs, nobody can stop you to come out winning.The youth shared their experience and said the outpatient opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) centres being run by the state government helped them in shunning drugs. They said they fell into the deadly trap of substance abuse due to bad company. When they realised that only death would be the outcome of this addiction, they decided to start their lives afresh. They rejected the hesitation and started taking medication. Due to regular counselling and medication, they are now living their normal life.The police also carried out a road march from the Lawrence Road to police line stadium to mark the day. Police employees of Sanjh Kendras and the NCC First battalion participated in the march. The police said the march was carried out to spread awareness against rampant drug abuse. The participants were holding placards and banners urging the youth to keep away from the drug menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-honour-former-drug-addicts-274527
27-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Teachers burn copies of 6th pay panel report||Tarn Taran, June 26 On a call by the state body of the Master Cadre Union, Punjab, master cadre teachers organised gate rallies in their respective schools and burnt copies of the Sixth Pay Commission report on Saturday.  Manjinder Singh Dhillon, district president of the union, said, it was for the first time that the state Cabinet had lowered the pay commission recommended scales of teachers. He said similar protests were held at Tarn Taran, Tur, Dhotia, Lalpur, Khairdinke and some other places. The teachers of other categories and mid-day meal workers too extended their solidarity with the agitating teachers.  Employees of other government departments, besides PCMS, veterinary and homoeopathic doctors  are organising protests against the pay panel report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-burn-copies-of-6th-pay-panel-report-274528
27-06-2021||Amritsar||Synergy among traders, cops essential: Police Commissioner||City Development Coregroup, formed with the association of the CII and Police Commissionerate, Amritsar, noted points to develop synergy between industrialists and police. During its first meeting held here on Wednesday night, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, while appreciating the CII Amritsar’s initiative, said, creating such forums were helpful for being updated with the changing patterns and breaking the stereotypical image of police.  The committee consisted of a group of members of the CII Amritsar Zone working closely with the nominated officials of the Police Department for advisory purpose on addressing pertinent issues and suggesting remedial measures for better policing of the city. The police commissioner noted various issues brought out by the members such as issuing of digital challans to offenders, improvement of traffic management, installation of CCTV cameras in industrial areas and regular patrolling in vulnerable areas during shift change and salary days in and around industrial areas of the city. He asked them to adopt road stretches for their beautification and also to install quality level cameras whose control centre would be set up in the Industrial zone which would help the police to nab the criminals and nip things in the bud.  It was also agreed to carry forward further meetings at police station levels for better communication. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/synergy-among-traders-cops-essential-police-commissioner-274529
27-06-2021||---||Chhina appointed secretary of CKD education panel||Amritsar, June 26 Sikh scholar Dr Sarabjit Singh Chhina has been appointed as secretary and Santokh Singh Sethi, an expert in the field of education, has been appointed as Additional Secretary of the CKD Educational Committee, after a meeting held today by the members of the committee. Dr Sarabjit Singh Chhina is a retired Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, Khalsa College, President Confederation of UNESCO Clubs, Senior Fellow Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi, Former Senate and Syndicate Member of Guru Nanak Dev University, member of the Education Advisory Board, Punjab, Chairman Universal Group of Institutes, member of the Khalsa Governing Council and author of about 60 books.  Santokh Singh Sethi, a seasoned educationist and former CKD Secretary is educational advisor of the Khalsa Schools Educational Committee and member of Khalsa College Governing Council, retired Assistant District Educational Officer and vice president for the past six years of SGS Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Anandpur Sahib.  Chief Khalsa Diwan chief Nirmal Singh directed the educational panel to take special measures to provide fee waiver and loan facilities to the needy children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chhina-appointed-secretary-of-ckd-education-panel-274530
27-06-2021||---||‘Will not tolerate administrative negligence’||Amritsar, June 26Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Thursday held a meeting with the managers, supervisors and other caretakers of the Golden Temple. The purpose was to review the administrative arrangements of the shrine.Directing the officials to discharge their duties diligently, she emphasised that since the Golden Temple is the spiritual centre of all humanity and devotees from all over the world come here to pay obeisance, they should take along good impression back home. Bibi Jagir Kaur told the gathering that the influx of sangat was increasing after the effects of the Covid-19 subsided.“The arrangements for the sangat should not be slackened. The conduct of the management should be polite. No administrative negligence could be tolerated and the officer in charge would be held accountable for any lapse”, she said.Meanwhile, chief secretary advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami said as a responsible officer it was the duty of all to be committed for the betterment of the organisation.Additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, manager Gurinder Singh Mathrewal and other officials also expressed their views.Others present on the occasion included additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, deputy secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, Malkit Singh Bahirwal, manager Satnam Singh, additional manager Jagtar Singh, Sukhraj Singh, Baghel Singh, Narinder Singh, Harpreet Singh, Nishan Singh, Gura Singh, Baldev Singh, Darshan Singh, Jaspal Singh Dhade and Gurpreet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-not-tolerate-administrative-negligence-274531
