28-06-2021||---||Hustle and bustle returns to Amritsar markets as third Covid wave looms||Amritsar, June 27Outlets remained open today as the weekend lockdown was lifted as part of the measures for unlocking restrictions imposed in the wake of second Covid wave.Surinder Duggal, president, local chapter of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), while welcoming the move, said it would instil confidence among the public to move on in their lives while taking precautions.He said many wholesale markets, which include textile, men and women apparel such as Tali Wala Bazaar, Cash Dhara Bazaar, Katra Ahluwalia, Shastri market, Telephone Exchange Chowk, Katra Jai Mal Singh, Katra Bhagiyan, opened on Sunday after many months.He hoped that it would provide more time to shopkeepers to clear their inventories and subsequently industrial houses would be in a position to sell their stock to dealers and shopkeepers.“Its impact on the economy would be visible in the coming months, as the amount under the GST would be hiked for the government,” he said.Sunil Jain, a shopkeeper at the IDH market, said all outlets in the market observe their weekly holiday on Monday. He said in this way, they accommodate buyers hailing from rural parts of the district and even adjoining towns including Tarn Taran, Batala and Gurdaspur.Shefali, an employee, says: “Coming from the service sector, I remain occupied in my office during six days of the week. Sunday is the only day, when I can spare some time to buy necessary household articles. Many retail markets remain open till 2 pm to facilitate customers on the weekend.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hustle-and-bustle-returns-to-amritsar-markets-as-third-covid-wave-looms-275143
28-06-2021||---||Two die, 18 Covid +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 27With two deaths, the district toll increased to 1,560 on Sunday. The health authorities have also reported 18 new cases, with which the total count increased to 46,675.The deceased have been identified as Hardeep Kaur (81) of Partap Nagar and Malwinder Singh (63) of Kot Mit Singh. The new cases include 11 influenza-like illness cases and seven contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 78 patients, the recovery count has also improved to 44,787. The district, at present, has a total of 328 active cases.The health authorities said 3,535 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Sunday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose includes 747 residents above 45 years and 1,853 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The second dose was given to 617 residents above 45 years and 318 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years.Tarn Taran reports no death, 6 +veThe district reported no causality on Sunday though six persons tested positive. The toll remained at 361, while the number of active cases has reduced to 77 and 41 of these have been isolated at their respective homes. The Health Department teams collected 656 samples to be tested. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,91,798 persons have been vaccinated so far, including 2,113 who were jabbed on Sunday. The Deputy Commissioner has appealed to all eligible citizens to get vaccinated as soon as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-die-18-covid-ve-in-amritsar-district-275145
28-06-2021||Amritsar||Thank you, health workers: Amritsar entrepreneurs distributed shoes to health workers at Mata Kaula Ji hospital||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thank-you-health-workers-amritsar-entrepreneurs-distributed-shoes-to-health-workers-at-mata-kaula-ji-hospital-275147
28-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar's hospitality sector gasping for breath||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27The second wave has left the hospitality sector gasping for breath and fear of a third wave has further compounded trouble for people involved in this trade.Tourists visible during Parkash Purb are the ones who visit the city on their own vehicles for a single day. They hardly stay in hotels or do shopping.As a result, rickshaw pullers, taxi drivers, dhabas and gift shops, among others have been unable to earn despite easing of restrictions by the district administration.The city is known for its religious tourism. It’s home to the holiest Sikh shrine and historical landmarks, including Jallianwala Bagh, and beating retreat ceremony at Attari-Wagah joint check post.Rajwinder Kaur, manager, Partition Museum, said, “Now, a few hundred persons visit the museum. Around 2,000 persons used to come daily before the onslaught of Covid-19.” The museum showcases belongings, poignant letters and other articles written by people caught in communal riots after the Partition. All the guidelines to combat the pandemic were being followed, she said.Those engaged in the hotel industry have similar tales. Numerous people working in hospitaliy sector have been laid off as earnings decreased during the pandemic.A hotelier, Surinder Singh, said the entire tourism, tour and travel industry, has been through recession. A hotelier committed suicide recently, he said. A large number of hoteliers were unable to pay their instalments, thus leading to bankruptcy, he said.“Do not be misled by number of people gathering on the Golden Temple complex as majority of them come from within the state and on their own vehicles. They return to their native place by the evening. They do not offer us any business,” said Surinder.Moreover, reopening of tourist spots, including the Partition Museum and Gobindgarh Fort, has failed to draw crowd. Thus, those engaged in this profession, demand resumption of flights and trains.Rajesh Arora, a travel operator, said tempo travellers, taxis and buses, were gathering dust due to the want of tourists. “Earlier, tourists used to call us from different parts of the country to take them to Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The city has good train and air connectivity. Its proximity to hilly states figure it into a tourist circuit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-hospitality-sector-gasping-for-breath-275155
28-06-2021||---||Elderly killed, woman among three booked in Amritsar village||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27An elderly man was killed at Lashkari Nangal village falling under jurisdiction of Jhander police station over stagnant rainwater on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Balkar Singh (61). The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, his wife Jasbir Kaur and son Harman Singh.Randhir Singh, son of the deceased, told the police that rainwater accumulated on the street outside their house.He said Harman was driving his tractor repeatedly in the water. As a result, mud from the street spattered, and I along with my father, son and Sukhdev Singh, asked him to stop doing this, said Randhir.He alleged the accused used abusive language and his father and mother also came to the spot and settle the matter for once and all.Randhir said the accused came with a sharp-edged weapon and hit on Balkar’s head. The accused thrashed my father with sticks, thus leaving him critically injured, he said. Randhir said they rushed his father to the Ramdass Civil Hospital from where he was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where he succumbed.SHO Charanjit Singh said a case under Sections 302, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/elderly-killed-woman-among-three-booked-in-amritsar-village-275164
28-06-2021||---||Putlighar blast: Victims threaten to go on hunger strike||Amritsar, June 27The family members of Putlighar blast victims threatened to sit on an indefinite hunger strike after all promises made by the political leaders remained unfulfilled even after two years of the incident. Bharatiya Moolnivasi Mukti Morcha and Valmiki Adi Dharam Samaj have also announced to support and sit along with them in the protest.Giving three days’ ultimatum, they said even as the political leaders had assured them of providing compensation and a government job to the kin, they did not bother to give the same.In a nutshellIn mid-February, the organisations had held a massive protest at the Putlighar Chowk area. The dharna was lifted after Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka reached the spot and assured the family of all possible help.Aman William, vice-president of Mooknivasi Mukti Morcha, said in the past three months, they had made rounds at the residence of Raj Kumar Verka and he always sought time for the same. “Apparently, the political leaders were only befooling the victims and therefore it was decided to sit on hunger strike,” he said.On September 23, 2019, a blast at the residence of a scrap dealer in the Luv Kush Nagar area had claimed the lives of two persons — Rattan Lal and Rajinder Singh — while around six persons were injured.They had blamed the police administration for the blast. They had claimed that the police had got the Cantonment police station cleaned and the scrap was sold to the scrap dealer. The dealer brought the same to his residence in the congested Luv Kush colony. Residents said it was sheer negligence on the part of the police, which failed to locate the explosives while cleaning the scrap that blasted leaving two persons dead on the spot. A Punjab Home Guards jawan was also injured in the blast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/putlighar-blast-victims-threaten-to-go-on-hunger-strike-275168
28-06-2021||---||Tarn Taran: Gang involved in stealing luxurious vehicles busted; 1 held, 3 still at large||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 27The team of local CIA staff led by Inspector Shaminderjit Singh busted a four-member inter-state gang involved in stealing luxurious SUVs from the Bhikhiwind township.The team recovered seven SUVs and arrested Dilbag Singh Baga, one of the gang members, from Singhpura village on Sunday.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the three accused who are still at large were identified as Amandeep Sharma, Upkardeep Singh Prince and his son Gaivi of the same township.The SSP said the gang members after stealing the vehicles from Delhi, HP, Maharashtra and other states used to sell these to innocent persons with fake registration certificates at cheaper rates.The police are hopeful of recovering more vehicles after the arrest of other gang members. The Bhikhiwind police have registered a case under Sections 379, 420, 467, 468,471 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-gang-involved-in-stealing-luxurious-vehicles-busted-1-held-3-still-at-large-275169
28-06-2021||OPEN HOUSE||30:30:40 formula for evalutation of Class XII results: A quick-fix solution, but seems best in present scenario||Edu system needs to devise more waysUnder the given circumstances, when taking annual examination would have been a great risk for lakhs of students, the formula proposed by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is the best alternative. According to this formula, results of students of Class XII will be based on the performance of individual student in Class X, XI and XII with a weight age of 30 per cent, 30 per cent and 40 per cent respectively. If we go with the prevailing annual exam system, which just allows a student to reproduce textbook-based information, there is little scope for assessment of critical and analytical abilities of a student. No doubt annual examination is a must but with the introduction of the new formula, the present debate should continue to evolve a new way to assess the true knowledge of a student in each subject before completing school education. Just like other exams such as conducting competitive examination for banking and other all India services etc. examination for students of Class XII should also be designed in such a way that their knowledge is tested. To make more changes to the education system, the same panel should keep on devising new ways that can be used to evaluate students’ performance.Naresh JoharTransparency must be ensuredThe overall criteria of evaluation of Class XII students by the CBSE seems to be fair but some issues must be addressed to reassure students about it. Since the Class X marks considered will be the average of the best three subjects among five, it would be quite fair. But the Achilles’ heel of the formula lies in grading where the influential guardians can pressurise school authorities and get the grades manipulated in their wards’ favour. Further, normally students of Class XI do not put much effort in studies as the examination is conducted by the schools. And this examination is not held on equitable basis as each school has its own set of questions which may be easy in some and tough in others leading to a clear disparity. Taking in account 30 percent marks obtained in Class XI could affect the total percentage. This will lead to biased marking as Class XI result is not prepared on the basis of a uniform criterion. Although external members would also be represented on the panel of result committees, transparency must be ensured to remove any apprehension in the minds of the students about fairness in the preparation of results.Anil KhannaNot all satisfied with the CBSE formulaThe Supreme Court has accepted the CBSE formula to evaluate students and publish their results by July 31in accordance with the 30:30:40 mechanism. The formula has not satisfied everyone but has been taken with a pinch of salt. Some students and parents’ bodies have questioned the bona fides of the formula. They grudge that the inclusion of Class XI marks will affect the college admissions of students drastically. And that allotting 30 per cent weightage to Class X marks is also unfair. Likewise, taking pre-board marks into account may also not be a good call. But since the apex court has given its approval to the much maligned formula, the question of it being correct and satisfactory assessment becomes irrelevant. Even then there are some apprehensions over the adopted marking system. Besides, it has many loopholes especially for the students who didn’t have a consistent academic record throughout the season. Their previous record has a potential to hamper their aggregate performance. Inclusion of Class XI marks in the final result has not gone down well with them. Dissatisfied elements aver that marking should be based on the performance of the current batch and not on any previous batch. The schools have been authorised to moderate the marks. Their manipulation may make or mar the career of some students. Students not satisfied with their results will be provided the opportunity to sit in an exam whenever the conditions become conducive for holding such exam. It means till then the sword of Damocles will keep hanging over their heads. Considering all this, the formula is a quick fix solution but the best in the present scenario.Tarsem S BumrahBest way out amid pandemicThe education system has been disturbed a lot in the past two years. Due to the pandemic, the institutes had to switch to online mode as physical classes were not possible. Amid, all these restrictions physical examinations were also not possible and thus the formula devised by the boards is the best way out in these circumstances. I reckon that definitely it would not be a correct and a satisfactory assessment of students because the students who were actually working very hard to score well in their boards are unhappy. We have no other option left to stay to the confine of our homes. So, in today’s scenario of pandemic this is the best decision taken because no student will be disadvantaged. Though some demerits cannot be ruled out, it still is the best way out.IzleenFormula should be adopted in futureThe 30:30:40 marking scheme is in stark contrast with the traditional strict marking schemes and favours students. The adverse and ambiguous present day circumstances allow liberal assessment of exams. The 30:30:40 formula allows Class XII board exams to be assessed in terms of a student’s performance in Class X and XI, henceforth enabling Class XII students to achieve higher marks even though Covid may have been detrimental to their studies. With this decision being announced in June 2021; much later in the CBSE’s academic calendar 2020-21, the leniency is justified. Students stay miserable with the inability to improve grades from the past. While this new formula is necessary it is also a big step for the CBSE board. I believe that students should be prepared for the worst. Following this decision, the upcoming Class XII students should make the best out of their formative years. This new decision will most certainly be representative of any such unpredictable change brought by the CBSE in future. I learnt and preach to all students that academic integrity and good consistently in academics can take you up.Ruhani VermaQuite satisfactory, Sensible decisionDue to the prevailing pandemic, school boards are helpless to take examinations in proper way. Some boards have decided to promote the students without taking any exam or on the basis of internal assessment. The 30:30:40 formula of the CBSE is quite satisfactory and correct method to assess students as there will be no injustice to hard working or intelligent students at least their hard work in previous classes will bear fruit to them as they actually deserved. The students, who were not keen in their studies or were ignorant towards their studies in previous classes, will get marks according to their performance. So in my view it is very sensible decision. At least mediocre and intelligent students will not be put under the same umbrella. Students will be assessed according to their capability.Varinder KapoorUnfair to students, needs to be reformedSyllabus and exams in Class XI are set in such a way that students could prepare for Class XII, which is why it is very difficult. A lot of students end up failing in Class XI because of strict evaluation as well. Using those scores for final evaluation is unfair for the students. In addition, pre-boards this year were held online and a lot of students cheated and ended up getting good grades. How is it fair to students who genuinely worked hard? There was a huge loss of productivity due to online classes and Covid last year, and a lot of students were unprepared for their pre-boards as a result. Students weren’t able to focus and prepare much. And then sudden announcement of pre-boards left a lot of students unprepared leading them to either skip exams or score comparatively less. Many considered pre-boards as a practice exam and were hopeful to score better in boards. Students tend not to focus much on scoring considering the fact it’ll not be counted in future.Sandeep Kumar SharmaMajority of students happy with methodSome students are not satisfied with this evaluation formula as they are thinking that Class X and XI marks should not be added in their Class XII results. Though the Supreme Court had given thumbs up to this method. Due to Covid, it is very difficult and dangerous for a government to conduct physical exams by putting lives of all students at risk. I think it is going to be very difficult for teachers too to calculate total output of a student, based upon three different classes. Most of the candidates are supposedly happy with this method. The government has also given a chance to students who wish to improve their score by appearing for physical exams later when the conditions for conducting exams are suitable in the nation.Karan SethiClass XI marks will be a deciding factorThe Supreme Court has given approval to the formula. Most of the students have also appreciated the method as a good decision while some have also said considering 30 per cent marks of Class XI was not a right decision as many students do not take Class XI that seriously and the scores granted are also less in this class. Therefore, the students are worried that 30 per cent Class XI marks will be affecting their result badly. The students who will to improve their score can also appear for physical exams once the Covid situation is normalised. Most of the students say that they do not know when the situation will return to normal. It will be too late for the CBSE to conduct Class XII exams and announce their result. By then, many entrance tests and next class sessions would have been started. The result of Class XII will be out on July 31 and most of the students are expected to be satisfied with the scores.Sucha SagarClass X result given more weightageAny result based on statistical approximation can never substitute physical examinations and its assessment especially in a large country with various kinds of schooling systems will not be fair. The formula seems unfair as Class X performance is being given more weightage in Class XII performance assessment. There is a wide variation between Class X and Class XII performance since in Class X there are no subject choices, unlike in Class XI and XII. Also, the policy of internal assessment should be uniform for both the central boards. Evidently, there are some challenges to uniformly implement the CBSE plan, and its success depends on the approach of school result committees responsible for inclusion of Class XII marks. Uneven access to smart devices and online connectivity and inability to appear for online classes will be impact their scores.Dr Simarpreet Sandhu20:30:50 formula would have been betterThe good thing about the 30:30:40 formula is that the maximum weightage has been given to Class XII. It is in this class that a majority of students put their maximum effort towards studies as these marks are used at many institutions throughout their lives. I believe that ascending approach should be used by the CBSE in their formula to evaluate students. This would mean that minimum weightage should be given to Class X performance, more to Class XI performance and maximum weightage to Class XII performance. So, the formula can be revised to 20:30:50. This should be used as Class XI and XII are like selective classes as the students select the subjects as per their own liking. So giving more importance to these classes vis-à-vis Class X can help the colleges and universities to get the best talent pool that will help both sides in the long run.Jatinderpal Singh BatthChances of favouritism will increaseAs per my opinion, taking into account Class X results is justified, but 30 per cent weightage given to Class 11 and 40 per cent to Class XII pre-board exams and practical assessment is not. This is really a matter a concern and debate. We know that most students do not take Class XI seriously as marks obtained in these internal school examinations have never mattered until now. Moreover, these exams of Class XI are not standardised resulting into disparity at the level of difficulty. This may bring down the comparative score of brilliant students. We must not ignore difficult transition from Class X to Class XI and many students do not do well in Class XI and this may affect their results. Class XII pre-boards and practical assessment also may see disparity. Many schools could not conduct offline pre-board exams due to Covid. Students may see exaggerated marks in online exams because it is not unusual for them to take external help in online tests. For those who took physical exams in classrooms, the results might be different. Last but not least, including Class XI marks and Class XII pre-board exams and practical assessment will not offer a level playing field and may lead to malpractices and favouritism too.Dr Vishal AroraNot fair, but only possible way outAny formula or decision on education in special circumstance like Covid fury must ensure that students are not deprived of what they deserve and are competent to hone their innate potentials. More intelligent and outstanding lot should not be equated with average or below average students, saying in other word, “be tarred with the same brush”. We have no doubt in the capability of educationists and higher courts and all decisions would be taken in the larger interest of students. A consensus at nation-level is imperative. There seems to be some logic behind the students’ approach of seeking SC intervention in to the matter. A number of students will be affected by the formula and it also doesn’t ensure parity. But, keeping the present situation in mind, no other alternative is as good as this one.BM SinghNo other alternative with Education boardsApproach of all students is usually not the same in Class XI. Many are non-serious earlier and get on pace later while some are focused towards their studies from the beginning. Also, due to a shift to higher secondary pattern many also are unable to make their mind about the stream that they wish to choose and sometimes shift from one stream to another. During this period of transition, most of their time is gone in making decisions and grabbing information. It is near the pre-board exams that they start understanding the pattern and the right approach to examinations. Thus giving equal importance to Class XI and XII pre-boards is not fair. Many schools are also said to be awarding less scores to students to prepare them for boards which will now be affecting the students badly. Though amid the pandemic this is still the best policy to evaluate students, I appeal college and universities to give fair chance to all deserving students.Manish Aggarwal3-yr period not enough to evaluate a studentCovid has affected students’ school education as well as examination results. For Class XII students, the CBSE has devised three years performance evaluation method with online registration facility for the examination on the board’s portal. Students and parents have flagged their concern and suggested to follow either last six years’ performance evaluation or internal assessment of students’ performance.TS BhattiBest in present scenario of CovidTimes have been tough for everyone more so for students who have borne a huge brunt of it. Their studies have taken a big hit because of delayed exams and results. Our large student community is on the threshold where after completing schooling they enter into various streams of their choice for higher education. The first thing they need at this point is the result of Class XII. The 30:30:40 formula seems to be the best in the present scenario. This seems fair as it is dividing their percentage over a period of three years and not just the past one year which has been extremely stressful. Besides, the students have also been assured of a chance to appear for physical exams after the situation improves if they are not satisfied with their result.Dr Vani Aroraa step in right directionCovid may prove to be a blessing in disguise. The CBSE had to, willy nilly, cancel Class XII exams compelling it to seek other channels of evaluation like results of pre-board examinations, Class X, internal assessment scores etc. This might have started the long overdue process of examination reforms. The bogey of a final examination takes away the will to discover, the joy of learning as well as the pleasure of teaching. Now, with the 30:30:40 formula, it seems something like that will be the criteria for evaluation in the future. Perhaps it is time to look at how other countries examine their school graduates. Whatever, the examiners are by and large happy.Prof Mohan SinghQUESTIONCovid fatalities and cases are decreasing in the district and unlocking process has already begun with lifting of the weekend curfew. How should the district administration prepare itself to prevent the anticipated third wave?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com  by Thursday (July 1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/303040-formula-for-evalutation-of-class-xii-results-a-quick-fix-solution-but-seems-best-in-present-scenario-275171
28-06-2021||Pathankot||Non-Practising Allowance: Pathankot doctors hand over memo to MLAs||The Pathankot unit of the PCMS handed over memorandums listing their grievances to all three MLAs of this district.Dr Sakshi Salgotra, district epidemiologist and a spokesperson for the doctors, said it was totally illogical and irrational to delink Non-Practising Allowance (NPA) from the basic pay. This development, she claimed, would decrease their salaries instead of acting as a catalyst in getting them increased.Even as doctors went on a strike and boycotted OPD duties, emergency services and Covid related duties were exempted.Dr Sakshi claimed that if the demands of the doctors were not met immediately they would be forced to intensify their agitation. Protests were held at district level and sub-divisional level hospitals and also at primary and community health centres acrossthe district.“We had hoped for a financial gift from the government. Reduced NPA will reduce our salaries,” said Dr Sakshi.Sujanpur MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu said he would be taking up the matter with the Punjab Government. “Doctors are doing their best during these tormenting Covid times. We should encourage them instead of discouraging them,” he said.Memorandums were also handed over to Amit Vij and Joginder Pal, MLAs of Pathankot and Bhoa, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/non-practising-allowance-pathankot-doctors-hand-over-memo-to-mlas-275172
28-06-2021||Amritsar||Tramadol seizure: SAD seeks NCB probe||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday sought shifting of probe into the tramadol seizure, which involved former district Congress chief and now AAP leader Rajiv Bhagat to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) or the CBI.SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha alleged that a probe should be marked to investigate the role of a former cop as his vehicle was used to ferry medical drugs. Valtoha said only a national agency could investigate the case in an impartial manner.Valtoha said, “Bhagat’s luck ran out once he left the Congress and joined the AAP.”The Amritsar (rural) police have booked Bhagat in connection with seizure of banned tramadol from three persons. The police had busted an alleged illegal firm in Paonta Sahib which was used to manufacture huge quantity oftramadol. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tramadol-seizure-sad-seeks-ncb-probe-275173
28-06-2021||Amritsar||Woman ends life, three booked||‘Give security to sarpanch’s kin’Tarn Taran: Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka, member, Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, has taken a serious note of atrocities and killings against SC community members in the state. He said it was the failure of the state police to check atrocities on the community members. Sialka was in Padhri Kalan village on Sunday, where Shagandeep Singh, 20-year-old son of the village’s lady sarpanch, was shot dead by armed persons of the village’s well-to-do families. He took serious note of not providing protection to the sarpanch’s family members despite his conversation over the phone with the local SSP on June 25. Sialka instructed the district police to provide security to the aggrieved family. The SC Commission member organised meeting with sarpanchs of the area belonging to the SC community. OCAB-SSBY: Rs88-cr claims registeredAmritsar: In a review meeting of the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY), DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira instructed the Health Department to raise more awareness about the health insurance scheme, so that more people can avail the benefit. He said the department has registered claims of over Rs88 crore so far. He said with more awareness, more people would be able to get free of cost treatment at government and empanelled private hospitals. The DC asked officials to get LEDs installed at all health facilities to display information about the scheme. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said a total of 3,28,459 families have been issued cards under the scheme. He said of these 2,41,000 families have availed the benefit under the scheme. He said 10 government hospitals and 95 private hospitals in the district have been empanelled under the scheme, which are providing services to beneficiaries. He said total 1,469 ailments are covered under the scheme of which 180 are reserved for government hospitals only. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-ends-life-three-booked-275174
28-06-2021||GS Paul||Conjoined brothers Sohna and Mohna now adults, to vote next year||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27Conjoined twins Sohna and Mohna, who celebrated their 18th birthday a few days ago, have now claimed their “right to vote”.After getting themselves registered as voters with the Amritsar administration, both were excited to participate in the electoral process for the first time in the ensuing 2022 Assembly elections.“Assi hun adhikarit tor te vadde hogye han, te hun apni choice da voting button dabawange (Now we are officially adults and would exercise our right to vote),” they said.Though they applied on separate Form-6 to claim their right to vote, it is yet to be seen whether they would be considered as separate individuals or one unit at the time of voting.Another technical hitch will be to comply with the secret ballot norm as no other person could be present when one is casting his or her vote.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said since it was one-of-its-kind case, it would have to be checked with the Election Commission guidelines to clarify whether their names should be inscribed on a single voter ID card or separate ones. “We would have to seek clarification from the Election Commission norms whether their vote would be treated as one or two.”Pingalwara head Inderjit Kaur said both Sohna and Mohna had different minds, different opinions and choices. “They are two different personalities with distinct features. Currently, they are studying technicalities of electric appliances from ITI,” she said.Born on June 14, 2003, at Sucheta Kriplani Hospital in New Delhi, Sohna and Mohna share all vital organs. The AIIMS doctors decided not to separate them as it could have resulted in the loss of one life. They are conjoined below the torso and have one pair of legs. They have two hearts, two pair of arms, kidneys and spinal cords, but only one liver and gall bladder.Though their parents abandoned them, they were adopted by Pingalwara Society two months after their birth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/conjoined-brothers-sohna-and-mohna-now-adults-to-vote-next-year-274919
28-06-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 1 death, 20 cases||Amritsar, June 26With one more death in the district due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the toll increased to 1,558. The health authorities have also reported 20 new cases with which the total count has increased to 46,657.The deceased has been identified as Rashpal Singh Dhillon, a 39-year-old resident of Gumtala. The new cases include 12 influenza-like illness cases and eight contacts of positive patients.The Health Department has reported recovery of 102 patients, with which the recovery count has increased to 44,709. The district at present has a total of 390 active cases.The health authorities said 11,537 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Saturday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine on Saturday include 2,833 residents above 45 years and 6,511 residents in the age group of 18-44 years. The second dose was given to 1,680 residents above 45 years and 513 residents in the age group of 18-44 years.1 dies, five positive in Tarn TaranOne person succumbed to the virus on Saturday taking the toll to 361 in the district. As many as five persons tested positive taking the active cases to 75 of which 39 were isolated at their respective homes. As many as 13 citizen were discharged today. The Health Department teams collected 983 samples to be tested for the infection. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 3,693 citizens were vaccinated against the virus on Saturday, with which the total number of those who have been jammed has increased to 1,89.654.The DC had appealed to all citizens above the age of 18 to get themselves vaccinated against the virus as early possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-1-death-20-cases-274524
28-06-2021||Lt Col Dilbag Singh Dabas (Retd)||Maha Virs of Ranian, Pulkanjri||Lahore is about 15 miles from the Attari border. With Ichhogil canal running almost parallel to the border and being a formidable water obstacle, during Operation ‘Cactus Lily’, the Indian Army chose to remain on the defensive in this sector. Accordingly, in defence of the Amritsar Sector, 54 Infantry Brigade of 15 Infantry Division was given the responsibility of not allowing enemy ingress along the border from Pulkanjri Border Out Post (BOP) to the BOP ahead of Ranian defended locality. The brigade linked up with 96 Infantry Brigade in the north and 38 Infantry Brigade in the south of the GT road.On December 3, 1971, just before last light, the PAF simultaneously attacked forward Indian airfields. At last light, all BOPs on the divisional front were shelled and later subjected to simultaneous attacks. The BOPs ahead of the ditch-cum-bund fortifications along the Attari drain were also attacked. Many BOPs, including Rattan Khurd, Mulakot and Pulkanjri on the Indian side of the border, were run over. Only the one at Ranian could not be pushed back.The Indian Enclave at Ranian, south-east of Ravi-International Border (IB) confluence, provided depth to Amritsar and was designated as the vital ground to be held at all costs. During the 1971 war, the Pakistan army was desperate to capture Ranian as it dominated the western and northern areas. Its capture could facilitate the advance to Amritsar. Pakistani troops could cross the Ravi river with armour and make a dash for Amritsar, unhindered. Such was the importance of holding on to Ranian. As per 54 Infantry Brigade Operation Order, 9 Punjab battalion, supported by a squadron of tanks, was tasked to deny Pakistan ingress into Ranian.Right from December 3 to the ceasefire on the 17th, the Ranian enclave was the scene of determined attacks and counter-attacks. During the 15-day war, ‘C’ Company of 9 Punjab, under the command of Major Basdev Singh Mankotia, not only blunted repeated attacks onto Ranian but also captured a sizeable chunk of Pakistan territory before declaration of ceasefire.Basdev Singh, a Himachali Dogra from Sidhpurgarh village in present-day Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh, was commissioned into 9 Punjab, also known as the ‘Fighting Ninth’, on December 11, 1962; two months earlier, on October 10, Major Mahender Singh Chowdhary from the same battalion, with a meager strength of a Company minus protective patrol, had foiled three successive Chinese attacks in overwhelming strength north of Nam Ka Chu river in NEFA and most deservedly earned the Maha Vir Chakra, the first during the 1962 India-China war.Nine years later, Basdev, now a Major, successfully emulated his senior.Battle of RanianWhile occupying a screen position between Ranian and the IB, ‘C’ Company under Major Mankotia took on the might of an infantry battalion (Pakistan’s 18 Frontier Force) and foiled repeated attacks on Ranian. During one of the hard slogging battles fought and won, Major Mankotia, for his conspicuous act of gallantry, was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra. The battle account reads:“Major Basdev Singh Mankotia of the 9th Punjab Battalion was holding a screen position with his company between Ranian and the International Border with Pakistan. Between 4th and 5th December, Pakistan’s 18 Frontier Force attacked his position seven times, all the time supported by the armour. With Major Mankotia in the forefront inspiring his men to hold firm, all the attacks were repulsed with heavy casualties on the attackers. When a portion of the screen position was over-run by the enemy, Major Mankotia hastily organised his men and led a determined counter-attack from the left flank on the cry ‘Durge Mata ki Jai’ and regained the lost ground, although at a cost.During the successful counter-attack, he was seriously wounded in both the shoulders but seeing the importance of regaining the ground, he refused to get evacuated and continued inspiring and leading his men till the enemy was completely driven out of the screen position.”Along with Major Mankotia, Second Lieutenant Joginder Singh Jaswal, the Company Second-in-Command, and Havildar Des Raj, the platoon Havildar, too, went beyond the call of duty in foiling the repeated attacks by the enemy. Both were awarded the Vir Chakra.Pulkanjri battleThe legendary village on a high ground close to the GT road and the International Border was held by the BSF Company Headquarters before the start of the war. On December 3, when Pakistan launched surprise attacks all along the western border, the BSF elements from Pulkanjri BOP were withdrawn overnight since the feature was not considered defensible by the BSF. Absence of Indian troops made Pulkanjri a low-hanging fruit. Militarily, Pakistan needed it and on the night of December 4, Pakistan’s 15th Punjab battalion simply plucked it, sat on and slowly developed it into a formidable, all-defying, defended locality.Pulkanjri was located within the territorial jurisdiction of 2 Sikh and the battalion decided to recapture it at the earliest. 2 Sikh was defending a frontage of almost 9 km and without denuding a portion of it, could not muster enough men to attack and recapture Pulkanjri. Also, on December 9, Pakistan had unsuccessfully attempted the capture of Dhanoya Kalan high ground held by 2 Sikh and such a threat in future could not be overlooked. However, the recapture buzzword kept doing the rounds among all ranks, along with planning and bold execution.Finally, a lightning commando raid was planned by a platoon strength of the fittest men to be led by Captain PS Toor. The Commando Platoon thoroughly rehearsed approach to the objective, crossing of mine fields and obstacles and bunker-bursting drills and waited for the word ‘go’. But despite repeated assurances by the Commanding Officer, Lieutenant Colonel SC Puri, about the success of the operation, the clearance did not come from the controlling headquarters. Although it took some days but the word spread among the jawans that defending Pulkanjri was 2 Sikh’s responsibility; however, when the war began, ‘dushman’ captured it and is sitting on it. No Khalsa of 2 Sikh could digest this humiliation. A silent anger was simmering.Sensing that the war may not drag for long, and after getting frustrated having waited for long, Subedar Major (SM) Kartar Singh, a veteran of 1947-48, 1962 and 1965 wars, walked up to the CO’s bunker and spoke his heart out: “Sahab bahadar, Pulkanjri painda tan 2 Sikh de ilaqe wich hai par kabza karin baitha dushman. Beshak uthhon BSF daud gayi si par aun wali naslan eh zaroor kehan geean ki 2 Sikh de sardar ki kar rahe si?” The CO’s reply, having not received orders for the recapture, further agitated the SM, who continued, “Sahab ji, aadar mangvao, sarian companian hamla bolan layi valanteer hain. Paltan di izzat da sawal hai. Ceasefire de baad kuchh nahion hona.”The much-awaited order to recapture Pulkanjri came at 5.45 pm on December 17 with just 2 hours and 15 minutes remaining for the unilateral ceasefire to be effective. With time at utmost premium, a quick counter-attack plan was made and artillery fire plan coordinated. ‘C’ Company, under the command of Major Narain Singh Koak, was given the task (recapture of Pulkanjari) to be completed before first light the next day.After half-an-hour bombardment by the divisional artillery, the attack by the ‘C’ Company began at 1900 hours on the jaikara (battle cry) “Bole So Nihal — Sat Sri Akal”. But the jaikara was answered by the enemy by opening up all the automatic weapons on the attacking troops.Due to a preponderance of artillery fire from both sides and the enemy also firing star shells, the battleground was fully illuminated, enabling the defenders to engage the attackers with aimed fire. The attackers out in open, despite all possible odds, kept charging under covering fire by the guns of 175 Field Regiment and battalion’s 3-inch mortars under Capt Toor. Just when the men were 200 yards short of the objective, and guns and mortars had stopped firing to cater to the safety of attacking troops, two medium machine guns of the enemy opened up with devastating fire, causing unimaginable dead and wounded.At that critical juncture, to stop any more casualties and also to help maintain the momentum of the attack, Lance Naik Shangara Singh, in a rare display of courage, albeit at the highest cost, silenced both the machine guns, paving the way for his platoon to charge and drag the enemy out from the bunkers.Shangara Singh belonged to Chola Sahib in Amritsar district, a village that still has at least one, some even two, faujis, mostly in Sikh Regiment, in most of the houses. Shangara was enrolled in 2 Sikh in January 1964.2 Sikh, one of the oldest Indian battalions, was originally raised as 15 Loodiana Sikhs in 1846 and was commended for the role it played during the First World War. It was given the name 2 Sikh in 1922 when the Indian regiments were numbered. During the Second World War, 2 Sikh fought in North Africa, Greece and Italy and won battle honours Mersa Matruh, Coriano, SAN Mariano, Poggio SAN Giovanni and Greece; a very rare for a battalion to have earned so many honours.Shangara Singh, however, was destined to serve the battle-hardened battalion only for seven years; nonetheless, his short innings ended gloriously for he earned the Maha Vir Chakra for the battalion. He was most ably joined by Havildar Gurdev Singh, the platoon Havildar who earned the Vir Chakra for his bravery of a high order.“On December 17, 1971, Lance Naik Shangara Singh of 2nd Sikh Battalion was Second-in-Command of a section in the forward platoon during the attack on Pulkanjri village. While closing onto the objective, the platoon in which he was serving came under heavy enemy fire, particularly from two machine guns on the east flank. Many jawans fell and the attack could not proceed further.To save the life of his comrades as also to maintain the momentum of the attack, Shangara, with utter disregard for personal safety, made a dash through the minefield to the first machine gun post and hurled a grenade inside the bunker, successfully silencing the machine gun. Then he charged toward the second machine gun post, leapt over the loophole and succeeded in physically snatching the gun. In doing so, he received a burst of fire in his abdomen, but undeterred, he continued to hold the machine gun. The enemy was completely unnerved and the firing crew fled from the bunker, leaving the machine gun barrel in Shangara’s hands.Elimination of these two machine guns enabled the platoon to dash forward and take on the enemy in fierce hand-to-hand combat. The hard slogging match continued for over an hour after which the enemy withdrew leaving behind its dead and wounded. Immediately, Shangara was pulled back for evacuation; however, due to excessive loss of blood he succumbed to his injuries.”The battle to recapture Pulkanjri was among the fiercest fought and decisively won on the western front. The success cost 2 Sikh dearly but the grit and determination of its officers and men was suitably acknowledged; the battalion was awarded one MVC, one Vir Chakra and four Sena Medals (gallantry), including the one to Major Narain Singh Koak.Along with Lance Naik Shangara Singh and Havildar Gurdev Singh, many diehard Khalsas of 2 Sikh went beyond the call of duty, some even offering the supreme sacrifice and unknowingly replaying the part the battalion played six years earlier; in the 1965 war, it captured the most formidable, all-defying, ‘Raja Post’ in Poonch sector. The Commanding Officer, Lt Col NN Khanna, was killed in action while leading the assault. And the iconic phrase coined by 2 Sikh, ‘Raja (CO) ditta par Raja (objective) litta,’ speaks volumes. In 1971, 2 Sikh repeated the feat by recapturing yet again the all-defying Pulkanjri against all possible odds, and at the shortest possible notice. This time the fallen Raja was a Lance Naik, Second-in-Command of a section of 10 men.And the brave men of XV Ludhiana Sikhs, the Raja Battalion, lived up to the prayer of their 10th Guru and the regimental motto ‘Nischaya kar apni jeet karoon’.Although not during the battle of Pulkanjri, but five months later, when Operation ‘Cactus Lily’ was still on, Naib Subedar Gian Singh of 2 Sikh posthumously earned the Vir Chakra when in May 1972 he led a fighting patrol and thwarted another attempt by the Pakistan army to wrest Pulkanjri from the Indian Army’s firm grip.Pulkanjri, with the Unesco heritage tag, does have a readable history behind it although the tales and legends woven around do not match the exalted status of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.It would be worthwhile for Capt Amarinder Singh, an ex-officer from 2 Sikh and also having served with the battalion during the 1965 war, to consider changing the name to Pul Shangara to honour the Sardar who sacrificed his life to ensure that the heritage site remains with India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/maha-virs-of-ranian-pulkanjri-274744
