29-06-2021||Saurabh Malik ||Amritsar or Ambarsar: City mall challenges DC’s name change order in HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29What’s in a name? Everything — going by an order passed by Amritsar Deputy Commissioner.The officer has asked VR Ambarsar Mall to remove ‘Ambarsar’ from its name. The logic: the city’s name is ‘Amritsar’ in government notifications and changing nomenclature to ‘Ambarsar’ was wrong.The matter was brought to the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s notice after the mall, through senior advocate Chetan Mittal along with Udit Garg and Shifali Goyal, challenged the order passed by the Deputy Commissioner.Taking up the petition by M/s Alena Ventures Pvt Ltd, Justice Lisa Gill of the High Court issued notice of motion and stayed the operation of the impugned order dated April 23.Appearing before the Bench, Mittal contended the petitioner had no intention to hurt religious sentiments of anyone. The provision of law under which purported action has been taken by the authorities was also unknown. Moreover, the order was never conveyed to the petitioner.Mittal added Amritsar was colloquially known as ‘Ambarsar’. The word was also used in movies and songs. A market was also known as ‘Ambarsar Bazaar’. Quoting examples, Mittal submitted ‘Ambarsariya di Hatti’ and ‘Ambarsar Badiyaan’ were used at various places. There was no bar in using ‘Ambarsar’ as per the Emblems and Names Act (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950.Mittal further contended there were various news articles and social media pages claiming that ‘Ambarsar’ denoted an “emotion”. It was not just a word. Besides, various cities were referred to by colloquial names such as Benaras and Dilli. It did not signify change in the City’s name. Even under various statutes there is no bar in naming or using the word ‘Ambarsar’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-or-ambarsar-city-mall-challenges-dcs-name-change-order-in-hc-275860
29-06-2021||---||No death,15 Covid infections reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 28The Health Department has reported 15 new cases on Monday with which the total count has increased to 46,690. The authorities reported zero Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours.The new cases include nine influenza-like illness cases and six contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 32 patients, the recovery count has increased to 44,819. The district has a total of 311 active cases.The health authorities inoculated 3,671 persons in the district today. Those who received the first dose included 710 residents above 45 years and 2,057 residents in the age group of 18-44 years. The second dose was administered to 738 residents above 45 years and 166 residents in the age group of 18-44 years.One dies, 3 test positive in Tarn TaranThe district witnessed one death due to Covid taking the toll to 361. As many as three persons tested positive taking the active cases to 72 of which 36 were isolated at their respective homes. Seven patients were discharged after competing their treatment on Monday. The Health Department team collected 957 samples today and the reports of 882 samples were being awaited. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 3,582 persons were vaccinated against the pandemic on Monday. As many as 1,95,349 persons have been jabbed so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-death-15-covid-infections-reported-in-amritsar-275685
29-06-2021||---||Transporters hit roads, say sector on verge of collapse||Amritsar, June 28On the call of the All-India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), transporters observed a strike against the constant hike in fuel prices (diesel and petrol) and policies of the Centre on Monday.Addressed to PM Narendra Modi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, a delegation of the Transport Welfare Association (Amritsar), submitted a memorandum at the Deputy Commissioner office.The protesters demanded reduction in excise duty and VAT on fuel, uniform rate of diesel and petrol across the country, quarterly revision of prices, EMI moratorioum be announced for six months, time limits prescribed for validity of e-way bill should be restored to previous level (100 km per day).Transporters said with limited margins, delayed payments and high interest rate on working capital, has battered them financially.Protesters said the Centre’s was devising policies in such a way that small operators were being shunted out of business. Around 65 per cent transporters possess one to five vehicles (both cargo and passenger segments) and are self-employed. Anantdeep Singh, general secretary, Transport Welfare Association, said, “The road transport provides essential services and is a lifeline of the economy. It’s the highest contributor to the country’s exchequer as around 20 crore people are directly or indirectly associated with the transport sector.”Yet the government has not provided any relief, including blanket moratorium and extension of insurance.Spike in non-performing assets (NPA) and pressure from financial institutions for recovery and seizure of vehicles has mounting troubles, he said.“Repressive and regressive policies of the Centre are not attuned with ground realities and are trampling the transport sector, which is on the verge of collapse. The sector is running into deep losses with ever rising operating costs and unrealistic freights,” said Anantdeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transporters-hit-roads-say-sector-on-verge-of-collapse-275686
29-06-2021||---||Attari resident shot at, 2 booked||Amritsar, June 28Raman Bhandari, a resident of Attari, was injured when two persons armed with pistols shot at him. He was rushed to the Lopoke Civil Hospital where his condition is stated to be stable.The Gharinda police have booked two persons—Vipin Singh and Jaswinder Singh—both residents of Attari on charges of attempt to murder and the Arms Act while no arrest has been made so far.Gaurav Bhandari, a cousin of the victim, told the police that around 6 pm on Sunday he was going towards Attari bus stand and was just a few metres away from his uncle Bajinderpal Bhandari’s shop. He said he Vipin was driving a scooter and Jaswinder was riding pillion. He said Jaswinder alighted from the scooter and asked Raman to come out of the shop.He said as he went out, Jaswinder first fired in air and then shot Raman. He suffered bullet injury on his thigh. He said when he raised an alarm, the accused fled away from the spot.Assistant Sub-Inspcetor Rajbir Singh (Investigating Officer) said a case under Sections 307, 336 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered.He said the accused had a minor dispute with the victim over the payment of cold drinks. The accused has an agency and the victim runs a shop. He said further investigations were under progress and raids were on to nab the perpetrators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attari-resident-shot-at-2-booked-275687
29-06-2021||---||Seven mobiles seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, June 28The seizure of mobile phones and other prohibited material from high security Amritsar Central Jail continues unabated with jail authorities confiscating seven mobile phones from the complex here on Sunday.On the complaint of jail officials, the police have booked five prisoners identified as Pawan, alias Pawandeep Singh; Jaspal Singh, alias Judge; Kishan Singh, Chand and Kuldeep Singh.Bhagwant Singh, Assistant Superintendent at the jail, told the police that during checking of room number 7 of barrack number 3, the jail staff seized keypad mobile phones with battery and SIMs from Pawan and Jaspal, while smart phones were seized from Kishan and Chand.Similarly, during a search operation in room number 3 of barrack number 1, Assistant Superintendent Jaswinder Singh recovered a keypad phone from Kuldeep Singh, while two unclaimed mobiles were found from the exhaust fan of the bathroom.Two separate cases under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act were registered against them and further investigations were on as to how they got sneaked inside the jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-mobiles-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-275688
29-06-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Double whammy for dairy farmers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 28The Covid-19 guidelines restricting the number of people to 20 at any party or marriage in the last nearly five months have left dairy farmers high and dry. These guidelines were imposed in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19.It proved a double whammy for them, as they are not getting adequate procurement price for milk. On the other hand, they have to shell out more on buying livestock feed in addition to facing transport hurdles and restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid-19.Milk plant Verka offers about Rs44 per litre for milk to farmers and in the open market, they receive somewhere between Rs40 and Rs42 per litre. Before the imposition of Covid-19 restriction in March, they were getting Rs50 per litre for milk.Rajdeep Singh of Kotla Gujara village says: “After collecting milk from my native village and surrounding areas, Ideliver it to dairies and at sweetmeat shops here.”He has been in this vocation for the last nearly two decades but has not seen such troubled times for milk vendors. After lifting of the weekend lockdown, transport restrictions were resolved. But for the past several weeks, they were facing the trouble of no-sale on Saturday and Sunday.Charanjit Singh Pappu, president of Amritsar Milk Halwai Association, said bulk buyers of milk and milk products have made an exit from the market as no mass-level function is taking place. Tourists who like to taste Punjabi lassi also remained elusive during this period. Retail buyers were the main customers. It created a situation, in which the supply was abundant and demand did not rise. Hence, the price of milk did not increase this summer season.HS Sandhu, general manager, Verka milk plant, said: “Verka did not hike the price of its products this summer but continued giving high procurement price of milk to farmers. Being a co-operative unit, they supported farmers and consumers both. Milk plant Verka released milk and curd packets at affordable rates for the public.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/double-whammy-for-dairy-farmers-275689
29-06-2021||---||Amritsar: Services affected at all govt hospitals||Amritsar, June 28The strike by Joint Punjab Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee to protest against the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report affected all medical services except emergency and Covid-care services at all government hospitals in the district on Monday.The doctors boycotted out-patient department (OPD), operation theatre and teachings of MBBS students. Doctors refused to conduct medical examination of persons arrested by the police or brought from jail.Doctors of different cadres including the PCMS, faculty at Government Medical College and Dental College, Ayurveda doctors, homeopathy doctors, veterinary doctors and rural medical officers participated in the protest.Dr Mridu Gupta, president, Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, said: “The association resorted to strike only after the government failed to take notice of the objections raised on the pay panel report.”She said the Non Practicing Allowance (NPA) has been reduced to 20 per cent from 25 per cent. She said as the NPA has been delinked from the basic salary, it would cause a huge financial loss to the employees.Dr Madan Mohan, district president, Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association, said: “We have been demanding increase in NPA from 25 per cent to 33 per cent. But instead, the government has decreased it and that too at a time when the medical fraternity is fighting the pandemic.” The protests by doctors were held at various places such as Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital and Government Medical College.Veterinary doctors also staged a protest at Poly Clinic at Verka. Dr Gagandeep Dhillon, district president, said: “Apart from OPD, vaccination and other medical services at veterinary clinics, the reporting of all Central government schemes, too, has been stopped.” He said all cadres of doctors in different departments are united in protest against the decision of the state government.Work hit in Tarn Taran as wellServices in all government offices were hit due to the agitation launched by the doctors of the Health and Veterinary departments besides employees of other departments.One the call given by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee, the normal functioning, except Covid and emergency services, was affected in all civil hospitals and health centres due to the strike.The doctors were agitating against reducing their NPA, while other employees had their own demands.Dr Jaspreet Singh, PCMS doctors’ leader; Dr JS Pannu, Dr Sukhraj Singh Bal, Veterinary Department; Dr Pankaj Arora, dental organisation; Dr Harinderpal Singh, homeopathic; Dr Sandeep, Ayurvedic association, said they were fighting against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission for reducing their non-practising allowance (NPA) from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and de-linking it from the basic pay, which will result in financial loss to doctors.The doctors organised protests in Tarn Taran, Patti and other civil hospitals in the district.The members of the local district unit of the Medical Laboratory Technical Association observed a two-hour pen-down strike and presented a memorandum to the Civil Surgeon regarding their demands.Avtar Singh president and Paramjit Singh Sokhi general secretary led the delegation to present the memorandum to the Civil Surgeon regarding their demands.The ministerial staff of the offices of the Deputy Commissioner, SDMs, tehsils and education, revenue and irrigation departments among others also observed a pen-down strike stressing on their demands. The strike call had been given by the state body of the Punjab State Ministerial Services’ Association.The employees of the Roadways Department on the first day of their three-day tool-down strike on Monday organised a rally at the local bus stand. The agitating employees stopped the entry of private buses as a result passengers had to take buses from outside.The normal working at government offices were also hit. The district administration and officials were helpless in resolving their grouse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-services-affected-at-all-govt-hospitals-275690
29-06-2021||---||Nod to five O2 plants for Amritsar||Amritsar, June 28On the request of Amritsar’s Member Parliament Gurjit Aujla, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has approved setting up of five oxygen plants in Amritsar.Informing this, Aujla said in a communication, Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Science and Technology and Earth Sciences, Government of India, said of these five oxygen plants, one would be of 2,000 LPM capacity, two of 1,000 LPM capacity and two of 250 LPM capacity.These would be installed from PM-CARES fund. Aujla said the Union Ministry approved setting of these plants at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Government Medical College, Sub-district hospital Ajnala and Sub-district hospital at Baba Bakala, respectively.Aujla had urged the Centre for establishing these plants on May 2 this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nod-to-five-o2-plants-for-amritsar-275692
29-06-2021||---||Punbus strike: Staff apply brakes on 180 buses in Amritsar dist||Amritsar, June 28Commuters underwent a harrowing experience as members of the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union applied brakes on nearly 180 buses of Amritsar-I and Amritsar-II depots on Monday.They also held a four-hour long blockade at the entry and exit gates of Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal here. The government was caught off-guard as they did not have any alternate arrangement in place to handle the situation.Kuljit Singh, president, Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, said: “There are about 7,500 contractual workers in Punbus and PRTC across the state and after repeated assurances by the government, they have not been regularised. Of these, about 400 contractual workers are employed in the two depots of the city. I myself am working as a cashier on contractual basis for the last 12 years.”The staff laid siege to the ISBT for four hours. Barring nearly 15 buses of the Punjab Roadways being driven by regular staff, the rest of the buses remained off road. They plan to continue with the strike till June 30.“Nearly1,600 contractual workers managed to have cleared the written examination in 2015 and they were assured that they would be regularised after three years,” said Hira Singh, president of the Union from Depot-I, adding that even after the passage of nearly six years, they were not regularised.Those buses of PUNBUS which managed to pay off their loans have been merged in the Punjab Roadways, but the same rule is not applicable for the staff. Buses under the Punjab Roadways are driven by regular staff and there are no contractual workers under it. The Transport Department did not have any alternate arrangement to ferry passengers, most of whom prefer to drive in its buses after the Capt-led government offered free travel for women in the state-run buses. Next two days are also likely to be a nightmare for passengers.Protest outside Moti Bagh Palace todayMembers of the local unit of the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union will join their counterparts from others districts of the state to hold a protest in front of the Moti Bagh Palace in Patiala on Tuesday. As many as 400 members of the union will leave for Patiala from here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punbus-strike-staff-apply-brakes-on-180-buses-in-amritsar-dist-275693
29-06-2021||Gurbaxpuri||10K vacancies to be filled soon: Punjab DGP||Tarn Taran, June 28Director-General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, who was in Tarn Taran on Monday to inaugurate sports complex at the Police Lines, said they would soon recruit 10,000 sub-inspectors, head constables and constables.He said the government would also recruit forensic science and cybercrime experts among others.The DGP exhorted youngsters to seize the opportunity and start preparations for written and physical screening in the right earnest. He said steps have been taken to ensure transparency in the recruitment process.He said the sports complex has been built on four acres at a cost of Rs 1.70 crore and would keep cops fit and active. The DGP said family members of cops and general public would also be allowed to practice here.The sports complex comprises world-class facilities, including 400m running track of international standard, high jump and long jump track, spacious pavilion, obstacle course for outdoor training, basketball court, wellness centre, indoor and outdoor gym, boxing ring and cricket pitch, besides physiotherapy and counselling centre.The DGP presented commendation certificates to the police officials, who did excellent work in tackling drug menace and the case of Comrade Balwinder Singh Sandhu, a Shaurya Chakra awardee.The NIA, which took over the investigation, said Sandhu’s murder was linked with terrorists and had filed a charge sheet against eight terrorists of the outlawed Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF).Moroever, it was the first event of the government in which Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill and all four MLAs Dharamveer Agnihotri, Harminder Singh Gill, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar and Ramanjit Singh Sikki were present.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Ferozepur Range) Hardial Singh Mann and Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10k-vacancies-to-be-filled-soon-punjab-dgp-275694
29-06-2021||---||Cancel FIRs against farmers in Chandigarh, Delhi: Dal Khalsa||Amritsar, June 28Criticising the Chandigarh police for implicating Lakha Sidhana, Baldev Singh Sirsa and many others under frivolous charges, the Dal Khalsa and the Sikh Youth of Punjab sought cancellation of FIRs registered against them. They also demanded withdrawal of cases registered against them in the national capital.They accused the Union Home Ministry for police highhandedness. Dal Khalsa general secretary Paramjit Singh Tanda and SYP head Paramjit Singh Mand alleged that the Chandigarh police have booked agitating farmers at the behest of their political bosses in Delhi. They alleged that the BJP-led Union Government was resorting to arm twisting measures to suppress farmers’ agitation.Referring to FIRs registered against protesting farmers by the Delhi police following tractor march on January 26, the Dal Khalsa alleged that the Chandigarh police has followed the Delhi pattern to implicate farmer leaders. They said the police allegations against protesters were baseless and that protesting farmers didn’t indulge in violence neither in Chandigarh nor in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cancel-firs-against-farmers-in-chandigarh-delhi-dal-khalsa-275695
29-06-2021||Our Correspondent 
||21 months on, three booked for hurting religious sentiments||Tarn Taran, June 28 The Chabal police on Saturday registered a case against three members of a family 21 months after the husband-wife couple of Pandori Sidhwan filed a complaint of hurting religious sentiments and molestation of a woman.  The accused have been identified as Harpreet Singh, his brother Gurbir Singh and father Nirmal Singh. Controversy over distribution of water in fields between the two families took an ugly turn. The victim, Gurjinder Singh, alleged perturbed over this the accused on September 13, 2019, entered into his house and attacked  them. “The accused thrashed me severely and when my wife came to my rescue Harpeet molested her. The latter also removed my turban,” Gurjinder alleged.   Gurjinder said he approached the Chabal police soon after the incident but to no avail.   Even higher police officials did not redress my grievances in spite of repeated requests, he said.   During all these 21 months he moved from pillar to post to get justice but at last local DSP Sucha Singh Bal on the instruction of SSP Dhruman H Nimbale conducted inquiry into the matter. On Saturday the Chabal police registered a case under Sections 452, 323, 354, 295, 506 and 34 of the IPC against the three.  The accused are absconding, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/21-months-on-three-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-275696
29-06-2021||---||GNDU offers 20-day crash courses for skill development||Amritsar, June 28Department of lifelong learning was set up at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) with an aim to provide opportunity to learn and earn through short-term skill- based courses. Over the years, the department has been taking in students from all age groups.With all its courses designed to enhance skill development with a purpose of self-reliance, the department has now introduced crash courses (20-day computer-oriented programme in fashion, cosmetology and creative arts). Saroj Bala, director, Department of lifelong learning, said post pandemic, many livelihoods have been lost and the need for skill-based education was essential.“We had started with a purpose to offer learning that would help in poverty alleviation through well-designed and coordinated vocational training of weaker section of society. Our students include men and women of all age groups and we focus on self-employment-based training. The short-term crash courses include 20-day programmes on GST/IT form filling, using auto CAD, baking and cooking, aerobics and yoga, fabric painting, mehendi and designing. All these courses have been designed keeping in mind how the pandemic has changed economics on a local and global level,” she said.The Department offers 12 programmes in four categories under 20-day crash course while its traditional courses include one year diploma in six categories and six month certificate courses in six categories. “The programme fee is between Rs300 and Rs1,200 and our requirement for registration is matriculation or Class XII,” she said.“We have been consistently trying to educate people about our courses and their scope. Pre-pandemic, we started a village visit campaing, where we used to visit local rural areas to scout potential candidates, especially women, who were looking to get financially independent. Post-pandemic, the information dissemination has been inconsistent and also a lot of awareness is required,” she said.Bala said the last date for registration was June 30, but they might have to extend it if response remains slow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-offers-20-day-crash-courses-for-skill-development-275697
29-06-2021||Amritsar||Nod for projects worth Rs 9 crore||The Finance and Contract Committee of the Municipal Corporation (MC) discussed development projects worth Rs9 crore during the meeting, which was attended by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, Commissioner Komal Mittal on Monday.  Works that received nod belong to the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) wing, civil wing, street lights wing and health wing. Setting up of a tube-well, potable water supply lines, sewerage desilting are some of the projects that received approval. Apart from this, manhole chambers would be built, the level of manholes below the road surface level would be elevated. Dog sterilisation centres would also be set up.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nod-for-projects-worth-rs-9-crore-275699
29-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC delegation to meet Sangrur SSP||While demanding strict action against the woman who set the gurdwara building on fire in Jaulian village of Bhawanigarh in Sangrur district, the SGPC has decided to take legal action in the case.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said the accused woman has been arrested but exposing those who were behind this incident was yet to be known.“We will pursue this case so that the culprits could be punished. In this regard, a delegation of SGPC will meet Sangrur SSP on June 29 and submit a memorandum for taking appropriate action against the actual culprits,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur.SGPC delegation will comprise SGPC junior vice-president Baba Buta Singh and executive committee members Satwinder Singh Tohra, Bhupinder Singh Bhalwan, member Baldev Singh Chungan and Malkit Kaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-delegation-to-meet-sangrur-ssp-275700
29-06-2021||Amritsar||Valedictory ceremony held at IIM-Amritsar||IIM-Amritsar held the valedictory session of Executive Programme in Data Analytics for HPCL officials on Monday. The nine-month programme that started in August 2020 covered contemporary topics like Digital Transformation, Analyzing data using R, Forecasting Techniques, Data Visualisation, Decision Making, Ethics and Privacy, among others. Sai Kumar Suri, ED, Retail, HPCL and Dr Pushp Kumar Joshi, Director, HR, HPCL and Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director IIM Amritsar delivered valedictory messages to the participants and other present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/valedictory-ceremony-held-at-iim-amritsar-275701
29-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Teen abducted, One booked||80% kids given polio dropsAmritsar: Polio drops were administered to around 80 per cent of the targeted 1,12,374 children below the age of five years during the three-day pulse polio drive, which started on Sunday. Health officials said brick kilns, factory premises, slums where families of migrant workers reside and farm houses were covered. Assistant Civil Surgeon-cum-District Immunisation Officer Dr Amarjit Singh said 701 teams of health employees and volunteers were taking part in the campaign. He said the target to immunise each and every child would be completed. TNSYouth booked for raping MinorAmritsar: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth after forcibly taking her to a hotel in the walled city. The incident occurred six days ago while a complaint was filed on Sunday. The girl said Tejinder Singh of Ghanupur Kale in Chheharta. was stalking her for over a month. She said she was pursuing a computer course. He stopped her in the middle of road and said he wanted to talk her. She said on June 22, when she was heading back home, the accused was standing with a bike near her house. The victim said he forced her to sit on his bike and took her to a hotel near Dholla Mohalla on the pretext of talking to her. She said the accused raped her in the room and threatened to kill her. Later, the accused dropped the victim near a residential colony. She said she went in depression following the incident and told her mother about it. The Chheharta police said a case of rape, illegal detention and the POCSO Act has been registered. The medical of the victim was done and raids were on to nab Tejinder. TNSGNDU signs MoU with CECAmritsar: Guru Nanak Dev University and Consortium for Educational Communication, inter-university centre of the UGC, on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for undertaking various activities aimed at addressing the needs of higher education and appropriate use of technology to increase the access of educational content for both undergraduate and postgraduate education. GNDU Vice-Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu and Director, CEC, Prof JB Nadda and Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean, Academic Affairs, signed the MoU. With this, the university would be an affiliate member of the consortium, said a statement from the university. “The pact allows GNDU to conduct its recently launched UGC entitled/approved online and ODL courses, upgrading the university library and conduct workshops to train GNDU faculty member for development of the online content, organise MOOC courses, as an effort to improve the educational progress of students,” said the Vice-Chancellor. TNSCops donate 100 units of bloodTarn Taran: A total of 100 units of blood was collected during a blood donation camp organised by the police recently with association of the Red Cross Society. Cops willingly donated blood, which was collected by the Health Department. SSP Dhruman Nimbale said donors were honoured with certificates. OCFormer Bar Assn president passes awayTarn Taran: Senior advocate and former president of the local Bar Association Jagjeevan Lal Sood (84) passed away here on Sunday. Among others, local MLA Dharambir Agnihotri was present at the funeral. Jatinder Sood, younger brother of Jagjeevan, said Jagjeevan had been facing many health problems for the last five months. He had also won the battle against Covid-19 a few months ago. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-abducted-one-booked-275706
29-06-2021||Amritsar||Webinar on Development||Toycathon 2021The students of The Millennium School, Amritsar, Dishita Lumba of Class IX, Kirtida Sachdeva of Class VIII, and Archita Verma of Class X participated in TOYCATHON-2021 under the ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ initiative and qualified for the final round under the Digital Category, by beating 17,000 plus nationwide entries and making it in the top 1,500 entries. The three also had the opportunity to be invited for a virtual meeting with Prime Minister, who congratulated and encouraged all the finalist teams. Shailja Tandon, Principal, The Millennium School said that the school has made efforts to incorporate Artificial Intelligence in the school’s curriculum to prepare the students for a world that is going to be dominated by AI and Data science. “The Millennium team built a game named ‘Millennium Virtual Guide’ that educates players about India’s many states, landmarks, and cultural aspects through a virtual tour guide named Gyaan; who is able to communicate in both Hindi and English. These students went through several screening levels and connected with IT mentors from prominent institutions, receiving guidance to compete with other teams. Overall, it has been a great experience for the students and indeed a proud moment for the school and the parents,” she said.Students get placementA total of 17 students of Amritsar Group of Colleges bagged job offers in virtual campus placement drive for BYJU’s company. Selected students have been offered an average pay package of Rs 10 lakh PA and belong to several specialities of BTech. Dr VK Banga, Principal, said “As the recruitment process shifted to online mode this year, the number of offers drastically increased in comparison to 2020. This year has been extremely good for placements even though, some other leading recruiters like TCS, Nagarro, SopraSteria, Accenture, Infosys,Capgemini Wipro Technologies, Mind Infotech, Xtramarks, Ralson India Newgen, Cogneesol, Infogain, Sobha Ltd, Luminous Power Technologies, Just Dial and HDFC Bank, etc conducted placement drives.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-development-275737
29-06-2021||Amritsar||Human rights panel seeks report on rising deaths in Punjab||Taking cognisance of a complaint filed by a resident on the basis of a report published in The Tribune on June 6 regarding a rise in the number of deaths, the Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) has asked the state to submit a report till July 6.The action comes after a complaint was filed by 17-year-old Twishaa Sehgal with a clipping of report “Fatalities up 77% in Amritsar, but cause in 3,000 victims unknown”.As per the report, the MC data suggested 3,749 deaths were registered in April and May, against 2,114 in the corresponding months of 2020. Of 3,749 deaths, the Covid casualties were 774. In the corresponding months last year, there were just seven Covid deaths.The report also stated during the first wave of pandemic, the MC had conducted door-to-door screening and contact-tracing but during the second wave, no such practice was adopted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/human-rights-panel-seeks-report-on-rising-deaths-in-punjab-275610
29-06-2021||Amritsar||Identify hotspots with frequent drone movement from across the border: Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta||A day after drone was used to drop IED at the IAF base in Jammu, DGP Dinkar Gupta today directed the police and BSF officials to identify the areas with frequent drone movement from across the International Border.He held a high-level meeting with senior officials of the BSF and Punjab Police to chalk out a strategy to deal with the national security challenges posed by drones.The DGP asked the officials to use the last two years’ data to narrow down and pinpoint the areas that were conducive to operation of drones.He also discussed the installation of infrared CCTV cameras on the road network in border villages besides asking them to identify possible camera points in the vulnerable areas and roads leading to the International Border.Among others who attended the meeting were ADGP Internal Security RN Dhoke, ADGP STF B Chandrashekhar and IG Border Range SPS Parmar. IG BSF Mahipal Yadav and DIGs of different BSF sectors of Punjab, besides Amritsar CP Sukhchain Singh Gill, SSP Amritsar rural Gulneet Singh Khuranna and Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale also attended the meeting.The DGP directed the Amritsar city Police Commissioner and SSPs of border districts to launch a crackdown on drug and weapon smugglers active near the Pakistan border. He directed them to identify hotspots infamous for drug smuggling in their areas concerned and launch suitable operations to nab those dealing in drugs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/identify-hotspots-with-frequent-drone-movement-from-across-the-border-punjab-dgp-dinkar-gupta-275590
29-06-2021||---||Protest over regular jobs for safai workers in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 28The AAP today staged a protest outside the residence of Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka for allegedly misleading sanitation workers over regularisation of jobs. The protesters also burnt his effigy.Leader of Opposition in Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, who led the protesters, said the Congress government had been trying to mislead safai workers on jobs.A few days ago, Verka had met CM Capt Amarinder Singh and announced regularisation of sanitation workers services. Cheema said the government had neither come up with any such policy nor had the issue been considered in the Cabinet. Cheema said Verka should apologise to sanitation workers for playing with their sentiments. The LoP said in the coming days, the AAP would expose false promises made by the Congress government to the people. “The CM had made tall promises to different sections of society, but none had been fulfilled so far,” he said.Party’s state joint secretary Ashok Talwar, joint secretary Baljit Singh Khaira, Amritsar urban president Parminder Singh Sethi, rural president Harwant Singh, Shamsher Singh, Tina Chaudhary, Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, SC wing general secretary Ravinder Hans and district women wing president Sukhbir Kaur were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-over-regular-jobs-for-safai-workers-in-amritsar-275455
29-06-2021||Amritsar||Youth Akali Dal activists gherao ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Partap’s residence in Amritsar||Activists of the Youth Akali Dal today gheraoed the residence of former IG and newly inducted AAP leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh here.They accused Kunwar of patronising key suspect in the Rs 15 crore medical drug scam and AAP Amritsar West constituency in charge Rajiv Bhagat, who is at large. They demanded registration of a case and an inquiry marked to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).During the march, the activists broke through the police barricading and staged a demonstration in front of the former SP’s residence before courting arrest.While Kunwar could not be contacted for comment, a district AAP leader termed the allegations baseless. AAP state joint secretary Ashok Talwar and urban president Parminder Singh Sethi claimed Kunwar investigated the desecration and firing incidents of Kotkapura and pointed out the conspirators and culprits in his report.“Kunwar had to face the adversity in the existing governing system for being true to the facts. That’s why he chose to resign. The Akalis and Congress were two sides of the same coin and stood exposed,” they said. YAD leaders Gurpartap Singh Tikka, Jodh Singh Samra, Gurinderpal Singh Lalli, Gaurav Valtoha, Rana Ranbir Sing Lopoke, Sandeep Singh AR, Harjit Singh Mianwind and Sarabjit Singh, however, alleged the police were yet to take action even after it was revealed that Bhagat used a police vehicle to transport drugs from one place to another. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-akali-dal-activists-gherao-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-partaps-residence-in-amritsar-275403
