30-06-2021||---||Tough days ahead: Patients face inconvenience as OPD resumes in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 29The protest by doctors has started affecting medical services as a huge rush was seen at the out-patient department (OPD) registration counter of the Civil Hospital on Tuesday. Services resumed after public holidays and Monday’s strike by medical practitioners.Dr Mridu Gupta, president, Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association (PSMDTA), said doctors were pushed to the wall and forced to protest against the 6th Pay Commission report. She said the responsibility for the inconvenience being caused to the general public is of the government.Meanwhile, patients can face tough days ahead at the Government Medical College and Government Dental College here as doctors have announced to boycott all medical services except emergency and Covid care for three hours daily for seven days starting July 1.While the OPD hours have been reduced at government hospitals due to the protests by doctors, patients said it resulted in overcrowding at the OPDs. “If the OPD is open for three hours a day instead of six hours, it is going to result in rush at hospitals. And, will it be possible to ensure that Covid-safety guidelines are followed?” asked Harjeet Singh, a visitor at the Civil Hospital.With the GMC announcing the boycott of operation theatres, too, for three hours, it would result in delaying surgeries as well. Residents already complain of lack of facilities at government hospitals and with the ongoing protests, they are bound to suffer even more.The faculty has announced to boycott all services from 8 am to 11 am. A meeting of the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association was held here on Tuesday during which the decision to intensify the protest was taken. The move would affect patients, as it would result in rush at OPDs.Doctors are opposing the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report under which the non-practising allowance (NPA) has been decreased to 20 per cent from 25 per cent besides delinking it from the basic salary.The faculty members also wore black badges to express their anguish on Tuesday. The PSMDTA members said classroom teaching of MBBS students would also be boycotted. However, teachers would be allowed to give online lectures after 11am. The association has also announced to burn the copies of the pay panel report on July 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tough-days-ahead-patients-face-inconvenience-as-opd-resumes-in-amritsar-276020
30-06-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Transformer thieves having a field day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 29While farmers are struggling to keep their fields irrigated during the ongoing paddy season, thieves are having a field day in the rural belt, as electricity transformers installed at tubewells are being stolen almost every day.In the current season, at least 50 transformer thefts have been reported from villages under Sarai Amanat Khan sub-station of the Power Corporation in Tarn Taran alone. Insiders reveal that the total number of thefts in the entire district is over 200.An official of the Power Corporation said: “There is a huge pendency of cases for re-installation of transformers due to increase in the number of thefts. We have to ask farmers to wait till their turn comes.”A transformer of the capacity of 10 KVA costs around Rs41,000. These are stolen for copper/aluminium wires and oil used in these for insulation. “Thieves reportedly sell these for Rs3,000 to Rs4,000. On the other hand, the department suffers huge losses and farmers face trouble,” said an insider. Farmers said in case of thefts, they face huge problem, as they cannot afford to dry up fields. “Even if we do not irrigate fields for two-three days, the saplings will die,” said Satnam Singh.Farmers said thieves come with battery operated or electricity operated cutters and cut the iron grill on which the machine is fixed. “They leave the iron case behind and flee with the oil and wires. It seems they are technically sound and know what they are doing,” said another farmer Mandeep Singh. “Situation is so bad that a farmer remains at his tubewell till 4 am along with a gun. Then, he leaves thinking his transformer is safe, but when he returns at 6 am he finds the transformer missing,” said a junior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transformer-thieves-having-a-field-day-276021
30-06-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 4 deaths, 17 new cases||Amritsar: The district reported four deaths on Tuesday taking the toll to 1,564. The health authorities also reported 17 new cases, with which the total count has increased to 46,707. The deceased have been identified as Gurmeet Kaur (70) of Chhattiwind, Amar Singh (58) of Manjh Sarangra village, Paramjit Kaur (36) of Ajnala and Tarlochan Singh (62) of Fattu Bhalla Badowal village. The new cases include nine influenza-like illness cases and eight contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 30 patients, the recovery count has also increased to 44,849. The district at present has a total of 294 active cases. The health authorities said 3,190 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Tuesday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine includes 840 residents above 45 years and 1,460 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The second dose was given to 378 residents above 45 years and 512 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. TNS2 die, 3 +ve in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Two persons succumbed to the virus, while three persons tested positive in the district on Tuesday. The toll reached 364 and there are 68 active cases, of which 43 have been isolated at their homes. The health teams collected 998 samples for testing. DC Kulwant Singh said 1,105 citizens were vaccinated against the virus on Tuesday and total 1,96,454 persons have been vaccinated so far. The DC had appealed to residents to get themselves vaccinated against the virus. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-4-deaths-17-new-cases-276022
30-06-2021||---||Creative discourse blocked, artistes seek clear SOPs to resume going live||Amritsar, June 29 With markets, gyms, cinema halls and almost all commercial activities now resuming operations, cultural spaces that host live performing arts are yet to reopen.  Amritsar is a hub of live performing arts, including theatre and folk performances. But the last one-and-a-half years of the pandemic and the restrictions that came with it have hit not just the economic nerve of the live performing arts community, but also blocked the creative discourse. Now, the prominent arts and live performing art centres in the city are demanding a consideration from the administration to resume operations.  Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, Indian Academy of Fine Arts (IAFA), who is a noted artist, has written to the Deputy Commissioner requesting him to issue guidelines to reopen art spaces.  “Earlier, when the orders of shutdown were issued, the SOPs mentioned that cinema halls and auditoriums have to suspend activities. Now, in the process of unlocking, cinema halls have reopened, but no specific directions have been given for auditoriums, which by default includes cultural spaces,” he said. Operations of Thakar Singh Art Gallery that falls under IAFA, too, remain suspended.  Virsa Vihar and Punjab Natshala, two popular theatre spaces, too, have been waiting to open again, having direct impact on the livelihood of theatre artistes, who used to perform regularly at the venues.  “Natshala used to organise weekend theatre shows as well as host several festivals and live performances throughout the week. The suspension of theatre and live shows will continue to affect artistes and due to lack of clear and specific SOPs pertaining to cultural spaces, we cannot reopen or host live events, even if everything else reopens. The authorities concerned have to spare a thought about it,” said Jatinder Brar, owner Punjab Natshala.  Chamak said live performing arts can be resumed after building up confidence. “We are promoting vaccination and we have a few events lined up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/creative-discourse-blocked-artistes-seek-clear-sops-to-resume-going-live-276023
30-06-2021||Tarn Taran||Man, woman held with 220-gm heroin||A team of the local anti-narcotics cell, under the supervision of Jagjit Singh Walia, SP, arrested a man and a woman from the bypass near Kakka Kandiala on Monday and seized 220 gm of heroin from their possession. Jagjit Singh Walia said the accused had been identified as Maninderpal Singh of Mohali and Rajwinder Kaur of Chabal. According to information, the police party stopped a car. During search 220 gm of heroin was found in the car.  A case under Sections 21-B, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered against the accused.  The accused were produced in a court and sent on two-day police remand.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-woman-held-with-220-gm-heroin-276024
30-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||Drones pose a challenge for cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 29The movements of drones used by anti-national forces across the border fence has been a challenge not only for the Border Security Force (BSF) but also for the Punjab Police.* Rural police hold liaison with BSF officials* CCTV cameras to be installed along border villagesPakistan-based smugglers are using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for droppings drugs and weapons on this side of the border, which were being used further by the operatives of banned organisations to create law and order problems in Punjab as well as other parts of the country.Recently, State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) has also confiscated as many as 48 foreign made weapons that were suspected to be smuggled with the help of drones.During a high-level meeting of DGP Punjab Police Dinkar Gupta with senior police officials of the border districts as well as of the BSF here on Monday, he has asked the officials to identify vulnerable points, where infrared CCTV cameras could be installed to check the movement of smugglers towards the border.Nevertheless, the BSF and the Punjab Police have to face topographical challenges to restrict the movement of drugs and arms traffickers.A senior police official with the rural police said though CCTV cameras were installed at a majority of points, smugglers use different routes to reach near the international border for retrieving the consignments. Sometimes, they go through the fields by hiding inside the standing crops.Gulneet Singh Khuranna, SSP Amritsar Rural, said though CCTV cameras have been installed, the DGP has directed to install CCTV cameras along the border villages. We have held a liaison meeting with the BSF authorities in this connection.“A detailed report would be made and forwarded to top authorities for further necessary action and installation of infrared cameras,” he said.Dhruman H Nimbale, SSP Tarn Taran, said there has been no drone movement at the border falling in the Tarn Taran district in the recent past. He said the police have already set up night nakas and installed CCTVs on the bridges on Upper Bari Doab Canal that leads to the border. This has restricted the movement of smugglers resulting in the decline in the movement of UAVs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drones-pose-a-challenge-for-cops-276025
30-06-2021||---||GNDU staff protest against 6th Pay Commission report||Amritsar, June 29  Guru Nanak Dev University Non-Teaching Employees’ Association on Tuesday protested outside the administrative block against the 6th Pay Commission report.  Harvinder Kaur, chief of the association, said the state government has forgotten its election promise. “This dictatorial attitude of the government has proven to be anti-employees and is facing strong opposition from unions. The state government had promised to restore the old- pension scheme and scrap the new one, but it has failed to do so and implementing the recommendations of the report submitted by the 6th pay panel which will further prove disastrous for employees,” she said. Dr Pawan Sharma, president, GNDU Officers’ Association, condemned the state government’s policies. “The non-practise allowance for doctors in the government service has been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and separated from the basic pay. These unjustified moves are being made when doctors and healthcare workers are fighting the pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-staff-protest-against-6th-pay-commission-report-276026
30-06-2021||---||DAV College, Amritsar, teacher-researcher get patent for inventing chemical luminescent||Amritsar, June 29  Dr Vibha Chopra, an assistant professor of physics at DAV College, Amritsar, has been working on productive ideas of increasing solar efficiency for the past three years. She in collaboration with Dr Sanjay Dhoble, a professor at RTM Nagpur University, now has successfully prepared down conversion phosphors, a material that will be useful for the enhancement of solar efficiency. The two have been granted international patent for their technology by the Australian Government.  “My research in the field of photo luminescence and its applications have been aimed towards solar efficiency and finding solutions for sustainable energy. Solar energy is fast an important means of renewable sources of energy these days. To increase the efficiency of solar cells, we have developed highly stable europium and terbium doped luminescent down conversion material, coating of which onto the surface of solar cell, results in increased efficiency of the cell. This technology could be a revolutionary step in photovoltaic technology,” she said. Earlier, Dr Vibha Chopra had developed automatic microcontroller based ice defrosting instrument and three UV based sanitisation units viz. for mobile phone, multipurpose units for daily usage items including fruits and vegetables and for PPE kits and police uniforms. The work was published in the form of Patents by Indian Government. This is the fifth patent to her credit, the earlier four being national patents. This work has been internationally recognised and patent is granted by IP Australia under the Australian Government.  She stressed on building scientific temperament in community and improving infrastructural support for researchers to encourage innovations. We need more grants and facilities to carry out research work in different fields of science, she said.  Principal Rajesh Kumar congratulated Dr Vibha Chopra and the inventors for this achievement. “Her research getting recognised internationally is a feat that speaks about her dedication and vision. It’s a proud moment for us as an institution and for all other educators from city that Dr Vibha has been consistently coming up with innovations to change the course of future,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-college-amritsar-teacher-researcher-get-patent-for-inventing-chemical-luminescent-276027
30-06-2021||---||Bi-monthly online exams to commence from July 5||Amritsar, June 29 The teaching staff (100 per cent) reported at all the government schools as they prepare to conduct bi-monthly online exams scheduled from July 5 onwards. The datesheet for Class I to Class XII has been already released. Recently, the Department of Personnel had asked government employees to report at their respective offices after restrictions were relaxed. The bi-monthly exams would be conducted in MCQ format. Question papers would be shared with students and they need to fill and send it back.  “Question papers are being prepared for the same and exams will be conducted in open format. Students will be given flexibility of time. Buddy groups will be used to maximise the success of this system,” said Pankaj Sharma, a government schoolteacher. In addition, teachers were also being trained to operate smart classrooms, which  have been set up in the government schools. The discourse of online classes depends heavily on buddy groups and teachers who even recharge mobile phones of the needy students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bi-monthly-online-exams-to-commence-from-july-5-276029
30-06-2021||---||Cops train aspirants||Amritsar, June 29The Punjab police have been imparting training to young aspirants who want to get selected in the Police Department. DGP Dinkar Gupta recently announced to recruit around 10,000 cops in the department.Amandeep Kaur, SP (Headquarters), Amritsar (rural) police, informed that the police have started a training camp for girls and boys for getting them physically fit so that they could clear the physical test. She said this was free of cost and anybody who fulfil other criteria, including height, age and educational qualification, can join the training camp.She said over 100 aspiring boys and girls were being trained at the Daburji Police Lines. She said the camp would continue till the recruitment process gets over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-train-aspirants-276032
30-06-2021||---||SGPC starts second phase of vax camp at Golden Temple||Amritsar, June 29The SGPC started the second phase of free Covid vaccination camp at the information centre of Golden Temple complex, which was jointly inaugurated by SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka and chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami.During the first phase of free Covid vaccination camp, more than 1,000 persons were administered first dose of Covid-19 vaccine here last month.Speaking on the occasion, SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said that it was the second dose that was administered here to the beneficiaries of the first camp conducted on May 29. “People who got the first dose during the first phase camp got the second dose. Also, people who are willing to take the first dose can also visit this camp and get vaccinated”, he said.The SGPC first started free Covid care centres to help people during the Covid-19 pandemic and then started free vaccination camps for the needy. “The first camp was set up at the Golden Temple complex. Under its expansion, free corona vaccination camps were organised at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabho, Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, Sri Anandpur Sahib as well as at Delhi and Mumbai,” he said.Additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, assistant secretaries Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, Balwinder Singh Kahlwan, Tejinder Singh Padda, Nirvail Singh, manager of Golden Temple Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, superintendent Malkit Singh Beharwal and information officer Jaswinder Singh Jassi werealso present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-starts-second-phase-of-vax-camp-at-golden-temple-276035
30-06-2021||Gone are the days of shabby-looking government schools||Smart Schools in Amritsar||IntroThe state government’s smart school project has not only equipped government institutes with modern equipment, but also brought a tremendous change in the way the students are taught. Not only the government funds, but efforts of teachers using their resources and help by philanthropists has changed the face of schools, which are now giving a tough competition to private insitutes.Colourful walls, motivational quotes and emphasis on enhancing learning skills of children by establishing educational parks, reading corners (libraries), computer labs, projectors and LEDs in schools has changed the equation. Every space and walls has now a learning experience for kids.“Under the building as learning aid (BALA) programme, the Education Department is using walls of school buildings as a tool of learning,” says Balraj Singh, District Smart School Mentor. Out of 419 government schools, more than 400 schools have been transformed into smart schools in the last one year and all these institutes are e-governed, he said.Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary) said though use technology has been introduced in the National Education Policy, but we have used every space, including doors, windows and classroom floors as learning resources.***Government Senior Secondary Smart School, LopokeMore than 150-year-old Government Senior Secondary Smart School is located in the border belt of Amritsar. It has been a centre of attraction not only because of its colonial-era building, but also due to a ‘Globe’ constructed in the educational park (Dr APJ Abdul Kalam educational park) on the school complex. The institute boasts of being the first smart school in the district.*** Government Smart High School for Boys, PutligharThe Government Smart High School for Boys in densely populated Putlighar area has the distinction of having the first Punjabi bhasha (language) park. The painting of revolutionary and noted Punjabi writer Bhai Vir Singh in addition to a huge flex on a wall showing Punjabi culture is a treat to watch. A shed with definitions of different constituents of Punjabi language written on the dangling apple-shaped board catches eye of everyone.***Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Mall RoadATAL Tinkering Lab is what makes the Government Senior Secondary School for Gin the sprawling building different from other institutes. These labs have been set up by Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), which is the Central Government’s flagship programme to create and promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the country. The labs aim at cultivating children as neoteric innovators. The school also has English language lab.***Government Senior Secondary Smart School for Boys, VerkaThe school is located in the historic township of Verka. As one enters through the instiute, one finds the pictures of national heroes on colonial-era structure, which has now been painted with beautiful and soothing colours. New structures, including a computer lab and smart classrooms have also come up under the project.***Government High Smart School, MudhalIn order to bringing qualitative improvement, an educational park has been set up on the school complex at Mudhal village on Amritsar-Batala road. The park has model of solar system, besides a globe. The walls and entrance gates of the school have been painted with different hues and messages while the school boasts of two smart classrooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-schools-in-amritsar-276047
30-06-2021||Amritsar||Introduction to Securities Market||DAV Utsav: Students shineBBK DAV College for Women students brought laurels to the institution by winning top positions in DAV Utsav, an inter-university competition, organised by DAV University, Jalandhar. Out of a total 14 competitions based on dance, music, fashion, anchoring and fine arts, our students won top positions in 11 events. Nitika Puri of BA (Sem VI) won first prize in solo singing, Muskan Handa of BA (Sem II) won second Prize in solo singing, Avni Batra of BAJMC (Sem VI) won first prize in radio jockeying, Alishka Lagwal of BAJMC (Sem II) won first prize in PTC, Diksha Sahni of BAJMC (Sem VI) won first prize in audio advertisement, Sonali Sharma of M.SC. Fashion Designing (Sem II) won Miss Elite 2021, Ria Khanna of BSc (Sem VI) won first prize in solo dance, Ishita Dogra of BA (Sem II) won second prize in solo dance, Inderpreet Kaur of BFA (Sem IV) won first prize in Paint and Canvas, Rajpreet Kaur of BFA (Sem IV) won third prize in Doodling and Richa of BFA (Sem IV) won third prize in paint and canvas.TNSAdmission deadline extendedGuru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has extended the last date for online registration/submission of application forms for admission to various courses for the academic session 2021-22. As per the schedule, the last date was June 30, which has been now extended till July 7, 2021. Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean, Academic Affairs, said this decision has been taken by the university keeping in view the second wave and current pandemic situation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/introduction-to-securities-market-276211
30-06-2021||Amritsar||Two booked for sexual assault||BSF driver booked for rash drivingAmritsar: Two days after two persons lost their lives in a road accident, including a minor girl near Khasa, the police have booked the driver of an ambulance (Border Security Force jawan) for rash driving and negligence. The driver has been identified as Shivraj Singh of Mandwa, Madhya Pradesh. The police said Shivraj was on the run. Dharminder Singh of Boparai Baj Singh village said his father-in-law Narinder Singh along with his wife Manjit Kaur and 10-year-old granddaughter Simarjit Kaur had come to meet them on Sunday. He said the trio hired a battery-operated rickshaw to return home. He said he was following them on a motorcycle. Dharminder said as the rickshaw reached near Khasa, an overs peeding ambulance rammed into the rickshaw from the rear. He said occupants of the e-rickshaw got seriously injured. He said he rushed them to a private hospital where Narinder and Simarjit succumbed to their injuries while Manjit was under going treatment. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279, 338, 337 and 427 of the IPC in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-sexual-assault-276212
