01-07-2021||West Bengal||Debanjan plot twist: TMC accuses Dhankhar of having connection with fake IAS||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday intensified its attack on Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, wondering why he is silent for two days after the ruling party of the state brought up charges of corruption against him. The BJP, on the other hand, alleged that the TMC is levelling charges against the governor without any proof as it cannot tolerate him. TMC Deputy Leader in the Rajya, Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, said that the governor is yet to clarify whether or not the name "Jagdeep Dhankhar" which allegedly finds mention on page 3 of the "Hawala diary" was his. Dhankhar is also yet to respond to the tweet by TMC MP Mohua Moitra claiming that he was a "beneficiary of illegal residential land allotment" which was cancelled by the High Court of Punjab & Haryana in 1997, Roy said. Both the allegations were raised on Tuesday. While Roy had showed a purported copy of a page of a Hawala diary, Moitra attached an order the high court on the matter with her tweet. "A person who keeps tweeting from morning to night is yet to respond to the charge. What is the reason behind this silence?" Roy said in a press conference. The TMC Rajya Sabha MP also alleged that Debanjan Deb, the arrested prime accused in the dubious Covid-19 vaccination camps, has some rapport with Raj Bhavan. Roy showed purported photographs of Debs private security guard at a function in Raj Bhavan participated by Dhankhar, and demanded a probe on the matter. "The governor peddled half-truths after our honourable chief minister said that his name figured in the Hawala case on Monday. He fell silent when we specifically mentioned the name of one Jagdeep Dhankhar is on the page of the Hawala diary," Roy said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that Dhankhar was involved in the Jain Hawala case, provoking a sharp rebuttal from the governor who accused her of propagating "lies and misinformation". The Jain Hawala case was a scandal in the mid-90s centred around a diary that mentioned alleged hawala payments of about Rs 65 crore. The names of the recipients allegedly matched the initials of some top political leaders. However, the CBI could not prove the charge of hawala payments to these persons. "Before appointing such a person as governor, the Centre should have checked his credentials. We think the state government must be consulted while appointing someone in the gubernatorial post," Roy said. Banerjee, also the TMC supremo, earlier said that she has written to the Centre thrice seeking Dhnakhars removal. "We will demand the governor's ouster in both houses of Parliament," Roy told the press conference. To a question on the visit of a committee set up by the NHRC to probe the allegations of human rights violation during the post-poll violence in the state, Roy said, "Why is the NHRC silent on attacks on opposition activists after the BJP won the assembly polls in Tripura?" The NHRC panel visited the state on the order of the Calcutta High Court. "Why (Union Home Minister) is Amit Shah silent on attacks on women in Tripura? Are human rights apply only to non-BJP ruled states? Why is the Centre silent on the human rights of the Sitalkuchi firing victims?" the TMC MP said. Four persons were killed in firing by central forces outside a poll booth during voting at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on April 10. It was alleged that local people attacked the security personnel. Roy said when a TMC delegation went to Silchar in Assam to visit those left out in the NRC exercise in 2018, "we were not allowed to go out of the airport." Reacting to the allegations against the governor, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, "TMC leaders are levelling baseless charges at governor without any proof as they cannot tolerate him." The vaccination scam brought to the fore the nexus between the TMC and corrupt elements, he claimed. "Desperate to come out of the situation, TMC leaders are resorting to all sorts of slander campaigns towards those who raised their voice against the misdeeds of the TMC," he said. Several persons, including the mastermind who was masquerading as an IAS officer, were recently arrested for organising dubious camps in Calcutta where people were administered fake vaccine doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||State buses hit Bengal roads as restrictions ease, private ones stay garaged ||Public road transport services resumed in Bengal on Thursday, with the state government having relaxed Covid-19 restrictions, but private buses were few and far between as owners refused to ply them, citing high fuel prices and non-revision of fares as reasons. State-run buses were back on the roads with West Bengal Transport Corporation, south and north Bengal state transport corporations running their full fleet, but these proved to be inadequate during the peak hours. An official of the transport department said the three corporations ran approximately 5,000 buses together. Tapan Banerjee, the general secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, one of the organisations representing the owners of private buses, said, "We have been demanding an increase in fares since 2020, but the government has not taken any decision yet. We are unable to run our fleet at the moment as that will lead to huge losses." He claimed that their private vehicles ferry around 85 per cent of all bus passengers in the state. Commuters were seen boarding jam-packed buses during the day to reach their destinations, with zero regard for Covid-19 norms. The state government has ordered that buses, taxis and auto rickshaws can ply with 50 per cent occupancy from July 1. Local and metro rail services continue to remain suspended. "There are not many buses, so we have no option but to travel without maintaining any physical distance," said Samarjit Das, who alighted a crowded vehicle in Esplanade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||SC admits plea for President's Rule in Bengal, issues notices to Centre, EC||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear a plea seeking direction to the Centre to impose President's Rule in Bengal in view of deteriorating law and order situation due to the post-poll violence which started on May 2, the day of assembly election results. The plea also sought direction to the Centre to deploy armed/paramilitary forces in the aid of the administrative authorities to bring normalcy in the state and to save it from internal disturbances. Besides, the PIL has sought setting up of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for probing the causes and reasons of post-poll violence in West Bengal. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari issued notice to the Centre, West Bengal and Election Commission of India on the plea, which also sought to central and state governments to award compensation to the victims and their family members after ascertaining the nature of loss sustained by them in post-poll violence in the state. Advocate Hari Shankar Jain -- appearing for petitioners Ranjana Agnihotri, a UP based practicing lawyer and social worker Jitender Singh -- said that the plea is against post-poll violence in West Bengal. The bench said, We are issuing notice to respondent number 1, (Union of India), respondent number-2 (West Bengal government) and Respondent number 3 (Election Commission of India)." The bench, however, did not issue notice to respondent number 4 -- Mamata Banerjee as the president of Trinamool Congress Party (TMC). The plea filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain said that the PIL has been filed in extraordinary circumstances as thousands of residents of West Bengal are being terrorized, penalised and tortured by the workers of TMC for supporting the opposition party- Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) during the assembly polls. The petitioners are espousing the cause of thousands of citizens of West Bengal who are mostly Hindus and are being targeted by Muslims to take revenge for supporting BJP as they want to crush Hindus so that for years to come the power may remain with the party of their choice, the plea said. The plea sought from the court directing the central government to exercise its power conferred by Article 355 and Article 356 keeping in view the deteriorating condition posing a threat to sovereignty and integrity of India. It said that soon after the declaration of assembly polls result on May 2, the TMC workers and supporters started creating chaos, unrest and setting the houses and properties of Hindus on fire, looting and plundered their belongings for the simple reason that they had supported BJP in assembly polls. The plea said that in an attempt to create terror and disorder in the society at least 15 BJP workers/sympathisers/supporters have lost their lives and a number of them were seriously injured. The government and administration remained silent spectators and no protection was provided to the victims by them. The government, officials and the administration and the police are supporting workers of TMC, due to which the life, liberty, prestige, dignity and modesty of women are being taken away as is evident from the fact that number of persons were harmed and mercilessly murdered and no steps were taken for their safety, the plea said. It added that no appropriate action was taken against the culprits, due to which the life, liberty, dignity of the women and children are in peril and the future of Hindu residents is in jeopardy. In these circumstances, immediate intervention of the court is required and the court may issue command to the opposite parties is required and the court may issue command to the opposite parties so that the government of West Bengal functions in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and in case of continued violation the government of India may be directed to take appropriate action under Article 355 and 356 of the constitution, it said. The plea alleged that during the assembly elections which were held in April, the TMC party had contested the polls purely on communal basis arousing the feelings of the Muslims and appealing to them to remain united and vote for their party for their better future. It said that subsequently BJP made a complaint to ECI against the communal appeal made by TMC party and the poll panel failed to hold free and fair election conforming the democratic norms and failed to enforce the mandatory provision of section 123 of Representation of People Act which has to be implemented during the election. The plea said that a seven-judge bench of the top court had in 2017, in the Abhiram Singh case, ruled that no person can be allowed to contest election by making religious appeal. The election commission remained a silent spectator and the provision (of RP Act) was flagrantly violated , it said, adding that the Muslim population is about 30 per cent in West Bengal due to illegal Bangladeshi migrants and Rohingia Muslims have been registered as voters without making any proper scrutiny and enquiry and in about 100 constituencies Muslims votes decide the fate of the candidates. The top court is already hearing a batch of pleas related to post-poll violence in the state and seeking probe by an independent agency into the alleged killing of BJP workers and sympathisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Kerala MP seeks probe against Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty||T.N. Prathapan, the Congress MP of Kerala’s Thrissur and a member of the education ministry’s parliamentary standing committee, has written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, asking for a fact-finding committee to probe alleged financial and administrative irregularities of Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. The letter on June 28 stated 12 allegations, ranging from fraudulent use of Santiniketan Trust funds to the VC’s many suspension orders. The MP on Wednesday said allegations from Visva-Bharati teachers and students prompted him to write the letter. “I’ve been receiving allegations from teachers and students of Visva-Bharati on the VC’s malpractices and undemocratic actions. The Sangh Parivar (VC Chakrabarty is deemed close to the saffron camp) does the same in all premier institutions....It should be addressed and resisted.” He added Visva-Bharati has a legacy, and one who doesn’t respect it shouldn’t be the VC. “Numerous teachers and students were suspended or faced other action for...dissent. It is not acceptable,” he said. In his letter, the Thrissur MP sought Chakrabarty be sent on leave till the probe, by a panel with a retired high court judge on it, ends. Varsity public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to calls or texts from this paper on the MP’s allegations. The MP’s letter also accused Chakrabarty of not appointing persons in key posts (registrar, finance officer and five directors) during his tenure of two-and-a-half years, and of misbehaving with faculty members and enforcing pay cuts without their consent. Prathapan attached documents to support his allegations. The Kerala MP’s letter prompted some Visva-Bharati teachers to ask MPs from Bengal and other states to write similar letters to the Centre too. Protest SFI activists on Wednesday demonstrated in front of Visva-Bharati’s central office against “hike” in exam and mark sheet fees for research scholars amid the pandemic. They said last year only Rs 50 was charged for mark sheet, but this year students are being charged Rs 1,400 overall. Varsity sources denied any hike and said last year exam fees had been waived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata launches student credit card scheme||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday launched the student credit card scheme and announced her government’s decision to repeat distributing bicycles among Class IX students and cash among Class XII students to buy tablets or smartphones for online studies. The announcements, many observers said, captured her attempt to please the teens, most of whom will become voters by the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Mamata launched the student credit card scheme from Nabanna in the presence of state education minister Bratya Basu and top government officials. “Students up to the age of 40 years can avail an education loan of up to Rs 10 lakh. One has to be at least a Class X student to avail this loan,” she said. Sources said the key element of the scheme was that students would get loans without a guarantor. “The state government will be the guarantor,” a senior official said. “This will help poor students who often are denied educational loans.” Mamata said she had promised the scheme ahead of the polls and had to keep her word after Trinamul’s win. She added her government would distribute 12 lakh bicycles to students of Class IX this year. “Of them, 9 lakh bicycles will be given to students in Class IX in 2021 and 3 lakh to students who had been in Class IX in 2020 but didn’t get the bicycles,” she said. Sources said last year the state government could distribute only 6 lakh bicycles amid the pandemic, not 9 lakh as planned. Mamata added: “Last year, we gave Rs 10,000 each to 8.86 lakh students of Class XII. This year too, we will give Rs 10,000 each to 8.94 lakh students so that they can buy tablets or smartphones to continue their studies online.” Classes online have become the lifeline for students amid the pandemic. “She wants to win their (students’) hearts to ensure the new voters (in 2024) keep her in mind,” an official said. An official recalled that the Mamata Banerjee government had extended several facilities to students since she came to power in Bengal in 2011. “Schemes like Kanyasree and Sabuj Sathi have helped her in the past few elections. It is clear that giving tabs to students of Class XII paid her huge dividends in the 2021 Assembly polls. Now, she is eyeing to strengthen her support base keeping the 2024 Lok Sabha polls in mind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total active cases fall by 531, to reach to 20,585||Bengal on Wednesday reported a fall for the 10th day in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 531, to reach to 20,585. Active cases in all had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, they rose again by over 56 per cent, before falling by around 11 per cent again in these 10 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 1,980 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,478 new infections and 29 deaths, including seven from Calcutta and 10 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. With Calcutta logging 135 new infections and North 24-Parganas 154, Wednesday was the third successive day since the second wave hit the state, when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen Bengal districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day. Kalimpong, North Dinajpur and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate or the percentage of positive cases from samples tested, which was nearly 33 per cent at the height of the second wave, is now 2.74. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.45 per cent, with the national rate at 96.94 now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday, while four others reported only one each. Bengal now has a total of over 14.99 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.61 lakh recoveries and 17,708 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court fines CM for Narada affidavit delay ||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on the state government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak for their delay in filing affidavits in the Narada arrest case. The fines were imposed by a five-member special bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. The affidavits had been filed in response to the CBI’s plea before the special bench. The CBI had made the state government, Mamata and Ghatak respondents in the Narada case, alleging that they had interfered with the probe following the arrest of four politicians, including two Bengal ministers, on May 17. As the three parties had filed the affidavits late, the high court refused to accept them. The affidavits were filed afresh this week and the high court accepted them following a Supreme Court verdict. A committee set up by the chairman of the National Human Right Commission on Wednesday filed a status report on post-violence before the high court. The court fixed the matter for hearing on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: State health department plans more specialised test labs in every district of north Bengal||The state health department has planned to set up Viral Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL), a specialised lab for Covid-19 tests, in every district of north Bengal to encourage hassle-free tests for the disease for residents. As of now, there are four VRDL labs functional in the region — the first was opened at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri, after the pandemic had hit the state last year. “After NBMCH, such labs (one each) were set up at the medical colleges of Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur and Malda districts. Now, we have decided to set up four more VRD laboratories, one each in Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and South Dinajpur districts,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. “In Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts, the infrastructural work required for the labs are already done. The work for setting up the labs in Kalimpong and South Dinajpur districts will commence soon,” Roy added. Pralay Acharya, the chief medical officer of health, Darjeeling, said more VRDL in the region would ease the workload of existing labs and help in carrying out more tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Body recovered from Ganga, Mamata brings up Uttar Pradesh||A decomposed body was recovered from the Ganga in Malda on Wednesday, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to mention it at a news meet in Nabanna and refer to bodies in Uttar Pradesh floating downstream amid the pandemic. “Bodies (of Covid patients) were floated in the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh. Those are flowing downstream…..and even today (Wednesday), a body has been recovered in Manikchak (Malda district). So far, seven such bodies were found floating in the river (five in Malda and two in Murshidabad). We don’t know how many more bodies have gone untraced and have floated further downstream,” said Mamata. Political observers said that Mamata, by referring to Uttar Pradesh, tried to highlight the Covid mismanagement of the BJP-ruled state in comparison with Bengal. Mamata’s reference to the floating bodies was part of a strategy to drive home the point that in Bengal, her government was managing the Covid situation better than in BJP-ruled states, said an observer. Her statement came a day after BJP national party chief J.P. Nadda said Bengal was doing the worst in vaccination, without the numbers backing his claim. During the news meet, the chief minister was also critical of the Narendra Modi government’s supply of vaccines to states. “The central government is acting in a biased manner. It is sending more vaccine doses to states like Uttar Pradesh and less to us,” she said. Sources in Malda administration said that over the past seven-eight weeks, constant vigil is on the Ganga, especially in Malda’s Manikchak where the river enters Bengal from Jharkhand. Police said that on Wednesday, some residents spotted the decomposed body floating in the Ganga at Jotepatta of Manikchak around 12.30pm. The body was recovered and sent for post-mortem while maintaining Covid protocol,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria. Since June 5, five bodies have been found floating in the Ganga in Malda district. According to police sources, none could be identified as that of any resident of Malda district. “That’s why we suspect the bodies have come down from upstream,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Probe into deals at banks linked to Suvendu||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the state government would conduct an inquiry into the financial activities of three cooperative banks in Tamluk, Contai and Midnapore, which are headed by Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari. “We have received some complaints related to these banks. The finance department would conduct an internal inquiry into the complaints,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources said the complaints lodged with the government suggested that there were some ghost accounts dealing in huge funds at the three banks. “The chief minister has ordered an inquiry to find out the original account holders and how much money was parked in these accounts. The finance department would try to find out the details of the accounts,” said a senior Nabanna official. Mamata said she was surprised to know that a writ petition had already been filed in the court to prevent any kind of audit at the banks. “Why is this panic? The government can carry out internal inquiries through the finance department. It is the responsibility of the government to inquire into the complaints lodged with it,” she said. Sources said although Suvendu had resigned from most posts he used to hold before joining the BJP, he did not quit the positions at the three cooperative banks. Dilip Ghosh said financial dealings at all cooperative banks in the state should be probed. “Why is the chief minister conducting a probe at a handful of cooperative banks? Is it only because some people joined the BJP after leaving Trinamul? I would say the state should conduct an inquiry into all cooperative banks in the state,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Central prod on Jalpaiguri cases||The Union health ministry has expressed in writing its concern to the state government on the rise in Covid-19 cases in Jalpaiguri district during some days in June. In a letter to chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the positivity rate of Covid tests in Jalpaiguri was more than 10 per cent between June 21 and 27 compared to previous weeks, and attached data on rapid antigen tests (RAT) and RT-PCR tests of the district. “You are therefore requested to kindly ensure strict enforcement of...interventions to control transmission....” he wrote. He also instructed the district action plan, which includes mapping of cases, reviewing ward- and block-wise indicators, effective surveillance and quick hospitalisation or isolation of patients, be implemented in the district. Last year during the first wave, most Covid-19 cases from north Bengal were reported from Darjeeling and Malda. But the second wave this year saw a rise in cases in Jalpaiguri. According to the data with the state health department, till Tuesday 38,130 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district since the onset of the pandemic and in all 497 infected persons have died. “In Darjeeling, till Tuesday, over 50,000 infections and 455 deaths were reported till Tuesday. The number of deaths is higher in Jalpaiguri,” said a health official. He said that from the onset of the pandemic to January 31 this year, the total number of Covid cases in Jalpaiguri was 14,629 and the number of deaths was 160. By April 30, the number of cases in the district was 17,668 and the toll 191. By Tuesday, the number of Covid cases was 38,130 and deaths 497, which means in May and June, over 20,000 persons got infected and over 300 persons have died in the district. “This spurt seems to have put the health ministry on alert,” the official said. A senior official in Nabanna said they are in close contact with the district administration and health officials of Jalpaiguri district. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department for Covid-19 in north Bengal, has been asked to look into the issue. However, daily infections have fallen from three-digit numbers to 61 on Tuesday. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu also said the situation was mending. “When the second wave was at its peak, the number of cases had increased. But we are seeing a dip now, much to our relief. We have sent all the relevant details to the state government. Our officers are putting every effort to keep the situation under control.” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata calls Centre's report demand on fake jab duplicitous||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday suggested that the Centre’s demand for a report from Bengal on fake Covid vaccination camps organised by Debanjan Deb smacked of duplicity and wanted to know if the Narendra Modi government had probed into alleged inoculations at BJP offices in Gujarat. Citing a letter from BJP leader and Mamata’s bete noire Suvendu Adhikari on the fake vaccination camps, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, seeking an urgent probe and a report on the matter in two days. “I don’t care who wrote what to whom. It doesn’t matter. I don’t care…,” was Mamata’s response to questions on the letter from Adhikari, a Trinamul Congress turncoat. “What was done (by Deb, allegedly posing as an IAS officer) was very wrong. I have said on record, that it was more dangerous than an act of terrorism… such cheating,” she added. Mamata’s reaction has come soon after the Centre sought the report from Bengal. “In Gujarat, vaccines were distributed from the BJP’s party office… how many letters from the (Union) health ministry? How many probes?” asked a visibly agitated Mamata. “The state (Bengal) that does the most work, always spreading canards about it. Only lies… only forgery. What is the proof that these things were not staged by the BJP?” IAS officer Bhushan opened his letter with a request to the state government to refer to the letter from Adhikari, which was attached to it “for ready reference”. “… attention has been drawn to the instances of Covid-19 vaccination camps being organised allegedly by unauthorised people. It is also pointed out that in some of these camps, and notably in Kasba locality of Kolkata Municipal area, none of the beneficiaries have received any vaccination certificates generated from Co-WIN, giving rise to apprehensions about the genuineness of these vaccination camps,” wrote the Union health secretary in the letter dated June 29. Addressed to chief secretary Dwivedi, the letter was copied to state health-secretary N.S. Nigam. Apparently responding to how the BJP-led Opposition had been going to town over the fake jab camps, the chief minister said at Nabanna: “This is a serious offence, posing as an IAS officer. But this wasn’t the first, this doesn’t happen in Bengal alone. There are instances from across India, many cases. It is nothing new, therefore. Everybody must be careful and alert.” “When fake videos are circulated (allegedly by key constituents of the saffron ecosystem) what do you do, for how many do you take responsibility? When “incidents” of violence are fabricated, concocted (allegedly by the BJP), how many do you act against? Only when a handful of BJP leaders are tweeted against, you file FIRs, arrest their critics…. Other than that, how many instances of action?” asked the Trinamul chief on Wednesday. She also responded to BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s allegation — during his virtual address to the party’s state unit on Tuesday — that an all-time low vaccination was taking place in Bengal. “Yesterday, I heard a lot of big lectures by some leaders, appropriating the role of rescuers. Bengal, remember, already has given 2.17 crore vaccine doses, till yesterday. It was said we didn’t put whatever vaccines we got to use… I challenge it. We got 1.99 crore vaccine doses, we have already administered 1.9 crore doses from the same,” said Mamata. “We bought vaccines worth Rs 59 crore, paying from the state treasury. I had promised that the state government would buy if the Centre fails us…. We procured 18 lakh doses directly,” she added. “On the basis of whatever vaccines we got, in terms of utilisation, implementation, execution, we are number one in the country.” On Tuesday, Nadda had said: “I am very sorry to inform you that if an all-time low vaccination is taking place anywhere, it’s in Bengal.” The facts and the vaccination figures till now, however, are loaded against his claims. “Dwivedi (the chief secretary who was sitting next to Mamata), prepare a letter today itself. Show it to me, have it sent,” she added. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, requesting the state government to take up strict measures to control Covid-19 in Jalpaiguri district. Bhushan said the positivity rate had been more than 10 per cent between June 21 and 27 in the district, compared to previous weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Rivers swell in north Bengal, rain to continue||Strong showers continued to pound north Bengal on Wednesday, swelling rivers, submerging low-lying areas and snapping connectivity. “Water levels of most rivers increased. We have already issued an yellow (primary) alert for unprotected areas on either bank of the Teesta and the Jaldhaka which pose flood threats. The Torsha and the Mansai are in spate and we are monitoring water levels,” said a state irrigation department official. The India Meteorological Department said it had rained above 200mm in a 24-hour period till 8.30am on Wednesday at many places. The IMD forecast rain in the next 48 hours. Around 400 bighas of farmland at Bhojanpur, on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town, were eroded as the Torsha was in spate because of the rain. “It is now eroding banana plantations spread over an area of around 100 bighas. The river has breached the embankment and is gobbling land. Hundreds of farmers are in distress,” said Ashraful Ali, a Trinamul Congress leader at Bhojanpur Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan said the situation was being monitored. “If rivers rise further, we will shift people from the banks to safer places. Relief materials have been sent to blocks and will be distributed as and when required,”  said the DM. In Alipurduar, the rainfall led to waterlogging in at least six wards of the town on Wednesday. The civic body engaged pump sets to flush out the water to the Kaljani river that skirts the town. Waterlogging was reported at places like Kalchini, Birpara and Kumargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
