02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: curbs on PF withdrawals in the name of austerity anger one and all||Dipping into the provident fund pool has been a lifesaver for government employees for decades, a practice that found its way into popular literature and cinema of the immediate decades following India’s independence. But that will no longer be the case. For, the Bengal government’s latest order on austerity measures has put the government provident fund (GPF) out of bounds for government employees. From now on, employees can withdraw funds from GPF only for medical expenses, education and house building purposes. Also, those retiring from service are still eligible to withdraw their money, collected over the years and deposited with the government. “I have not seen an order including GPF in austerity measures during my entire service life and I had to issue a few in my days as well. It is clear the government does not have funds,” said a former bureaucrat who has worked and lived in Bengal for over four decades. The government has announced a blanket ban on spending on new vehicles, computers, furniture, air-conditioners, television sets, renovation, furnishing, et al, till December 31 to meet the economic challenges posed by the second wave of the Covid pandemic. In addition, the eighth point in the memorandum states: Withdrawal from GPF only for treatment, education and house building purposes, and withdrawals in case of superannuation will be allowed. Pet schemes of Mamata Banerjee launched in the last 10 years, like Kanyashree, Khadyasathi, Swasthyasathi, Rupashree and the like, have been kept out of the purview of the  austerity measures. Till Thursday's autsterity order came into effect, restrictions imposed on withdrawal from the GPF was only on the number of times _ twice in any financial year and once for any given purpose. “There can be any number of reasons for withdrawal of funds. We did not need anyone’s nod for that. This was the money that we had set aside for meeting any situation, fulfilling our wishes,” said an employee of the animal husbandry department who was clearly distraught at the new regulations. The GPF corpus is estimated to be around Rs 5, 601 crore. The unprecedented decision to put the cap on withdrawals from GPF for the employees has raised the  eyebrows of officials too. Why us, they ask. “There has not been a single government employee since the present system of governance has been in place who did not have to withdraw funds from GPF for their daughter’s marriage,” said Malay Mukhopadhyay, general secretary of the INTUC-affiliated confederation of state government employees. “This is not the government’s money, it’s ours. This is a very serious issue.” Mukhopadhyay said in the last 10 years since it has been in power, the Mamata Banerjee government had not provided the exact number of government employees on its rolls to the pay commission. An estimated three lakh employees are directly employed by the state government, while the rest are in other services including education. “Figures collated during the Left Front government’s tenure are still being cited. The present government has gone for re-employment and contractual services,” Mukhopadhyay said. CPM Rajya Sabha MP and lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya said he would challenge the order. “The state government is working against the interests of the employees in the name of austerity while it continues to spend on advertisements and tours. The government is using the hard earned money of the employees to fulfil its own needs,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Amid BJP protests, Governor stops his speech mid-way and walks out of Assembly||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar ended his speech midway during the first day of the budget session of the Bengal Assembly amid vociferous protests by Opposition BJP MLAs on Friday, a throwback to the days of the Left Front rule when the Congress opted for similar disruptions. The newly elected BJP legislators disrupted the Governor’s speech as they gathered at the Well of the House, shouting slogans condemning political violence in the state. When Dhankar stopped  for the  first time, about three minutes into his speech, he spoke with  chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Speaker Biman Banerjee and decided to continue. A few minutes later, he stopped again. But  this time, he  decided to stop reading  the speech. He was out of the Assembly within eight minutes. At the end of the day, both the ruling and Opposition party could claim victory. “There was no mention of the post-poll violence in the state, which  is why we objected to the Governor’s speech,” said Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP's leader of the Opposition. The BJP protest on the floor of the House happened hours after the Calcutta High Court ordered the state police to register all cases of victims of post-poll violence and instructed the state government to ensure that  the victims get treatment and ration. Governor Dhankhar has himself been quite vocal against the post-poll violence in the state. He has  visited some rehabilitation camps and has even written  two letters to the chief minister, marking an acrimonious start to Mamata’s third term as chief minister. The ruling party, however, also claimed victory as the Governor’s speech—prepared by the state government—was tabled in the Assembly. "What we wanted to say, we have it on record,” said a Trinamul leader. "The Governor informed the Speaker the speech that was tabled is his speech. There is no controversy here. Regarding the BJP's allegations on post-poll violence, what we have to say we will say during the discussion on the Governor's address," said Partha Chatterjee, industry and parliamentary affairs minister. The Congress which does not have a single representative in the 17th Assembly described Friday’s incident as a “got-up game.” “It’s like  mock fights we see in films, that no one really wins,” said Abdul Mannan, veteran Congressman, who has heard and disrupted many a Governor’s speech during the long stint of the Left Front when he was in the Opposition. “We did not allow Governors BD Pandey, TV Rajeswara to complete their speeches on many occasions,” said Mannan. On one such occasion,  governor S Nurul Hasan’s spectacles were broken during a ruckus in the Assembly on the first day of the session. Opposition Congress legislators had then disrupted the House, even hurling paper missiles, spree, forcing Hasan to cut short his speech. During the Left rule, governor BD Pandey had to stop his speech midway and use the exit through the backdoor, used by Speaker, chief minister and other ministers, to leave the Assembly premises.  "In the nine years that we were in the  Opposition with the Left, we did not target the Governor. There was a break from the tradition of opposing the governor's speech," said Mannan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC asks Bengal govt to ensure treatment of victims of post-poll violence||The Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the Trinamul Congress-led Bengal government to ensure medical treatment and rations for those affected by post-poll violence in the state even if they did not have ration cards, while asking the police to register all cases of violence reported after the Assembly elections. "The state is in denial mode regarding the violence," the court said. In a stern order, the bench asked police to record the statements of those affected by the violence. The bench asked the government to ensure that ration is provided to everyone, including those who complained of their cards being snatched by goons. The court directed Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi to preserve all documents related to the post-poll violence, according to a report by hindustantimes.com. "The state must respond to queries by NHRC. Chief Secretary must preserve all sensitive documents on post-poll violence," it said. It directed the government to conduct a second autopsy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijeet Sarkar at the Command Hospital in Calcutta. Taking note of the incidents of sexual violence on women and minors, the court sent a show-cause notice to a senior police officer for failing to assist a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) team that came to probe the allegations, ndtv.com reported. A five-judge bench of the high court had on June 18 directed the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission to constitute a committee to examine all cases about alleged human rights violations in incidents of post-poll violence in the state, which had on Wednesday submitted a report regarding it. The Calcutta High Court's orders come a day after the Supreme Court agreed to hear a plea seeking direction to the Centre to impose President's Rule in Bengal in view of deteriorating law and order situation due to the post-poll violence which started on May 2, the day of Assembly election results. The plea sought from the court directing the central government to exercise its power conferred by Article 355 and Article 356 keeping in view the deteriorating condition posing a threat to sovereignty and integrity of India. It said that soon after the declaration of Assembly polls results on May 2, the TMC workers and supporters started creating chaos, unrest and setting the houses and properties of Hindus on fire, looting and plundered their belongings for the simple reason that they had supported BJP in assembly polls. The plea said that in an attempt to create terror and disorder in the society at least 15 BJP workers/sympathisers/supporters have lost their lives and a number of them were seriously injured. The government and administration remained silent spectators and no protection was provided to the victims by them. The government, officials and the administration and the police are supporting workers of TMC, due to which the life, liberty, prestige, dignity and modesty of women are being taken away as is evident from the fact that number of persons were harmed and mercilessly murdered and no steps were taken for their safety, the plea said. It added that no appropriate action was taken against the culprits, due to which the life, liberty, dignity of the women and children are in peril and the future of Hindu residents is in jeopardy. The top court is already hearing a batch of pleas related to post-poll violence in the state and seeking a probe by an independent agency into the alleged killing of BJP workers and sympathisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bagrakote tea estate reopens after six years, new firm takes charge||Bagrakote tea estate, one of the premium gardens in the Dooars that had been abandoned by the management six years ago, was reopened on Thursday. A new company from Calcutta took over the estate that had earlier been owned by the Duncans Goenka Group. The estate is located in the Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri district and had 2,000 workers. The Duncans management had abandoned the Bagrakote garden in April 2015. On Thursday, representatives of Tea & Beverage Company — the new firm that took over the garden — reached Bagrakote. They were accompanied by state minister Bulu Chik Baraik, Alipurduar MP John Barla and leaders of different trade unions. “The garden is being reopened today (Thursday). Outstanding wages of the workers will be cleared in due course. We intend to start operations at the earliest,” Subrata Bakshi said on behalf of the new management. A state labour department official said the reopening had been made possible following several months of initiatives. “A meeting was held in the state labour department’s office in Siliguri on Sunday and it was decided that a new company would reopen the garden,” the official added. Mani Kumar Darnal, the general secretary of the Intucbacked National Union of Plantation Workers, said the labourers were grappling with poverty following the closure of the Bagrakote estate. “Many of them left the garden in search of other jobs.” According to Darnal, there are 1,100odd workers in the garden at present and they have somehow survived in the past six years. “It is a great relief for us. We hope regular activities will resume in the garden in due course,” said Raman Chhetri, a worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Dr Kafeel Khan flags child mental health concerns amid pandemic||For paediatrician and outspoken activist Kafeel Khan, allaying the worries of children is part of his job. But in the aftermath of the second wave of Covid-19, Khan is the one raising an early flag for a potential “fallout” of the impending third wave and is asking parents to be on alert. “Healthcare infrastructure, particularly for child health in many states, is quite abysmal. I pointed it out in my home state in Uttar Pradesh and earned the wrath of the state government as a result,” said Khan, who had called out oxygen shortage at a hospital in Gorakhpur where he worked in 2017, earning the ire of the Yogi Adityanath government. Khan was speaking to The Telegraph at Kankinara in North-24 Parganas on Thursday, July 1, which is celebrated as Doctor’s Day, after flagging off “Doctors on Road”,  a nationwide child-health initiative he launched last year. Khan fears the third wave could bring to the fore a unique problem in the form of children’s mental health. “We always blame the children for their so-called irritating behaviour or tantrums. But we care little to know what’s been going on in their lives over the past one year,” he said. “A large section of children and teenagers faced immense trauma in the past year owing to Covid-related deaths. I have also seen that deprivation of human contact through the suspension of school causes immense harm to mental health,” he said. “This can be a much bigger problem in the long term,” he added. “Khan iterated the need for a “positive approach” to child health care and said mental health facilities should be “mandatory”. On existing infrastructure for children’s health, especially mental health, Khan cited the “abysmal” state of Uttar Pradesh. He suggested the problem was endemic and that all the doctors lived amid bureaucratic fear. “No doctor in UP can dare speak about the (current) situation. The doctors are a helpless lot. Many of them are being compelled to leave their jobs and are opting for private practice,” he said. On child-focused infrastructure, he suggested “immediate” procurement of paediatric-ventilators and hiring of skilled technicians to run such devices. “Children can’t be treated by all physicians,” he said. “The physiology of children, their psyche is different from adults, so understanding them is very important," he added. Khan, who had been accused of the deaths of 70 children from oxygen shortage in 2017 while serving as an academic doctor at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College and Hospital, was eventually acquitted of all charges but re-arrested under the National Security Act for his controversial speech against the Citizenship Act at Aligarh Muslim University. He was released on September 1, 2020, from Mathura jail after Allahabad High Court dropped charges against him terming his arrest “illegal”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Government rejects half of Cyclone Yaas compensation applications as claims fail scrutiny test||The Mamata Banerjee government rejected nearly 50 per cent of compensation applications in the wake of Cyclone Yaas as bogus after authorities carried out spot verifications. “The state received 3,81,774 applications seeking compensation after Yaas through the Duare Tran programme. But 1,86,815 applications have been rejected by block development officers or heads of urban local bodies as applications were not found to be genuine,” said a senior government official. State government teams verified the claims before handing out dole, a key difference from last year after Amphan. Sources said that applications were received from 98 blocks spread across eight districts, including North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Calcutta, East and West Midnapore and Birbhum, but mostly from the three coastal districts of South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. In South 24-Parganas, 1,62,586 applications in all were received, of which 75,773 were rejected. In East Midnapore, 1,17,654 applications were received and 72,878 applications rejected. In the district’s Nandigram-I block, a hotspot for fraud allegations last year, due diligence revealed only 2,000 out of 14,000 applications to be genuine. In Egra II, only 52 of the 6,874 submissions found to be genuine. Sources in the state administration said rejection of applications meant the state government had learnt a lesson from the Amphan compensation controversy of last year. “Back then, each application was treated as genuine and fund allotted against each. But complaints came up against some grassroots Trinamul leaders who claimed money though they were not harmed by Amphan. That’s why this time the government decided to give benefits to only those really affected after verification of claims,” said a source. During inspection, sources said, officials found many phone numbers on the applications could not be connected. Visits proved many applications were fake as the sites had no sign of devastation. “Applications were rejected when their veracity was not established,” said an official. “The whole purpose of state teams verifying applications this time was to nip fraudulent claims in the bud. In the aftermath of Amphan last year, reports of malfeasance emerged after doles had been given, and then officials did verifications. I was part of the survey team for Nandigram last year,” said additional district magistrate, East Midnapore, Sudipta Porel. Applicants who cleared scrutiny will get Yaas doles of Rs 20,000 for full damage and Rs 5,000 for partial. Disbursement of compensation, post-verification, began on Thursday. “This time, we expect no trouble as the verification process has been carried out properly,” said a senior bureaucrat. Sources also said that after Amphan, the state had spent more than Rs 8,000 crore to shoulder the burden of compensation. “This time, precise verification of the applications will reduce the burden on the state exchequer as only genuine claims will be given the dole. No bogus application will be entertained. It will not leave the ruling establishment red-faced,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 1,501 fresh Covid-19 cases, 27 fatalities||Bengal on Thursday reported the 11th consecutive day of the drop in total active Covid-19 cases which fell by 415 to 20,170. On Thursday, the state logged 1,889 recoveries, 1,501 infections and 27 deaths. With Calcutta logging 127 infections and North 24-Parganas 136, Thursday was the fourth successive day since the second wave struck when none of 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Of the 27 deaths, four each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Twelve Bengal districts reported zero deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid second wave prompts govt to reintroduce austerity drive||The Mamata Banerjee government has reintroduced its austerity drive in the backdrop of the second wave of Covid-19. In an order issued on Wednesday, the finance department barred purchase of vehicles, computers, IT-related accessories, furniture, ACs, water coolers, TVs and office equipment till December 31. The department also issued a blanket ban on expenditures for office renovation, decoration and furnishing. It has also prevented the departments from hiring additional cars. Sources said the measures had first been taken in April last year when the pandemic had hit the country. It continued till June this year. “But we have to continue with the measures as our revenue generation is yet to reach the pre-Covid period when we used to collect Rs 5,500 crore a month. Furthermore, the Centre has not cleared dues of nearly Rs 50,000 crore under different heads till the date,” said an official. The sources also said the burden on the state exchequer had increased after the chief minister had enhanced the financial assistance under Krishak Bandhu Scheme to Rs 10,000 from Rs 6,000 annually. “An additional sum of Rs 11,000 crore would be spent for the scheme annually. So, we have to cut down our expenditures under some heads,” said a source. Another official said the state government was spending about Rs 450 crore a month to provide treatment to Covid patients. “The Centre has neither sent any assistance nor provided medicines or other requirements to the states steadily. So, Bengal is facing an acute financial crunch,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari’s Delhi trip again shows BJP cracks||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Thursday that he was unaware of Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari’s trip to Delhi and what had transpired at his meetings with Union ministers Amit Shah and Harsh Vardhan. Ghosh’s comment is seen as yet another sign of the growing rift between two camps in the Bengal BJP, one led by the state president and the other by Adhikari. Adhikari reached Delhi on Wednesday night and met Union home minister Shah, Union health minister Vardhan, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and BJP MP Dinesh Trivedi on Thursday. Like Adhikari, Trivedi had also left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. In the first week of June, Adhikari had visited Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shah, BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Then also, Ghosh had issued a statement saying he was unaware of the trip and its reasons. Asked about the Opposition leader’s latest Delhi trip, Ghosh on Thursday said: “It is not known to me.” “He is the leader of the Opposition…. He might have some consultation with the (Union) government. The (Assembly) session is about to begin, so he might be speaking on these issues. I don’t even know what he could have talked about,” added the Midnapore MP. “We will talk later.” Several BJP insiders told this newspaper that Ghosh was “very annoyed” with Adhikari’s increasing proximity to central leaders like Shah. They said while it was not unnatural of a non-BJP-ruled state’s leader of the Opposition (from the BJP) to meet national leaders, it was “untoward” that the state president of the party was kept in the dark about such trips, twice in a matter of weeks. “In the BJP scheme of things, the state president enjoys supreme authority in the state unit. Suvendu can, of course, go to Delhi and do these things. What is unpalatable is that Dilipda is being kept in the dark about these activities,” said a state BJP office-bearer. After the Delhi trip in early June, Adhikari had said he had informed the state BJP general-secretary, Amitava Chakraborty, about the visit. Chakraborty, an old RSS hand like Ghosh, had been handpicked before the Assembly elections to replace the state president’s closest friend Subrata Chatterjee. Adhikari declined comment when told about Ghosh’s claim that he was unaware of the former’s visit to Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Graft charge after BJP expels former Malda district president Sanjit Mishra||The BJP on Thursday expelled former Malda district president Sanjit Mishra for alleged antiparty activities, but he said the organisation had cracked the whip because he had raised voice against corruption by senior leaders. District BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal announced the expulsion of Mishra, along with another leader Nitai Mandal, who was accused of plotting an attempt on the life of the party’s Maldaha candidate Gopal Chandra Saha who subsequently won the poll. Mishra, who is known to be close to the RSS, had been removed as the district BJP chief and suspended in June, 2019. Ahead of the Assembly elections this year, Mishra managed to organise dissident BJP workers and leaders, some of whom contested under the banner of the Jana Sangh. This made the BJP withdraw his suspension and Mishra was reinducted into the party. Reacting to his expulsion on Thursday, Mishra said: “This is ridiculous. The BJP claims to be a democratic party. But I had not been allowed to defend myself before the expulsion. Actually, holding a post in the BJP is a profitable business now. A number of state and district leaders are using their designations for business. Any protest would lead to expulsion.” Mishra alleged that crores of rupees, which the central BJP leadership had disbursed for the election campaign, had been misappropriated by state and district functionaries. “People who had provided services to the party ahead of the polls are yet to get their fees. They include decorators and transporters. A section of BJP leaders is into corruption and siphoned off the party funds. Those who are raising questions are being thrown out to conceal such malpractices. As I had raised my voice, I had to face the same fate,” said Mishra. Neither Gobinda Chandra Mandal nor any other district BJP functionary was ready to comment on Mishra’s charges. A BJP insider said Mishra had the habit of calling a spade a spade and that was why he had faced the wrath of the leadership. “His suspension had been hurriedly withdrawn so that the dissident candidates did not benefit from his support during the elections. Now that the elections are over, he is thrown out of the party again. The decision, we apprehend, will affect the organisation in Malda,” said the insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bike theft racket busted in Alipurduar, 2 held||Police on Tuesday recovered as many as 22 motorcycles which were stolen from different areas of north Bengal and arrested two persons in connection with the case. The bikes, police said, were hidden in different tea estates in Madarihat block of Alipurduar district. According to an officer, the stolen bikes were sold to youths dwelling in the tea estates. “We suspect they used to forge the registration number plate and documents,” said an officer. “We formed a special team and started a probe after receiving complaints about bike thefts from different areas of the district. On Tuesday, two persons were arrested and the team managed to recover the stolen bikes from various locations after interrogating them. The duo has named a few others, who are suspected to be members of this racket. Searches are on to nab them,” said Bholanath Pandey, the superintendent of police of Alipurduar. On Wednesday, the arrested duo — identified as Sunil Oraon from Kumargram and Jakir Ansari from Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district — were produced in a local court and were remanded in police custody for 14 days. “We need to interrogate them further for more information. Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police of Jaigaon, will head the investigation,” the district police chief added. Police officers who are probing the case said they are also trying to find out whether the racket was involved in similar motorcycle thefts in the neighbouring states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Amid crowd curb, diesel price, buses in Bengal district refuse to roll out||Most private buses in Bengal districts did not roll out on Thursday as bus owners said they would incur losses if they obey the government’s pandemic-induced norm of running vehicles with half occupancy in the face of steep diesel prices. Private bus service across the state resumed on Thursday following the state government’s easing of Covid curbs with fewer active Covid cases now since the second wave of the pandemic in Bengal. But for bus owners in Nadia, Birbhum, Bankura, North and South 24-Parganas worries remained. “Buses are off roads since mid-May. Plying buses now by meeting the government rider will only lead to more losses. So, we decided not to bring out our buses,” said an owner in Birbhum. “It is simple maths,” said Jamarul Islam, secretary of Birbhum District Bus Owners’ Association.. “A bus needs 3 litres of diesel to cover 1km. A bus that plies between Suri and Rampurhat in Birbhum needs 15 litres at over Rs 92 per litre to cover 48km. According to government rules, we can ferry only 20 passengers and that will earn us Rs 900. How can we run a bus if we earn Rs 900 and spend Rs 1,380?” Islam’s worry found an echo among bus owners across the state.“When bus services resumed after the first wave, we rolled out our vehicles as then diesel was priced around Rs 70 a litre. But now, it is impossible unless the state government revises fares,” said a bus owner in Bankura. Most passengers on Thursday boarded small goods vehicles. A senior state transport department official said they had asked officials in districts to convince bus owners to resume the service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar workers stuck in Bhutan return home||Three youths from Madarihat of Alipurduar district, stranded in Bhutan and allegedly forced to work without pay for the past three months at a construction site,  crossed the India-Bhutan border and headed for home on Thursday, courtesy an initiative by a Calcutta-based social worker and the governments of both countries. Sources said in January last year, masons Nur Jamal Haque, Ali Hussain and Raju Haque, who are in their late 20s, went to Bhutan with a labour contractor. They were engaged at a construction site near Thimphu, the capital city of Bhutan, and their daily wage fixed at Rs 750 for each. “Everything was fine till December,” said Ali. Things took a turn for the worse after the labour contractor, who is also from the same district, decided to return to India for some days. “He had told us and representatives of the construction agency that he would return to Bhutan soon. He didn’t return. It was then  that we came to know he owes the firm Rs 3 lakh,” Ali added. Those in the construction firm told the trio that they will have to repay the money. “We were dumbstruck to learn we have to clear his debt,” Nur added. “We told them about our financial limitations but they did not listen. Gradually, they snatched our identity proof and other documents and from March onwards stopped paying us. We only got food and were forced to work.” Finally, the desperate trio put up a video clip on social media on May 27, narrating their ordeal. The video came to the notice of Sadiqul Islam, an IT professional and social worker in Calcutta. Realising the trio were helpless in Bhutan, Islam took up the task to draw the attention of the Union foreign affairs ministry. “The ministry acted on our information and soon contacted the ministry of foreign affairs and the ministry of labour and human resources in Bhutan. Also, officials in Alipurduar district and the Consulate General of India in Bhutan were also apprised (about the trio),” Islam said. In Bhutan, the ministries concerned set the ball rolling. Bhutanese officials went to the construction site – Hongtsho near Thimphu – and assured the trio they would get their dues and documents. The promise was kept, said the trio. “We are grateful to both the governments and to Sadiqul Islam,” said Raju. On Wednesday, their Covid tests were carried out and on Thursday, they set out in a cab for Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of Bhutan that shares borders with Jaigaon of Alipurduar. Around 5pm, they reached Phuentsholing, crossed the border and entered Jaigaon, where police and Jaigaon Development Authority officials welcomed them, and headed for Madarihat. “It feels like a happy dream,” said Ali. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, thanked the Consulate General of India in Bhutan and the Bhutan government for all the help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Panel to monitor ongoing work in 47 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation||The board of administrators (BoA) of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has formed an infrastructure development committee to monitor ongoing work in all 47 wards of the civic body and plan and recommend infrastructure development for the city. This is the first time that such a committee has been formed in the civic body. “The committee has been formed to look into development projects in Siliguri. It will recommend schemes to civic authorities that are viable and essential for residents of Siliguri civic area,” said a source in the SMC. The 12-member panel was formed at a meeting held at the SMC on Wednesday. Included in the committee are Gautam Deb, former state minister and the present chairperson of the BoA, as well as three other members of the BoA, the commissioner and representatives from different departments. “Some 50 prospective projects, like roads, drainage, drinking water supply, revamp of buildings and other structures were identified at the meeting,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
