03-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC councillor ‘caught on camera’ giving a shot at vaccine camp||The vaccine controversy in Bengal is not willing to die so soon. With a video of Trinamul councillor Tabassum Ara surfacing where she is seen administrating vaccine dose without prior experience, fresh trouble seems to be brewing for the Mamata-led Bengal government. The video clip was shared by BJP leaders Babul Supriyo and Agnimitra Paul, on social media platforms, where Ara is first seen receiving her vaccine dose by a nurse. Later the councillor is seen giving the shot to one of the recipients. Ara is being accused of administrating the injection without any experience. She however, has maintained that she was just holding the syringe and had not administered the shot. She has also mentioned that she has done a course in nursing in school. According to an NDTV report, Ara can be heard saying in a video, “I did not give any vaccine. I was only holding the syringe in my hand. There are a lot of people who are hesitant of taking the shots.” However, latching on to the vide, Supriyo tagged the chief minister, asking “Seems like TMC govt has no control over its administrators. TMC’s Tabassum Ara, a member of the administrative body of AMC, has vaccinated people herself and risked hundreds of lives... Will her political colour shield her from stern punishment? (sic)” Following suit was Asansol MLA Paul. Slamming TMC, she tweeted, “TMC’s manhandling of the lives of people knows no bounds.. A non-medical official, TMC's Tabassum Ara, member of administrative board of AMC, chose to vaccinate the people herself, in spite of doctors and nurses being present there... Is she even medically authorised to do so? (sic).” Bengal government has been at the receiving end, since the case of fraudulent vaccination camp run by a man pretending to be an IAS officer was busted earlier this week. The central government has even asked for a report on the same. However, Bengal CM has claimed the fraudulent case to be an isolated one, against which the state administration has taken prompt action. Not willing to cow down, Mamata highlighted the Gujarat case, where the vaccine doses were administered in the BJP party offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul says BJP ruckus in assembly a 'blot on democracy'||The Trinamul Congress hit out at the BJP on Saturday for creating ruckus during Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's inaugural address to the newly constituted assembly. Addressing a press conference, TMC's Deputy Leader in Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the opposition party's actions in the House on Friday were a "blot on democracy". "Listening to the governor's address does not tantamount to one blindly supporting everything in it. It is courtesy. One can certainly vent his objection to the address in the reply speech," he said. The opening session of the newly-constituted West Bengal assembly got off to a stormy start as the governor was forced to cut short his speech amid ruckus by the opposition BJP MLAs who took offence after finding "no mention" of post- poll violence in the address. Roy alleged that the BJP was conspiring to divide Bengal, urging people to thwart any such attempt. He also reiterated the demand for by-elections to the seven assembly seats in the state at the earliest. "The Election Commission went ahead with polling despite the spike in COVID-19 cases in April, and now that the positivity rate has gone down so much, why can't the by- elections be held?" he asked. Roy said the Trinamul Congress would soon reach out to President Ramnath Kovind, demanding the dismissal of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta over his alleged meeting with the state's Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Solicitor General denies meeting BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has denied meeting Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari at his official residence here after the Trinamool Congress wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his removal over the issue. The letter to the Prime Minister was written by TMC MPs Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Maitra stating that the alleged meeting between Adhikari and the law officer "reeks of impropriety" as the BJP MLA is an accused in Narada and Saradha cases which are being investigated. "Shri Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office on Thursday at around 3:00 PM, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea. "When my meeting was over and thereafter my PPS informed me about his arrival, I requested my PPS to convey to Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Mr Adhikari thanked my PPS and left without insisting to meet me. The question of my meeting with Mr Adhikari therefore did not arise," the law officer said. Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly, had also denied the meeting, saying that he had recently gone to Mehta's residence in Delhi regarding a case related to "post-poll violence" in the state but "could not meet him in person". The TMC MPs had claimed that Adhikari was accused in various cases of cheating, bribery and illegal gratification related to the Narada sting operation and the Saradha scam. "The meeting between Adhikari and the solicitor general not only reeks of impropriety, there is a direct conflict of interest and also taints the position of the second highest law officer of the country, the Solicitor General," the TMC lawmakers had said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks Bengal govt, police to probe post-poll violence complaints||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the Bengal government and police to register complaints from victims of post-poll violence and conduct investigations. A five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and consisting of Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon, Justice Soumen Sen and Justice Subrata Talukdar also directed the government to take all measures so that the victims could draw rations and get hazard-free medical facilities. The interim order was based on the findings of a preliminary report placed before the bench by an eight-member committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission. The NHRC had formed the committee following an earlier order by the five-judge bench of the high court. In keeping with the court’s order, the eight-member committee had visited clash-hit areas in the state and met the victims of alleged post-poll violence. The bench delivered the order on Friday while hearing petitions filed in early June by advocates Anindya Sundar Das, Priyanka Tibrewal and Ravi Shankar Chatterjee in connection with the post-poll clashes that had erupted at several places in Bengal and the death of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar on May 1. “All complaints by civilians in this connection are to be treated as FIRs and are to be preserved by the chief secretary,” read the ruling, which also made provisions for rations to be provided to persons whose ration cards had gone missing. The larger bench also directed the government to conduct a post-mortem on Sarkar’s body at Army Command Hospital in Calcutta for the second time and hand over its report to the committee. The court showcaused deputy commissioner of police, south surburban division, Rashid Munir Khan, for not carrying out its order and taking no action against people who had heckled committee members when they had visited some areas of Jadavpur in Calcutta. The court directed Khan to state why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for violating its earlier order. The counsel representing the NHRC claimed that the committee was still receiving complaints from victims and prayed for time to complete its job. The bench granted the prayer and fixed the matter for hearing on July 13. Opposition leaders have been expressing anger against the government for alleged failure to take action against the perpetrators of the violence. Several Opposition leaders said the interim ruling of the high court vindicated their complaints of violence against Trinamul Congress workers and inaction on the part of the state government. While the BJP claimed there had been 41 deaths in the violence between May 2 and June 17, sources at Nabanna had told The Telegraph that 16 people had died between May 2 and 4. “Eight victims were from Trinamul, while seven belonged to the BJP. One victim was a supporter of the ISF,” a source at the state secretariat had said on June 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Tushar Mehta denies meeting Suvendu Adhikari in person||One of the abiding mysteries of the modern-day Delhi Durbar has been what lies in store for very important persons who drop in “unannounced” at the ubiquitous bungalows in the capital. An insight has now been provided by Tushar Mehta, who as solicitor-general is the second-highest law officer in the country. Mehta said in a statement on Friday: “Sh Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office yesterday at around 3pm, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office and offered him a cup of tea. “When my meeting was over, my PPS (personal private secretary) informed me about his arrival. I requested my PPS to convey (to) Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him & apologise as he had to wait. Mr Adhikari left without insisting to meet me. Question of my meeting with Mr Adhikari therefore did not arise.” The statement did not mention whether Adhikari had sipped the tea and commented on its quality — as gentlemen are expected to do in such rarefied environs. Otherwise, the statement was quite elaborate. Why did Mehta, presumably a busy law officer, take time off to issue such a statement? One, Adhikari, the BJP legislator from Nandigram and leader of the Opposition in Bengal, is an accused in the Narada payoffs case. Two, Mehta represents the CBI, the prosecuting agency, in the Narada case that is pending in court. Three, before reaching Mehta’s residence, Adhikari had spent time with Amit Shah, Union home minister. As Shah would say, the Trinamul Congress read the “chronology” and acted. Three Trinamul MPs — Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra — wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the dismissal of solicitor-general Mehta on the ground of his purported “meeting” with Adhikari and alleged a conflict of interest. It’s against this backdrop that Mehta issued the statement denying any meeting with Adhikari. But Trinamul is insisting on proof. Trinamul MP and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee demanded that the solicitor-general make “all CCTV footage public until Mr Adhikari was in his residence” to dismiss the speculation over the “clandestine meeting”. Moitra, one of the three Trinamul MPs who wrote to Modi, tweeted: “Z category BJP protectee enters high security official residence of Solicitor General of India ‘uninvited’, waits 20 mins over a cup of tea & apparently leaves without a mtng. CCTV footage to back your version, Mr SG?” The CBI has faced criticism for arresting two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul MLA and a former mayor in the Narada case in the aftermath of the Assembly elections while not acting against Adhikari, who switched loyalties to the BJP before the polls. The Trinamul MPs said in their letter to the Prime Minister that “Adkhari is accused of various criminal cases of cheating, illegal gratification, and bribery, etc, two such matters are the: “I) Narada case, being investigated by the CBI and ED where Suvendu Adhikari was seen taking bribes in a sting operation and were publicly circulated by the BJP. Sri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, is representing the CBI in the Narada case before Supreme Court and High Court. “II) Saradha Chit Fund Case, being investigated by the CBI and ED where Sudipta Sen, the prime accused, had written multiple letters levying grave allegations against Suvendu Adhikari. Sri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, has advised and appeared for the CBI in the case also.” The Trinamul MPs’ letter said the alleged “meeting” had “curiously” followed Adhikari’s meeting with home minister Shah earlier in the day. The solicitor-general is the country’s second-highest law officer after the attorney-general of India. By virtue of their posts, the two law officers not only give legal advice to the central government but, as a convention, also have the first right of audience in any Indian court. The three Trinamul MPs alleged in their letter to the Prime Minister that the purported meeting between Adhikari and Mehta “not only reeks of impropriety but also raises the questions of integrity and taints the post occupied by the learned Solicitor General”. The letter said: “Such meeting between an accused in grave offences, with the Solicitor General who is advising such investigating agencies by whom the said accused is being investigated, is in direct conflict of interest with the statutory duties of the learned Solicitor General of India. “We have, therefore, reasons to believe that such a meeting has been organised to influence the outcome of matters where Suvendu Adhikari is an accused, using the high offices of the learned Solicitor General of India. We state that the act of the learned Solicitor General to provide an opportunity of audience to Suvendu Adikari not only reeks of impropriety but also raises the questions of integrity and taints the post occupied by the learned Solicitor General. “In order to avoid any doubt in the mind of the public at large, as to the integrity and neutrality of the office of the learned Solicitor General of India, we approach you (the Prime Minister) to initiate necessary steps for removal of Sri Tushar Mehta from the post of the Solicitor General of India.” The Prime Minister’s Office had not commented in public till Friday evening on the Trinamul leaders’ letter. On his part, Adhikari told reporters at the Bengal Assembly that he had gone to meet the solicitor-general over “post-poll violence” in the state “but he did not meet me”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Four senior leaders quit Binay Tamang camp||Four senior leaders of the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha resigned from the party on Friday but not before opening a can of charges of corruption running into crores of rupees. Vice-president Norden Lama, central committee members Bhuwan Kanal and Pravin Rahpal and office secretary of the Kalimpong district committee Saran Pradhan held a media conference to announce their resignations. The allegations levelled by the quartet ranged from corruption of crores of rupees by party leaders, collection of 7 per cent of every government project’s cost as commission to centralisation of power and lack of discipline in the faction and nepotism by leaders in teachers’ appointment. “Till December 2020, Kalimpong received funds to the tune of Rs 700 crore but the media can check whether works amounting to even Rs 7 crore have been properly executed,” Pravin Rahpal said at the press meet in Kalimpong. He also alleged that many in the Tamang camp were unaware of the utilisation of Rs 30 crore the party had allegedly collected as commission. Lama, however, clarified that the total funds raised by the party would stand at Rs 49 crore given that it collected 7 per cent as commission from government projects. “Of the 7 per cent, the central committee of the party takes 5 per cent, while 2 per cent goes to the samasty (GTA constituency) committee of the party,” alleged Rahpal. Morcha leaders were also accused of nepotism in the teachers’ appointment by putting pressure on “headmaster and headmistress.” The Tamang camp of the Morcha has been out of power at the GTA after the Bengal Assembly elections. The four leaders, however, said they had aired their grievances in the past one year but those hadn’t been addressed. The quartet said Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha and few were running the party as a “company” and most of the funds for the constituency were diverted to the legislator’s area. The other grievance seems to be the “autocratic” way of running the party and overlooking senior leaders in decision making. Recently, party president Binay Tamang had dissolved many committees and restrained leaders from speaking to the media. Tamang said he had come to know about the resignation through the media. “I have not received any resignation letter. It is easy to level allegations but one should back them with proof and take legal recourse,” said Tamang. “When you point a finger at someone, you should realise that three fingers are pointing at you.” The GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee president Ajoy Edwards said the “commission” issue raised by the four leaders was shameful for the Morcha. “In this time of Covid-19, to hear leaders speak that 7 per cent was the rate of commission is really disheartening.” “To be a member of the political fraternity in the Darjeeling hills is turning out to be shameful,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||In Rajya Sabha consent, Bengal calls for bypolls to 7 Assembly segments ||The Bengal government has informed the Election Commission of India that it is ready to hold polls to two Rajya Sabha seats and recommended that byelections to seven Assembly segments also be conducted immediately. The Bengal government’s communication was sent to the poll panel after the EC had sought the state’s view on holding polls to the two Rajya Sabha seats vacated by Dinesh Trivedi and Manas Bhuniya. “The state government has given its consent to the idea of holding Rajya Sabha elections at the earliest since the Assembly is in session,” said a source. Sources said Nabanna had recommended that byelections to all the seven seats that were due could also be held without much delay. But the EC hadn’t sought the state’s view on the bypolls. In Bengal, the bypolls are due in the Assembly segments of Bhowanipore, Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah, Gosaba, Jangipur and Samserganj. Dinesh Trivedi had resigned as the Rajya Sabha member before joining the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. Manas Bhuniya of Trinamul vacated the seat in the Upper House after he had won the Assembly poll from Sabang. Mamata Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister on May 5 for their third time and she needs to win a byelection to be a member of the Assembly within six months to continue in the post. She had been defeated by Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in the Nandigram seat. Mamata had said recently that she would request the EC and the Prime Minister to hold the bypolls as early as possible. “It is the ideal time to hold the byelections as daily Covid-19 cases have come down to less than 2,000 from 22,000-odd at the end of April,” said a senior official. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said they were hopeful that the EC would hold the byelections soon as it had started the process to hold the Rajya Sabha polls. Soon after the Assembly poll results had come out, the EC postponed all the byelections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total active cases drop below 20,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 1,840 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,422 infections and 23 deaths. The state reported a drop in total active cases for 12 consecutive days as the figure fell by 441 to reach 19,729. This is for the first time since June 8 that the number of patients under treatment went below 20,000. The total of active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to reach 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over the 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before improving by over 14 per cent in the past 12 days. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.51 per cent on Friday with the national rate at 96.97 now. With Calcutta logging 137 infections and North 24-Parganas 158, Friday was the fifth successive day since the second wave struck when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen Bengal districts logged double-digit figures of new infections, while Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, Malda and Murshidabad recorded single-digit figures. Of the 23 deaths reported on Friday, five were from Calcutta and eight from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while four others recorded just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Bengal now has a total of nearly 15.03 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March last year. They include over 14.65 lakh recoveries and 17,758 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Price of one litre petrol crosses Rs 100 in north Bengal||Motorists have started to shell out over Rs 100 for one litre petrol at some north Bengal towns, following many other parts of the country where the fuel had already breached the three digit mark. In Darjeeling, pumps were charging Rs 100.56 a litre on Friday after the overnight hike by 40 paisa. The price there had jumped to Rs 100.16 on June 29. The price crossed Rs 100 in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and some parts of North Dinajpur district fort the first time on Friday. One litre petrol was sold at Rs 100.10 at those places. Prices at the retail pumps of public sector oil marketing companies in Calcutta are still below the Rs 100-mark. The city recorded Rs 99.04 a litre at the Indian Oil Corporation outlets on Friday. Oil companies are allowed to mark up petrol on account of transport cost if the fuel is hauled to distant places. As a result, prices differ from one location to another even within a state despite the fuel being subjected to the same amount of central and state levies. In the Darjeeling hills, the price of one litre petrol is always higher by Rs 2 to Rs 2.5 as compared to Siliguri, courtesy the transport and shrinkage charges. “Petrol price had crossed the 100 rupee mark in Darjeeling on June 29 when it was Rs 100.16 a litre then. Today’s rate, however, is highest,” said a petrol pump owner in Darjeeling. The common man is bearing the brunt of surging oil prices which are increasing the cost of commute as well as general merchandise. “These days, petrol prices are increasing every day, so are the prices of diesel. Usually, I travel around 90km every day for my job and the daily fuel expenses have shot up. On the other hand, the rise in the diesel price is leading to an increase in the prices of various commodities,” said Raj Roy, who works in the pharmaceutical sector and is based in Cooch Behar. Oil industry observers say petrol may cross the Rs 100-mark in Calcutta soon if the Narendra Modi government declines to intervene. So far, it has shown no desire to do so and instead, called on states to cut local taxes. Bengal did walk the talk and cut prices of both petrol and diesel by Rs 1 a litre on February 22 ahead of the Assembly elections. The rebate, which had been in place till June 30, has been extended for another three months. The Mamata Banerjee government imposes 17 per cent and 25 per cent sales tax on diesel and petrol, respectively on ad valorem basis. Additionally, it used to imposes a cess of Rs 1,000 per kilo litre or Re 1 a litre on both the products. Now, no cess is being imposed on these fuels in the state. Bengal was collecting Rs 19.11 a litre on petrol and Rs 13.05 a litre on diesel as on Friday. In contrast, the Centre collects Rs 32.90 from one litre petrol and Rs 31.80 from one litre diesel. However, it does not share the majority of the levies with states according to the formula of devolution of the central taxes. The Centre bypasses the states by imposing cess, which stood at Rs 20.50 a litre on petrol and Rs 22 a litre on diesel, accounting for 62 per cent and 69 per cent of the central tax collection respectively. In other words, the Centre keeps the majority of the tax collected from these two fuels for itself. There has been a clamour from Opposition parties to slash the cess or the duties which were imposed to reap the gain from falling international crude oil prices, which also dictate, apart from central and states levies, how much Indians pay for the fuels. Indian basket of crude stands at $71.98 a barrel in June, compared to $66.95 a barrel in May. India imports over 80 per cent of the domestic crude oil requirement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Union health ministry plans to set up two oxygen plants at north Bengal hospitals||The Union health ministry has decided to set up two oxygen plants at the district hospitals of Darjeeling and Kalimpong and has also assigned two central agencies to execute the projects. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, said on Friday that the Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generator plants, which would be first-of-its-kind facility in the hills, would soon come up at the hospitals. “I had written to the Prime Minister, mentioning that because of the difficult terrain and geographic distance from the plains, transportation of medical oxygen in tanks to the hill regions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts is a problem. I had requested him for oxygen plants, one each in these two places and another in Siliguri where patients from all over the region come for treatment. It is good that the proposal has been approved,” said the MP. Sources said the third plant would come up at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital .(NBMCH), the main referral hospital that is run by the state in the region. “The sites for all the three plants will be developed by the NHAI while the plant will be installed by the DRDO,” said a source. Meanwhile, the authorities in NBMCH have started gearing up as the state has mooted a proposal to build a cancer hospital at the campus in association with the Tata Memorial Hospital of Mumbai. The announcement was recently made by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta. The proposed hospital, sources said, is likely to have a capacity of 100 beds. “There is ample space in the campus to build the hospital. The authorities have already started identifying prospective plots for the hospital at the campus. It would be of major help for cancer patients of north Bengal,” said a faculty member of NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP denies Dhankhar a chance to read his full speech at Assembly||The BJP had moved heaven, earth and Narendra Modi in the hope of winning 200-plus seats in the 17th Bengal Legislative Assembly. When the august House convened on Friday, the BJP’s 70-plus members moved heaven and earth to make their presence felt and ended up stealing the governor’s 15 minutes of fame. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was unable to fully read out his address because of protests from the Opposition benches. Dhankhar spent barely eight minutes inside the House after his ceremonial entry — escorted by Speaker Biman Banerjee and chief minister Mamata Banerjee — around 1.58pm. When he rose to read out his 14-page speech, the BJP MLAs began protesting against the alleged post-poll-results violence in the state. Dhankhar sat down and then tried again but as the sloganeering continued, he read the last paragraph and his ceremonial exit followed. “We knew that the BJP wanted to disrupt the whole session, but they couldn’t do it, as the governor read the first and the last paragraphs, and the speech was tabled…. The BJP failed in its plan, and now the discussions will duly take place on this speech,” said a source close to Mamata. However, the saffron camp too was happy with the scale of disruption and the mileage it got from the chaos on Day One. Multiple first-time lawmakers told this newspaper that they had come prepared to precipitate bedlam. “We did it because there was no mention, whatsoever, of the post-poll violence in the address, drafted by the state government. There was no mention of Trinamul’s goons, the inert police’s role — none of it. No violence found any mention in the speech…. We presented the reality before the House; we formally lodged our protest on its floor,” said Suvendu Adhikari, the Nandigram MLA from the BJP and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. Although the Bengal Assembly has seen such stormy scenes over gubernatorial addresses before — old-timers recalled the tumult generated by the Congress during addresses by B.D. Pande and Saiyid Nurul Hasan in the 1980s — the context was different this time. There was intense speculation about the content of the governor’s speech – drafted by the state government and approved by the state cabinet -- as Dhankhar had publicly expressed his reservations about alleged discrepancies. “Even last night, the governor sent a letter to the chief minister about changing the content. In her reply to the governor this morning, the chief minister said she could not deviate from the content of a speech approved by the state cabinet. She also mentioned that it was not a political speech and the governor was expected to read out the version of the government,” a source said. The source added that Dhankhar appreciated the chief minister’s epistolary response. The source disclosed that inside the House, Mamata apparently advised Dhankhar to read the last paragraph -- when the BJP’s pandemonium forced him to pause -- and table it. The governor’s decision to table the speech without any deviation from the script allowed the taut treasury benches to heave a sigh of relief. “Had he tried to be like the Kerala governor (Arif Mohammad Khan) and added what he felt, it would have been an embarrassment for us even if the Speaker had it expunged from the House records,” said a source. In Kerala, governor Khan had initially refused to read a couple of paragraphs in his address to the House there last year. The paragraphs were related to the contentious citizenship matrix of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Eventually, Khan did read out the paragraphs but went on to tell the Assembly about his reservations, and said he had read them because chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wanted him to. Team BJP in the Bengal Assembly too was buoyant, confident that it had made a mark on the inaugural day of the key session by bringing the alleged post-poll-results violence to the forefront as an issue. Adhikari said his party wanted discussions on the alleged violence and the fake vaccination camps one day each during what remains of this brief House session. The saffron plan, however, is unlikely to materialise as the session is likely to end on July 9 after discussions on the governor’s address and the presentation of the state budget for the current fiscal. “We know it well that they will not allow any discussion on what we want.… But we could flag the issues today the way we wanted to,” said a source in the BJP camp. He said Adhikari had been advised by Union home minister Amit Shah -- whom he met in Delhi on Thursday -- to use belligerence as the party’s main strategy in the Assembly. If Adhikari can deliver, while keeping the flock together -- a major challenge now as Trinamul is fairly confident of securing defections from at least 15 of the BJP’s 74 remaining MLAs – the House is likely to witness more turbulent scenes. “During Left rule, principal Opposition Congress was also quite capable of causing disarray. But their Delhi leadership, then running the government at the Centre, never wanted to precipitate a crisis. But this BJP-led Centre is keen on consistently fomenting unrest, and it will get reflected in this Assembly,” a House veteran from the treasury benches said. Deputy Speaker: Former agriculture minister Asish Banerjee of Trinamul, a five-term MLA from Rampurhat, has been elected deputy Speaker of the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Police team foil marriages of two minor girls in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts||Officers of Siliguri metropolitan police and Alipurduar police foiled marriages of two minor girls in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts on Thursday. Sources said the officers at Ambari police outpost under New Jalpaiguri police station came to know that two minors — 17-year-old girl and 14-years-old boy — were to get married at Shivganga Ashram Para area in Sahudangi on the outskirts of Siliguri. “A team comprising Sajjal Roy, the in-charge of the outpost, Rajganj BDO, the pradhan of local panchayat and others rushed to the wedding venue. They counselled their parents that the marriage of minors is illegal who admitted their fault, rescinded their decision and gave written assurance that they will not violate the law in future,” said a police officer. In Jaigaon of Alipurduar district, the cops rescued a 15-year-old girl who had fled home to marry a youth whom she got introduced through social media six months back. She hails from Mathabhanga of Cooch Behar district. “The girl has been sent to a home in Cooch Behar and the youth was arrested for trying to marry a minor,” said Abhishek Bhattacharya, the in-charge of Jaigaon police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Wife and lover arrested for murder of spouse, kids in North Dinajpur ||A labourer and his two minor sons hailing from a village in North Dinajpur district were killed allegedly by his wife and a co-worker, with whom she apparently has an affair, in Punjab on June 28. On Friday, the bodies of Mangu Sheikh, Ali Sheikh, 8, and Sohail Sheikh, 6, reached Hatia-Palibari village, on the outskirts of Raiganj town, from Faridkot in Punjab. Sources said Mangu, 30, had moved to Faridkot four years ago, along with his wife and three children and worked as a contractual worker at a local camp of the Border Security Force (BSF). Aduri, Mangu’s daughter, somehow managed to escape the attack. According to police sources, the victim’s wife Mauri got into an affair with Kishan, another worker at the camp who hails from Uttar Pradesh. “Preliminary probe suggests that the couple used to have frequent brawls after Mangu came to know about the affair. Around one-and-half months’ back, Mauri left her husband’s place and started staying with Kishan,” said a police source. Last month, the duo planned to kill Mangu and their three children. “On the night of June 28, the duo got into Mangu’s accommodation and killed him and his two sons. Their daughter Aduri, 10, somehow managed to escape and took shelter in the BSF camp. The duo hung their bodies in the house after killing them and fled,” the police source added. Later, the police arrested  Mauri and Kishan following a statement from Aduri and recovered the bodies. Meanwhile, 10-year-old Aduri spoke to the BSF personnel of the camp and mentioned that her mother and Kishan have killed her father and two brothers. The BSF men immediately informed the police who rushed to the spot and recovered the bodies. They also initiated a probe and launched a search for Mauri and Kishan. Both of them were arrested. The last rites of the trio was conducted in the village on Friday and was attended by hundreds of residents. A villager informed that Aduri was under the protection of Punjab police now. “We want exemplary punishment for Mauri and Kishan. What they have done is inhumanact that they did not spare two little boys and also tried to kill the girl.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Hill hotel withdraws decision to enforce lockout from Monday||Windamere Hotel here has withdrawn its decision to enforce lockout from Monday after the management and workers agreed that full salaries would be paid to the staff only after the Centre allowed international tourists in India. Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner, (north Bengal zone), convened a meeting of the representatives of the management, trade unions and workers in Siliguri on Thursday and all the parties agreed to a set of conditions. “One of the conditions agreed at the meeting is that staff will be paid full salaries only after the situation becomes normal and the Centre allows foreign tourists to visit India,” said a source. Windamere built in the 19th century is considered as one among the best colonial hotels in India. The property with 38 rooms largely depends on foreign clients. Until then, the 50-odd staff would be paid 50 per cent of the salaries. “The salaries would be increased to 60 per cent after the Bengal government’s restrictions related to Covid-19 are lifted,” said a source. Ashish Subba, conciliation officer and the assistant labour commissioner of Darjeeling, said the hotel would continue to function normally. “Another meeting has been scheduled for August 6, 2021, at a convenient venue to discuss other subjects,” said Subba. The lockout notice was issued on June 21 by Elizabeth Clarke, the managing director of the hotel. “Due to ongoing COVID-19 pandemic since the last one and half years the Hotel Management has suffered huge financial losses and ultimately has gone into financial crisis leading to financial debt,” read the notice. Amit Gupta, the general manager and a director on the board of the hotel, said the lockout decision had been withdrawn keeping in mind the “welfare of the employees”. “We will try our best to cope up with the situation,” said Gupta. The management of probably the only colonial hotel in the Himalayas said it would try and attract more domestic tourists but admitted that the taste of the property was different.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Red Volunteers of CPM and villagers join hands to repair rural roads at Khejuri||Red Volunteers of the CPM, along with residents of East Midnapore’s Khejuri, took up the repair of a 5km stretch of rural roads on Friday after repeated pleas of villagers for the renovation in the past several years did not yield any result. “We are at our wit’s end. We have been telling panchayat authorities for years to repair the roads but to no avail,” said Dipankar Mondal, a resident of Pakuria village in Khejuri. The roads have become unmotorable and walking on them is a challenge for villagers with its condition further worsening with the arrival of the monsoon. The plight of the crater-ridden roads finally attracted the attention of the Red Volunteers who have been working in the area to help pandemic-hit families with doctors, oxygen cylinders, medicines, groceries and even cooked food. “The Pakuria-Mansinghber and Pakuria-Kasaria roads are the only options to get to towns or the city. During the pandemic, authorities have no right to ignore its condition,” said CPM activist and Red Volunteer Zakir Hossain, 25, as he was busy trying to fill up a pothole on the battered stretch. “We were unaware about the condition of the road until we came here,” he added. On Friday, Hossain was part of the team of around two dozen people who began impromptu repairs using gravel and crushed brick to fill the gaping craters on the damaged stretches. CPM activist Ratneswar Dalui said they witnessed and experienced the trouble of negotiating on the damaged stretches when they had to travel in the region to provide relief to patients suffering from Covid-19. “Forget an ambulance, we faced problems commuting on the stretches on two-wheelers,” said Dalui. Appreciating the role of the Red Volunteers, Mondal said: “We are thankful that at least these youths are by our side in such difficult times.” Asked, Khejuria gram panchayat member Uttam Das said he was aware of the “years old” problem and claimed a lack of funds had delayed the issue. “We even have permission for filling stone chips but we have not got the funds,” said Das. President of Khejuri block 2 panchayat samity and Trinamul leader Asim Mondal he would try to ensure that concrete roads were laid on the damaged stretches once the monsoon was over. CPM leader Himanshu Das vouched for basic citizens’ rights saying the matter had come to authorities’ attention because of the endeavour of his party and the Red Volunteers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
