04-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP legislators cannot visit any place they like without informing leadership: Dilip Ghosh||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said party legislators from West Bengal cannot travel without informing the state leadership. He was at a workshop organised for its 75 MLAs on Saturday, reports Hindustantimes.com. This immediately raised questions as no party in Bengal has imposed such a restriction on their leaders in recent history. “Ghosh told us that no MLA is above the party. They are part of an organisation and hence cannot visit any place they like without informing the leadership,” a newly-elected MLA, who attended the workshop in Calcutta, said on condition of anonymity, reported Hindustantimes.com. While Ghosh’s mandate was described by party leader’s as “an effort to enforce discipline” some of them felt it reflected Ghosh’s displeasure over Suvendu Adhikari’s recent visits to Delhi where he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other top leaders. During his last trip, Adhikari triggered a controversy by visiting the home of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Though Mehta and Adhikari said they did not meet because the former was busy in a meeting, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has demanded the Solicitor General’s removal citing ethics. The ruling party has said that since Adhikari is an accused in the Narada sting operation case and Mehta is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in court, they cannot meet. Two TMC MPs, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra, will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to seek Mehta’s removal. On earlier occasions, as well as on Friday when the controversy emerged, Ghosh said he was not aware of why Adhikari was in Delhi and who he met. Ghosh, in fact, stirred up the issue by asking why questions are not being raised about TMC leaders who were seen accepting bribes in the Narada sting videos recorded in 2014. Adhikari, who was a TMC MP, MLA and cabinet minister and joined the BJP in December last year, was among those seen in the videos. Significantly, Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, was not present at the workshop when Ghosh passed his diktat on the movement of MLAs. Adhikari arrived after Ghosh left. Neither of them commented on the issue before the media. In the recent polls, Adhikari defeated Mamata Banerjee and retained the Nandigram seat in the East Midnapore district. Of the 75 BJP legislators, 71 were elected for the first time. The party won 77 seats while the TMC bagged 213 of Bengal’s 294 seats. Two BJP MLAs later resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. BJP national joint general secretary Shiv Prakash addressed the MLAs at the workshop. He asked them to focus on their performance as people’s representatives and not to get demoralised by the defeat in the elections in which the party targeted 200 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Former TMC MLA Sultan Singh dies of cancer at 76||Former Trinamool Congress MLA and ex-IPS officer Sultan Singh died of cancer at a private hospital in Kolkata on Sunday, party sources said. He was 76. Singh had been elected on a TMC ticket in the 2011 assembly elections. He had joined active politics after his retirement and unsuccessfully contested the 2009 Lok Sabha polls on a Congress ticket, before shifting allegiance to the TMC. Singh was, however, not fielded again from the Bally seat in the 2016 assembly elections and instead, he was made a member of the Howrah Improvement Trust. Later on, he gradually dissociated himself from active politics. Singh was known as a daring police officer and is credited with breaking the criminal racket in Golabari police station area in Howrah. Condoling his death, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, "Saddened to hear about the demise of former @AITCofficial MLA & former IPS officer Sultan Singh ji. My deepest condolences to his family and well-wishers. His contribution to public service shall always be remembered."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC slams Modi government for soaring fuel prices, BJP hits back||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for soaring fuel prices, wondering whether he has "gone into hiding". The ruling party in Bengal also accused the BJP of working hard to "add to the people's woes" as the fuel prices hit a "historic high". However, the BJP questioned why the state government is not reducing its duties on petroleum products to bring down the prices. "As fuel prices hit a HISTORIC HIGH, @BJP4India govt (government) seems to be working very hard towards adding to the woes of the public. Not much has changed from 2020. The same old blame game continues while the demands of the people of India are conveniently ignored!," Trinamul Congress national general secretary and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee tweeted. Petrol price has crossed the Rs 100-mark per litre in metro cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune and it is over Rs 99 in Delhi and Calcutta. Taking to Twitter, senior state minister Partha Chatterjee said, "Mr @narendramodi has a penchant for drama every time the people of India are in distress!" "Now with the skyrocketing petrol prices, why has he gone into hiding? Preparing for a big lie-laden speech Mr Prime Minister," the state industry minister alleged. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. And for this reason, price of petrol has breached the Rs 100-mark per litre in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab and Ladakh. "Around June 2020, I remember petrol prices were being hiked for nearly 17 days at a stretch! Within a year, we've crossed Rs 100 in several cities across India. Shri @narendramodi kindly get off your high horse & take cognizance of the woes of your people," Bengal transport minister Firhad Hakim said on the micro-blogging site. The Left parties also staged protests in various parts of the state against the rising fuel prices and cooking gas. Bengal BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya said criticism will not solve the problem. "Why isn't the state government reducing its levies? Everyone knows how the Centre is managing the current crisis. A joint effort from the central government and the states is required to address the issue," he said. He called for the inclusion of petro products under the GST regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC activists attacked near Calcutta, 6 arrested||Miscreants attacked two TMC activists and opened fire in the air outside one of the ruling party's offices in the northern outskirts of Calcutta, triggering panic in the area, a police officer said on Sunday. Six persons have been arrested so far in connection with the incident, he said. "At least 10-12 motorcycle-borne men arrived at the TMC's Deshpriyonagar zonal party office in North 24 Parganas around 9.30 pm on Saturday, ransacked the furniture there and dragged two TMC activists out before hitting them with the butt of a revolver," the officer explained. They then fired a few shots in the air and fled the place, leaving the two injured activists lying on the road, he said, adding that locals are wary of stepping out of homes. The incident, meanwhile, has sparked a furore, with the TMC holding BJP workers responsible for the attack, a charge denied by the saffron camp. "The BJP, after its poll debacle, is desperately trying to terrorise TMC workers. We will take out a rally in in protest," local MLA Madan Mitra, who visited the site of the incident during the day, told reporters. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, claimed that the attack was a fallout of infighting in the TMC, with two factions seeking to have total control over the real estate sector in the area. Meanwhile, in yet another incident, TMC MLA Lovely Moitra alleged that a pandal built for a public outreach programme in her Sonarpur Dakshin constituency was "set on fire" late on Saturday. "Some rogue elements are trying to sabotage our programmes in the area. They will not succeed," Moitra said, further adding that the police are probing the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||East Burdwan cops organise camp for people living far away from police station||East Burdwan police organised a camp in a remote village under Bhatar police station area to reach out to people who live far away from the police station. Police sources said cops across East Burdwan and other south Bengal districts have taken up the initiative to travel to remote locations in a bid to provide police services. “The pandemic has hit people’s movement in rural areas. People can’t reach police stations as easily as they could in the past. So, we are reaching cops to villages,” said a senior police officer in East Burdwan. In Birbhum, the district police launched a similar drive by the name of Paray Police (police in neighbourhood)”. Police officers said police teams are travelling to remote villages at least once in a week to register complaints directly from the villagers. Another senior police officer said many villagers find police stations “intimidating”. These camps bring the police closer to people, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Hill TMC leaders seek Gorkhaland Territorial Administration election ‘at the earliest’||Trinamul leaders in the hills have demanded that the Mamata Banerjee government should take initiatives to conduct the election of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) while underscoring the fact that discontentment is brewing among some hill residents as the GTA does not have a single elected member for around four years now. “People of the hills have no inkling how the administrative body, set up for their development, functions. We believe it is high time that people of the hills get the chance to elect the second board of the GTA so that the body can function with an elected board and is not run by a board of administrators or government officials. We have passed on the message to our state leadership,” said L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) district committee of Trinamul. The GTA was established back on March 24, 2012. Its ambit comprises the hilly subdivisions of Darjeeling district and entire Kalimpong district. After the body was formed, the entire area was divided into 45 constituencies, and in July, 2012, when the first elections of the GTA were announced, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha bagged all the seats. Since 2017, that is, five years after the elections were held, the hill body has been run by administrators. Initially, Binay Tamang, who heads one of the factions of the Morcha, who was nominated chairperson of the BoA. In 2019, Anit Thapa, the second most influential leader of the Binay faction, got the chair. Ahead of the Assembly polls this year, Thapa was removed from the post and since then, the principal secretary of GTA, a state government official, has been running it. “During the past few weeks, the name of L.B. Rai was proposed by different quarters as the new chairperson of the BoA. He does not want the GTA to continue without an elected board. Other leaders of our party have also spoken in similar lines,” said a Trinamul insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to raise Tushar Mehta issue with President||Two Trinamul Congress MPs will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to demand the removal of solicitor-general Tushar Mehta from his post over the controversy surrounding the visit of BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari to the law officer’s residence-cum-office in New Delhi on Thursday. “Our Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra will meet the Honourable President on Monday at 12.30pm. They will draw the President’s attention to the matter and seek Mehta’s removal,” a Trinamul leader said. The decision to meet President Kovind comes a day after three Trinamul MPs — Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra — wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Mehta’s removal as solicitor-general. Mehta on Friday said that Adhikari had been to his residence on Thursday, but the two did not meet. Being the solicitor-general or India’s second highest legal official, Mehta is a counsel to the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate, which are central agencies investigating the Narada case in which Adhikari is an accused. The BJP’s Nandigram MLA, a Trinamul turncoat, has also been questioned in the Saradha deposit mobilisation case earlier. On Mehta’s denial, a Trinamul MP said on Saturday: “How can someone gatecrash the SG’s (solicitor-general’s) office with heavy security if there’s no prior information of his arrival?” “Moreover, the SG said Suvendu Adhikari went to his residence ‘unannounced’. Does he mean someone accused of cheating can enter his residence ‘announced’?” the MP added. All these points will be brought up before the President on Monday, Trinamul sources said. Asked the reason for escalating the issue with the President when party leaders had written to Modi, instead of waiting for a reply from the Prime Minister, a Trinamul MP said: “The point is to raise this issue again and again.” “We have to raise the matter at as many levels as possible so that it reaches the ears of the people of the nation,” the parliamentarian added. Trinamul Congress sources said the party will up its ante in the upcoming monsoon season of Parliament on the issues of skyrocketing fuel prices, the Union government’s alleged failure to manage the second wave of Covid-19 and the shortfall in the  coronavirus vaccines. “The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to start from July 19. The party’s parliamentary committee is supposed to meet a week before that. The issues that will be raised in Parliament will be decided in that meeting, but rising fuel prices and vaccine mismanagement will be at the core of our agenda,” a party MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Around 4,000 employees, teachers and pensioners of Visva-Bharati are yet to get salary for June||Around 4,000 employees, teachers and pensioners of Visva-Bharati are yet to get paid for June, with varsity authorities not giving any reason for the delay. Sources said employees of the central university usually get salary credited to bank accounts on the last working day of a month. However, though three days have elapsed in July, employees are yet to receive the June salaries. There are around 2,200 employees, including 1,150 permanent staff, and 1,850 pensioners under Visva-Bharati. The Centre pays it Rs 23 crore towards salaries and pension every month. Sources said during an online meeting in mid-June, officials of the varsity’s accounts department told vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty that to do their job they needed permission to open their office. The varsity is closed amid Covid curbs imposed by the state government on educational institutions. “As it was felt no one was competent to issue the permission, the VC asked officiating registrar Ashok Mahato to write to the Union ministry of education seeking a nod to open the office. A letter to this effect was sent but the ministry was yet to respond,” an insider said.. A varsity official claimed the problem “had been created intentionally” and the VC’s advice to Mahato was “ridiculous”. “The VC should know disbursing salary is emergency work and the state government  placed no curb on such work. It is over a year that the varsity is closed amid the pandemic and salary has been disbursed on time (except now),” he said. The varsity’s PRO Anirban Sircar did not reply to this newspaper’s text messages. PM Narendra Modi’s nominee in Visva-Bharati’s executive council, Dulal Ghosh, said he would raise the varsity’s “whimsical and inhuman attitude” with “the people in Delhi”. Salaries were put on hold in February 2020 and the acting registrar had then issued a notice citing lack of funds. This time, there is no paucity of funds, a senior official said. “Salaries of central university employees are now released directly through the public financial management system but it requires the accounts department to update relevant details on the portal for disbursement to take place. One possible reason could be that Visva-Bharati officials have not updated the details, which led to the delay,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong police take Wi-Fi to students for online classes||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Petrol century blow to north Bengal tourism||Petrol prices in north Bengal stayed above Rs 100 in two districts and the hill subdivision of Darjeeling for the second straight day on Saturday and above Rs 99 in three other districts of the region and in Sikkim, triggering worry for tourism  stakeholders. Transporters, in particular, are concerned about the upcoming Durga Puja season. “Thousands of petrol-run small cars ferry passengers and tourists in the region. These cars are the backbone of the tourism sector. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the tourism industry has already taken a beating. Now if transport costs increase with fuel hike, there are high chances that it will discourage people from visiting the region,” said Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter in Siliguri town, under Darjeeling district where the price of petrol on Saturday was Rs 98.81. On Saturday, a litre of petrol was sold at Rs 100.48 in Darjeeling hills, followed by Rs 100.10 in the districts of Alipurduar and Rs 100.09 in Cooch Behar. Petrol rate per litre in South Dinajpur’s Balurghat was Rs 99.69, North Dinajpur’s Raiganj Rs 99.65 and Jalpaiguri Rs 99.08. In Sikkim’s capital Gangtok, the rate of petrol per litre was Rs 99.85. A senior transporter pointed out that the price of a litre of diesel was also steep, at Rs 93.16 in Darjeeling. “We are fearful of incurring losses even if tourists start visiting the region, thanks to rise in the prices of petrol and diesel,” the veteran said. “These past few weeks, there were some bookings for the upcoming Durga Puja season. Tourists have finalised the total package cost with us. Now if we ask for additional money in the wake of the rise in fuel prices, we doubt how many of them would pay the extra. For the sake of goodwill, we may have to bear the extra cost which will bring down our earnings,” he added. He added that if diesel prices soar, the prices of other food and other commodities, including laundry, that arrive via long-distance will soar too, and hotel, homestay and resort owners will feel the blow. Private bus owners of the region, who have been permitted by the government to run their vehicles on 50 per cent capacity to avoid overcrowding amid the pandemic, sounded equally perturbed. “Our fares have not been revised since 2018. Now, we have to follow Covid protocol by limiting the number of passengers at a time the price of fuel is increasing every day. It is unlikely that any passenger will pay us extra unless the state revises the fares,” said Plabon Pramanik, secretary, Uttar Dinajpur Bus & Minibus Owners’ Welfare Association. The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) will resume the services of the Shatabdi Express that links New Jalpaiguri with Howrah from next week, but call it Shatabdi Special. S. Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR, said on Saturday that from July 12, the train will follow the same schedule and run through the same route as Shatabdi Express. NFR sources said the train will run for six days, except Sunday. From New Jalpaiguri (NJP), it will depart at 5.30am and reach Howrah at 1.35pm. On its return, it will depart from Howrah at 2.15pm and arrive in NJP at 10.35pm. The train will stop at Kishanganj, Barsoi, Malda Town, New Farakka and Bolpur-Shantiniketan stations. From July 12, the Jan Shatabdi Express, which runs between Guwahati and Jorhat town, will also resume, the sources added. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
04-07-2021||West Bengal||6,000 kilos of Malda mangoes head for Italy and Qatar||Around 6,000 kilos of mangoes from Malda district have been exported to Italy and Qatar last week. While the fruit would be sold at local markets in Milan, the consignment would be displayed at an international exhibition of fruits in Doha. Sources in the state food processing and horticulture department said that the initiatives were taken to popularise Malda mangoes in the international market and to ensure a steady business for the growers every year. According to sources, 2,400 kilos of mangoes was sent to Milan, Italy, and 3,600 kilos to the capital city of Qatar. Earlier, mangoes of Malda were sent to some European countries, especially to the UK. But this is for the first time that orders have been placed to exporters from Italy. “The exporters had contacted us to help them to choose the best mangoes for their clients in Milan. The consignment was sent and we have heard that they have received more orders from Italy. This is a positive development and can help us in promoting the mangoes of Malda in the international markets,” said Krishnendu Nandan, a deputy director of the department. The exporters, who have bought mangoes of different varieties from the growers in Malda district, said they have also sent consignments of the fruit to London and to Frankfurt in Germany. Among these include varieties like “Himsagar” (locally known as “Khirsapati”), “Lyangra” and “Lakshmanbhog”, said the exporters. Meanwhile, the international exhibition of fruits will commence in Doha next week. “This is a big challenge as mangoes from other countries and different states of India will also be displayed at the exhibition. If the mangoes of Malda can win the heart of fruit lovers, we believe, in due course, we can find new overseas markets in the middle-east,” said an exporter. Uzzal Saha, the secretary of West Bengal Exporters’ Coordination Committee, said: “The Covid-19 pandemic, the consequent lockdown, along with inclement weather conditions, had marred the prospect of Malda mangoes last year. But this year, the trend appears to be favourable. Along with the European countries, we have also sent the mangoes to Dubai and hope to receive more orders from abroad.” The mango merchants in Malda pointed out that for years, Bangladesh was a steady market of mangoes, but an increase in rate of tax on exports discouraged many exporters from sending the fruit to the country. “Since 2019, the export to the neighbouring country has gone down as it has increased the levy on exports. It is good if we get new overseas markets for the produce,” said Ujjwal Choudhury, secretary, Malda Mango Merchants’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Fewest new infections in a day since April 1||Bengal on Saturday reported the 13th consecutive day of dip in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 449 to reach 19,280. On Saturday, the state also reported 1,819 recoveries, 1,391 new infections and 21 deaths. “This is the lowest number of new infections found in a day since April 1, which was 93 days ago,” said a minister. The total number of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. For 11 days till June 20, it rose  again by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 16 per cent in these 13 days. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.64 on Saturday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates shrinking Covid-19 spread. “Our next goal is to get daily confirmation rate to less than 2 per cent, which shouldn’t take more than a few days,” said the minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.44 per cent, with the national rate at 97.07 now. With Calcutta logging 128 new infections and North 24-Parganas 142, Saturday was also the sixth successive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures while Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Of the day’s 21 deaths, five were reported from Calcutta and six from North 24-Parganas. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday and three others reported just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31. Bengal has over 15.04 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020, including 14.67 lakh recoveries and 17,779 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
