05-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta vaccine scam: TMC asks MLAs to check details of social events before participation||Amid the raging controversy over the fake vaccination drive in the city, the alleged mastermind of which was seen in photographs with several TMC leaders, the ruling party on Monday asked its legislators to find out all necessary details about a social event before attending it.  State minister and senior TMC leader Partha Chatterjee, following a legislative party meeting, told reporters that the members, especially the first-timers, have been told to do their home work, which may include checking the list of attendees, before giving their nod for participation in any programme.  Chatterjee, however, did not make any mention of Debanjan Deb, the conman who posed as a senior official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and set up the dubious inoculation drive.  The minister said that the new MLAs have been asked to consult seniors from time to time before speaking about an issue or taking any action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Crores of rupees spent by GTA without audit: Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said that nothing can be more worrisome than reports that crores of rupees have been spent by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), an autonomous body that looks after the development of Darjeeling hills, sans any audit in past.  Dhankhar, who had said on June 28 that he will ensure a special audit of the accounts of the GTA as he received several complaints in this regard, was on Monday briefed by the state's principal accountant general regarding the audit issue.  In a Tweet, the governor expressed concern that GTA accounts are in arrears for the last seven years (2014-21) and even audit for 2013-14 is "incomplete".  "Nothing can be more worrisome and disturbing aspect that crores have been spent with just no audit since GTA @MamataOfficial came into being," Dhankhar tweeted, tagging West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.  "All reports that GTA is den of corruption and all aspects call for exemplary probe investigation so as to promote accountability," he said in the Twitter post. The ruling Trinamul Congress had said that Dhankhar was unnecessarily creating controversy and interfering in the GTA matter.  "The governor could have asked the minister of hill affairs for any update about GTA fund usage though it is outside the purview of his constitutional power. His only agenda is to criticise the state," TMC leader and Education Minister Bratya Basu said.  As per the Gorkhaland Territorial Act of 2011, the GTA was established for the region comprising Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong subdivisions and some mouzas of Siliguri subdivision in Darjeeling district.  The GTA Sabha was constituted on August 2, 2012, with 45 elected members and five members nominated by the governor.  The Hill Affairs Branch of the state government's Home and Hill Affairs Department is the nodal branch to look after the matters of the GTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, urges him to reduce tax on petrol and diesel||Expressing concern over the rising fuel prices, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to lower the taxes charged by the Centre on petrol and diesel "to check the overall inflation" in the country. Noting that petrol and diesel prices were hiked eight times since May, of which six times were in June alone, she said the fuel price hike have adversely affected common people and directly impacted the inflation in the country. "I would like to draw your attention to the government of India policy which has brought great distress among the common people of the country. Shockingly, the retail price of petrol in many states across the county has crossed an unprecedented Rs 100 per litre," she wrote. "It is my earnest request that the taxes charged by the Centre on petrol and diesel are substantially reduced to give much-needed relief to people and check the overall inflation trend in the country," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Pranab Mukherjee's son, Abhijit, joins Trinamul ||Less than a year after the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, his son Abhijeet quit the Congress and joined the ruling Trinamul. Abhijeet, who visited Trinamul Bhawan on Monday afternoon, was inducted to the party in the presence of senior party leaders Partha Chatterjee and Sudip Bandopadhyay. His departure is hardly a blow to the Congress which has been heavily bleeding in Bengal since Mamata Banerjee walked out to form her own party in 1998. Abhijeet’s exit will add to the number and be another step to Mamata’s achieving a Congress-mukt Bengal. In the last few weeks, the 61-year-old former MP has been active in his former Lok Sabha constituency Jangipur, which was represented by his father too towards the end of his political career. Two weeks ago, Abhijeet visited Jangipur following the deaths of some residents in a lightning strike. During the visit, he met some of his former colleagues in the Congress, like Mohammad Sohrab, Amirul Islam, the district Trinamul president and MP Abu Taher Khan, state ministers Akhruzzaman and Sabina Yasmin. On June 29, Abhijeet met Diamond Harbour MP and Trinamul’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee at his Camac street office that had fuelled speculation of the former’s joining Trinamul. Abhijeet has privately expressed the desire to contest for the Assembly by-polls from the Jangipur Assembly seat where elections could not be held following the death of the RSP nominee for the seat. The visit to Camac street, Abhijeet had claimed, was to invite the Trinamul all-India general secretary to attend an event to commemorate the first death anniversary of Pranab Mukherjee. The former President passed away last year in August. A former employee of the Steel Authority of India, Abhijeet joined politics a decade ago, making his debut as a legislator. A year later Pranab Mukherjee moved to Rashtrapati Bhawan, leaving his electoral legacy of barely seven years at Jangipur to his son. Abhijeet won the seat twice. In 2019, he was a poor third. Neither Pranab Mukherjee’s legacy nor the polling machinery of state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury could help Abhijeet score a hat-trick. The 2021 Assembly elections have proved the Congress citadel in Murshidabad is crumbling. In Chowdhury’s home turf, the sitting Congress MLA, Manoj Chakraborty,  finished a poor third this time. “Pranab babu would not have won from Jangipur had it not been for Adhir Chowdhury the first time. Adhir da gave the support to Abhijeet as well. After all, he was Pranab babu’s son. Now things have changed. Pranab babu is not alive and Adhir da has to save his own seat in 2024,” said a Congress functionary. For Congress leaders in Calcutta, Pranab Mukherjee was essentially a Delhi leader, with almost zero base in Bengal, unlike a Priya Ranjan Das Munshi who had to contest elections and nurse a constituency. The senior Mukherjee too had quit Congress in 1985 when Rajiv Gandhi was Prime Minister and returned three years later. It took him enormous hard work to regain the confidence of the Gandhis. It was only after Sonia Gandhi took charge of the party that Pranab Mukherjee found gainful employment in the party.  Abhijeet never enjoyed that level of proximity with the Gandhis. “He was in the party because of his father. Being Pranab babu’s son opened some doors,” said a Congress source. Apart from adding another Congressman to its fold, Trinamul has little to gain from Abhijeet’s induction. Also, he is eyeing a seat for which Trinamul already has a nominee, Jakir Hussain, who won the seat in 2016 and became a minister. “Jakir became a minister because he won a key seat in Murshidabad, a district that Mamata di wants to bring under her control in any way she can,” said a Trinamul source. Till his departure to the BJP, Suvendu Adhikary was Mamata’s go to man for Murshidabad, where he engineered sizeable defections at all levels and ensured prominent positions for most of the defectors. The problem for Trinamul is the bitter infighting in the party in Jangipur. Jakir and his nephew sustained injuries after crude bombs were hurled at them allegedly by another faction of the party in February. “Ultimately, Mamata di will decide who will be nominated from Jangipur. Probably the leadership feels Pranab babu’s son will be acceptable to all,” the Trinamul source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Tushar Mehta issue to be taken up at Raisina Hill on Monday||Trinamul on Sunday said it had secured an appointment at Raisina Hill at 12.30pm on Monday for its MPs Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra to visit President Ram Nath Kovind and apprise him of the alleged meeting between solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and Narada “sting” accused BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari last Thursday. They will also demand Mehta’s removal, citing conflict of interest. On Sunday, Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien tweeted to this effect, too. Mehta is India’s second highest law officer after attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, and a counsel for the CBI and ED that are probing the Narada case. Mehta and Adhikari have denied the meeting at the former’s office-cum-residence. Bengal BJP on Sunday claimed this was a “non-issue” for people. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said people “did not care” about pending bypolls in seven Assembly seats but sought civic polls in 116 bodies. Many in the BJP disagreed with Ghosh. They admitted civic polls held amid the pandemic put over 2 crore to risk while bypolls would involve fewer than 20 lakh people. “The party wants to oppose the by-polls because it does not want Mamata to win within the six-month constitutional stipulation. There is also a fear that Trinamul may win all seven seats,” said a BJP insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 1,297 new infections and 20 deaths in a day||Bengal on Sunday reported the 14th consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases, by 500, to 18,780. It was the first time the number fell below 19,000 since June 9, 25 days ago. On Sunday, Bengal reported 1,777 recoveries, 1,297 new infections and 20 deaths. The total number of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before improving by over 18 per cent again over these 14 days. “In the important parameter of case growth (percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week before that), we are 22nd on the list of states, with case growth falling by 48.9 per cent. We maintained a case growth of –40 to –60 for weeks, which is significant,” said a minister. Of the 20 deaths, three were reported from Calcutta and six from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday, while four others reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, and that of the nation 1.31 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.48 on Sunday. A dip in positive confirmation rate is indicative of shrink in Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.57 per cent, with the national rate at 97.07 now. With Calcutta logging 111 new infections and North 24-Parganas 172, Sunday was the seventh straight day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen districts reported double-digit figures and Kalimpong, Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures on Sunday. Bengal now has over 15.05 lakh Covid-19 cases in all since March last year, with nearly 14.69 lakh recoveries and 17,799 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress bid to break BJP’s back in Jungle Mahal||The Trinamul Congress has set in motion an exercise to weaken the BJP from the ground up in the Jungle Mahal by engineering en masse defections or ghar-wapsi of elected representatives, taking control of panchayats and freely inducting local BJP workers. The BJP had won five out of six Lok Sabha seats in 2019, with leads in 31 of the 40 Assembly segments, in the Jungle Mahal which is a vast tribal-dominated region comprising four south Bengal districts. But the saffron camp slumped to victories in only 16 of the 40 Assembly seats this summer. Trinamul has been at work to ensure a lasting turnaround in the 100-odd gram panchayats and half a dozen panchayat samitis run by the BJP in the region. In Purulia, for instance, one panchayat samiti and four gram panchayats have gone the Trinamul way with defections of the BJP’s elected representatives since the May 2 Assembly election results. Trinamul’s manoeuvrers in the district since the summer of 2019 had born fruit as the BJP’s victory margin in the Purulia Lok Sabha seat comprising seven key Assembly segments was dragged down from 2.05 lakh in the parliamentary election to less than 13,000 in the Assembly polls. “Ajit Bauri (the BJP’s leader of the Opposition in the Purulia zilla parishad) joined us (Trinamul) last week, further consolidating our party in the district,” said Gurupada Tudu, Trinamul’s Purulia unit chief. “Many more panchayat functionaries are headed our way. Taking control of rural local bodies would help us deliver development — something the BJP is incapable of anyway — in the region, thereby winning back the confidence of the masses,” he added. Similarly, in Bankura and Jhargram, several rural local bodies have changed hands in the recent past. Jhargram district Trinamul coordinator Ujjwal Dutta claimed the BJP’s elected representatives and leaders had started back-channel parleys with the ruling establishment even months before the Assembly elections. “They were exploring possibilities of defection if the saffron camp fell short of its target of 200 seats in the Assembly polls. After the BJP slumped to 77 in the 294-seat House, the floodgates opened,” said Dutta. All four of Jhargram’s Assembly seats, in which the BJP had secured lead two years ago, swung the Trinamul way this election. The ruling party has been on a public relations overdrive with BJP-supporting villages as well, wooing them extensively to ensure the support base of the saffron camp is minimised, if not eliminated, before the next important election. “Getting the leaders or elected representatives without supporters could be detrimental as that kind of defection is only superficial. That was the mistake the BJP made ahead of the Assembly elections and it was one of the key reasons for its rout,” said Nabendu Mahali, Trinamul’s Purulia district spokesperson. The beleaguered BJP, however, tried putting up a brave face, claiming the Trinamul exercise would amount to nought. “Let the 2024 Lok Sabha elections arrive. You will see that we will win all six Lok Sbha seats in the Jungle Mahal. Irrespective of what happens in between — because Trinamul is securing defections through fear or favour — the people of the region will stay firmly with the BJP,” said Bidyasagar Chakraborty, the BJP’s Purulia unit chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Over 500 people from Rajbanshi community protest statehood call||Over 500 people from the Rajbanshi community, including academics, intellectuals and Trinamul supporters, met at Khalisamari in Mathabhanga subdivision of Cooch Behar on Sunday to protest the separate statehood demand recently raised by a few BJP leaders like John Barla. Khalisamari, a hamlet 55km off Cooch Behar town, is the birthplace of Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis. Under the banner of “Punyabhumi Khalisamari Janapad Basi” (residents of the holy Khalisamari land)”, the protest was held at a school ground. “In 1905, Panchanan Barma fought the partition of Bengal decided by the British. We are his followers and we protest against any further division of the state,” Girindranath Barman, who lost as a Trinamul nominee this time, said. “Some BJP leaders are trying to foment tension in the region by raising the demand. We will fight together against it,” said Girindranath, the Trinamul candidate of Mathabhanga Assembly seat, who lost to BJP’s Sushil Barman. For the past few weeks, the demand for separate state or Union territory of north Bengal is being raised by BJP’s Alipurduar MP John Barla and others. Though the state BJP leadership asserted that it is not the party’s stand, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, during his recent visit to the region, remarked that elected representatives had voiced “peoples’ aspirations.” To counter this narrative, Trinamul has taken the strategy to engage prominent figures of the Rajbanshi community against the demand. Sunday’s event was the first of its kind. “The protest at Khalisamari appear to be a strategy to stoke the sentiments of the Rajbanshis, who revere Panchanan Barma. There were a number of Trinamul leaders at the event. It is evident that Trinamul is trying to drive home the point that the saffron camp wants to divide the state, which can help erode the support base of the BJP,” said a political observer. Protesters said that in Khalisamari, the Mamata Banerjee government was developing a second campus of the Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University and a museum of his memorabilia. “The BJP is trying to halt such development work. Our movement against the demand to divide the state will continue,” said Girindranath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Makaibari tea from Darjeeling to become ingredient of gin-based alcoholic beverage at a cocktail bar ||Makaibari tea from Darjeeling will soon become an ingredient of a gin-based alcoholic beverage at a cocktail bar in New Delhi. Named “Sidecar X Makaibari — A Summer Solstice”, the cocktail is scheduled to be launched on July 12. The tea was made from the leaves plucked on June 21, the day that marked summer solstice. The cocktail which was developed over four months, is a perfect blend of world class collaboration and local romance. The beverage marks an effort to diversify Darjeeling Tea which has failed to make inroads into the domestic market and whose exports are falling. Makaibari tea was presented by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Queen Elizabeth II in 2015. A year earlier, the garden’s Silver Tips Imperial had fetched a whopping Rs 1.12 lakh a kilogram. The garden’s brew has been served to the participants in and the staff of the 2008 Beijing Olympics and the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil, thus stamping its brand across the globe. For the cocktail, Makaibari collaborated with Sidecar, a Delhi based artisanal cocktail bar, which is jointly owned by Kurseong man Yangdup Lama and Minakshi Singh. Sidecar and Lama are internationally known, too. Sidecar has been recognised by various industry platforms as one among the world’s 100 best cocktail bars. Lama is a famous bartender and an author. Lama was also appointed American Whiskey Ambassador to India by the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States and India Attaché by Tales of the Cocktails (New Orleans). He is also a beverage trainer for top hotels chains in India like Taj Luxury, ITC, The Oberoi and Park Hotels. “This romantic idea started when Rudra Chatterjee (managing director) of Luxmi Tea met me in Delhi in February this year,” Lama said over the phone from Delhi. After four months of intense planning, Sidecar has come up with six exquisite signature cocktails, in a first such collaboration between a tea garden and a bar in India. The other five cocktails are Measure of Substance, Agony of the Leaves, Himalayan Tea Tiki, Summer Solstice Hi Ball, Darjeeling Mail. The cocktail to be launched first is a blend of 60ml of “Makaibari Summer Solstice infused gin” with 20ml of Rhododendron Blanc Vermouth, along with lemon peels oils and edible flowers served in a Chinese tea cup. The cocktail is likely to be priced over Rs 575. The cocktail will be made of a tea plucked from Kodobari (millet field) village — Makaibari consists of seven villages — on June 21. “A batch of 100 packets weighing 200 grams each has been dispatched from the garden and we will launch our product once the consignment reaches us. We will also provide the cocktail recipe to our customers,” said Lama. For Lama, it is his way of “giving back” to his place. Lama was born at Gayabari, a neighbouring area of Makaibari, and though he moved over to Delhi, he is still “connected to his roots”.  “I have tried to romanticise my place in the product.” Darjeeling Tea’s annual production came down from 8.5 million kgs of made tea in 2019-2020 to 6.5 million kgs in 2020-21, while exports were down from 4.2 to 3.1 million kgs of made tea. Many planters say they have not been able to push Darjeeling Tea in the domestic market at the desired rate. Efforts to diversify the product through “speciality tea” have also been made by some gardens like Gopaldhara estate (owned by S.K. Saria) in Mirik. Makaibari was set up by Girish Chandra Banerjee, who belonged to a zamindar family at Borai, about 100 km from Calcutta, in 1859 and currently employs around 600 people on 573 hectares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation will engage RITES Limited to improve road connectivity, traffic movement ||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) will engage the Rail India Technical & Economic Service (RITES) Limited to improve road connectivity and traffic movement in the city. On Saturday, the proposal was passed at the monthly meeting of the board of administrators (BoA) of the Siliguri civic body. According to sources, Gautam Deb, chairperson of the BoA, will visit Calcutta soon to hold talks with officials of RITES for the project. At the meeting, the BoA also sanctioned a sum of Rs 18 crore that would be used to maintain and repair roads across the civic area. “We will engage RITES to develop some alternative roads in the city so that the problem of traffic congestion can be resolved. Next week, I will speak with their officials in Calcutta so that a comprehensive road plan can be drawn up and the new routes can be explored,” Deb said after the meeting. In Siliguri, traffic congestion is a major problem plaguing residents as well as others who visit the city every day. During rush hours, it is not unusual for commuters to spend an hour to travel a stretch of 5km. One of the major locations of congestion is Darjeeling More, the principal entry point of the city located at its northern end. Recently, Deb sent a proposal to the state government for the construction of a diversion at the location, said sources. On Saturday, a team comprising representatives of the BoA, the district magistrate, the commissioner of Siliguri metropolitan police, officials of the civic body and the state PWD also visited Darjeeling More and some other areas of the city to identify prospective alternative routes other than Hill Cart Road, Sevoke Road and Burdwan Road, which are the three major roads of the city, to see which can be developed in due course. At the meeting, the BoA also decided to constitute a quality control unit (QCU) at SMC. It would have experts as members and will be assigned the task to keep a check on the quality of every infrastructure project carried out in the civic area. “In addition, a joint coordination committee comprising representatives of the SMC, the north Bengal development department and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority will be formed to keep a watch on any work jointly taken up by them,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Survey across 11 states and two Union territories suggests plastic ban has not been successful||A survey across 11 states and two Union territories across the Himalayan region in the country suggests that while most people were aware of the existence of plastic bag ban in their areas, most believe the ban has not succeeded. Zero Waste Himalaya and Integrated Mountain Initiative, a platform that works on the issue of waste in the mountains, recently conducted an online survey with 315 responses representing Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Tripura, Nagaland, Mizoram, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. The report published by Roshan Rai, Priyadarshinee Shrestha and Rajendra P. Gurung, core members of Zero Waste Himalaya, suggests that while 82 per cent of the respondents were aware of the existence of the plastic bag ban in their region, only 19 per cent felt the ban was highly effective. “Among the respondents of the survey, as many as 35 per cent felt that the ban was not effective at all while a significant 31 per cent said the ban was effective only for some time,” said Rai. While Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand have imposed a complete ban on plastic bags, Ladakh and Bengal have imposed a partial ban.  There are no bans in Manipur, Meghalaya and Mizoram. In Bengal, plastic carry bags are banned in Darjeeling and the Sunderbans. The ban in Darjeeling was imposed way back in 2001. Sikkim had started the ban in 1998. Studies suggests while the Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016 prescribed a minimum thickness for plastic bags at 50 microns, the survey revealed that thin plastic bags of less than 50 microns are widely found, with 52 per cent respondents indicating this. Over the years, there seems to be a rise in the use of non-woven polypropylene bags, a new avatar of plastic bags which deceptively look like cloth but are made of plastic. “A new line of bags labelled biodegradable, compostable and oxo-biodegradable are the latest addition. But they do contain plastic. Their use was found to be more in Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Tripura and J&K,” said Rai. Promoted as the so-called greener alternative, these bags are problematic. as they are just plastic with additives that accelerate the disintegration into microplastics, the study states. Single-use plastics, intended to be used only once and thrown away or recycled, like grocery bags, food packaging, bottles, straws, containers, cups still dominate in terms of presence. “Shopkeepers charging users extra for plastic bags could be a way to discourage their use, but 45 per cent of respondents said there were no charges,” said Rai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
