06-07-2021||West Bengal||Vidhan Parishad could facilitate Mamata retain job without polls||Bengal will soon have an upper house -- the Legislative Council -- a resolution for which was passed by the state assembly today amid BJP opposition. Of the 265 MLAs present in the House, 196 voted for a Vidhan Parishad, which the opposition claimed has no legal status and is being created to help Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee become a member of the assembly in the absence of a by-election. The state's Vidhan Parishad, considered a symbol of elitism, was scrapped by the earlier Left Front government in 1969. According to NDTV report, the ruling Trinamul Congress's plan revive it, which was part of the party's pre-election promises, however, is likely to run into rough weather in Delhi. The upper house in the state assembly can be formed only with the nod of Union cabinet. The proposal goes to the Union Home Ministry. In case it is shot down, it will mean trouble for Mamata Banerjee, who lost the election against the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, and is not an elected MLA at the moment. The Chief Minister needs to win an election within six months, which ends in October. There, however, is considerable doubt whether a by-election will be held in that period given the criticism directed at the Election Commission following the second Covid surge. In case there is an upper house in the state assembly, Mamata Banerjee can be nominated to it if the by-polls are delayed. Finance minister Amit Mitra also did not contest the assembly elections. Currently seven assembly seats are vacant in Bengal, where a mammoth nine-phase election was held in March-April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly passes resolution to create legislative council||The Bengal Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution supporting an Ad-hoc committee report that favoured the creation of a legislative council, amid opposition by the BJP. The resolution - 'Consideration of report of the ad hoc committee to examine the recommendation for creation of a Legislative council' -- was moved by state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee under Rule 169 of the Procedures of Conduct of Business of the House. Voting was duly held, with 196 of the 265 members present in the House supporting the creation of the council and 69 opposing it. The BJP legislative party, while opposing the resolution, said the TMC wants to pursue "backdoor politics" to help party leaders get elected as lawmakers despite having lost the assembly polls. The saffron party also argued that the move would put pressure on the state exchequer. Echoing the BJP, lone ISF MLA Naushad Siddiqui also opposed the resolution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||Opinion|| In Mamata’s Bengal, women are crossing age-old boundaries, so what if the personal is political?||Linen has been around since the Egyptians and the Mesopotamians used the fabric. No one gave much thought about how and where to wash attire until a Frenchman by the name of Napoleon Bonaparte objected to the act of cleaning dirty linen being turned into a public spectacle. Decades later, Victorian Brits acknowledged Bonaparte’s suggestion and soon all its colonies were following their masters till a former capital of the British empire in the present time thought otherwise. These days, a lot of dirty linen is coming out for cleaning in Mamata Banerjee’s Bengal than ever before with more and more ruling party members putting on display their private lives, leaving no question answered. Algernon Moncrieff in Oscar Wilde’s The Importance of Being Earnest had found scandalous, “the amount of women in London who flirt with their husbands… It looks so bad. It is simply washing one’s clean linen in public.” Clean or unclean, women in Calcutta are no longer ashamed to hang them out to dry. Why else would a newly elected MLA rush to a hospital at midnight where her estranged husband was kept following his arrest by the CBI? Why would the man’s live-in partner keep crying and knocking on prison doors with cameras focussed on her? Politics in Bengal never overlapped with the personal until now when personal allegiances opened doors to rewards or banishment. Sujata Mondal bagged the Trinamul’s membership and, also a ticket to the Assembly from Hooghly’s Arambagh, some 117 km from her hometown Barjora in Bankura district. Sujata Mondal lost. None of this would have happened had Sujata’s husband, Saumitra Khan, not walked out of the Trinamul to join the BJP. Infidelity, if any, in the short-married life of Khan and Mondal was strictly political, but the bedroom became the arena for settling political scores. And this is not the only instance. When he found new love, former mayor Sovan Chatterjee walked out on his wife of 23 years and two grown-up sons and ended up losing his position of power as well. During a cabinet meeting, Mamata had asked Sovan to decide which one he wanted to focus on, his role as a minister or a lover. Sovan’s estranged wife Ratna, “the wronged woman”, found comfort in the unbridled support she received from the chief minister. Today, Ratna is an MLA from a seat that her husband once represented, and sees a political career ahead of her. Chatterjee, without the two women in his life, would have been dumped from public memory by now. How many of its former mayors can Calcutta recall every day? Since he is without a political party, Chatterjee can hardly be called an active politician. Keeping Chatterjee fresh in the mind of city residents is his partner Baisakhi Banerjee. She posted two videos with Sovan in which he announced his decision to leave his property to her. Her Facebook profile mentions her name as Baisakhi Sovan Banerjee, a practice common in Maharashtra and some other parts of the state but unusual in Bengal. If in other parts of India, the husband’s name is seen as a sign of patriarchy, it is the reverse in Baisakhi’s case. By including his name, Baisakhi has staked her claim on her life with a man that she loves. This was emulated by a media person a few weeks ago, which after a furore appears to have been reversed. Now, people are owning up to their relationships. The young MP, Nusrat Jahan, flaunts her pregnancy out of wedlock. Her contemporary and friend Shrabanti Chatterjee, who contested unsuccessfully in the Assembly elections, is on the way out of her third marriage while trotting out her latest relationship. Shrabanti has not let her career, or her motherhood, come in the way of who she is. She is determined to fulfil her desires, both as a woman and an artiste. It didn’t take long for newly elected Trinamul MLA Kanchan Mullick, a name that has been doing the rounds of Calcutta’s film and television industry for almost two decades, to have his domestic squabbles and personal dalliances come out in the open since being elected to the Assembly. For Mullick’s actor-wife, her estrangement with him could open doors to another career. There is something absolutely Calcuttan about this trend. Unlike other ancient cradles of civilisation burdened with centuries of tradition and morals, Calcutta was always free. Calcutta was no Benaras or Delhi. It was modern in the strictest meaning of the word. As it grew, Calcutta was creating its own idiom. Right from its inception, Calcutta was breaking social norms. Like Job Charnock taking up an Indian wife. There are more such instances.  Catherine Werlee’s -- married to an East India Company officer George Francois Grand-- alleged affair with Phillip Francis was one of the longest-running scandals of its time in the late 18th century since Francis was caught at the Grand household trying to break into the woman’s bedroom, while the husband was away playing a game of cards. A divorce and a duel followed. Catherine later moved to France and found herself in Napoleon’s court. As the British roots dug deeper, Calcutta’s native society to found itself clinging to the moral code of its colonial masters. Till the Mondal-Khan episode, or the triangle amoureux, involving former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Ratna Chatterjee and Baisakhi Banerjee exploded on the living rooms of Calcutta, the city maintained a Victorian approach to scandals in politics. “There were rumours about a minister and an IAS officer in the days of the Left Front government. Nobody knew the truth. Neither spoke about it, always hush hush. Not like how it unfolds now almost every day,” said a retired IAS officer. Hush hush is passe in Mamata Banerjee’s Calcutta. Love has always been around and so has lust. The two often go together, hand in hand. A veteran Congressman in Bengal is rumoured to have forced the former husband of his wife to sign their divorce papers. The two got married and lived happily ever after. “For good or bad, the CPM while in power kept the personal space separate from politics. They could have got the husband to file a case, give him political protection and embarrassed our party and the leader. They didn’t do any of it. Nobody ever discussed this “marriage” again. There were other such instances too,” said a Bengal Congress functionary. “Imagine if a leader from the BJP today decides to marry and does something similar. The entire state CID will be after him.” Even when events went beyond control in such dalliances in Calcutta and blood was spilled, the personal still remained personal. Sometimes in the 1990s, a former councillor’s partner was killed in firing. Police did not pursue the case. Same for the suicide of a daughter-in-law in a prominent political family of south Calcutta, who was allegedly involved in an extra-marital affair.  Former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar had sent CCTV footage of two Trinamul MPs “caught in the act” in the Parliament complex to Mamata. The issue was never discussed in the party. For most of the years that Jyoti Basu was chief minister, his visits to then Great Eastern Hotel and occasionally meeting “old friend” R.P. Goenka post-Writers’ Buildings, were possibly the only glimpses into what was personal in his long life. His successor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, on the other hand, would spend his evenings at Nandan, where the Information and Cultural Affairs department had an office, sipping black coffee and sometimes watching a film. At this same office, Bhattacharjee often met members from the film and theatre fraternity that gave rise to some salacious gossip, all of which died a natural death. For some in the CPM family who led a colourful life, neither the party nor the Opposition raised a stink. “CPM old-timers recall that if rumours about any party member got too loud, Jyoti Basu would comment, ‘Esab ki hochchhe (what’s going on?’.” The matter would end there. The past it seems was all about men. That is what has changed now. Under a woman chief minister, and a feisty one who rose from the ranks smashing patriarchy and male domination in Bengal’s politics, the trend of today is centred around women claiming the right to their sexuality. The women in Calcutta are unafraid of breaking social mores. In India, the public and the private have always been separate constructs, a colonial variant of a European idea. A politician’s image had to be squeaky clean for him to engage in public service.  There has been a departure of some sorts here. Social anthropologist and teacher at Jadavpur University Amitesh Mukhopadhyay says women’s empowerment is incomplete without sexual empowerment. “By giving a sewing machine to a woman, society tells her this is what you can do. Society sets the limits for her. Women’s empowerment is incomplete without sexual empowerment,” says Mukhopadhyay. Mukhopadhyay says the prism that the middle-class viewed society through is being shattered. “The middle class created boundaries and then becomes the gate-keeper, keeping a watch on those who cross the line. What young women in public life like Nusrat Jahan have achieved is that they have crossed the boundaries that society had set for them in various roles. She has done what many of us are struggling with,” says Mukhopadhyay. History is the key to looking at the present. Like Calcutta, which grew unburdened of any legacy, neither of these women is looking for any approval from any corner. Given that the reigning deity of Calcutta is Kali, it was possibly something pre-ordained. This had to happen and happen in Calcutta. After all Kali is the free spirit, the symbol of existence, of freedom that does not need any validation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy's wife Krishna Roy passes away||TMC leader Mukul Roy's wife Krishna Roy passed away in a Chennai hospital on Tuesday after suffering from post-Covid ailments for almost two months. Krishna Roy was suffering from post-Covid issues for since long. She had been admitted to a private hospital at EM Bypass in Calcutta on May 11, before being shifted to a hospital in Chennai. In Calcutta, she was even put on ECMO support for a while. The TMC leader's wife passed away at around 5 am in the hospital while under treatment. According to a report by anandabazar.com, her son Shubhrangshu was there by her side when she took her last breath. Mukul Roy, however, is in Calcutta at the moment and won't be heading to Chennai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Soaring fuel prices leave people in distress: Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Narendra Modi||Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Narendra Modi about the “great distress” the masses were subjected to because of the steep spike in fuel prices, expressing her “deep concern and anguish” over his government’s pursuit of policies that had allegedly resulted in substantial difficulties for the common man. The Bengal chief minister said she found it “shocking” that the retail price of petrol had crossed Rs 100 a litre in several states, including some parts of Bengal. She urged the Prime Minister to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel levied by the Centre to offer relief to the common people and check the overall inflationary trends in the country. “I have come to learn that petrol and diesel prices were hiked by your government 8 times since May 4, 2021 and out of these, prices were hiked 6 times in the month of June, 2021 only and shockingly, 4 times in one week,” read Mamata’s letter which pointed out that in the middle of the pandemic, the Centre had collected a “staggering” revenue of Rs 3.71 lakh crore from oil and petroleum products in the 2020-21 fiscal. On June 29, Darjeeling had joined many other parts of the country where petrol had breached the three-digit mark. The price crossed Rs 100 at some north Bengal towns on July 2. Oil companies are allowed to mark up petrol on account of transport cost if the fuel is hauled to distant places. As a result, prices differ from one location to another even within a state despite the fuel being subjected to the same amount of central and state levies. The common man is bearing the brunt of surging oil prices, which are increasing the cost of commute as well as general merchandise.“This rather cruel hikes in petrol and diesel prices have affected the common people most adversely and has directly impacted the dangerously rising inflation in the country,” wrote Mamata. The chief minister pointed out that over the past six years under Modi (since the 2014-15 fiscal), the Centre’s tax collection from oil and petroleum products has increased by 370 per cent because of hikes in central excise duty on such products, including cesses and surcharges. So far, the Modi government has shown no desire to do so and instead called on states to cut local taxes. “Here I may mention that government of West Bengal has voluntarily given a rebate to both petrol and diesel as a token of our empathy for common people,” she wrote. Bengal did walk the talk and cut prices of both petrol and diesel by Rs 1 a litre on February 22 ahead of the Assembly elections. The rebate, which had been in place till June 30, has been extended for another three months. “It is my earnest request that the taxes charged by the central government on petrol and diesel be substantially reduced to give much-needed relief to the common people and also to check the overall inflationary trend in the country today,” said Mamata. The chief minister wrote she was also “alarmed” by the Centre “constantly” increasing the cess component of central tax revenues. “… which results in denying the states its legitimate share of 42 per cent of tax collected by government of India, without sharing with the states. I sincerely urge you to desist from the anti-federalist trend developed in the last few years,” read her letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul starts 10-day protest against failure of Narendra Modi government to rein in fuel prices||Trinamul on Monday started a 10-day protest against the failure of the Narendra Modi government to rein in fuel prices, the event coinciding with petrol price touching Rs 100 a litre in south Bengal districts such as Bankura, Birbhum, Purulia and Hooghly. Bengal’s ruling party decided to counter the BJP’s growing support base by exposing the “anti-people policies of the Modi government”, and the protest against the rising fuel prices was an outreach in that direction, a Trinamul insider said. In Bankura’s Raipur, Trinamul leaders rode on a dozen bullock carts and started a “dedicated route from Bankura to Calcutta and Bankura to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence in Delhi” in a mock gesture against fuel price rise. “We brought out bullock carts to showcase the plight of rural commuters grappling with high fuel prices. With the price of petrol touching Rs 100 on Monday, taking out two-wheelers has become difficult. We will take the movement to various blocks of the district,” said Raju Singh, Trinamul youth president in Bankura. Trinamul leaders in several south Bengal districts said the protest will fan out to places where the BJP did well in recent Assembly polls. In Hooghly’s Pursurah, Arambagh and Khanakul, three Assembly seats where the BJP won, Trinamul workers met people who came to buy petrol. “We started our movement from Pursurah today (Monday) and will hold protests elsewhere in Arambagh subdivision. We will tell people how the Modi government has increased people’s burden by pushing up fuel prices,” said Arambagh youth Trinamul chief Gopal Roy. A Trinamul insider in Burdwan said the party had failed to convince farmers in Bengal about the dangers of the Centre’s contentious farm laws but wanted to drive home the point that rise in fuel prices would affect them directly. “For example, the cost of farming will rise for those who depend on diesel-run submersible pumps,” he said, adding that diesel rate was hovering below Rs 93 per litre. A Trinamul leader in East Burdwan said: “Farmers are feeling the impact of rising fuel prices. We are telling farmers that chief minister Mamata Banerjee was trying to help them with sops, but the Modi government is burdening them by hiking fuel prices.” Apart from Trinamul, the CPM took out rallies in many Bengal districts to protest the hike in fuel prices. CPM veteran Mohammed Salim led a rally in East Midnapore’s Egra while young party colleague Minakshi Mukherjee addressed a gathering in Haldia. In Birbhum’s Bolpur, CPM workers took out a protest with empty LPG cylinders and motorbikes to condemn the rise in fuel prices. “Fuel price hike, along with the rising price of LPG cylinders, have hit the common man and woman hard. Our protests aim to create awareness against anti-people policies of the Centre,” said Goutam Ghosh, a CPM state committee member in Bolpur. Virtual Martyrs’ Day Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said the party would, for the second year in a row, hold its annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21 virtually, in view of the pandemic situation. Last year was the first time Mamata Banerjee’s party held the event virtually. Last year, she had promised a spectacular event — with likely participation from major players in the national Opposition — after the Assembly election victory. Trinamul did win, but in the wake of the devastating second wave she decided once again to have the event conducted virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress MPs meet Ram Nath Kovind with plea for Tushar Mehta ouster||Trinamul on Monday petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind to remove solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta for his reported one-on-one meeting with BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari, an accused in both the Narada and Saradha cases, billing it as “impropriety” and “conflict of interest”. The party’s Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra met the President on Monday with a memorandum on Mehta’s removal. Kovind accepted it and said he would look into it. Trinamul raised the pitch on the purported meeting between Adhikari and Mehta ever since reports about the meeting and footage of Adhikari entering the solicitor-general’s residence on July 1 appeared in media. Mehta later said the BJP MLA came unannounced and he didn’t meet Adhikari. President Kovind served as a lawyer, which the Trinamul memo noted, citing he was “familiar with the rules of practice...” “The Solicitor General's conduct must be investigated and pending such inquiry, he must tender his resignation” the memo read. “We have reasons to believe such a meeting has been organised to influence the outcome of criminal cases where Mr. Adhikari is an accused person, using the high offices of the Solicitor General...Such a meeting between one of the highest serving law officers of India...who is also appointed as the Special Public Prosecutor of the Central Bureau of Investigation – and an accused person being investigated by the same agency raises extremely serious issues of impropriety.” A Trinamul turncoat, Adhikari is under CBI scanner in the Narada ‘sting’ and Saradha deposit scam cases. Adhikari, leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, was in Delhi last week when he met Union home minister Amit Shah. In its memo, Trinamul called the Shah-Adhikari meeting “improper” before the BJP MLA’s purported meeting with Mehta . The memo said: “The majesty of the office of the Solicitor General of India must be protected so that the public faith in the criminal justice system is not shaken.... Public interest, integrity and neutrality of the office of the Solicitor General of India are required to be protected at all costs.” Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tweeted why Mehta did not release “the 20 mins of CCTV footage of his OWN HOUSE to corroborate his OWN STATEMENT” of not meeting Adhikari. “Mr SG, with such weak defence you can continue serving as @BJP4India’s SECRET GENERAL, not INDIA’S SOLICITOR GENERAL.” In his clarification, Mehta had claimed Adhikari did visit his residence but was seated in the waiting room and he (Mehta) apologised and conveyed through his staff his inability to meet him. After meeting the President, Moitra told the media that Mehta’s clarification was “untenable” as one can’t simply saunter into the solicitor general’s residence. “It is news for us and the people of India that the solicitor-general has to apologise to an accused for not meeting him,” she added. She also iterating the party’s demand tweeted by Abhishek that Mehta release CCTV footage of his house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 885 fresh cases||Bengal on Monday logged 885 new Covid-19 cases, a three-digit total for the first time since March 31, 96 days ago. Monday was the 15th straight day of a drop in Bengal’s total active Covid-19 cases, which fell by 830 to 17,950. The state reported 1,697 recoveries and 18 deaths, including two from Calcutta. “Getting the daily new infection count to less than 1,000 again was an important milestone. Now, we can safely say we are on our way past the residual impact of the second wave,” said a minister. Bengal’s active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it rose again by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 22 per cent in these 15 days. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.19 on Monday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.63 per cent on Monday, with the national rate at 97.09. Its mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. With Calcutta logging 64 new infections and North 24-Parganas 109, Monday was the eighth successive day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections and Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. North 24-Parganas reported three deaths while five districts just one each and a dozen others zero deaths on Monday. Bengal now has a total of over 15.06 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.7 lakh recoveries and 17,817 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||SFI activists protest actions of vice-chancellor on Visva-Bharati campus||Around 50 SFI activists staged a six-hour demonstration on the Visva-Bharati campus on Monday to protest against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty’s alleged undemocratic ways in running the institution. The demonstrators led by SFI all-India general secretary Mayukh Biswas said the VC had suspended three students for protesting against several of his moves, including his alleged attempt to saffronise the campus. “The VC is destroying the culture of this esteemed institution and is trying to saffronise the campus. His anti-student moves have been defined by suspending students and teachers who dared to raise voices against him. We demand revocation of suspension of the students and want the varsity to be run in keeping with its tradition. Else, we will be forced to launch a bigger movement,” said Biswas. Visva-Bharati’s acting public relations officer Anirban Sarcar didn’t respond to the fresh protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s revenue dips in second Covid wave||The second wave of Covid-19 has left the exchequer of the Bengal government stressed as the state’s revenue generation has dipped significantly and officials are worried whether current austerity measures would be enough to tide over the crisis. “The state’s own revenue generation has come down to Rs 2,700 crore to Rs 2,900 crore a month after the second wave hit the state in April, compared to Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 5,500 crore in the pre-Covid period. As a result, the state government was forced to cut down expenditures in all possible areas,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the state’s financial condition has been hit further after the Mamata Banerjee government decided to introduce the welfare schemes that the chief minister had promised ahead of the Assembly polls. The financial assistance for farmers under Krishak Bandhu has already been enhanced and a sum of additional Rs 2,000 crore is being spent. Soon, Laxmir Jhanpi, a scheme to give monthly assistance of Rs 500 to women belonging to General Castes and Rs 1,000 to SC/ST women, will be launched. This particular scheme is likely to put a further burden of Rs 11,000 crore on the state exchequer. “The state government would have to allot funds for these schemes in the budget that would be tabled this week. If additional funds are allotted to welfare schemes, the state would have to cut down expenditure on several other schemes,” said another official. The finance department has already issued an order making it clear that no department will be able to launch schemes worth more than Rs 30 lakh. Only departments like PWD and PHE can initiate projects worth up to Rs 1.5 crore in the ongoing financial year. The sources said the state’s revenue generation had been hit hard in May and June after stricter measures had been announced to curb Covid’s spread. “The state was hit hard because the revenue from the GST had come down to less than Rs 500 crore a month when Bengal’s average collection from the GST is around Rs 1,200 crore a month. Similarly, revenue from excise had plummeted to almost nil in May. It marginally improved in June after liquor shops were opened. But it was much less than the Rs 1,000 crore mark a month, which is usually generated in a normal situation,” said another official. The situation has turned critical, the sources said, as the Centre was not clearing GST dues on time. “We have a backlog of nearly Rs 5,000 crore, which is a huge amount given the current financial condition of the state,” said a source. The state is also spending more than Rs 400 crore every month in order to provide free treatment to Covid patients and run safe homes.Senior officials said they expected that the situation would change to some extent from August. “Between November 2020 and February this year, the state’s revenue generation had almost returned to normality. The revenue had crossed Rs 4,500 crore then. But after the second wave had hit, the revenue dipped significantly. It is expected we will cross the Rs 3,000 crore mark in terms of revenue generation from August,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Kurseong Municipality decides to name new community hall after Subash Ghisingh||Kurseong Municipality has decided to name a new community hall on Dow Hill Road after Subash Ghisingh, the late GNLF chief still considered the tallest political leader of the hills. The civic body’s recent move to call the building Municipal Community Hall drew flak from Trinamul and the GNLF, forcing the change. “We have decided to rename the new community hall as the Subash Ghisingh Memorial Community Hall. The decision was taken at a meeting of the board of councillors on Sunday evening,” Kurseong Municipality vicechairman Subhash Pradhan said on Monday. In 2018, chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her visit to the hills announced the project and asserted it would be named after Ghisingh. The north Bengal development department allotted funds for the hall and the state PWD built it. The local civic body, however, named it differently, prompting GNLF leaders in Kurseong to threaten a movement against the civic body and Trinamul Rajya Sabha member from the hills Shanta Chhetri to accuse the civic body of going against the chief minister’s announcement. Chhetri on Monday said: “I appreciate their decision to go by the chief minister’s announcement and name the hall after the most respected leader of the hills."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong gets new block in Pedong||Kalimpong district got a new block in Pedong on Monday on a day pending demands such as setting up School Service Commission (SSC) in the hills and extending the Darjeeling Mail’s journey to Gulma near Sukna were raised once again. Kalimpong-II block was bifurcated into Pedong and Lava blocks. While the new Pedong block will be headquartered in Pedong, Lava block, which is what the old Kalimpong-II has been renamed as, will be headquartered at Algarah, Kalimpong-II block’s old office. Kalimpong was upgraded to a district by the state government on February 14, 2017, but till date lacks a subdivision. With Pedong, the district will now have four blocks, Kalimpong 1, Pedong, Lava and Gorubathan. Pedong block will cover six gram panchayats but many want the headquarters of Pedong block be in the interiors for more use to people in villages such as Kagay, Lingsey and Lingseyka. Kalimpong district magistrate Vimala Ranganathan said Pedong was picked as block headquarters as it fulfilled certain criteria. “We will ensure all facilities will reach the doorsteps of the people,” she said. The new block formation notification had come some months back and Pedong BDO Kaushik Chakraborty had been appointed before the Assembly elections but could not assume charge because of the model code of conduct. People still demand at least 14 more blocks be made in the GTA area, which now has nine blocks. There was a demand to make Algarah-Pedong a separate subdivision along with Kalimpong Sadar and Gorubathan-Jaldhaka subdivision. In Darjeeling, a demand for starting and ending Darjeeling Mail from Gulma station in Darjeeling instead of New Jalpaiguri station was raised by the National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical body. “In 2014-15, during a meeting at Darjeeling DM office, in the presence of the chief minister, I had asked for it and the idea was appreciated, but, there was no follow-up after that,” said Trilok Dewan, former Darjeeling MLA and NGC vice-chairman. Dewan said that despite the train named Darjeeling Mail, the train to Calcutta, starts and ends at Jalpaiguri district. The former legislator then took up the matter with former Darjeeling MP S.S. Ahluwalia. “The MP was kind enough to prepare a detailed technically viable proposal after discussing the same with the concerned railway authority. The proposal was then forwarded to NEFR general manager stationed at Katihar,” said Dewan who added that the issue was also raised before Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar recently. A teachers’ organisation from Darjeeling on Monday also wrote to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration with an appeal to set up a separate School Service Commission (SSC) for the hills and start recruiting teachers whose credentials were verified last year. The last SSC (Hills) examination was held in 2000 and after that there is no structured system for teacher recruitment in hill schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Police rescue four Assam girls from woman ‘trafficker’||Police rescued four girls, including two minors, from a bus terminus here on Sunday and arrested a suspected woman trafficker who had planned to take them to Delhi on the pretext of providing them with jobs. Anindya Bhattacharjee, inspector-in-charge of Alipurduar police station, said the woman, along with one of her accomplices, was supposed to board a train from Alipurduar for Delhi. “We arrested one of the two women. During preliminary probe, it was found that both are members of a trafficking racket in Assam.” The rescued girls hail from Gossaingaon of Assam. Later, the minor girls were sent to a home in Cooch Behar and the adults were handed over to their guardians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari meets victims of post-poll violence in East Midnapore||Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday met BJP supporters, who were the alleged victims of post-poll violence, at Bhupatinagar in East Midnapore district in the backdrop of accusations that his party had failed to stand by ordinary workers affected by the clashes across the state. Rabindranath Maity, the BJP MLA of Bhagabanpur, claimed at least 80 houses of party workers had been ransacked and more than 250 people rendered homeless at Bhupatinagar since May 2 when the Assembly poll results had been announced. Maity blamed the alleged inactivity of local police and the administration for the violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamul Congress cadres. Mohitosh Arui, a local BJP booth president, said he had requested Adhikari to ensure the protection of him, his family and the rest at the village. He said the party could’ve ensured his security if it wanted to. “I’ve shed my sweat to help the party win in Bhagabanpur. We ensured the BJP’s win by around 27,500 votes. Yet, the party can’t provide shelter to us,” Arui said. “I told Suvendubabu that he is the leader of the Opposition. It is his duty to save his people,” he added. MLA Maity told The Telegraph that Adhikari had asked the BJP workers to move the court if the police didn’t accept complaints. “He has asked us to speak to the National Human Rights Commission.” Trinamul denied all the allegations and claimed BJP supporters had ransacked the houses of the ruling party’s workers at Bhupatinagar. “In fact, BJP workers are attacking us. We have complained to the police superintendent and the NHRC,” said local Trinamul leader Tarun Jana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Howrah-Radhikapur special train derailed near Burdwan station||The carriage and guard coach of the Howrah-Radhikapur special train derailed near Burdwan station on Monday, making passengers panicky and delaying the train by over two hours. No one was injured, railway officials said, as the train had slowed down as it advanced the station around 10.40am. Eastern Railway  chief public relations officer Ekalabya Chakraborty said a technical team was sent to fix the snag. The train left minus the derailed coach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
