07-07-2021||West Bengal||WBJEE 2021 admit cards to be released in a few days||The West Bengal Joint Entrance Examinations Board (WBJEE) admit card will tentatively be available from July 12, reports hindustantimes.com. The candidates, who have applied for WBJEE 2021, will be able to download their admit card from the official website - https://wbjeeb.nic.in/ The examination will be held on July 17 and will be conducted in two shifts i.e. paper-1 (Mathematics) from 11 am to 1 pm and paper-2 physics and chemistry from 2 pm to 4 pm. Earlier the examination was scheduled to be held on July 11. However, the examination was rescheduled due to the Covid 19 situation in the country and keeping in mind the health and academic interest of the candidates. The date of the publication of the result will be notified later. WBJEE 2021 will be one of the first major exams being conducted in the state in offline mode amidst the pandemic. Officials have mandated that everyone appearing for the exam in the state have to follow the Covid-19 protocols. Candidates are also expected to follow all Covid -19 related guidelines to ensure the safety of all. There will a minimum of 4 to 5 feet of distance maintained between the seats of two candidates. The seating arrangement will be such that two candidates will be seated on a bigger desk while one candidate will be made to sit on a smaller desk, officials said. It is mandatory for all registered students to download the admit card and take a print of it, before going for the exams, as candidates will not be allowed to enter the centre with the hall ticket. Apart from the admit card, candidates will also need to carry a passport size photograph, and Aadhar card, as per the official notice by WBJEE. The pattern of the exam will be in multiple-choice format and will be consist of 75 questions from the mathematics section and 40 questions each from the physics and chemistry sections. The papers carry a total of 200 marks and one-fourth of the marks will be deducted from each question if the answer is wrong. According to officials, about 92,000 students are appearing for WBJEE 2021. These students will be made to appear for the exam in 274 exam centres in the state. WBJEE 2021 is being held for candidates who want to secure admissions to undergraduate courses. These undergraduate courses are in engineering, technology, pharmacy and architecture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
07-07-2021||West Bengal||4 Bengal MPs rewarded with ministerial berths||Thirtyfour, 39, 41, 43: the names of the four BJP MPs from Bengal – Subhas Sarkar, Shantanu Thakur, John Barla and Nisith Pramanik-- tipped to be inducted into the Narendra Modi ministry at the Centre on Wednesday evening were as placed in this order in a list of 43 new inductees that was doing the rounds of television news channles and news portals. The induction of the four on Wednesday is an indication that the BJP’s central leadership has not given up on its hopes from Bengal. It has the tough task of retaining the 19 seats it won in 2019 in the next Lok Sabha polls as well as wrest a few from the Trinamul. Pramanik, Barla and Sarkar are being rewarded for the BJP's good performance in the Assembly segments in their Lok Sabha constituencies. Thakur’s caste identity made him indispensable in the Bengal BJP. A representative of the Matua community, Thakur is believed to have held sway on the two crore members of the community, spread all over the state. Since 2019, the community has moved onwards to the BJP from the Trinamul. Since 2019, the two MPs holding junior ranks in Union ministries were Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chowdhury, with portfolios of environment and women & child development, respectively. Both were asked to submit their resignations earlier in the day on Wednesday. The BJP had fared miserably in the Assembly segments of the Lok Sabha constituencies that the two represent, Asansol and Raigunj. Supriyo also contested from the Tollygunge Assembly seat and lost. In both the constituencies, BJP could win only two seats each. The 2019 Lok Sabha poll results gave high hopes to the BJP in Bengal, which despite bagging the highest number of seats it ever had won in the state,  was nowhere near the majority mark to pose a serious threat to Mamata Banerjee's chief ministership. Since the election results were announced, the Bengal BJP has been speaking in different voices. On the one hand is state president Dilip Ghosh , who is at loggerheads with legislature party leader Suvendu Adhikari. Despite being a turncoat, Adhikari has managed to cement his position in his new party after defeating Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. Adhikari has been working on his own in the party. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijaywargiya is staying away from the state since its once-prized catch Mukul Roy switched to the Trinamul after becoming an MLA on a BJP ticket. The decision to drop the two junior ministers from the Union council of ministers was music for chief minister Mamata Banerjee. "Did Babul-Debasree harm BJP? Why have they fallen out of favour?" she asked at the state Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo says he was asked to step down from post, deletes post afterwards||Union Minister Babul Supriyo, who quit the cabinet on Wednesday ahead of a mega reshuffle, said he is "extremely happy" that he left the stint "without a spot of corruption on me". However, this was not his initial reaction. Earlier in the day, he posted on social media, "I have been asked to resign and I have." "I thank Prime Minister for giving me the privilege to serve my country as a Member of his Council of Ministers, he posted on his Facebook account. Later, the BJP MP from Bengal deleted the post and replaced it with a new one. "Yes, when there is smoke there must be a fire somewhere. Not being able to take phone calls of my friends in the media who care for me hence let me spell it out myself... Yes, I have resigned from the Council Of Ministers (As I had framed it earlier, 'Asked to resign' may not be the right way to put it)," he said. "I thank Hon'ble Prime Minister for giving me the privilege to serve my country as a Member of his Council of Ministers. I am extremely happy that I go today without a spot of corruption on me, having served my constituency with all my might and having enjoyed their confidence when Asansol voted me back as their MP once again, with triple the margin in 2019 again," the BJP MP said. His announcement of quitting as a Minister of State came hours before a list of 43 new names in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet was made public. Some of the big exits include Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks PM to do 'Petrol and vaccine ki baat' instead of 'Mann ki Baat'||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "making a mess of the country's economy" and urged him to hold 'petrol and vaccine ki baat' instead of 'Mann ki Baat. Referring to the proposed Union Cabinet reshuffle, the chief minister, during a press meet in Calcutta, said the removal of Babul Supriyo from the council of ministers shows that "they (BJP government) have also lost it even before the arrival of their end" in 2024. Noting that none of the letters she wrote to the PM evoked any response, Mamata said despite appeals for Jagdeep Dhankhar's removal as governor, nothing was done about it. "The entire economy is in the doldrums. Fuel prices are increasing everyday and the Union government is sitting idle. "Our prime minister is only busy with his Mann ki Baat. He should instead hold petrol ki baat, diesel ki baat and vaccine ki baat," she insisted. Asked about the possibility of BJP MP John Barla's induction in the Union ministry, weeks after he demanded a separate union territory for North Bengal, Mamata said it will reflect the "divisive mindset" of the saffron party. "I won't comment on ministry reshuffle. Will reshuffle end the woes of the people?" she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Budget: State government grants road tax waiver, stamp duty rebate||The West Bengal government on Wednesday waived road tax on passenger transport vehicles and offered a rebate on stamp duty as it tabled a Rs 3.08- lakh- crore Budget in the assembly for fiscal 2021-2022. Presenting the Budget, state industry minister Partha Chatterjee, who had placed the vote-on-account in the House on February, said the government has decided to extend the one- time exemption of motor vehicle tax for the period starting July 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021. The government has also proposed to reduce stamp duty by two per cent for registration of deeds, while circle rate was slashed by ten per cent. Chatterjee presented the budget as finance minister Amit Mitra is indisposed due to ill health. Talking about the student credit card scheme, launched on June 30, the minister said that interest rate of four per cent will be charged as a part of subvention, while the rest will be borne by the government. The budget speech was further critical of the rise in fuel prices in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC judge exits from Mamata's case against Suvendu's Nandigram win||Justice Kausik Chanda of the Calcutta High Court Wednesday recused himself from hearing Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's petition challenging the election of Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, while imposing a cost of Rs 5 lakh on her. Observing that a deliberate and conscious attempt was made to influence his decision before the recusal application was placed before him, Justice Chanda imposed the cost for the manner in which the recusal was sought and directed that the amount be deposited to the Bar Council of Bengal within two weeks. "Such calculative, psychological and offensive attempt to seek recusal need to be firmly repulsed and a cost of Rs. 5 lakh is imposed upon Petitioner," he said in the order. Justice Chanda had on June 24 reserved order on Mamata's application that the judge recuses himself from hearing her election petition apprehending bias on his part. As the judge released the election petition from his court, the matter will now be referred to Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal for assigning it to a different bench. Seeking his recusal, it was claimed that Justice Chanda was an active member of the BJP till his appointment as the Additional Solicitor General of India in 2015 and since the election of a BJP candidate was challenged, there were apprehensions of bias in the adjudication of the election petition. Justice Chanda had said that he was never a convenor of the BJP Legal Cell, but had appeared in many cases representing the party before the Calcutta High Court. Mamata's counsel had earlier written to the Acting Chief Justice of the high court seeking reassignment of her election petition to another bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||20-year-old youth killed in South 24-Parganas, glare on co-accused||A youth, who had been named as an accused in a murder last year, was killed near his home at Kulpi in South 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning allegedly by his co-accused, less than a day before he was scheduled to appear in court as an approver and give testimony. Police and local sources said Abdul Guffur Purkait, 20, a resident of Rajramghat village, was hacked to death by three youths, one of who was out on bail along with co-accused Rakib Sardar and Raju Mollah. All were scheduled to appear before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Kakdwip on Wednesday. Family members claimed that Guffur had decided to make a submission before the court confessing to the crime and had apparently earned the wrath of the co-accused. However, Sunderbans police authorities have claimed that no such agreement was reached with the deceased. According to local sources, Khokon Mollah, one of the victim’s distant relatives, was murdered in the area last year, in which connection Guffur had reportedly been asked to give testimony as an accused. On Tuesday, Kulpi police began a probe based on a complaint filed by his father. "This was a planned murder because he had agreed to become an approver," said Saiful Purkait, the deceased's father. Sunderbans superintendent of police, Bhaskar Mukherjee, however, claimed local police had no knowledge of Guffur's enlistment as an approver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court lawyer ‘with BJP links’ arrested for fraud||Calcutta police on Monday nabbed a high court lawyer, Sanatan Roy Chaudhuri, on charges of fraudulent activities, forgery and impersonating as a public servant, close on the heels of the arrest of fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb. Sources in Calcutta police said multiple documents seized from Sanatan established purported links between him and the BJP. According to the police, Sanatan claimed to be a member of the state government’s standing council and a CBI counsel. Cops said he would travel in a car with a blue beacon and a CBI sticker. He was arrested on Monday from his residence in Sinthi by officers of the Gariahat police station on charges of trying to usurp a property worth crores in south Calcutta by flaunting his fake identity. Police sources said a piece of paper that appeared to be a receipt for donation made to the BJP had been seized from Sanatan. The date on the receipt is August 10, 2014. A visiting card carrying the lotus symbol of the BJP has also been seized from him.. The card proclaimed Sanatan as a national executive member of the BJP and bore the address of its Delhi headquarters. A photograph featuring the accused and BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate for the recently concluded Assembly polls, Rudranil Ghosh, a Trinamul turncoat, has also been recovered. Another picture showed Sanatan in the company of former state minister and Trinamul’s Bankura district chief Shyamal Santra. Santra has denied knowing Sanatan. Sanatan had come from Calcutta and wanted to meet Santra, a request the latter had kept, he said. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “Many people have become our members by giving missed calls. We don’t know all of them. What he did is unacceptable and everything happened under the state government’s nose.” Rackets busted East Burdwan police arrested eight people from Memari on Monday on allegations of extorting money from young men against fake promises of jobs in the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Police claimed that more than a lakh in cash, seven mobile phones, and several documents including a purported letter of appreciation from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar along with his picture were seized from the accused. “We are trying to verify if the documents are genuine,” said Kalyan Sinha Roy, ASP (headquarters), East Burdwan. Krishnagar police began a case against a woman, who allegedly extorted money from youths with fake job promises. Radharani Biswas, 43, claimed she was a senior CID officer. She has been charged with criminal breach of trust and cheating on the basis of complaints lodged by two unemployed youths who claimed to have paid her around Rs 10 lakh for providing them with jobs. Police have also brought similar charges against her husband Nripendra Biswas, her daughter and one of their close aides in the town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly moots Vidhan Parishad after 52 years||The Bengal Assembly on Tuesday sanctioned the resurrection, after 52 years, the state’s legislative council or Vidhan Parishad with a vote of 196:69 (nearly three-fourths of the 265 members present), in keeping with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pre-poll commitment. Bengal’s Vidhan Parishad was formed in June 1952, with 51 members, but was abolished in March 1969. Mamata has, since coming to power in 2011, been in favour of the Parishad’s revival. Before the 2021 Assembly polls, the Trinamul chief said her government would bring back the Upper House, should it win a third term.. After the landslide mandate in her favour, the state cabinet green-lit the process in May. However, bringing the bicameral legislature back to life in Bengal involves a fairly long road ahead. The motion will now be sent to Delhi, following governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s approval. There, it would be considered by the Union law ministry, under Ravi Shankhar Prasad, and sent for consideration and passing by both Houses of the Parliament. Should it clear those steps, it would need President Ram Nath Kovind’s signature. The BJP’s Bengal unit has made it clear that the party is opposed to the return of the Parishad in Bengal and the proposal would be voted out by the BJP’s brute majority in the Lok Sabha. Trinamul has argued that it is a constitutional provision (Article 169 of the Constitution), and of the six states in the country that still have such a council, that is, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,  three are BJP or NDA-ruled. “They aren’t opposed to the existence of the Upper House in Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, but here, they are talking about burden on the exchequer and whatnot,” said parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee later, referring to claims by leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari that resurrection of the Parishad would mean an extra burden of Rs 600-800 crore over five years. “How do they know that? It hasn’t been decided yet if the Parishad would be a 40-seat (stipulated minimum) or a 98-seat (stipulated maximum of a third of the 294-seat Assembly) House,” said Chatterjee. “We found his (Adhikari’s) boasts of his party’s Lok Sabha majority and how it (the motion) would be terminated there in poor taste.” He added the BJP was trying to bulldoze the “very federal form of the Constitution”. To become a member of the Parishad, a citizen of India must be at least 30, of sound mind, not an insolvent, and enrolled as a voter of state. Somebody who is an MP or an MLA cannot simultaneously be a member of the Parishad. The members of the legislative council – MLCs – occupy seats for six years, with a third of the total strength of the Parishad retiring every two years. Adhikari, a Trinamul turncoat, insisted that it was being done by the state government to ensure “backdoor entry” to the legislature for those who lost the Assembly election, including Mamata, and her “loyalists” in civil society. Chatterjee rubbished it, accusing Adhikari of “losing his mind, under tremendous pressure”, adding Mamata would contest the Assembly bypolls from Bhowanipore. Bypolls remain pending for Khardah, Gosaba, Samserganj, Jangipur, Dinhata and Santipur, besides Bhowanipore. Sources in the treasury benches said the ruling party would like to reward some veterans who were denied Assembly tickets this time with Parishad memberships, but there was no plan to bring only “loyalists” from civil society. “She (Mamata) also plans to bring several respected leaders of the Left and the Congress, who were reduced to zero seats for the first time since Independence,” said a Trinamul leader. The CPM and the Congress have, so far, been opposed to the idea. The lone Sanyukta Morcha (an alliance of the Left, the Congress, and the ISF) member in the Assembly, ISF leader Nawsad Siddique, opposed it on Tuesday. A Trinamul vice-president said it was becoming increasingly clear that the BJP had chosen disruptive practices as their principal strategy. “Earlier in the day, Suvendu Adhikari and team created ruckus in the House as the Speaker (Biman Banerjee) urged him not to keep referring to the Nandigram election result, as it is sub judice now. They staged a walkout and accused the Speaker of being partisan,” he said. During the discussion on the governor’s address, a belligerent Mamata raised questions on the neutrality of the Election Commission of India on the floor of the House and asserted that without the commission’s alleged help to the BJP, it would not have secured even 30 seats in the election. “Without the Election Commission’s support, the BJP would not have even won 30 seats…. Whatever (Narendra) Modi and (Amit) Shah wanted was done by them (the commission),” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Malda zilla parishad sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mandal quits||Malda zilla parishad sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mandal resigned after Calcutta High Court on Tuesday dismissed his plea to withhold a meeting scheduled for July 8 to discuss a no-confidence motion against him. Mandal had become a zilla parishad member in 2018 on a Trinamul candidate. But, he joined the BJP in March this year and contested from Manikchak against Trinamul’s Sabitri Mitra. He was defeated. On June 23, 23 of 37 elected members at the zilla parishad moved a no-confidence motion against Mandal. Accordingly, a meeting was scheduled for July 8 to discuss the motion. Mandal filed a petition in the high court, seeking a stay on the meeting. The high court dismissed his plea on Tuesday and soon, Mandal tendered his resignation. He submitted the resignation letter to the divisional commissioner. “I have done so in consultation with the BJP leadership,” said Mandal. District Trinamul leaders said he had any other option. “We have 24 elected members at the zilla parishad. Mandal had realised that the no-confidence motion would be passed and he would have to step down. The new sabhadhipati will be elected shortly,” said Mausam Benazir Noor, the Malda district Trinamul chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 962 new active cases in a day ||Bengal on Tuesday logged the 16th straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 675 to reach 17,275, as it reported 1,620 recoveries, 962 new infections and 17 deaths. Active cases fell till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, the number climbed by over 56 per cent, before falling by 25 per cent again over these 16 days. “We are in the driving seat again. A steady, sharp fall in active cases is now a foregone conclusion,” said a minister. With worst-hit districts Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reining in new infections at 59 and 92, Tuesday was the ninth successive day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures and Malda, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. West Midnapore was the only district on Tuesday with a three-digit figure. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 on Tuesday, meaning a shrink in Covid spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.67 per cent, with the national rate at 97.15 now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Of the day's 17 deaths, three were from Calcutta and six from North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths, South 24-Parganas just one. Bengal now has a total of over 15.07 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.72 lakh recoveries and 17,834 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||10-year-old student accidentally strangled to death in Hooghly||A 10-year-old student was accidentally strangled by a cloth that her father had hung from a wooden structure attached to the bed to create a makeshift swing for his two daughters at home in Hooghly’s Polba late on Monday evening. Sources said Ankita Manna, 10, was playing with her sister Sanghita, 5, in their bedroom. As the sisters were playing with the swing, the cloth accidentally strangled Ankita. When the accident took place, Sandip Manna, the father of the two kids, had left for work, and the two sisters were under the care of their grandparents. Sandip, who works as a daily wage earner, had recently separated from his wife and the two kids had been staying with him. “There was none present when the children were playing in the room. The cloth accidentally got entangled on Ankita’s throat. When my wife went inside the room to enquire about the children, she found Ankita lying unconscious with the cloth around her throat,” said Laxman Manna, grandfather of the girls. He added Sanghita was too small to raise an alarm. After the grandparents cried for help, neighbours of Laxman rushed Ankita to Imambara district hospital in Chinsurah, where doctors declared her dead. Police said no foul play had been reported. “The girl was killed in an accident. We have started a case of unnatural death. No foul play has been reported so far,” said Amandeep,  the SP of Hooghly rural.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Police rescue 14-year-old Siliguri boy from Jammu & Kashmir||Police have rescued a 14-year-old boy, who had been missing since May 31, from Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir and handed him over to his parents here. Police sources said the boy had fled his home at Agam Singh Giri Nagar here. Raju Sarkar, an assistant sub-inspector, said the boy’s mother had received a phone call from her son who told her that he was in Kashmir. “We tracked the cellphone number and learnt the call had been made from some place under Nowgam police station near Srinagar,” Sarkar added. A police team left for Kashmir on June 21 and rescued the boy from an ice factory at Kunzer in Baramulla. He was handed over to the parents on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||28-year-old youth dies in police custody, mob torches vehicles in West Burdwan||A 28-year-old youth’s death in police custody on Tuesday sparked off violence with a mob torching a jeep of the law enforcers and two motorbikes parked at Barakar police outpost in West Burdwan. Kulti police had picked up Mohammad Arman Ansari, a resident of Barakar, on Monday night in connection with a theft case. The police found him lying unconscious at the lock-up on Tuesday morning and rushed him to Asansol district hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Around 11am, about 100 relatives and friends of Arman barged into the Barakar police outpost, where he had initially been taken for interrogation before being shifted to the Kulti police station lock-up. Accusing the police of killing Arman in custody, the mob ransacked the outpost and torched a police jeep and two motorcycles parked on the premises. They also pelted the law enforcers with stones when they tried to pacify the mob. Outnumbered by the mob, who took over control of the area, policemen ran to save their own lives. The angry protesters blocked the road outside the police outpost and the Barakar-Purulia road. Later, a large police contingent led by Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Ajay Thakur arrived and brought the situation under control. The police used batons and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse the mob. “My son was picked up last night by the police for no reason. When I went to Barakar police outpost this morning to enquire about him, they sent me to Kulti police station,” said Mohammmad Abdul Kalam, the victim’s father. On reaching Kulti police station, he said, the inspector-in-charge, Ashim Majumdar, offered him drinking water and tea and later informed him that his son had died. “The IC told me that my son had been picked up as a suspect in connection with a theft case. He scuffled with some inmates inside the lock-up at Barakar outpost and was later shifted to Kulti for security reasons, said the IC. He (Arman) fell sick this morning and after taking him to hospital, the doctors pronounced him dead,” said Kalam. Blaming the police for torturing Arman in the lock-up, an inconsolable Kalam asked: “My son was physically fit. How could he have died unless the police tortured him?” Sources said Arman had earlier been arrested by the police on charges of theft and was later released on bail. “Arman was earlier involved in theft cases and was out on bail. We picked him up along with two more suspects. They scuffled inside the lock-up. So, we shifted Arman to Kulti police station for his security,” said a police officer. Police commissioner Thakur suspended the in-charge of the Barakar outpost, Amarnath Das, and sub-inspector of Kulti police station, Prashanta Pal, on charges of “negligence”. “The youth was picked-up for interrogation last night in connection with several theft cases. He suddenly fell sick and died this morning. We have initially suspended the in-charge of the outpost and another sub inspector. A departmental inquiry is on and the situation is under control now,” said Thakur. The victim’s body will be handed over to the family on Wednesday after an autopsy at the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Squash court at Darjeeling Gymkhana Club revamped||A squash court at Darjeeling Gymkhana Club set up in 1909 and defunct for more than 20 years has been revamped to the glory of its heyday, club authorities said on Tuesday. But this welcome development highlighted the slide in sporting infrastructure in the hills, which was once among the best in the region. In the late 1950s, Darjeeling boasted of 18 tennis courts, four squash courts, a nine-hole golf course, a mini racecourse and over a dozen badminton and table tennis facilities. Save for around five tennis courts, half-a-dozen badminton and table tennis courts and this squash court, other sporting facilities are closed. Darjeeling Gymkhana Club alone had four squash courts when it was established in 1909. “We could renovate and inaugurate one squash court today, which was defunct for more than 20 years,” said Bimal Jhawar, executive committee member of the club. The club kept the vintage quotient of the squash court intact during renovation, refraining from using fibre used in modern squash courts. Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa, chairman of the club inaugurated the court. Pemba Tashi, vice-chairman of the club said that while producing champions was their dream, they hoped to help Darjeeling citizens lead a healthy life through sports at the least. However, the talk in the town was about the need for a sports complex in Darjeeling. “Children in Darjeeling do not have a proper playground. A sports complex is something both the administration and people’s representatives must give priority to,” said Sunil Shankar, father of an 11-year-old girl. Roshankant Ghisingh, a resident of Darjeeling who represented Delhi in the national table tennis tournament in 1989, underscored the need for a sports academy in town. “During our day, we could play table tennis at District Cultural Institute, Buddha Singh Sporting Club, Station Club, Hayden Hall, Nripendra hall and Gymkhana Club. After football, the most popular sport in the hills was table tennis,” said Ghisingh. “We need a sports academy here.” Ghisingh has set up a private sports complex in Siliguri, named Siliguri Gymkhana Club, whose Match Point Tennis Academy has three courts. Darjeeling old-timers recalled that in the past, Prakash Padukone — the first Indian to win the All England Badminton Championship — had visited Darjeeling to play at the Nripendra Narayan Bengali Hindu Public Hall. National football teams like East Bengal, Mohun Bagan and clubs from Nepal, Bangladesh and Bhutan used to regularly take part in hill tournaments. In the late 1970s, the Gymkhana Club had hosted junior nationals in table tennis. Many believe that the violent Gorkhaland agitation that started in 1986 and general apathy led to the death of sports culture in Darjeeling. The bungalow at the nine-hole golf course at Tiger Hill was burnt down during the 1986 agitation. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council later bulldozed the golf course to unsuccessfully set up a helipad. The last contest at the Lebong horse racecourse was held on October 31, 1984. The Brigade of Gurkhas Gold Cup, a major football tournament has become erratic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Yaas and Covid pose hurdle to schoolkid bank account details||An association of heads of higher secondary schools in Bengal has requested the state government to extend the deadline of uploading bank account details of over 8 lakh students of Class XII as many don’t have bank accounts that they need to avail the state government aid of Rs 10,000 to buy tabs or smartphones for online classes. The state had earlier asked school authorities to upload student bank account details by Wednesday. According to sources, the heads of nearly 6,000 high schools in Bengal could upload bank account details of 5,20,687 of a total of 8,14,687 students of Class XII till now. Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses (ASFHM), which has written to the state for an extension, has cited valid reasons apart from students not having bank accounts. “In many districts, students are facing a tough time to open accounts as many banks are not ready to open zero balance accounts and families of students can’t arrange Rs 1,000 to open bank accounts amid Covid-19 pandemic. In Yaas-hit districts, many students have lost identification documents as their homes collapsed,” said Chandan Maiti, the general secretary of ASFHM. “Also, furnishing bank account details of all students by Wednesday is a tall order with admissions to Class XII on till July 15.” Sources in Nabanna said as the aid for students is a pet project of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, she would not like any snags to undermine it. “The state can increase the deadline by a couple of weeks to ensure students get tabs before schools start online classes, at least for Class X and XII students, which is the prime focus of the government,” said a senior government official. Sources said heads of schools in rural and remote areas in Yaas-hit South 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and West Midnapore are facing a tougher time getting bank accounts of students made. In East Midnapore, where the number of Class XII students is around 53,000, bank account details are not available for around 23,000 students. In South 24 Parganas bank details are not available for around 46,000 out of 73,380 students. In West Midnapore, bank details are yet to be updated for around 18,597 out of 46,868 students.Damage to homes and shrunken income amid the pandemic are said to be reasons. “Many families have severely lost income amid the pandemic. These families are finding it difficult to arrange Rs 1,000 to open bank accounts. This particular problem should be taken care of by the government,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Two new civic bodies for Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts||The state urban development and municipal affairs department on Tuesday issued notifications to announce two new municipalities, one each in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. In Alipurduar, the new civic body in Falakata is the second municipality in the district. In neighbouring Jalpaiguri, Maynaguri is the new municipality, raising the total number of civic bodies in the district to four. In the notifications, a joint secretary of the department stated that the civic bodies would come into effect from Tuesday and be run by administrators for next six months. “The SDO of Alipurduar has been deputed as the administrator for Falakata municipality. For Maynaguri, the SDO of Jalpaiguri Sadar will function as the administrator,” said a government official. The administrators will take up the task of “shaping up the municipal administration” and ensure the “running of civic services”, the notifications have stated. In February this year, the state had marked the prospective areas to come under these new civic bodies. The Falakata municipality covers Falakata-I & II panchayats and parts of Parengerpar and Guabarnagar panchayats of Falakata block. The civic body in Maynaguri covers wards spread across Madhabdanga-I and Maynaguri panchayats and parts of Khagrabari-I and Domohoni-I panchayats of Maynaguri block. The decision has been welcomed by residents of both Falakata and Maynaguri, for whom this was a longstanding demand so as to get better civic facilities. “Municipality status will help thousands get full-fledged civic services, be it drinking water supply or conservancy services. Now that the civic bodies are formed, the panchayats under the ambit will eventually turn into municipal wards. In the coming days, panchayats in these areas will cease to exist,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Two workers die while working inside septic tank in Jalpaiguri||Two workers died and two others fell ill while working inside a septic tank being built in Nathuapara on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased have been identified as Alim Mohammad, 31, and Ananta Roy, 24. Two others, Rahim Mohammad and Bipul Roy, both in their mid-30s, are under treatment at the superspecialty hospital in Jalpaiguri. Sources said Narayan Roy, a resident of Nathuapara, was making a septic tank at his home. A few days back, mortar was laid on the top of the tank. On Tuesday, Alim Mohammad got inside to take out the wooden planks put for support, but slumped senseless. Ananta got down to help him, but he also fainted. Rahim and Bipul also got in, but when they felt uncomfortable, they called for help and some bystanders helped them out. As the other two lay unconscious inside, residents informed the Jalpaiguri fire station. Firemen brought Alim and Ananta out, but doctors at the Jalpaiguri superspecialty hospital pronounced them brought dead. “We suspect they have died of oxygen shortage in the septic tank (that was closed),” said an officer of Kotwali police station. House owner Narayan said the tank was under construction and hence without garbage, so there was no possibility of noxious fumes like ammonia. He added that the tank was 9 feet long and 7 feet deep. Doctors at the hospital said Rahim and Bipul were being treated. “We are waiting for post-mortem reports to know the cause of deaths of the other two workers,” said hospital superintendent Gayaram Naskar. The incident has shocked residents of the area. “We are perplexed at the deaths,” said resident Lutfar Rehman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
