08-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister indicates differences with Centre on economic views, aims at boosting demand||Noting that the West Bengal government has differences with the Centre on issues related to revival of the economy, state industry minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday said the TMC dispensation is looking to boost demand and increase the purchasing power of people for overall development.  Participating in the Budget discussion in the assembly, he said the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre is pushing for supply stimulation, while the state is in favour of demand creation, which will lead to the welfare of people.  "If there is demand, then there will be supply. This is what the Keynesian theory advocates. What we are saying is to increase the purchasing power of people which will lead to overall development and creation of a welfare state," Chatterjee said.  Renowned economist John Maynard Keynes argued that demand deficiency and persistent unemployment can be tackled if the government undertakes various investment programmes, thereby raising demand and public expenditure.  Chatterjee on Wednesday presented the Budget for the financial year 2021-2022 in the assembly as state Finance Minister Amit Mitra was unwell.  The minister said the debt-GDP ratio of the state stood at 40.65 per cent in 2010-11, which came down to 34.57 per cent in 2019-20.  "Is this not progress," he asked.  Chatterjee also criticised the Centre for its disinvestment policy and for not paying the state government's dues in time.  "The Centre should pay the dues to the state...the 'Make in India' campaign of the central government has turned into 'sale of India' with many PSUs being put on the block," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Adhir: Mamata not the ‘only anti-Modi face’ ||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury feels TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is an "incidental beneficiary" of the highly polarised West Bengal assembly elections and not the “only anti-Modi face" capable of taking on the BJP in the next Lok Sabha polls. Chowdhury also defends his frequent criticism of the TMC supremo, calling it the right decision for the benefit of his party. Talking about the prospects of a broader anti-BJP coalition ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in 2024, the leader of the Congress party in the House, insists no opposition front can succeed without Congress' participation. "The elections in West Bengal this time were highly polarised on communal and regional identity. The people of the state who did not want the BJP en masse voted in favour of the TMC. The communal rhetoric and the threat and intimidation politics of the BJP leadership only helped Mamata Banerjee. "Without taking away the credit for the fight she put up, I would say she is an incidental beneficiary in these elections," Chowdhury told PTI in an interview. Acknowledging that the TMC's victory was "magnificent", the Congress veteran, however, said many regional opposition leaders had helmed their parties to triumph over the BJP. "It's true that she has put up a fight against the BJP and its election machinery. It's a magnificent victory, no doubt about it. But at the same time, she is not the only regional leader who has defeated the BJP. "Arvind Kejriwal, Lalu Prasad Yadav, M K Stalin, Pinarayi Vijayan, too, have done the same. So, saying that she is the only (credible opposition) face (who could take on the BJP's might) would be an injustice to others," he said. The West Bengal Congress chief rejected suggestions by a section of his partymen that he was more vocal against Banerjee than the BJP. "I have been vocal against both the TMC and the BJP. Yes, I had to attack the TMC when I saw they were destroying my Bengal unit by poaching our representatives. Whatever I have done, I have done for my party. I don't have any personal animosity with Mamata Banerjee," he said. He chose not to respond to a question as to why the top Congress leadership desisted from attacking Banerjee and largely stayed away from the election campaign. Chowdhury, However, said if the Congress party forges an alliance with the TMC in future, the state unit will "lower its tempo" against Banerjee. Responding to a query about some opposition parties intending to ally against the BJP, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) member asserted, "No opposition alliance will succeed without the presence of Congress in it." "The political landscape of our country is such that no opposition alliance against the BJP can succeed without the Congress. The Congress is still the biggest opposition party in the country with a pan-India presence," he said. On his party's rout in the assembly polls in West Bengal, where it drew a blank, Chowdhury said the elections were completely polarised along communal and regional lines but hoped that the Congress, which ruled the state for more than two decades since independence, will revive soon. Chowdhury noted that the Sitalkuchi incident in Coochbehar, where firing by central forces led to the killing of four Muslims during the polling, polarised minority voters. "The Sitalkuchi incident led to further polarisation as voters in Malda, Murshidabad (considered Congress strongholds) also voted for the TMC," he said. The Congress had fought the assembly polls in alliance with the CPI(M) and Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui's ISF. Except for ISF, which bagged one seat, the CPI(M) led Left Front and the Congress failed to open their account for the for the first time in assembly polls. When asked whether the Congress will form alliance with with CPI(M) and the ISF in future, too, Chowdhury categorically said, "No relations with ISF". "We never had any relations with the ISF. It was CPI (M) which shared their seats with them. The ISF had pitched candidates against us in many seats. We will have no relation with the ISF in the future, too," he said. Replying to a question about the recent media reports that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will likely replace him as the leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, Chowdhury said he is not aware of any such move. "I am not aware of any such development. I am a loyal soldier of the party. Whatever duty it assigns me, I would do my best. If Rahul Gandhi replaces me as the leader of our party in Lok Sabha, I would be the happiest person," he said. Lauding Rahul Gandhi's leadership qualities, Chowdhury said the BJP deliberately tries to discredit him as it is "afraid of him". "Every time there is a failure, everybody starts questioning Rahul Gandhi. The fact is that these failures are a collective responsibility. The Congress party has been on the decline since the 1989 Lok Sabha polls. So why single out Rahulji?" he said. Speaking about Congress leaders leaving the party, with former President Pranab Mukherjee's son Abhijit being the latest addition, Chowdhury wondered whether their deserting or joining a party would make any difference. "Everybody is free to make their own decisions. But Abhijit Mukherjee leaving the party won't have any impact. He was chief of the state's campaign committee during the polls. You can't show me a single statement from him criticising the BJP or the TMC during the elections," he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Decision to elevate Barla as Union Minister proves BJP supports bifurcation of Bengal, says TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Thursday alleged that the elevation of Alipurduar MP John Barla as Union minister proves that the BJP supports the bifurcation of West Bengal, a charge denied by the saffron party. Barla, one of the key architects of the BJP's making of inroads in north Bengal, had recently demanded a separate Union territory by carving out the region from the state. He was inducted into the cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs. "The decision to elevate John Barla as Union minister proves that the BJP supports his statement regarding the division of West Bengal. The saffron should come out clean on it. "He (Barla) is a divisive personality...for last two years, I haven't seen him being able to speak properly in the Parliament, what sort of minister he will make is anybody's guess," TMC leader Sougata Roy said. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh dubbed the TMC's allegations as baseless and said the party doesn't support the bifurcation of the state. "We don't support any division of West Bengal. The party leadership and our prime minister felt that John Barla would make a good minister and can work for the people, so he has been inducted (into the cabinet)," he said. While speaking to a Bengali news channel in the morning after taking charge, Barla declined to comment on his previous statement seeking bifurcation of the state. "I don't want to comment on it. Now, I would like to work for the benefit of the masses. I will work towards the fulfilment of the demands of the people of north Bengal, nobody can suppress the demands of the masses," he said. Barla alleged that the people of West Bengal are not getting benefits of central schemes and as Union minister, he would strive to ensure that people get these benefits. "We want peace to return to West Bengal. The central schemes should be implemented," he said. Apart from Barla, three other MPs from West Bengal -- one from north Bengal (Nisith Pramanik) and two from south Bengal (Subhas Sarkar and Shantanu Thakur) -- have been inducted into the Union cabinet. Pramanik has been made MoS Home, and Sarkar and Thakur have been made MoS Education, and MoS Ports and Shipping respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal budget 2021-22: State aims to ratchet up demand in real estate||The Mamata Banerjee government has announced a 2 per cent stamp duty rebate for registration of property deeds and a 10 per cent reduction in circle rates in an effort to ratchet up demand in Bengal’s real estate. The tax break was the most attractive element in the Rs 3.08 lakh crore state budget for 2021-22 that industries minister Partha Chatterjee read out in the Assembly on Wednesday on behalf of finance minister Amit Mitra. A home buyer can save as much as 30-35 per cent on stamp duty payment and registration fees as a result of the tax rebate. The benefit of the stamp duty cut and the reduction in the circle rates — the minimum value at which a property in a particular neighbourhood can be bought or sold — will be available if the property registration process is completed by October 30. A property valued up to Rs 1 crore attracts 6 per cent stamp duty in urban areas and 5 per cent in panchayat areas. Properties valued over Rs 1 crore draw an additional 1 per cent stamp duty in both urban and rural areas at present. Following the budget proposals, stamp duty will come down to 4 per cent and 3 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively, for properties up to Rs 1 crore, and 5 per cent and 4 per cent for properties above that ceiling. The reduction in the circle rates by 10 per cent will also greatly benefit buyers of property. In many places, the circle rate is said to be way above the market value and acts as a deal breaker in closing transactions for high-value properties since it also carries income tax implications. As an illustrative example, a property with a market value of Rs 50 lakh can save up Rs 120,000 on account of the reduction in the stamp duty and circle rate and another Rs 5,550 because of the fall in registration fees, translating into a gain of 35 per cent on these heads for the buyer, according to a calculation done by NK Realtors. “We all are aware that due to the Covid 19 pandemic our state along with the country as a whole is reeling under economic recession. This has resulted in curtailing the purchasing power of the people. The real estate sector has also been greatly affected due to this crisis. In this critical situation, the state government is allowing relief to the registrant public by reducing the rate of stamp duty for registration of deeds affecting sale, lease of land/house/flat etc,” the government said in the budget speech. Real estate mandarins were ecstatic over the move and said it would bring property buyers back and help fill the state government’s coffers. “While the transaction cost will come down for the buyer, it will also help developers to clear inventory, which in turn would mean better cash flows. The revenue generation for the government will also be accelerated, as witnessed in Maharashtra. It is a win-win for all,” Harsh V. Patodia, the national president of Credai, said in the evening. Maharashtra — which has two of the country’s top real estate markets in Mumbai and Pune — had cut stamp duty from 5 per cent to 2 per cent from September 1, 2020, to December 31 and to 3 per cent between January 1 and March 31 to boost demand. As a result, the registration rate in Mumbai soared by 112 per cent in September 2020 from the previous month and the momentum continued till March. Mumbai recorded nearly as many property registrations in 2020 (65,272 units) as in 2019. In the first three months of this year, it had crossed the half-way mark of 2020, a Knight Frank report shows. The government also earned 50 per cent more revenue from property registrations. Bengal had earned Rs 6,200 crore on account of stamp duty and registration fees in 2020-21 and it is projected to earn Rs 7,245 crore in this financial year. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Group, said the announcement would encourage the real estate segment to launch new projects and infuse fresh investment into the sector. The reduction in the circle rate, which is notified by the government, will also soften the potential income tax incidence on property sales. Both buyer and seller are liable to pay tax at the applicable rate on deemed income if the circle value is more than 10 per cent of the transaction value. “Many large transactions, which have been stuck due to adverse tax implications arising from the difference between the circle rate and the transaction rate, may get concluded now,” said Jitendra Khaitan, chairman and managing director of Pioneer Properties. Given that over 200 industries and a huge workforce is linked to the real estate sector, buoyancy will have a major trickle-down effect, said Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK Realtors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal budget 2021-22: Focus on direct transfer of cash||The Mamata Banerjee government assigned outlays to fulfil the promise of universal basic income (UBI) for the marginalised and the needy in the state budget for 2021-22 that industries minister Partha Chatterjee placed, filling in for ailing finance minister Amit Mitra, in the Assembly on Wednesday. It was clear from the 18-page statement of intent, which Chatterjee read out in less than 30 minutes, that the theme of the budget was Mamata’s plan for transferring cash directly to as many people as possible. “Since the time of demonetisation, people have not been able to spend…. So, our effort is to hand out cash to them so that they can spend, which will result in creation of demand, trigger economic activity and result in growth,” Mamata told The Telegraph, explaining the broad direction of the budget. The attempt at unlocking demand was evident in the proposals made in the form of reduction in stamp duty and circle rate, which come into effect during transaction of land, houses or flats. Mamata’s desire to enable people to loosen their purse strings was captured in the details. The budget documents revealed how the government has increased outlays to some departments to ensure the objective of UBI, which means paying citizens an unconditional monthly sum. For instance, the women and child development and social welfare department, the outlay of which has been pegged at Rs 16,045 crore, has been earmarked more than 2.7 times the sum in the last budget. The objective is to offer a monthly amount of Rs 500 (Rs 6,000 a year) to general category households and Rs 1,000 (Rs 12,000 a year) to SC/ST category households directly to the bank accounts of the female heads of 1.6 crore families in the state. Similarly, outlays have been significantly raised for departments like agriculture and school education to ensure payment of Rs 10,000 each to over 62 lakh farmers every year and transfer of Rs 10,000 each to over 10 lakh students in Classes XI and XII so that they can buy tabs to continue studies online. Mamata said the cash transfer was not limited to these sets of people. “There are a whole host of other direct cash transfer schemes like pensions for widows, artists and other categories, monthly doles for farmers and others…. No other state has had such a wide range of direct transfer schemes,” the chief minister said. The apparent political reason behind the focus of the budget can be easily gauged as the Assembly election results had proved beyond doubt that women, beneficiaries of various pension schemes like SC/ST, senior citizen and widow stipend, had helped the ruling party in ensuring a rout of the BJP in the bitterly contested battle for Bengal. The subtle trigger behind the proposals seems to be Mamata’s attempt at sending out a message that her government — unlike the Narendra Modi-led Centre — is following a welfare approach by addressing the immediate concerns of the deprived sections of the society during the pandemic. Several prominent economists had advocated the need for direct cash transfer in the time of the pandemic to insulate migrant workers, farmers and other weaker sections of the society from the impact of the slowdown of the economy. “Unlike them, we are trying to create demand and help poor people…. We believe in economic policies with a human face. The Union government owes us more than Rs 60,000 crore, but still they are not releasing the funds. But that has not stopped us from delivering on our promise,” said Mamata, who accused the Modi government of making the lives of common people difficult by allowing fuel prices to spiral. Trinamul insiders expressed the hope that the Bengal budget’s broad welfare direction — with high allocations for other departments like school education and health and family welfare — would help her steal a march on the Modi regime. The fact that the Union government’s policy has had little impact on reshaping the Indian economy while Bengal surged ahead was mentioned in the budget document. “While growth of GDP of India dipped to negative 7.7 per cent in 2020-21, Bengal’s GDP clocked 1.2 per cent growth,” read the budget speech. The Bengal government’s claims about its better economic performance in comparison to the Centre came under attack from the BJP whose position was articulated by party MLA Ashok Lahiri, an economist and former chief economic adviser to the Union government. “Different states calculate their respective GSDPs in different methods. These aren’t comparable. This is why the National Statistical Office calculates comparative data on this. The state finance minister has claimed that from 2010-11 to 2019-20, there has been a 2.94 times increase in our GSDP. This is untrue. It has increased by 2.40 times only. He has also claimed that during 2019-20, the GSDP growth rate of Bengal has been more than the GDP growth rate of India. This is true. However what he didn’t say is that for a long period from 2012-13 to 2018-19, every year the rate of GSDP growth in Bengal has been lower than the national GDP growth rate. Thus, we must conclude that Bengal is lagging behind,” he said. Although this is not the first time that Bengal’s macroeconomic data has come under attack, both Mamata and finance minister Mitra — who joined a post-budget news conference virtually — stressed that the state’s economy has been on a steady growth path and would achieve an even higher trajectory because of the budget’s proposals aimed at demand creation. The idea of a demand-driven recovery also seems to be the basis of the revenue-side budget arithmetic that has projected a 26 per cent increase in the state’s tax revenue without levying any new taxes. The government is also confident that its emphasis on job creation — the budget document claimed that over 1.5 crore jobs would be created in the next five years — would further fuel the economic growth in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||New Air Officer Commanding at Kalaikunda Air Force Station ||Air Cmde Ran Singh took over as the Air Officer Commanding of Kalaikunda Air Force Station on Monday. Air Cmde Tarun Chaudhry handed over the charge to him. Air Cmde Chaudhry addressed the personnel of the Indian Air Force at the station and complimented them for maintaining the operational tempo amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said Air Cmde Singh had been commissioned in the flying branch of the IAF in December 1992. He has an experience of around 3,250 flying hours as the pilot. An alumnus of Defence Services Staff College and College of Air Warfare, Air Cmde Singh had previously commanded a frontline fighter squadron and an operational surveillance unit. Before Kalaikunda, he had been serving at the IAF headquarters in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Elephant kills woman with hearing impairment in Bankura||A wild elephant, which had got separated from its herd, killed a 48-year-old hearing impaired woman in Bankura’s Beliatore early on Wednesday. Sources said Urmila Ghosh, a resident of Dihipara in Beliatore’s Ramharipur, had gone to relieve herself near the adjacent forest when the tusker picked her up by its trunk from behind and gored her to death with its tusks. “Urmila was hearing impaired and remained unaware that an elephant was approaching her from behind. The elephant picked her up by its trunk when she was standing near a pond,” said a relative. Family members said Urmila stayed with her younger sister, who is also hearing impaired and unmarried, and brother, a marginal farmer owning less than an acre of land. Urmila’s niece, Namita Ghosh, said they started to search for her aunt when Urmila did not return home even after an hour. When they began searching for her, a villager informed them about the presence of an elephant near the pond adjacent to the forest. “We rushed towards the pond and found her lying in a pool of blood. She was taken to the local hospital where doctors declared her dead,” said Namita. After the incident, senior forest officers, along with representatives of local panchayats, went to the house of the deceased and handed over a cheque for Rs 3.75 lakh to the nearest kin of Urmila. “According to the direction of the state government and the chief minister, we tried to deliver the compensation within 24 hours. We have given Rs 3.75 lakh on the spot and rest would be given very soon,” said Kalyan Rai, the Bankura North divisional forest officer. He said the death was the first such incident in this year. The nearest kin of persons killed by elephants or tigers get a compensation of Rs 5 lakh. “We have taken several measures to avoid human-elephant conflicts by digging up trenches and building fencings. This has helped bring down incident of deaths by elephants. We will also increase vigil in the forest to avoid such incidents,” said Rai, the DFO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 982 cases and 16 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported the 17th day on the trot of a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases, which fell by 620 to 16,655, as the state reported 1,586 recoveries, 982 new infections and 16 deaths. In a key parameter of case growth or percentage of growth of cases in the past week compared to the week before, Bengal is 22nd on the list of states with case growth falling by 53.8 per cent. Bengal has maintained a case growth of -40 to -60 for weeks. Daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 on Wednesday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.71 per cent while the national rate is 97.15. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it rose by over 56 per cent, before again falling by nearly 28 per cent in these 17 days. Worst-hit Calcutta and North 24-Parganas checked the day’s new cases to 85 and 94. Wednesday was the 10th straight day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections and North Dinajpur, Murshidabad and Purulia single-digit figures. West Midnapore, like Tuesday, was the only district on Wednesday with a three-digit figure. Of the 16 deaths, two were reported from Calcutta and four from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday and four others just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Bengal now has a total of over 15.08 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.73 lakh recoveries and 17,850 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers hold ‘save BJP’ protest in Malda||An unprecedented protest was witnessed in Malda town on Wednesday as around 100 BJP workers demonstrated at a prominent crossing of the town under the banner of BJP Banchao Committee (Save BJP Committee), accusing some party leaders of corruption and autocratic behaviour towards party workers in the grassroots. The demonstration, which continued for nearly an hour, had workers raising their voices against those leaders who, they claimed, were running the party in consultation with turncoats from Trinamul. “The party is way different from what it was in 2019. A former district BJP president, who led the party to unprecedented success in 2019, was suspended for two years, re-inducted for merely two months before the elections and again expelled. This is unacceptable,” said Shib Shankar Poddar, a former district president of BJP’s Yuva Morcha. Another party worker who shouted slogans against leaders, said they hardly had any other option but to launch protests to “save the party” in Malda. “Those who struggled for years for the interest of the party have either been cornered or suspended or expelled by few district BJP leaders who have no contact with the masses. We hardly have any other option but to protest and draw attention of the BJP state leadership,” he said. Protesters, who called themselves “BJP veterans” also trained guns at Khagen Murmu, the BJP MP of Malda north. Murmu, a former CPM leader who defected to the saffron camp in 2019, ahead of the parliamentary elections. “The BJP MP, who is a turncoat CPM leader, did nothing after winning the election. He has only installed some streetlights. The work benefited some of his aides as they got commission of those projects,” Poddar said. Embarrassed by the public display of discontent, district BJP leaders apparently ignored the agitation. “Ours is a disciplined party. A section of unruly workers, against whom actions were taken for multiple undisciplined activities, are trying to tarnish the image of party leaders. They are out of the mainstream of the party. Such demonstrations will have no effect on party workers or supporters,” said the district BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Saumitra Khan fury at ‘leader going to Delhi’||Cracks in the Bengal BJP deepened on a day four leaders from the state got berths in the Narendra Modi cabinet, with the BJP’s Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan accusing party MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari, without naming him, of “misdirecting” central leaders for his own power. “Sadly this leader is going to Delhi and misdirecting our central leaders and trying to draw all the attention...I will urge the leader of the Opposition to look into the mirror. None of our sacrifices are less than his. I’ve won polls several times as have you…This way, Bengal BJP will not go forward,” Khan said in a Facebook live session. “He came to the party a month before polls and brought 128 other members…All thieves and thugs.” Adhikari had joined the BJP in December 2020, four months before polls. Khan announced he was resigning as the chief of the party’s youth wing in Bengal, sources close to him saying the denial of a cabinet berth rankled. But in the evening, he wrote on Facebook that he was withdrawing his resignation, as asked by B.L. Santosh, BJP's national general-secretary (organisation). Asked, Khan told this paper both Santosh and Union home minister Amit Shah asked him to continue. “…I see no future for Bengal BJP...”Khan said and added “our honourable president (Dilip Ghosh) doesn’t understand half the things.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee fined Rs 5 lakh for maligning judiciary ||Justice Kaushik Chanda of Calcutta High Court on Wednesday withdrew on “personal ground” from hearing Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging her defeat in the Nandigram Assembly segment, but imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on her for maligning the judiciary by questioning the judge’s partiality. Justice Chanda said the fine would have to be handed over to the state Bar council for treatment of lawyers and their family members affected by Covid-19. The Trinamul Congress has decided to challenge the fine before the Supreme Court. The case has been sent to acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal for reassignment to another judge of the court. In her election petition, the chief minister had alleged malpractices in the counting at Nandigram, where Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari had defeated her by 1,965 votes. The petitioner claimed that the Election Commission of India official who was in charge of the counting at Nandigram had initially declared her as the winner on May 2, but the result was reversed in Adhikari’s favour later the same day. Trinamul’s demand for a recount was turned down by the returning officer. Mamata went to the high court challenging the election process 44 days after the announcement of the results. When the case was sent to Justice Chanda, the chief minister’s lawyer, Sanjay Basu, said he had links with the BJP before he became a judge and wrote to the secretary to the acting Chief Justice, seeking reassignment. Basu mentioned in his letter “reasonable apprehension” over the “likelihood of bias” and said Justice Chanda was an “active member of the BJP”. But Justice Chanda demanded that lawyers appearing for Mamata satisfy him on what ground she had challenged his political identity. After five days of hearing, Justice Chanda reserved the verdict. In the verdict delivered on Wednesday, Justice Chanda expressed views in support of his decision of imposing the fine on Mamata and gave an argument on his own behalf. Mamata’s counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi had raised three main reasons for seeking reassignment of the case. First, the judge was a BJP activist and had shared the dais with senior party leaders while practising as a lawyer. Second, when Justice Chanda’s name was sent to the chief minister for her opinion before appointing him as a permanent judge of the court, Mamata did not give her approval because he was a BJP follower and had been appointed additional solicitor-general by the BJP-led Centre. Finally, the judge has good connections with some senior BJP leaders, Singhvi had said. In his judgment, Justice Chanda countered Mamata’s arguments. Each and every person is a follower of any of the parties and that does not mean he will favour his party when dealing with a case as a judge. A judge never thinks about his earlier life of political affinities while disposing of a case. So, the impartiality of a judge cannot be challenged, the judge said. Justice Chanda has added that sending names to state heads before appointing an additional judge as a permanent judge is merely a protocol. Appointments do not depend on their opinion. But by bringing the issue in public, the chief minister violated privacy norms. Justice Chanda also said a judge was a human being and might have connections with others. But that did not mean he would help the people in a case, he said. Before holding that the petitioner had “tarnished” the image of the judiciary and imposed the fine on her, Justice Chanda said the judiciary was like a temple, where judges were to provide justice to genuine persons. A senior Trinamul MP said the party had decided to move the Supreme Court challenging the fine and its accompanying charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Budget 2021-22: Road tax waiver brings little cheer||The Bengal government in its budget on Wednesday announced a road tax waiver for transport vehicles till December, but the proposal failed to cheer the sector with transport operators saying it will make little difference to their business reeling under the pressure of rising fuel cost and reduced traffic volume amid the pandemic. While delivering the state budget speech for the year, Partha Chatterjee, who stood in for Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, said the state government had earlier allowed one-time exemption of road tax from January to June. “Considering the post-lockdown economic hardship in the transport sector, our government has proposed to extend the one-time exemption of motor vehicle tax and additional tax from July 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021,” Chatterjee said. Private bus and minibus operators this paper spoke to said road tax, normally to be paid every three months, comprised a small part of their overall cost at a little over Rs 3,000 or so for six months. About 60 per cent of total operational cost, however, was directly related to fuel cost, which has been steadily rising. “Just see, price of diesel jumped from Rs 77.44 a litre on January 1 to Rs 92.50 on Wednesday. That’s a difference of over Rs 15 a litre over six months,” said an operator. Vehicles owners said the road tax every three months is Rs 1,516 for buses and Rs 1,100 for minibuses. Even if waiver for penalty for not renewing fitness certificates, driving license and road permits were clubbed together in keeping with the Bengal government's earlier directive till June 30 it would do little to offset their losses, they said. Most of the 5,000-plus private buses in Calcutta and its adjoining areas have been off roads since July 1 when the state government relaxed its ban on movement of transport vehicles, allowing 50 per cent capacity. The government is sending out feelers to operators to resume operations but most  want a fare hike. Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association said they were compelled to hike fare rates. “The state government had to eventually do away with its control over ticket price in theatre halls. It has no control over rates fixed by auto-rickshaws. Why only for buses and minibuses?” he asked. “We will stick to our new bus fare schedule of Rs 10, Rs 15 and Rs 20 depending on stages. Since passengers haven’t been complaining (at hiked fares) there will be more buses on the roads from Thursday.” On Wednesday, some bus and minibus owners also said the government would do better if it lent Rs 2 lakh to each bus owner in Bengal. It would help them clear insurance dues and cover the cost of maintenance before making vehicles road-worthy, they said. “Club all the waivers and divide it by 365 days. Is it equal to the cost of fuel required to run buses now? The fares have to be revised and there can be no two ways about it," said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate. "If the government has to offer relief, it would do good by offering Rs 2 lakh to each bus owner so that vehicles become road-worthy."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Eye on 2024, four MPs from Bengal in Modi’s cabinet||Four BJP MPs from Bengal — two each from south Bengal and north Bengal districts — were inducted in the Narendra Modi cabinet as junior ministers on Wednesday apparently with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, possibly after the Assembly poll debacle. Alipurduar’s John Barla (minority affairs), Cooch Behar’s Nisith Pramanik (home affairs, youth affairs and sports), Bongaon’s Shantanu Thakur (ports, shipping and waterways) and Bankura’s Subhas Sarkar (education) are the chosen ones. Two junior ministers — Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chowdhury — had to resign from their positions to make way for the new entrants. The move clearly indicates the BJP’s bid to strengthen its support base in areas where the party performed well in the 2021 Assembly polls. Sources also said the BJP’s move to include four MPs from the state to the cabinet makes it clear that it is banking heavily on Bengal for the 2024 polls. “The top brass of the party has made it clear to the state unit that it would heavily depend on Bengal (in 2024) as the party may lose some seats in Punjab and Haryana where farmers’ movements have weakened the party’s position. The party expects at least 15 seats from Bengal,” said a senior leader. “In Alipurduar, the BJP bagged all five seats in the district. Barla was rewarded for his performance. Similarly, Pramanik was inducted in the cabinet as the party won seven out of nine seats in Cooch Behar. The party felt that inclusion of the MPs in the cabinet would strengthen the party ahead of 2024 polls,” said a BJP insider. “Thakur belongs to the Matua community, which holds the key to electoral success in at least two Lok Sabha seats — Bongaon in North 24-Parganas and Ranaghat in Nadia. Similarly, the BJP has put up a relatively better show in Bankura compared to other south Bengal districts and that’s why Subhas Sarkar has been inducted in the cabinet,” said a BJP leader. Though Thakur’s induction is seen as a ploy to placate the Matuas who are restless about implementation of the citizenship matrix, a leader of the All India Matua Mahasangh said: “Our demand is clear. We want the CAA. It doesn’t matter if our MP is a minister.” Barla’s selection raised brows within the BJP as he recently pushed for Union territory or separate statehood status for north Bengal, even as state BJP leaders asserted it was not the party’s demand. At least three MPs — Locket Chatterjee, Saumitra Khan and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh — had ministerial aspirations sources said. A Trinamul leader said junior leaders would “hardly leave any impact”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Dilip sa’ab’s romantic connect with the hills||Darjeeling had almost played Cupid in the fabled marriage of Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu that withstood the test of time and raised the bar for film couples. Pratap Chand Agarwal, now 86 and the couple’s family friend from Kurseong, told this paper hours after the legendary thespian bowed out from the stage of life at age 98, a hitherto unknown fact of one of the most talked-about marriages in Bollywood. Agarwal, a producer of the award-winning children’s film Safed Haathi that had Shatrughan Sinha in the cast, said that he had arranged the shooting of Jhuk Gaya Aasman that had Rajendra Kumar and Saira Banu in the lead roles, in Darjeeling in the mid-60s. “When the shooting was at its fag end, Saira Banu told me one evening that she would introduce me to Dilip Kumar and we went to his hotel room at Mount Everest Hotel,” said Agarwal. Dilip Kumar, born Mohammed Yusuf Khan, was not a part of the Jhuk Gaya Aasman cast. “Yusuf bhai had come on his own to meet Saira Banu and had taken a separate room in the same hotel where the directors and actors of Jhuk Gaya Aasman were staying. Following a brief interaction, Yusuf bhai told me, ‘I am getting married to Saira Banu’. He seemed to have come to Darjeeling just to finalise the marriage,” Agarwal said. From Darjeeling, the couplethen  left for Bhutan, recalled Agarwal. The two tied the knot on October 11, 1966. Dilip Kumar was 44 and Saira Banu 22. Many chinwags had commented on the age difference. But it would prove to be one of the most enduring marriages in the Indian film industry. After their marriage, the couple did visit Darjeeling hills twice in the late 1960s to shoot for the famous Bengali film Sagina Mahato that released in 1970. “I used to meet them almost everyday. I arranged their stay at the bungalow of (parliamentarian) Ila Pal Chowdhury at Gayabari in Kurseong. The shooting took place mostly in Tindharia, at the railway workshop and the DHR rail loop,” said Agarwal. Agarwal organised a party with prominent citizens of Kurseong at the electricity department Dak Bungalow during the shoot. In the early 1970s, the couple again returned to Kurseong for a remake of the film into Hindi named Sagina, which went on to release in 1974. On one occasion, they came to Agarwal’s house at Rajbari in Kurseong for lunch, he recalled. For all his stardom, Dilip Kumar, Agarwal recalled, was an extremely down-to-earth man with a big heart. “In 1977 I went to Bombay and fell ill. I called him at around 5.30 am in the morning and he immediately sent two of his attendants to get me admitted at Nanavati hospital,” recalled Agarwal. “By 7.30am he was personally present at the hospital. He visited me on all three days of my hospitalisation.” Agarwal, who is also a former chairman of Kurseong municipality said that Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu had done their bit to raise funds for the SD Dey Sanatorium in Kurseong. “In 1975, the duo attended a charity event organised by the Sagina Mahato team at the Light House Cinema Hall in Calcutta and we raised Rs 74,000. A Tibetan painting I had taken from Darjeeling fetched Rs 10,000 at the event,” said Agarwal. Dilip Kumar had donated Rs 2,000 to Anjuman-E-Islamia, a Darjeeling mosque, recalled Akhtar Ali, a retired government employee, ow 80, who had also seen the couple in their heyday. Agarwal said that he last visited Dilip Kumar in Mumbai in 1992. The thespian was already not in the best of health, he recalled. “I’d first seen Dilip Kumar in person when he had come to shoot for the film Naya Daur at Kurseong in 1957.  I was a young man then. Today, in my twilight, I heard the news of his demise. I am sad but I will cherish my time with  the legend who was for me simply Yusuf bhai,” said the octogenarian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
