09-07-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy named as Public Accounts Committee Chairman||Senior TMC leader Mukul Roy, who recently switched over to the ruling camp in Bengal after winning the assembly polls on a BJP ticket, was on Friday appointed as the chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee in the Assembly by Speaker Biman Banerjee. This comes days after he was nominated by the ruling party to become a member of the Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. BJP MLAs, led by Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, staged a walkout in the Assembly, protesting against this decision. Roy, officially a BJP MLA from Krishnanagar Uttar, joined the TMC last month. He, however, did not resign as an MLA, despite being asked to do so several times by the saffron party. The TMC leader was elected as a member of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in June. Adhikari said that an Opposition MLA is usually appointed as the PAC chairman in accordance with the norm, but the TMC misused that rule to appoint Roy as its chairman. Section 255A of the Assembly rules gives the Speaker the power to appoint the PAC chairman. Sources said Trinamul intended to push Roy’s name as the PAC chairman. The PAC comprises 20 members and 14 of them are nominated by the ruling party, while the Opposition nominates six members. Roy’s was among the 14 names submitted by Trinamul. The BJP had named MLA Ashoke Lahiri in its list and wants him to become the chairman of the PAC. The BJP list also included Suvendu’s name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Educational qualifications of youngest Union minister Nisith Pramanik triggers controversy   ||A new entrant to the Narendra Modi ministry has found himself embroiled in a controversy that has been chasing the government, intermittently, since the Prime Minister took oath in 2014. Within hours of the swearing-in of Nisith Pramanik, the saffron party’s Lok Sabha MP from Cooch Behar on Wednesday, his former party Trinamul raised a red flag over his educational qualifications. So far, there has been no response from Pramanik. Trinamul Congress Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy shared screenshots of an affidavit filed by Pramanik, the youngest minister in the Modi’s council of ministers, before the Election Commission of India, and another from the Lok Sabha website. In the affidavit, Pramanik, who is serving as deputy to Union home minister Amit Shah, has mentioned his educational qualification as Madhyamik from Bhetaguri Lal Bahadur Shastri Vidyapeeth in Cooch Behar’s Dinhata. The year is not mentioned. The Lok Sabha website mentions his educational qualification as Bachelor’s of Computer Application from Balakura Junior Basic School. “There is a discrepancy, and it is the duty of the minister to inform voters of his constituency what is the truth about his educational qualification,” said Roy. “Can a junior basic school give a Bachelor’s degree or certificate? To study BCA, an undergraduate course, one has to clear higher secondary. When and where did he clear higher secondary?” asked Roy. The 35-year-old Pramanik was with the Trinamul till the 2018 panchayat polls when he rebelled against the local leadership and joined the BJP before the Lok Sabha polls. Pramanik also faces allegations of attempt to murder, outraging the modesty of a woman, criminal intimidation, rioting and theft mentioned in 11 FIRs against him. State BJP leaders have refused to comment on the Pramanik controversy. However, the controversy over his educational qualifications puts Pramanik in an exalted league of Indian politicians. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s educational credentials have been questioned. Both the Delhi University and Gujarat University from which Modi claimed to have pursued his graduate and post-graduate degrees have refused to share details of the courses pursued by the Prime Minister. Though BJP had claimed Modi had a postgraduate degree in “entire political science”, the Lok Sabha website mentions his educational qualifications as BA, MA (Pol Science), educated at Gujarat University, Ahmedabad, and Delhi University. Ahead of her first election in 1984 when Mamata Banerjee defeated CPM leader Somnath Chatterjee from Jadavpur, wall writings mentioned a “Dr (doctor)” before her name, and she had claimed to have done a PhD from East Georgia University on “the impact of Mughal harem on state and policies.” The United States Educational Foundation in India later clarified that the East Georgia University did not exist. Two other ministers—both handling the human resources development ministry responsible for running educational institutes in the country—have been mired in controversies surrounding their educational qualifications. Smriti Irani had claimed to be a graduate with a BA in 2004. Ten years later in 2014, that was changed to BCom Part I from the School of Open Learning (Correspondence). She never mentioned that she did not complete the course. Irani also claimed to have a degree from  Yale University. It turned out later, in 2013, that she had attended a six-day leadership course in the prestigious US university. Ramesh Pokhriyal, who became the HRD minister in 2019, has never mentioned his school and higher secondary school records ever, though he has been awarded two DLits from a Graphic Era University and Uttarakhand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya. He has also never mentioned the subject in which he did his MA. Given the Trinamul’s charge on the educational qualifications of the BJP leadership, the leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly has decided to raise controversies that surrounded the Trinamul leaders. “During the debate on the proposal for a legislative council, the Treasury Bench referred to the educational qualifications of the PM and others. Leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has asked all MLAs to speak about the bogus PhD of Mamata,” said a BJP source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Medica, NSHM join hands to vaccinate teachers and students across Bengal||With an aim to inoculate over 2,000 teachers and 10,000 students, Medica Superpeciaity Hospitals and NSHM Knowledge Campus have started a Covid-19 vaccination drive across Bengal from July 4. Schools and colleges can opt for on-campus or off-campus vaccination for their eligible teachers and students, a press release from the hospital says. The 24-acre NSHM campus in Durgapur has also geared up to offer a green, clean and safe platform for this immunisation programme, it adds. The drive will continue till July 15. NSHM and Medica will provide all facilities for off-campus drives at institutes across the states, provided that a minimum of 100 participants sign up for the programme, while off-campus vaccination will be conducted at NSHM campuses in Durgapur and Calcutta. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Alok Roy, Chairman of Medica Group of Hospitals and Chair FICCI Health Services Committee said, “As responsible caregivers it is our utmost priority to inoculate maximum people in the best manner possible. As equal stakeholders for the greater benefit of the citizens, it is a matter of pride for the entire team of Medica to shoulder our collective responsibility towards this vaccination drive in close coordination with the Government machinery and prominent educational institutions like NSHM Knowledge Campus. NSHM trustee Francis Antony said, "Providing easy access to vaccination facility and encouraging mass participation of the teachers and student fraternity is the prime objective behind this vaccination drive." Roy, on the other hand, also urged everyone to follow Covid safety protocols. "On behalf of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, I would urge all teachers and students above 18 years in Durgapur to come forward and get vaccinated. Even post-vaccination, it is imperative that people must continue wearing masks, not be complacent or careless in crowded or closed spaces and follow proper hand hygiene measures."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
09-07-2021||West Bengal||ED to probe fake Covid vaccination camps in Calcutta||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has decided to probe the dubious COVID vaccination camps in Calcutta, sources said on Friday. The matter is at present being probed by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Calcutta Police's Detective Department, which has already arrested nine persons, including fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb who masterminded the fraud. "The ED has filed an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) over the matter. The ED will probe the money laundering angle, if there is any," a source in the investigative agency said. The ED’s probe will run parallel to the Special Investigation Team of the Calcutta Police’s Detective Department’s investigation into the case. The SIT has arrested nine including the fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb. The ED’s decision to take up the probe came within hours of a Calcutta High Court division bench comprising Justices IP Mukherji and Aniruddha Roy turned down PILs seeking probe by a central agency into the matter. The bench held that the petitioners may move court at a later stage if there is any cause of dissatisfaction with the investigation being done by the city police. The bench ruled it was not inclined to interfere in the investigation of the case at this stage. Deb was arrested in June for masquerading as the joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and operating dubious immunisation camps in different parts of the city. Eight of his associates were arrested during the course of the investigation as police included the charge of an attempt to murder along with other sections of the IPC against them. Probe till date has revealed that Deb, posing as a joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had opened several bank accounts in the name of senior officials from the civic body using fake documents, and duped several people promising contracts and jobs. Why Deb had started the camp where he gave fake vaccines to the people is still not clear. Deb and his racket were exposed after actor and Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty got herself vaccinated at the camp held in Kasba but did not get any certificate. Nor did she get any message confirming her inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 995 new Covid -19 cases, 17 more fatalities||Bengal on Thursday reported the 18th straight day of a dip in its total active Covid-19 cases, by 512 to 16,143. On Thursday, the state reported 1,490 recoveries, 995 new infections and 17 deaths. Of them, Calcutta logged 87 new infections and two deaths. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2 per cent on Thursday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by nearly 30 per cent again over these 18 days. With worst-hit Calcutta logging 87 new cases and North 24-Parganas 93, Thursday was the first day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures, while South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit ones. “This achievement is a morale-booster, certainly a significant landmark in the fight against the second wave,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.75 per cent, with the national rate at 97.16. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18, while that of the nation was 1.31 per cent. North 24-Parganas reported three deaths. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths, while six others reported just one each. Bengal now has a total of over 15.09 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.75 lakh recoveries and 17,867 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Fake judge arrested for duping Siliguri trader of nearly Rs 1 crore||A lawyer posing as a judicial officer was arrested from Kishanganj, Bihar, by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police on Wednesday for allegedly duping a Siliguri trader of nearly Rs 1 crore. Sources said on June 28, the businessman, whose name is being withheld by the police, filed a complaint alleging that a year ago, a man came to his shop calling himself the additional sessions judge-cum-special auction officer based in Kishanganj, and befriended him. “He said he had possession of 84 cars and 5,000 tonnes of wheat, and wanted buyers,” said a police officer. He told the trader to participate in an “auction” to buy the items. The trader and two of his friends paid him Rs 91 lakh. The man gave them official papers and government seals, treasury challans and the cash receipt. Then, the man disappeared with the money and the documents were found to be forged. There was no auction. The trader and his friends eventually found out that this so-called judicial officer was a lawyer named Samir Dubey of Kishanganj and went to the police. The detective department of Siliguri Metropolitan Police sent a team, disguised as buyers, to the Bihar town on Wednesday to trace Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||State govt to sell off or lease part of unused Durgapur Projects Limited land to clear debts||The Bengal government is all set to sell off or lease out a portion of unused land of Durgapur Projects Limited, a loss-making power utility that was under a restructuring plan, to clear the firm’s debts. “A meeting will be held regarding the monitisation of surplus DPL land this evening (Thursday). It is still not clear for which purpose the land would be sold off. But the money that would be generated from the process would be used to meet the liabilities of the utility,” a senior government official told The Telegraph on Thursday. DPL is a state-owned utility, with about 4,000 employees, that supplies power to Durgapur and adjoining areas. This is the first time a concrete step is being planned to generate resources from idle assets. According to sources, the state government aims to sell or lease out a total of about 1,000 acres of land of the DPL out of its 3,559 acres spread across Durgapur and Dankuni in Hooghly. “But the process could start with 154 acres spread in three parcels in Durgapur. Two officers of power department went to Durgapur on Wednesday and visited all three land parcels which could be put up for monetisation in the first phase,” said another official. According to sources, the DPL has its power plant and coke oven plant on around 650 acres. Moreover, it has administrative buildings, township and various offices on around 900 acres. About 50 per cent of its 3,559 acres are lying unused these days. According to a restructuring plan taken up by the power department in 2019, the DPL was divided into three parts. The transmission was taken over by the West Bengal State Electricity Transmission Company, the distribution was handed over to the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company and the West Bengal Power Development Corporation was given the charge of the electricity generation. “But these were yet to be notified duly and no other restructuring process like staff being laid off was not initiated. The DPL has been facing a loss of Rs 200 crore every fiscal for the past one decade. A bold step is needed to clear the burden of at least Rs 2,000 crore at the DPL,” said a source. The Left Front government had also planned to utilise the unused plots of the DPL by setting up townships in a joint venture. But the plan could not materialise because of stiff resistance from the CITU. This time also, the CITU said it would resist if the state wanted to sell off the plots or gave them on long-term lease. “We will put up stiff resistance if the government takes any step like promoting on the DPL land,” said Pankaj Ray Sarkar, a district committee member of CITU. The state government is also aware of the problem and that’s why Moloy Ghatak, a strong Trinamul leader of the area and the PWD and law minister, has been given the responsibility to take forward the process even though he is no way connected to the power department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh calls Saumitra Khan names at news meet||High drama in Bengal BJP continued on Thursday with Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh calling his counterpart in the party’s state youth wing, Saumitra Khan, names at a news meet. Ghosh added that the party would follow its “system” and take action against Khan if he did not act responsibly. This comes a day after Khan, in a Facebook live session, accused the BJP MLA and Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari of misdirecting the party’s top leadership in Delhi and that Ghosh “doesn’t understand half the things”. “He is a youth leader. It is normal for him to act foolishly. He has come to BJP, has been given responsibilities, he will understand…If he doesn’t become mature with age there is a system in the party to take action. There is a limit to insanity…There is always a place for jokers in politics…He is not bigger than the party…When the time comes action will be taken against him…” Ghosh said. On Thursday, Khan used a photograph of Ghosh and Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh shaking hands as the display picture (DP) in one of his personal WhatsApp numbers. The Midnapore MP had met Kunal at a wedding. This made Ghosh furious and he asked Khan to remove the DP. Khan obliged and claimed he had no idea how it became a DP. Sources close to Khan said Khan intended to show Ghosh in poor light and was angry with the party for not making him a Union minister. “We understand he is unhappy with the party. Yet he is an MP. What he did was uncalled for,” a BJP youth wing source said. Khan was also not present at a youth wing meeting on Thursday headed by a state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. He had said on Wednesday that his heart was not in the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Fishermen request state fisheries department to conduct dredging at Sankarpur fishing port soon||The Sankarpur Fishermen’s and Fish Traders’ Association has formally requested the state fisheries department to conduct dredging at East Midnapore’s Sankarpur fishing port on an emergency basis in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas as they fear it will affect their business if the job is not undertaken immediately. The port, which facilitates employment for roughly 10,000 fishermen, mechanics, and where their trawlers are moored, has seen a disproportionate deposition of silt in the feeder canal following the cyclone, a development that is causing many inbound trawlers to divert to neighbouring Odisha or East Midnapore’s Contai. “This is a year-old problem. But it has been aggravated by Cyclone Yaas. Now, we are demanding immediate action or else, the entire port may go underwater,” said former MLA and incumbent secretary of the fisheries association, Swadesh Nayak. “Except during high tide, we are rendered non-operational. And if vessels are caught on top of the silt during a receding tide, lives could be lost,” he added. The Champa canal, leading into the Sankarpur port, is flanked on one side by the Digha-Mohona auction centre and the Sankarpur fishing harbour on the other. Sources said it had last been dredged in 2013. Over the last month, fishermen in the area estimate that trawler activity has gone down to 60 per cent of the regular 500 that would be found docked. “Earlier, 500 trawlers used to dock at the harbour and now around 200 come here because of navigation troubles. If the situation is not addressed, the economy of the area and that of the fishing community will be hit,” said a fish trader who operates trawlers from the harbour. “Sankarpur has the best connectivity to the sea, especially for hilsa fishing. But now, apprehending potential accidents, we are shifting half our fleet to Odisha,” said trawler owner Sadananda Jena. “In addition to dredging, authorities ought to provide some sort of sanitation and accommodation-based arrangements as well. Most advanced ports have these facilities to accommodate fishermen who are out for weeks on end,” added fisherman Pratap Das. Fisheries minister and Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri said he was aware of the problem and that authorities were waiting for monsoon tides to subside. “We will attempt to start the dredging in November,” he added. The fishermen’s association has also asked the state government to repair the harbour as it had suffered damage during Cyclone Yaas, said trawler owner Tapan Das. He added that the harbour generated a business of around Rs 200 crore annually. The state government also earns Rs 10,000 in revenue from each trawler every year. Keeping in view the amount of business generated and the number of people who depend on the harbour, Das said: “The jetty has been damaged and the high tide during Cyclone Yaas has affected a few ice factories and a petrol pump had to be shut down. Getting ice has become a problem ever since Yaas struck the harbour. The government should take up repair at Sankarpur harbour immediately as they are doing elsewhere. This is the fishing season and delay in taking up repair is hitting us badly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||John Barla, Nisith Pramanik find cabinet berths||The inclusion of two BJP MPs from north Bengal, John Barla of Alipurduar and Nisith Pramanik of Cooch Behar, into the Union cabinet as ministers of state was greeted with celebrations in various parts of the region, but at the same time raised several questions within the saffron camp, courtesy the backgrounds of the duo. Thursday began with the duo’s supporters celebrating the elevation in their respective pocketboroughs in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar with processions and sweets, but the criticism of the leaders ran as an undercurrent. Many questioned the message the central BJP leadership was trying to give by promoting Barla, who recently demanded Union territory or separate statehood status for the region. While speaking to reporters in Delhi on Thursday Barla said he didn’t want to comment on the controversial demand, a BJP leader said: "He has made it an issue and now it will simmer and create trouble. It’s sad that he is now in the Union cabinet.” Barla, who hails from Lakhipara tea estate of Banarhat in Jalpaiguri, is not in the good books of the Sangh Parivar, especially the Vishwa Hindu Parishad,, for his alleged past. “Leaders of VHP and the RSS, who have been working in the tribal areas of north Bengal, including the tea belt, had said Barla was instrumental in encouraging tribals to embrace Christianity. They had disapproved of his inclusion into the BJP and the decision to field him in the MP’s seat from Alipurduar,” said a BJP leader in Calcutta. Discontentment against Barla within the VHP and the RSS has now percolated into the party's state hierarchy with the MP raising the separate Union territory or state cry, feel many BJP leaders. In north Bengal, BJP leaders are facing questions from residents on the issue and finding it tough to reply. “Our state leaders are conveniently dodging direct replies. Such tactics will eventually not work,” said a BJP functionary in Siliguri. The elevation of Barla and Pramanik also angered some hill residents who wondered why Darjeeling MP Raju Bista was snubbed is the Darjeeling seat from where BJP won thrice in Lok Sabha polls since 2009. In the Assembly polls, the party won in all five seats of the district. The BJP’s plan to appease Rajbanshis and tribals has not gone down well with the Gorkha voters of the BJP,” said an observer. In Cooch Behar, questions are being raised over Pramanik’s elevation as he is a first-time MP with a number of legal cases pending against him. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Mizoram youths held with heroin worth Rs 20 crore||The Special Task Force arrested two drivers and a helper of a truck, heading to Calcutta from Manipur, on NH12 in Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj on Thursday morning after four kilos of heroin worth around Rs 20 crore was recovered from the vehicle. “Four packets, weighing one kilo each, has been seized. The estimated value of the consignment in the international market could be around Rs 20 crore. The arrested trio hail from Mizoram,” said Jangipur police chief, Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Two cops suspended on charges of ‘negligence’ in West Burdwan||Two sub-inspectors and an assistant sub-inspector at West Burdwan’s Barakar police outpost were on Thursday suspended on charges of misconduct and dereliction of duty after the alleged custodial death of a youth charged with theft on Tuesday. Five civic volunteers, also allegedly involved in the incident, have also been withdrawn from duty. A case based on the complaint filed by the victim’s family has started. Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Ajay Thakur had on Tuesday suspended in-charge of the Barakar outpost, Amarnath Das, and sub-inspector of Kulti police station, Prashanta Pal, on charges of “negligence”. Mohammad Arman Ansari,28, who was picked up by the police for interrogations in connection with a theft case was found unconscious at the lock up at Kulti police station on Tuesday. He was rushed to Asansol district hospital and was declared dead on arrival. Later, a mob ransacked Barakar police outpost and set vehicles on fire alleging that Arman was tortured inside the lock-up. His father Mohammad Abdul Kalam had lodged an FIR against the police officers holding them responsible for the death of Arman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Shantanu Thakur sworn in as junior minister, Matuas remind CAA priority||Celebrations at Thakurnagar, the headquarters of the Matua sect in North 24-Parganas, started on Wednesday right after the chief of the sect and local BJP MP Shantanu Thakur took oath as junior minister, but despite the revelries continuing on Thursday, many in the community said that their demand for citizenship was their first priority. “The Centre may have given a ministerial berth (to Thakur) to appease the community fearing the inordinate delay in implementation of the Citizenship Act, but it (the gesture) will boomerang if the government fails to act on its promise (implementing the Act) with which it wooed us,” Manoj Das, a Matua devotee, said. “Much before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the community will send a clear message to BJP,” he added. In the 2021 Assembly polls, the BJP won six of the seven Assembly seats in the Bongaon parliamentary constituency dominated by the Matuas despite the Trinamul wave in North 24-Parganas. The sect is also influential in the Nadia and North Dinajpur districts. Some Matuas demanded that the All India Matua Mahasangha, headed by Thakur, must re-launch the movement with their core issue of implementing the CAA once the Covid-19 curbs ease. A source at the Mahasangha said before the polls the conflict over the delay in CAA implementation was such that Thakur himself had thought of quitting BJP and floating his own party. “The Union home minister (Amit Shah) had cancelled at least two public meetings here at Thakurnagar ahead of the Assembly polls. We believe he was avoiding us because we would raise questions about the CAA. The pressure from the community was such that even Thakur was forced to say in multiple Mahasangha meetings that if the BJP doesn’t keep its promise the community leaders will fight the Assembly polls independently,” the source said. “Hence Thakur must not forget his primary focus now that he is a minister,” this person added. Another section in the Mahasangha said though there is undercurrent of discontent with the BJP, Thakur’s elevation may create the perfect opportunity to up the ante on their CAA demand. “Citizenship is our core issue and we will continue our movement to achieve it. We are not against the BJP. Rather, we feel since it is the party at the Centre, with its support we can solve the citizenship problem,” a source close to Thakur said. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, speaking on the issue said: “The Matuas must be happy that their leader is a Union minister today. He will now be in close proximity with the Prime Minister and home minister and raise their demand at the top-most level personally. The state government here is not cooperating on the CAA’s implementation.” Former Trinamul MP Mamatabala Thakur, who also represents the Matua community, however is not optimistic about Shantanu Thakurs’ ascension to the cabinet. "As an MP Shantanu has done nothing during the past two years. The ministerial berth will only be beneficial to him and his family... The community members will soon realise that both BJP and Shantanu Thakur had made false promises...” Mamatabala Thakur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Two newborn red pandas raise Darjeeling zoo’s cute quotient||The stork visited the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park (PNHZP) in Darjeeling on Thursday, as Shobha, one of the female red pandas of the zoo, gave birth of two furry cubs at Topkay Dara, the captive breeding centre of the species run by the zoo. Dharmdeo Rai, the director of the PNHZP, said after the birth of two panda cubs, the population of the species at the centre has increased to 25. Red pandas are a major attractions for tourists who visit the zoo every year. Rai said the cubs were fathered by Noel, a male red panda who is also an inmate of the zoo. “The cubs and their mother are in good health. We are keeping them under constant watch,” said Rai. The captive breeding centre was set up back in the 1980s and is the only such site in the country used for breeding and conservation of the small mammal. On June 5, two more cubs had been born in the centre. Along with captive breeding, the state forest department has also drawn plans to release some of the red pandas in the wild, particularly in the forests located on the upper reaches of Darjeeling hills like the Singalila National Park and the Neora Valley National Park. Apart from pandas, the park is also known for captive breeding place of some other animals which only survive in cold climates such as snow leopard, Himalayan tahr, Tibetan wolf and blue sheep are also carried out at the centre. Sources at the zoo also spoke about a short video that became popular on social media a couple of days back. It showed three snow leopard cubs playing in the zoological park. Zima, a female snow leopard, had given birth to the cubs on April 12. Namkha, the father of these cubs, is also a resident of the park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Enforcement Directorate summons 7 Bengal IPS officers in coal case||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned seven Bengal IPS officers, including Gyanwant Singh, the head of the CID, in connection with the ongoing probe into the multicrore coal pilferage case. The officers have been given a freedom to choose from either turning up physically or attending the questioning session through virtual medium. Each of the seven have been assigned specific dates between July and August for their hearing. “Each of these officers have been responsible for policing the zone from where coal used to be illegally pilfered and transported out in trucks,” said a senior ED officer. “The money that was collected has travelled several routes to reach destinations beyond the country. We would like to understand what was the role of these officers in ensuring there was no illegal pilferage of coal.” Some of these IPS officers have been recently responsible for policing in different districts, including Purulia, Birbhum, East Burdwan, Nadia and Murshidabad. The CBI, which is primarily probing into the alleged siphoning of coal worth several hundreds of crores from parts of south Bengal, have already questioned some of these IPS officers. In May, a team of CBI officers had questioned Singh at Nizam Palace. Officers had then argued that Singh was in charge of the state’s law and order when most of the pilferage had taken place. Before being the top cop in charge of law and order, CBI officers said, Singh was also in charge of Bengal’s western zone that covers some of the collieries from where the alleged pilferage had taken place. Singh has been summoned to appear before the ED on August 5. Koteswara Rao, who was the superintendent of police of Bankura and faced CBI interrogators in April, has been summoned for questioning on July 26. S. Selvamurugan, Shyam Singh, Sukesh Jain, Rajeev Mishra and Tathagata Basu are the five other IPS officers summoned by the CID. While the CBI is probing into the crime behind the alleged pilferage, the ED is investigating the trail that hundreds of crores of rupees, which the trade had generated, had travelled. In the course of the probe both the central agencies have knocked on several addresses of the alleged mastermind of the pilferage business Anup Majhi alias Lala. In June, a team of officers from the ED had visited Majhi’s ancestral home in Purulia in search of some documents. The Trinamul Congress termed the ED summoning the seven officers as a politically motivated act aimed at breaking the morale of a section of IPS officers in the state. “This will go on from time to time. The two central agencies will continue to question different sets of police officers,” said a senior leader of the Trinamul Congress. “The BJP is yet to come to terms with the defeat in Bengal and hence, all these activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
