10-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh likely to meet JP Nadda in New Delhi on Sunday||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh will most likely meet the party’s National president JP Nadda in New Delhi on Sunday to discuss a range of issues, said a party leader, reports hindustantimes.com. According to a report by hindustantimes.com, a senior BJP leader said that while the party is thinking of imposing some kind of penalty on those who have been openly criticising the party and its leaders after the assembly elections, there could also be some structural changes in the coming days “All these issues, including how to boost the morale of party workers who are bearing the direct brunt of post-poll violence, could be discussed in the meeting,” said a senior leader. When asked whether the party is going to impose any penalty against leaders who have spoken against the BJP, Ghosh said that the issues were being discussed. “The issues were being discussed. The decision would be taken by the party’s policymakers,” he told the media, quotes hindustantimes.com. While the party’s national vice president, Mukul Roy, has already sided with the Trinamool Congress, a section of leaders has openly criticised the party and its state leaders. A few others, who had abandoned the TMC to join the BJP ahead of the 2021 assembly polls have expressed their intention to return to the TMC. “Sometimes, a bark of one tree can be fixed on another tree. We had done some experiments. They didn’t work. Those who joined the BJP know its ideologies. The problem crops up when someone thinks that he is above the party,” said Ghosh. However, the TMC took a jibe at the BJP saying that good sense prevailed even though it was late. “It is good that they have understood and accepted that their experiment with barks has failed. They tried to nurture one tree with the bark of another tree. But instead of growing, the tree became shorter. They have lost seats compared to 2019,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister. In the recent Union cabinet reshuffle while four BJP MPs were inducted into the cabinet as ministers of state, two erstwhile ministers in the cabinet, Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, had to bow out. “The party may also give them and some other leaders some responsibilities in the state unit and to strengthen the party,” said another BJP leader. While elections in more than 100 civic bodies are pending, panchayat elections are also scheduled in 2023. Even though the BJP had set a target to win more than 200 seats in the recently held assembly elections and form the government in West Bengal, the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory winning 213 out of the 292 seats where elections were held. The BJP could manage only 77 seats. “Since then, several of our party workers have been killed and many injured. Thousands had to abandon their homes due to violence. The party needs to stand beside them and boost their morale before the civic and panchayat polls,” said a BJP leader. On Friday, election strategist Prashant Kishor and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met in Kolkata to discuss organisational changes in the TMC and the alliance of regional forces the party plans to form against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul members stage protests across Bengal over soaring fuel prices||Trinamul Congress members protested across Bengal on Saturday against the spiralling fuel prices that are causing hardships for the common people amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Petrol is retailing at over Rs 101 per litre and diesel at more than Rs 92 in Bengal, while domestic LPG touched Rs 861 per cylinder. The protests were held in Dum Dum, Central Avenue and Chetla areas of Calcutta, Canning in South 24 Parganas, Chinsurah in Hooghly, and Malda, besides other parts of the state. State Transport Minister Firhad Hakim said the Centre imposed enormous taxes on petroleum products, causing a lot of hardships for the common people. "Petroproduct prices were unregulated, allowing oil companies to raise prices to increase their profits so that their share prices also rise," he claimed. "In turn, this will help the Centre to sell the state-run oil companies to foreign investors," he said. Hitting out at the Centre, leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury said his party has been demanding rollback of taxes to bring down the prices of petroleum products to ease the burden on the people. "The Bengal government should also consider the reduction of tax on petroleum products," he said, adding that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee came to power with a huge mandate and should review this. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that taking to the streets will not result in a reduction of the prices of petroleum products. "Prices of petroproducts are linked to the international market. When the international market stabilises, prices in the country will also be moderated," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Cultural personalities hold Modi government accountable for death of Father Stan Swamy||Cultural personalities Chandan Sen, Bimal Chakraborty, Debdut Ghosh, Manasi Sinha and Subhaprasad Nandi Majundar, at a meeting at Barrackpore on Friday, held the Narendra Modi government accountable for the death of 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy. The ailing activist, arrested in a case in which rights activists stand accused of having Maoist links, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while awaiting bail. The meeting, held under the banner of the Left-backed socio-cultural outfit Platform for Education Literature Culture, demanded an independent probe preferably by a retired Supreme Court judge into the death of Fr Stan. Calling his death “institutional murder”, playwright-director Sen said: “If the Centre has nothing to hide, it should allow judicial inquiry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba to PM Modi: BJP not serious on Gorkhas||Neeraj Zimba, BJP MLA from Darjeeling, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing disgruntlement for not including Darjeeling MP Raju Bista in the new cabinet. Zimba has also stated that his government has taken “no substantial steps” towards fulfiling the commitments made to the people of the region, making the Indian Gorkhas believe that BJP is “never serious” about Gorkhas and their issues. Four first-time Lok Sabha MPs from Bengal — Nishith Pramanik, John Barla, Santanu Thakur and Subash Sarkar — were inducted in the new cabinet on Wednesday. Pramanik, from Cooch Behar, was made junior home and youth affairs and sports minister. Barla, from Alipurduar, was made MoS in the ministry of minority affairs. The other two MPs, Thakur and Sarkar, also took oath as ministers of state. In his letter to Modi, Zimba stated that the people of the region wanted Darjeeling MP Bista in the new cabinet and has backed the claim stating that Bista was instrumental in the party’s growth in north Bengal. “With 100% per cent results in the Darjeeling district, Raju Bista Ji has delivered 5 out of 5 seats from the district and has also influenced Gorkha voters in about 10 seats across the north Bengal region,” wrote Zimba. Zimba alleged that the BJP-led central government had taken no substantial steps towards fulfilling the commitments made to the people of the region. “The people of Darjeeling have fully trusted the BJP leadership to this date, despite the fact that no substantial steps have been taken towards fulfilling the commitments made towards the region vis a vis the Sankalp Patra and the repeated assurances made by the Central BJP leadership,” Zimba’s letter stated. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, the BJP had promised a permanent political solution for the region and granting of tribal status to 11 hill communities. “Sir, the much-talked-about finding permanent political solution to the region’s issues seems to be gathering dust,” wrote Zimba. He alleged that there is a lack of “political will” to grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. “…while the demand for the inclusion of 11 omitted Gorkha communities is lost in the quagmire of bureaucracy, due to the lack of political will,” Zimba’s letter said. “The demand for establishing a central university in Darjeeling has been denied despite several assurances given to MP Raju Bista by the Hon’ble minister. All official responses to the issue of the Gorkha community and the Darjeeling region have only been met by a stoic silence,” Zimba wrote in the letter. Darjeeling has been electing BJP MPs since 2009 starting with Jaswant Singh, S.S. Ahluwalia and Raju Bista in 2019, Zimba told to Modi. “Not including MP Raju Bista Ji in the new ministerial team has not only demotivated the dedicated party workers but the entire Indian Gorkha community who feel that BJP is never serious about the Gorkhas and their issues,” Zimba stated in the letter. Many in the hills believe the content of Zimba’s letter is a sign of growing discontent towards BJP which is seen making tall claims for the community without anything concrete to show on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||District administration to start survey on occupied Durgapur Projects Limited plots from today||The West Burdwan district administration will start a survey with the help of drone cameras to identify encroached land parcels of Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) from Saturday in a bid to enable the power department to sell off or lease out surplus land of the power utility. Sources said district officials, the DPL management and police would jointly go on a door-to-door campaign to counsel encroachers to vacate. A DPL official stressed that the process needed to be “peaceful”. District magistrate Vibhu Goel, on Nabanna’s instructions, held a meeting with the DPL management on Friday to enquire about the company’s unused land which the state government has decided to sell off or lease out. The DPL has around 3,759 acres in Durgapur, Borjora in Bankura, Bali and Dankuni in Hooghly and Burdwan in East Burdwan. The plant and township along with other infrastructure have come up on around 2,000 acres. Over 1,700 acres are vacant on paper. However, authorities found out that most unused plots are encroached upon and in many settlements the state government supplied power and water connections before the 2017 civic polls. The visit of police and government officials triggered panic among encroachers. “I have been staying here for over three decades. How can the government ask me to vacate now?” asked Ajit Ruidas. The area under which the land falls will see civic polls next year. The BJP and the CPM have supported the encroachers. “The government will have to make it public what they want to do with the land. We won’t allow the government to evacuate people just because it wants to sell the land to private companies,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar of the CPM. BJP MLA from Durgapur (West) Lakshman Ghorui said their leader Suvendu Adhikari had raised the issue in the Assembly. “Our priority is people and not private realtors…we will protest,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||No-eviction hurdle to land sale; plan to free encroached DPL plots||The Mamata Banerjee government may have to tweak a policy on encroachment, framed six years ago, to implement its plan to sell off or lease out 1,000 acres of unused land owned by the Durgapur Projects Limited. The need to bend the rules was felt on Thursday evening after Nabanna came to know that most of the unused land parcels had been encroached upon. “The government wants to monetise unused land of the DPL. But the DPL authorities last evening (Thursday) said during a meeting at Nabanna that most of the unused plots had been encroached upon a few years ago. Now, we will look into how we can overcome the problem as there is a government policy against evicting encroachers from government land,” said a senior government official. Sources said the DPL authorities informed the top government officials as well as power department officials that only 154 acres of land in the Bidhannagar area of Durgapur were free of encumbrances. “Though nearly half of 3,759 acres of land owned by the DPL is lying unused on paper, right now only 154 acres can be leased out or sold as encroachers have settlements on the rest. A policy of the government has come in the way of removing the encroachers,” said a bureaucrat. The Bengal cabinet in 2015 adopted a policy of granting long-term settlement rights to those occupying government land for at least five years. It drew flak from several quarters amid fears that it would stall development projects. But the state government, which follows a hands-off land policy, did not reconsider. Based on the policy, the state government went on to grant long-term settlement rights to thousands of those living on state government land ahead of 2021 polls. “Now, for the first time the state government is facing a problem over it. It will be interesting to see if the state reviews its policy in order to make its DPL plan successful,” said a senior official. But, officials said the government had laid stress on clearing encroachments from DPL land during Thursday’s meeting. “This is a positive move. If the state goes ahead with its DPL initiative, it means the ruling establishment has realised that encouraging encroachment on government land cannot yield positive results,” said an official. Sources said the top brass of the state government was unhappy with the DPL authorities as they had come with papers of 154 acres only as these were free from encumbrances. DPL authorities have been asked to identify more areas that could be sold or leased out by clearing encroachments. “This (development) gives hope for many projects that could not be taken up because of illegal encroachments,” said a source. Questions on this particular settlement policy were raised most vocally in 2018-19 when the state government announced Rs 17,000 crore of infrastructure projects across the state. However, the projects never took off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 990 new infections in a day||Bengal on Friday reported the 19th straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 453 to 16,690 now. On Friday, the state reported 1,424 recoveries, 990 new infections and 19 deaths. With worst-hit districts Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logging 73 and 94 new infections, Friday was the second day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported three-digit figures of new infections. Twenty-one districts reported double-digit figures while Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, had come down to 1.93 per cent on Friday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.78 per cent, while the national rate is 97.17 now. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.32. Of the 19 deaths reported on Friday, two were from Calcutta city and four from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths while three others reported just one each. The total number of active cases in the state had declined  till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by nearly 32 per cent again over these 19 days. Bengal now has a total of over 15.1 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was detected in March last year. The figure includes 14.76 lakh recoveries and 17,886 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||‘BJP member’ Mukul Roy made Public Accounts Committee chairman, BJP cries foul||Mukul Roy was on Friday appointed the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in the Bengal Assembly amid protests by the BJP-led Opposition. The Krishnagar North MLA had once been Trinamul’s de facto No 2 but switched to the BJP and who the Assembly poll. He has now returned to Trinamul without stepping down as BJP MLA. BJP MLAs, led by the leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, walked out of the Assembly soon after Roy’s appointment was announced by Speaker Biman Banerjee. Roy, on paper, remains a BJP MLA. While there is no set rule on the selection of the chairman of the key standing committee, and the appointment is the Speaker’s call, the post conventionally goes to the Opposition. BJP leaders had told the Speaker they wished to nominate economist Ashok Lahiri, the Balurghat MLA. “Nobody got a chance to discuss it. Conventionally, the PAC chairman is selected from the Opposition. Just as the government has the right to spend (funds), the Opposition has the right to examine expenses. The ruling party has broken that convention, showing its power of numbers,” Adhikari said at a news meet in the Assembly after the walkout. “The government just tore up the relationship between the ruling party and the Opposition in the Assembly. The BJP has vowed to implement the anti-defection law in the Assembly (with regard to the likes of Roy),” said Adhikari. The BJP has officially appealed to the Speaker to implement the anti-defection law against Roy. A hearing on the matter is scheduled on July 16. Adhikari said that if the Speaker doesn’t act soon, the BJP would move court. Despite being a BJP member on paper, Roy’s name didn’t find mention in the list of PAC members submitted by the BJP to the Speaker. Of the 20 members who form the PAC, 14 are nominated by the ruling party, six by the Opposition. Roy’s name was proposed by Ruden Lepcha, the Kalimpong MLA of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Trinamul-backed faction and seconded by Trinamul’s Egra MLA. Last month, during a news meet at Nabanna, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had endorsed Roy’s membership in the PAC. She also stated that Roy “is a member of the BJP”. She had said Roy had the support of the Treasury benches. However, she added that the selection of the chairman was at the Speaker’s discretion. Adhikari said the BJP refused to chair any of the remaining standing or House committees offered to them. “In 2016, the Left and the Congress had an equal number of MLAs (77, which the BJP had at the start of this 17th Assembly) and they were asked to chair 15 such committees. We were first given nine, and later, 10 committees. We have refused the offer.” “This is for the first time since Independence that the Opposition is not chairing the standing or House committees… Let Trinamul enjoy all the power, because this is their last term,” he claimed. The BJP’s embarrassment with Trinamul turncoats continued on Friday, as journalists asked the party’s Bengal chief, Dilip Ghosh, in Barasat about rifts within. Ghosh said newcomers were yet to “fully fathom” the BJP. “They are facing problems. There is no problem with old-timers…” He said the BJP was mulling action against Trinamul turncoats Rajib Banerjee and Sabyasachi Dutta who had openly criticised their new party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Police start murder case related to alleged unnatural death of Suvendu Adhikari's security guard ||Police on Friday started a murder case related to the alleged unnatural death of a security guard of BJP MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, based on a complaint by the deceased’s wife. She blamed the Trinamul turncoat for the death of her husband by a bullet wound in 2018 at a Calcutta hospital. “Suparna Kanjilal Chakraborty, wife of Subhabrata Chakraborty, has lodged a complaint against Adhikari and others for the death of her husband. A case under sections of murder and criminal conspiracy has been started,” said a senior officer of the East Midnapore district police. Contai police have drawn up an FIR under sections of murder and criminal conspiracy against “unknown miscreants.” The case into the death of the security guard was politically motivated, alleged several BJP leaders. They said the state government was being vindictive against Adhikari. Adhikari said Trinamul was doing “politics of revenge”. “I’m not a person to bow down. There is no point in trying to frighten me or terrorise me by the police. They are doing all these because Mamata Banerjee lost Nandigram.… Let the chief minister tell me straight that she wants me in jail for six months, I’ll show her respect and go to jail.… I’ll do the needful in the right place...,” he said. On October 13, 2018, morning, Chakraborty’s family had been informed that he was hospitalised in Contai with a bullet wound. Suparna alleged in her complaint: “On Suvendu Adhikari’s instruction, arrangements were being made to shift my husband to Calcutta. But there was a huge delay in arranging the ambulance. By the time he was taken to a Calcutta hospital, it was 7pm. He passed away the next morning. I am surprised why there was a delay in arranging the ambulance despite Suvendu Adhikari being so influential. I am yet to understand under what circumstances my husband received the bullet injury.” She further stated: “I have been quiet because he (Adhikari) was not only influential in the district but in the entire state. But now circumstances have changed. I want justice for my husband.” The complaint letter mentions Adhikari’s personal assistant Rakhal Bera who was purportedly present during the post-mortem of the deceased. Bera is in the custody of Calcutta police in connection with a job racket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Stray bullet injures 10-year-old boy in North Dinajpur||A 10-year-old boy was injured by a bullet when he was caught between two groups that clashed over the possession of a tea plantation in Islampur, North Dinajpur, on Friday. Mohammad Shahnawaz was rushed to Islampur subdivisional hospital and then to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, Siliguri. Shahnawaz was playing with other children when a stray bullet hit his abdomen. A person has been detained. Sources said Kamrul Haque and Mohammad Huda of Gathiatole, a locality in Burijagir village, Islampur, and their aides were clashing with weapons over a vacant plot marked for tea plantation. The warring groups fled when the bullet hit the boy. In Kalimpong’s Teesta Bazar, plumber Ranjit Biswas, 31, and mason Choton Sarkar, 26, tenants of one Prabal Pradhan, died trying to save him from the dagger attack of his friend Raju Kumar Subba. Prabal is hospitalised while Raju is arrested. Police are probing why Raju attacked Prabal. In East Burdwan’s Bhatar, a couple and their son were injured and their home damaged in Baneswarpur village when crude bombs allegedly stockpiled at their home exploded early on Friday. Both Trinamul and the BJP have denied links with the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Medicine crisis as Visva-Bharati halts pension||Nibait Mukhiya, a 79-year-old retired watchman of Visva-Bharati who lost his sight years ago, is having a tough time this July. The aged man is surviving without medicines and proper food as he is yet to get his pension of Rs 12,000 for the month of June, in the wake of varsity authorities halting salary and pension of 4,000-odd employees while awaiting “government nod to open the accounts office”. “The money I had left got over in four days of July. Now, I have no medicine, no proper food. I even tried eating roti with salt,” said the man whose wife Buchi now visits the bank daily to check if his pension has been credited. Mukhiya is one of many from around 1,800 pensioners facing a cash crunch. “I can tell you of at least a hundred such families in dire straits. Varsity authorities are yet to let us know when we will get our pension,” said Sisir Kumar Datta, the secretary of the Visva-Bharati Pensioners’ Association. Several officials and teachers said the varsity stopped paying salary and pension without proper notice. The pensioners’ association wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Chancellor of Visva-Bharati, on Thursday, on the hardships. Visva-Bharati officiating PRO Anirban Sircar, the only official authorised to speak to the media, did not reply to this paper’s calls or text message. The varsity is closed amid Covid-19 curbs imposed by the state government. Sources said that in an online meeting last month, the varsity’s accounts department officials told VC Bidyut Chakrabarty that to do their job, they needed permission to reopen the office. Following the VC’s order, officiating registrar Ashok Mahato wrote to the Union education ministry, seeking a nod to reopen the office. The ministry shifted the onus on the state. Mahato then wrote to state chief secretary H.S. Dwivedi. “The accounts office opened during the peak of the pandemic. If that was a violation, why not now?” asked a professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
