11-07-2021||West Bengal||Amit Mitra to step down as Bengal finance minister due to ill health||Noted economist and senior TMC leader Amit Mitra will step down as the Bengal finance minister and even retire from active politics due to ill health, party sources said on Sunday. Seventy-three-year-old Mitra, who has been the state finance minister since 2011 when the TMC came to power after ending the 34-year-long rule of the Left Front, had refrained from contesting this year's assembly elections. "Amit Da will not continue as the state finance minister as he will be completing six months in the post without being elected on November 4. He has already informed the party leadership that he doesn't want to continue in politics and administration due to ill health. "But, due to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's insistence, Mitra had taken charge as the finance minister of the state after the party returned to power for the third time in May this year," a senior TMC leader told PTI on condition of anonymity. Sources quoted by anandabazar.com have also said that Mitra will live with his daughter abroad after stepping down. After Mitra steps down, the chief minister will keep the ministry with her for some time before appointing the next finance minister, another TMC leader said, confirming the development. Mitra was a two-time MLA from Khardah constituency in North 24 Parganas since 2011. Apart from finance, he had also held the industry portfolio from 2014-2021. Due to ill health, Mitra was not present in the vote- on-account in February and state budget last week. Although the budget was prepared by him, the chief minister had presented the vote-on-account in February and state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee had tabled the state budget last week. Mitra, a former FICCI secretary general, has been part of Banerjee's close decision-making team since 2009, when the TMC was part of the UPA-2 and she was the railway minister. After the party came to power in West Bengal in 2011, Mitra has been part of Banerjee's cabinet, and was given the charge of making a financial turnaround of the debt-ridden state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
11-07-2021||West Bengal||KPP shuns John Barla, backs Mamata||Leaders of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP), a political outfit with considerable clout among the Rajbanshis, have unequivocally opposed the recent demand for separate statehood for north Bengal raised by BJP MP and Union minister of state John Barla and some other elected representatives of the saffron camp. The KPP also expressed their confidence in chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “There is no question of supporting the demand of sep¬arate statehood raised by some BJP legislators. We believe it (the demand) is noth¬ing but a political gimmick and (we) will never stand by them (the legislators),”  Chandan Singha, the KPP spokesperson, said here on Saturday. He added that in 1969, the demand for a separate Kamtapur state had been first raised. “In due course, our party was formed over two principal demands, separate statehood and recognition of the Kamtapuri language. A separate state for the Kamtapuri population will always be our aspiration but that does not mean we will stand by the BJP. More importantly, Mamata Banerjee has recognised our language in 2018. She has formed a language academy and is taking initiatives to introduce the language as a medium of instruction in schools. We have full confidence in her and we will continue to stand with her against this recent demand,” added Singha. Such an assertion from the KPP, which is one of the proponents of the demand for sepa¬rate Kamtapur state for the Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) popu¬lation of north Bengal, is expected to bolster the confidence of Trinamul that is vehemently against any parti¬tion of the state, said political observers. “Leaders like John Barla and some others are trying to stoke the sentiments of Rajbanshis and some other communities by harping on separate statehood. At such a time, such assertions from the KPP should help Trinamul thwart the advocates of separate statehood and win the confidence of the Rajbanshis,” said an observer. The KPP leaders, who held an organisational meeting in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri on July 8, said they have restructured the party’s central committee, following the death of their founderpresident Atul Roy last month. According to them, a 25-member committee has been formed at the meeting. “Menoka Roy, our late president’s wife, has been selected as the new president of the party. Also, Amit, their son, has been included in the committee,” said a KPP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 997 new infections and 17 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged the 20th straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 386 to 15,304. On Saturday, the state reported 1,336 recoveries, 997 new infections and 17 deaths, three of them from Calcutta. With Calcutta logging 86 new infections and North 24-Parganas 96, Saturday was the third day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures and North Dinajpur, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. North 24-Parganas reported five deaths, Darjeeling one and 17 Bengal districts zero deaths on Saturday. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.9 per cent on Saturday, indicating a reducing Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.8 per cent, with the national rate 97.18. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 per cent now and that of the nation is 1.32. Bengal now has a total of over 15.11 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.78 lakh recoveries and 17,903 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt land encroach charge on BJP minister John Barla||Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri filed a complaint with the district magistrate’s office on Friday, alleging Alipurduar BJP MP and new Union minister John Barla has encroached on a government plot for business purposes. “The MP has occupied government land at Chamurchi More in Banarhat (under Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district) and is building a commercial-cum-residential complex at the site. We have submitted detailed documents to the administration and have sought necessary steps,” said K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul chief of Jalpaiguri. Barla, the junior minority affairs minister, is not in north Bengal and has not commented on the allegation. Despite phone calls and WhatsApp messages from this paper, he could not be contacted. Barla shot into the limelight recently by demanding separate statehood or Union Territory status for north Bengal, which left leaders of the Bengal BJP in an awkward position. The Jalpaiguri district administration has initiated action on the Trinamul complaint. DM Moumita Godara Basu has instructed the district land and land reforms department to check the status of the plot at Chamurchi More and submit a report to her. Trinamul insiders said their preliminary findings revealed the plot was government land. “Even so, we want the administration to come out with full details. If our allegation is proved correct, a district-wide movement would be launched against the MP,” said a party leader. A Trinamul leader in Alipurduar town, Dipto Chatterjee, said on Saturday that once the MP is back, they would wave black flags and shout slogans against him to protest his divisive statehood call. “We don’t want him in Alipurduar. He is a man with a separatist mindset.” The Telegraph has checked the affidavit he had filed along with his nomination in 2019 when he had contested in the Lok Sabha polls. In the affidavit, it was stated that his wife owns 6.11 acres of agricultural land that she had bought in 2014. “The affidavit shows he and his wife did not own any non-agricultural land till the day he filed the affidavit. Buildings can’t come up on agricultural land unless a formal conversion of the land’s status is done. There is always a chance that he bought the land (in Trinamul’s allegation) afterwards or taken it on lease but his silence is unusual,” said a political observer. Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP chief, accused Trinamul of political vendetta. “As he is now included in the Union cabinet, Trinamul is coming up with such charges. If the allegations are found false, we will take legal steps against Trinamul,”he  said. Bhusan Modak, convener of Alipurduar district BJP, said: “Only the MP can reply to it (the allegation). As far our party is concerned, we will only comment on it if a state government official and not a political party makes such an allegation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Babul goes after party state unit chief Dilip on Facebook||A “sigh of relief” appears to have become the latest bone of contention in the Bengal BJP. Babul Supriyo said in a social media post on Saturday that he had not understood “in his full senses” what state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh had meant in a purported comment on his exit from the new Narendra Modi ministry earlier this week. Supriyo, the Asansol MP, said in the Facebook post in Bengali: “As state president, Dilipda often says things to his heart’s content. He has said something again, I have heard it. But what is the harm if I don’t understand this time in my full senses why he made such a comment? This is my reaction. I am happy that Dilipda is happy with my ‘sigh of relief’. He is the state president, respected by all. I, too, convey my heartfelt respect to Dilipda.” Ghosh had been quoted as saying by some media outlets that Supriyo had been an active minister, but the chief minister used to abuse him a lot. “Now, Babul must have heaved a sigh of relief,” Ghosh had been quoted as saying while reacting to Supriyo’s exit from Modi’s ministry. Ghosh told reporters on Saturday that he had been “misrepresented”. The Telegraph tried to contact him but calls to his phone went unanswered. The Bengal BJP chief was during the day summoned to Delhi by national president J.P. Nadda for a meeting on Sunday. Sources in the BJP claimed the Midnapore MP had been called over his purported comments on Supriyo, who had posted on social media after the July 7 cabinet shuffle that he had been asked to resign but had later amended his comment to say that he had resigned. Asked why he was going to Delhi, Ghosh said: “I wanted to sit with him (Nadda) after the polls. That didn’t happen. Now he has called me. I will speak to him on the issues I had wanted to.” BJP sources claimed that state youth wing chief and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, who has been publicly critical of Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari and Ghosh, could be removed from his post. Khan, who had himself expressed his desire to quit in a Facebook post on July 7 apparently after he was denied a berth in the Union ministry, was unavailable for comment. Three names are doing the rounds as the next probable BJP Yuva Morcha president for Bengal. Biman Ghosh, the BJP MLA of Purshura and a close aide of Ghosh, is said to be the frontrunner. Amid growing speculation that Supriyo and Khan could be showcaused over their public comments, Saptarshi Chowdhury, the in-charge of the BJP’s Bengal media cell, issued a statement saying no such notice had been issued. Sources close to both MPs told this newspaper none of them had received any notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Centre starts process to build new road bridge over Teesta river after getting approval from railways||The Centre has started the process to build a new road bridge over the Teesta river that would connect the Sevoke Bazaar area with the Dooars, a longstanding demand of residents, with necessary approval from the railways to construct the approach road to it on railway land. On Saturday, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista said this March, he raised the issue in Parliament. “Recently, I received a letter from the Union minister of state for road transport & highways (Gen V.K. Singh) saying preparation of the detailed project report of the proposed bridge is in progress. Also, the ministry sought and obtained the right of way (RoW) from the railway ministry for construction of the approach road of the bridge, along with certain modifications,” said Bista. The Union minister said the bridge project was included under the National Infra¬structure Pipeline (NIP) programme for 20232024 fiscal. Till now, the most popular route to access the Dooars from Siliguri and the hills is NH 31 that moves through the Coronation Bridge in Sevoke, some 25km from Siliguri. But in 2011, cracks were noticed in some parts of the Coronation Bridge built over the Teesta in 1941. The state PWD impose a ban on vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above on the bridge. Since then, heavy vehicles bound for the Dooars take detours via Jalpaiguri, raising the demand for a bridge parallel to Coronation Bridge but a little down¬stream to avoid hilly terrain. “Accordingly, it was decid¬ed that a 1.6kmlong and 13mwide bridge will be built to link Sevoke Bazaar with Ellenbarrie tea estate,” said a source. Rakesh Asthana, the BSF directorgeneral, reached north Bengal on Saturday for a twoday visit. Asthana reached the north Bengal frontier of the BSF at Kadamtala on the outskirts of Siliguri to a warm welcome from senior officers. On Day One, he visited the Teenbigha Corridor on the IndiaBangladesh border and the in¬tegrated checkpost in Fulbari and witnessed the joint retreat ceremony of India and Bangladesh. Asthana also inaugurated two new border outposts and a 120men barrack at the station headquarters of Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty faces ‘unrest’ charge||A human rights activist on Saturday lodged a complaint with Santiniketan police, charging Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his associates “with creating social and economic unrest” by withholding salaries and pensions of around 4,000 present and past employees of the central varsity. Secretary of the Bolpur unit of Association for Protection of Democratic Rights  Sailen Mishra, said the decision to halt salary and pension was part of a “criminal conspiracy by varsity authorities” that affected employees, pensioners and local traders. Visva-Bharati pays around Rs 23 crore a month towards salary, pension of employees and ex-employees and pay of contract/temporary staff. Though 10 days of July are gone, no one has received their dues of June. The varsity has also not told its employees and pensioners the reason for delay. “Several people are facing hardships (without money). Salary and pension are basic rights and the present VC is trying to inconvenience employees in the midst of the pandemic. It is a criminal conspiracy and a move that affects democratic rights of employees and pensioners,” said Mishra, also an advocate. He urged the police to lodge criminal proceedings against Visva-Bharati officials including VC Chakrabarty, officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and accounts officer Sanjay Ghosh. “We have started an inquiry,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Birbhum police chief. Sources said the VC convened a virtual meeting with senior varsity officials on Friday evening where he said he would write to PM Narendra Modi, explaining the situation. Officiating varsity PRO Anirban Sircar, who is authorised to speak to the media, did not respond to calls or WhatsApp text sent by this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur Projects Limited  township-shrink plan to free land for sale||The state government has planned to accommodate the Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) Township into a smaller area to try and monetise surplus land to support the loss-making state-owned power utility. The township — where employees of the power utility stay — is spread across 1,045 acres divided into A (380 acres), B (494 acres) and C (171 acres) zones. At present, the DPL has around 2,600 employees on its payroll and the township has 3,300-odd quarters. Sources at the DPL said initially they planned to merge the A and C zones with B. The company has already circulated a notice on this. Employees were asked to respond with applications for re-allotment of company quarters by July 25. However, in the notice the DPL management said they had taken this step to crack down on illegal occupants of company quarters. “The employees staying in quarters at the A and C zones will be reallocated at quarters at the B zone. They were asked to apply via a form available in the office by July 25. Re-allotment of company quarters will be on first-come, first-serve basis depending on availability,” said a DPL official. Sources said that after a meeting with the West Burdwan district administration, the DPL management planned to demolish the quarters after the merger of the A and C zones and the land would be sold off or leased out. “If we can merge the township and confine our employees into a smaller area, we can use vacated land for monetisation,” said the official. DPL insiders said that at present the company did have surplus quarters after manpower in recent years reduced with no further recruitment. “Half the quarters are vacant on paper but have illegal occupants. Earlier the DPL had around 8,500 employees but now the figure has reduced to around 2,600. Many of them stay in self-owned homes,” said a DPL official. Local sources said the land at the C and A zones was closer to Durgapur railway station and the Damodar river and could prove lucrative for realty projects. “During the Left Front regime, the government planned a residential project on the public-private partnership model on the unused land of the township. At that time, it was decided that 25 per cent of the flats will be reserved for present and past employees of DPL and the rest sold at market rates. We had estimated a generation of around Rs 3,000 crore,” said a retired DPL manager who was posted in township administration. The proposal to re-allot quarters has irked DPL employees. “I have been staying in a bungalow for the past 10 years. The company allotted me the accommodation after I was promoted as manager. Why should I shift to smaller company quarters? It is an insult and inconvenience to me,” said an employee. CPM leader and Citu district secretariat member Pankaj Roy Sarkar said no employee could be “forced” to relocate. “The company has suddenly come up with the (zone) merger idea without discussing the matter with trade unions that represent employees. We demand the government should make it public first what they want to do with the unused DPL land,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
