12-07-2021||West Bengal||The Park a regular party zone during Covid times, say police  ||Calcutta Police believe that violation of Covid protocols is a regular affair at The Park from where over 30 people were arrested early on Sunday for holding a midnight party on the corridors of one of its floors. The  detective department has asked the hotel administration to submit CCTV footage from all the floors of the hotel of the last one month to help probe the violation. Police have also sought records of bookings, including  names and number of persons who stayed at the hotel in the same period. “It appears that such acts of revelry are now common at the hotel which puts the lives of people at risk, in the current pandemic situation. If other such events were also held at the venue, we will have to find out those involved. They are not only breaking the law but putting to risk lives of many people in the community,” said a police officer. The Park,  in a statement released  earlier, had admitted that its premises were being used a “weekend getaway.” “Many of our patrons and their friends or families book stays in the hotel as a weekend getaway on a regular basis,” the statement read. Late on Saturday night,  police had raided the hotel on Park Street and arrested 37 people for defying Covid-19 protocols. Some of those arrested also got involved in resisting and manhandling the cops. The police had information for at least 10 days that people were booking two or three rooms, even during weekdays, and partying. Maintaining Covid restrictions, the hotel has kept its bar and restaurants shut. Guests staying at the hotel, including the 37 arrested on Sunday, had been arranging for their own booze. Among the items seized from the rooms rented on the third floor of the hotel, in the corridor of which the party with loud music played by a DJ was held, were four liquor bottles and four glasses. The police have also seized two Pioneer DJ consoles, one amplifier, two sound boxes, one DJ light, three hookahs, one pouch of marijuana and 38 mobile phones. “The revellers ignored the hotel staff request to call off the party and continued till well past midnight. When we reached the hotel, it was around 1am. The loudspeakers were blaring, and voices were drowned in the noise. None of the accused stopped even after we identified ourselves,” said a police officer. Some of the accused had pushed and manhandled the police with choicest abuses when they were told to stop the party. “Guest and staff safety being our utmost priority, the bars and restaurants at our hotel are shut on the basis of Covid-19 protocols.  Many of our patrons and their friends or families book stays in the hotel as a weekend getaway on a regular basis. We are complying with all rules and regulations and would continue to do so and there has been no violation. We are fully cooperating with the authorities,” read the statement issued by The Park authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Rising diesel price and dip in hilsa catch worry fishermen||Rising diesel price and a dip in the hilsa catch for the second year on the trot have left fishermen and the government worried because livelihoods of around 30,000 people are at stake. Because of the low yield, many fishermen are not taking their trawlers to the sea after one or two trips as diesel price has crossed Rs 90 a litre. “Affording fuel cost,  the main investment to catch hilsa, is tough. Many trawler owners like me have stopped sailing our boats temporarily as the expense-and-profit ratio is not viable. The cost towards fuel increased by 22 per cent compared to last year and production of hilsa reduced by 35 per cent. It is a survival challenge,” said Satinath Patra, secretary of the Sunderban Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union, an association of sea-fishermen. Sources said a trawler carries around 2,400 litres of diesel in barrels to trawl the sea for five days. Diesel on Thursday sold for Rs 92.50 a litre in Calcutta. “One of my trawlers came back with hilsa worth Rs 1.5 lakh only. I could not recover my fuel cost. This isn’t only my story but of everyone in this trade,” said Patra, adding they would write to central and state governments seeking subsidised diesel for fishing. “The situation is the worst this year with low hilsa catch and high diesel price,” said Shyamsundar Das, secretary of the Digha Fishermen’s Association. Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries in South 24-Parganas, said hilsa production is down by more than half compared to last year. Since the hilsa fishing season is yet to be over, the fishermen are keeping their fingers crossed, expecting to recover the loss in their next trips to the sea. But, the rising riverbed level due to siltation, trapping of juvenile fish and excessive harvesting by some fishermen are possible reasons why the hilsa is elusive. According to experts, the Hooghly river meets the Bay of Bengal close to the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas, and the confluence is the favourite place for the hilsa, which move from the ocean to the river stream around this season. Till Tuesday around 2,000 boats that went to catch hilsa on June 15, after the expiry of the government-mandated gap from April 15 to June 14 to promote hilsa breeding, from Namkhana, Kakdwip, Raidighi in South 24-Parganas and from Digha, Shankarpur and Contai in East Midnapore have returned with their catch. But, the quantity of the fish was so meagre that the fishermen were reluctant to disclose the figure. According to the members of the fishermen’ welfare outfit in Namkhana, till Tuesday the total hilsa catch has not reached even 100 tonnes, less than a quarter of the projected catch during June-July every year. “Hope the situation improves,” said Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Asansol Durgapur Development Authorities allotted DPL land to various agencies during Left regime||The Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) authorities have found that nearly 950 acres owned by it had been, without its approval, allotted to various agencies by the Asansol Durgapur Development Authorities (ADDA) during the Left Front regime. This came to light after the power utility started taking stock of its 3,759 acres, as the Trinamul government decided to either sell off or lease out the unused land of the loss-making company as part of its restructuring plan. Sources in the DPL said the land “occupied” by the ADDA was located at the Bidhannagar and Fuljhore mouzas of Durgapur town, where private schools, colleges and a hospital have come up in the past decades. “We have put up our boards on the land occupied by the ADDA, stating that the land belongs to the DPL. We have also informed the government,” said a DPL official. DPL officials, however, said it was not possible to demolish the schools, colleges and the hospital to free their land as these have been around for years. “We can claim an amount from the ADDA or the price they received from agencies during allocation of the land. We are estimating the value and working on it,” said a DPL official. The DPL has earmarked around 50 acres of land in Bidhannagar, where the Left Front government had proposed an IT park. “Two IT companies have come up on 8 acres while the remaining 22 acres are still vacant after the company to which the ADDA had allotted the land returned it to them for economic reasons. We have put up boards saying the land is ours,” said a DPL official. Large tracts are already occupied by illegal settlers. Now, these allocations could cause further trouble for the state government in selling off or leasing out unused land, said sources. It is still not clear how the state would go about the “irregular” hand-over of plots done by a government agency. Former chairman of ADDA Bansagopal Chowdhury, during whose tenure the land was allotted to various agencies, asked why the DPL was raking up the issue after so many years.“Why did the DPL not raise the issue earlier? I did not steal the land for my personal reason, everything was done publicly. What was the DPL doing at that time?” he asked, adding both the DPL and ADDA are government organisations and the matter could be resolved. “The matter can be easily solved by the government, as both the organisations are under it,” added Chowdhury. Sources in the land department said that the entire land in Durgapur and its adjoining areas, excluding the privately owned plots, belonged to the Durgapur Development Authority (DDA) or the Industrial Board during the 1950s. The DDA transformed into the ADDA later. “The land that the DPL now claims was either of the DDA or of the Industrial Board. The land might have been transferred to the DPL during its formation in 1961, but perhaps the record was not updated properly and there was maybe a communication gap,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Rainfall and Bengal govt’s timely intervention save Yaas-flooded fields in three coastal districts||Bengal’s kharif paddy-sowing area will not reduce as the salt content of the 1.43 lakh hectares in three coastal districts that had remained under water for weeks in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas in May has been washed away by heavy rain, internal reports of the agriculture department have stated. Till a couple of weeks ago, there were fears that farming on plots with salt deposits on the top soil would not be possible during the kharif season. But good rainfall at the start of the monsoon and timely intervention from Nabanna have saved the day, said a senior bureaucrat. Bengal’s self-reliance in rice ran the risk of being compromised in the saline flooding. While the rain helped wash away the salt deposits, timely initiatives of the agriculture department also played a crucial role, said a source. As soon as water receded from fields in South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, the agriculture department sent scientists for surveys. The scientists said salt deposited on 1.43 lakh hectares of land could be leached out by two heavy spells of rain. In the meantime, agriculture department officials convinced farmers to make seed beds in upper areas where saline water did not reach. Heavy rain did occur. And now, seed beds are almost ready, an official said. “Farmers can soon sow saplings on their plots,” said an official. Farmers were convinced to prepare community seed beds in the upper areas as not all of them owned land in those areas, he added. Another official said that Bengal’s annual consumption requirement of rice was around 160 lakh tonnes. The state produces around 168 lakh tonnes. “In such a tricky situation (after coastal farmlands were flooded with saline water), had we failed to cultivate 1.43 lakh hectares out of a total of 44 lakh hectares in the state, we could have fallen short of our consumption requirement,” the official said. The state government also worked hard to ensure compensation for affected farmers, said another official. “A total of Rs 230 crore has been sent to the bank accounts of affected farmers,” he said. This also gave the farmers confidence about cultivating plots, even those under saline water, as the agriculture department simultaneously explained to them that farming was possible on the affected plots this kharif season, he explained. The farmers’ confidence increased when chief minister Mamata Banerjee enhanced the annual financial assistance under the Krishak Bandhu scheme to Rs 10,000. “The first allotment of the enhanced assistance has already been sent to the accounts of 62 lakh farmers. The farmers now know that the state government would be by their side if a disaster takes place. So they did not hesitate when the department asked them to prepare seed beds,” said another official. The agriculture department had also sent salt-tolerant paddy seeds to farmers in case their fields had excess salt deposits, a source said. “But those won’t be required. Plots are ready for normal farming,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total number of active cases fewer than 15,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged the 21st straight day of a dip in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 403 to touch 14,901. The number of active cases is below 15,000 again after June 9, 32 days ago. The state reported 1,314 recoveries, 924 new infections and 13 deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported two deaths. Bengal now has 3.31 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most active cases. The state’s recovery rate rose to 97.83 per cent. The national rate is 97.17. Active cases in all had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 at the peak of the second wave. But for 11 days till June 20, it rose by over 56 per cent, before falling again by over 35 per cent over these three weeks. “Getting back to below 15,000 active cases again is a memorable achievement in the wake of the devastating second wave. Our next goal is to get to below 10,000 in a matter of weeks,” said a minister. With Calcutta logging 82 new infections and North 24-Parganas 94, Sunday was the fourth day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a daily three-digit figure of new infections. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures and six others single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.78 per cent on Sunday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Of the 13 deaths, two each were reported from the city and North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday, while Jalpaiguri, Howrah and Hooghly reported just one. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent now. Bengal now has a total of over 15.12 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.79 lakh recoveries and 17,916 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Rs 400 crore tea subsidy held up for years: North Bengal planters||An association of tea planters in north Bengal has sent a letter to the Tea Board of India on the sector’s plight as subsidy to the tune of Rs 400 crore that has been held up for “years”. “For the past few years, the Tea Board has stopped disbursing subsidies to tea estates of our region. Time and again, we have tried to draw the attention of the authorities but to no avail. According to our estimates, the gardens that have applied for subsidy will in all receive around Rs 400 crore. If the disbursement is delayed further, it would adversely affect the sustenance of a number of tea companies which have made major investments in their gardens,” said M.P. Bansal, the chairman of the Terai Indian Planters’ Association (Tipa). The tea board normally pays subsidies to tea gardens to carry out certain activities such as replantation and rejuvenation of bushes, field mechanisation, as well as upgrade of factories and allied infrastructure associated with tea production. “There have been some disbursements for the gardens in Assam. But the subsidy dues of the gardens in north Bengal still remain unpaid. The problem has been aggravated since 2014. We have highlighted this innumerable times. This is clear step-motherly treatment towards the tea estates of north Bengal by continuing with the disproportionate and inadequate fund allocation policy,” Bansal, who recently wrote to the Tea Board, said. In several cases, where subsidy was sanctioned around 10 years, people are still waiting for them, the Tipa chairman added. Tea planters have also said that after the 2017 political agitation in the Darjeeling hills that led to a 104-day-long strike, the tea sector had taken a beating. The Centre had announced a relief package of Rs 100 crore for the hill tea industry, but “nothing concrete has been witnessed yet”, said a planter in Siliguri. He added: “The central government puts emphasis on Atmanirbhar Bharat but there is a steady rise in the import of teas in violation of the rules of the tea board and the FSSAI over the years. So far, no effective step has been witnessed to control such indiscriminate import.” North Bengal produces over 400 million kilos of tea, around 30 per cent of the country’s total tea production. A Tea Board official in Calcutta, when contacted, said they were aware of the situation. “Once we receive funds and approval from necessary quarters, subsidies would be disbursed according to rule,” he said. The Tea Association of India (TAI), with member gardens in north Bengal and Assam, has sought a financial package from the Bengal government in the form of incentives on working capital loan and for capital expenditure. “From January to June 2021, there is a shortfall of around 50 million kilos in production. We are not making enough money this year. On the other hand, from January this year, the daily wage rate has increased to Rs 202 from Rs 176. In such a situation, a package from the state’s side can largely help the industry,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, the secretary-general of TAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Trawler owner arrested for juvenile hilsa catch in Kakdwip||Kakdwip police jointly with the state fisheries department and a local fishermen’s association arrested the owner of a trawler for “bottom trawling” hilsa spawn, a practice strictly prohibited by the state government. Bottom trawling means scooping with nets the “bottom” of the sea to catch juvenile hilsa. At least seven other boat owners and two truck drivers were also nabbed by the fisheries department and detained for interrogations. Police seized over a tonne of juvenile fish from Kakdwip that was being transported for sale. “We have been trying our best to create awareness among the fishermen against catching juvenile fish. But it made little impact. So such an action is being taken for the first time to convey a message,” a senior official of the fisheries department in Calcutta said. Under the guidelines of the West Bengal Fisheries Department, catching, selling and buying hilsa fish weighing below 500 grams is strictly prohibited and is a cognisable offence for penal action. According to a senior official of the state fisheries department, the hilsa fish takes at least two years to age sufficiently and be ready for market. With a life expectancy of about four years, a mature hilsa weighs up to 2 to 2.5 kg. However, such large hilsas are hardly found in the market reportedly owing to premature catching. “Today (Sunday), we got a tip-off that a boat named MV Sankha Pradeep had arrived in the Kakdwip fishing harbour with huge quantities of juvenile fish and was transporting it to city markets. We informed the police and a joint raid was conducted where over one tonne of juvenile hilsa were found,” said assistant director of fisheries (marine) Jayanta Pradhan. “Hilsa about 23cm long and weighing below 100 grams are also found. That’s really unfortunate. Despite our best efforts to create awareness about not catching juvenile fish, a section of fishermen have remained adamant,” added Pradhan. Superintendent of police of the Sunderbans police district Bhaskar Mukherjee said a probe has started based on Pradhan’s complaint. “One person has been arrested. The consignment of confiscated fish was handed over to the fisheries department for disposal,” he said. Many fishermen have expressed their concern over the increasing trend of “bottom trawling” to catch juvenile fish. “This is a dangerous method which will eventually exterminate the hilsa,” Bijan Maity, joint secretary of the West Bengal United Fishermen’s association said. The organisation demanded that the boat owners and fishermen involved in bottom trawling be arrested and their permits for fishing be cancelled permanently. “There are around 11,000 registered fishing ships in the Sunderbans area, of which around 200 ship owners allegedly bottom-trawl,” added Maity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Northeast Frontier Railway to open archive on Dilip Kumar’s hill link||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) will build an exclusive archive at the Tindharia railway station of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) in memory of actor Dilip Kumar. The actor, who passed away on July 7, had a special connect with the hills. He shot for many films in the region and played the main character in Tapan Sinha’s cult movie Sagina Mahato that was extensively shot in Tindharia, near the railway station and on the premises of the century-old railway workshop of the tiny hill town. “Dilip Kumar was a legend of the film industry. We are fortunate that he had not only visited the places of Darjeeling hills on several occasions, but also did a movie on the premises of the railway property that is a World Heritage Site now. We would like to keep his memory alive with an exclusive archive of the late film actor at the railway museum in Tindharia,” said Subhanan Chanda, the chief public relations officer of the NFR. Back in 1915, when the workshop for DHR locomotives, carriages and wagons was established at Tindharia. In 1999, the DHR toy train service, which runs between Siliguri and Darjeeling, was declared a World Heritage Site by Unesco. “We are collecting old photographs from the time of the Sagina Mahato shooting. We are also approaching people here and asking them if they can provide us with any memorabilia associated with Dilip Kumar,” the official added. Those associated with the tourism industry in the region have welcomed this unique initiative. “The archive will emerge as yet another attraction for tourists. There are many interesting stories associated with Dilip Kumar. Those, if brought to people creatively, can be a big draw,” said Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry.  Basu narrated one such interesting anecdote. “When the film director and Dilip Kumar met the DHR officials to book the workshop for the shoot, they did not have the money as security deposit. The on-duty railway official deposited the cash.” In another development, the NFR has launched a dedicated website nfrdhrbooking.in so that film production houses can obtain permission online for shooting on DHR properties. “Time and again, films have been shot in toy trains and in other properties of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway. This website has been launched so that they can obtain the permission online for using an area or for chartering a toy train,” Chanda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Unidentified miscreants hurl bombs at Trinamul Congress meeting in North 24-Parganas ||A Trinamul coordinator escaped an attempt on his life after a group of unidentified miscreants hurled bombs targeting him at a party meeting in North 24-Parganas on Saturday night. Police sources said Jayanta Das, Trinamul coordinator from Panihati municipality, and other party workers escaped unhurt amid the cascade of a dozen-odd explosions at the party office in Bibibagan under ward-13. “A group of six miscreants arrived on two motorcycles in front of the party office around 9.45pm and started hurling bombs targeting the room where Das was holding a meeting,” said a police source. A police probe into the incident began on Sunday, following a complaint lodged by Das at Khardah police station.  “I have asked the police to find out the persons behind the attack,” said Das, a former councillor of the party. Trinamul activist and eyewitness Dipankar Das said it was a planned attack on the coordinator. “The miscreants knew that he was in the meeting at this particular party office. But it is not clear who is behind the attack.… A few months ago, a similar attack was carried out by unidentified miscreants targeting the party office during Das’s presence,” he added. Residents have blamed infighting in the party behind the successive incidents of violence in the area. “It is basically a clash of interest among two factions of the ruling party who have become desperate to ensure their dominance in the area. We have appraised senior leadership of the party as well as the administration but none appeared to be interested to intervene,” said a local resident. The police said they were trying to identify those behind the attack by examining CCTV footage from adjoining properties. However, no one was arrested till Sunday afternoon. An official of Barrackpore police commissionerate added, “Local police have been instructed to find out the details of the gang. We have made it clear that any sort of disturbance and disruption of peace should be dealt with strongly”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
