13-07-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal post-poll violence: NHRC submits report to Calcutta HC||An NHRC committee investigating alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal on Tuesday submitted five sets of report in sealed covers before the Calcutta High Court, which ordered DNA matching of the body of a BJP labour wing leader for identification. A five-judge bench presided over by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal noted that the second post-mortem examination of the body of Abhijit Sarkar, vice-president of Bharatiya Mazdoor Trade Union Council in Kolkata, has been carried out at the Command Hospital as per its earlier direction and that the report was being prepared. Sarkar was allegedly killed in post-poll violence in Kolkata. His family demanded a second autopsy, which was not acceded to by the police and the administration. The high court on July 2 ordered a second autopsy at the Command Hospital, a military facility. The committee, constituted by the NHRC on the order of the high court to probe alleged human rights violations during post-poll violence, submitted five sets of report in separate sealed covers and was taken on record by the bench. The bench directed that copies of the report be supplied by the counsel for the NHRC to the advocate general, counsel for the petitioners, the counsel for the Election Commission of India and also to the additional solicitor general of India. The panel had on June 30 submitted an initial report before the court and had sought further time to submit a comprehensive report, which had been granted by the bench. Additional Solicitor General Y J Dastoor submitted on Tuesday that Biswajit Sarkar, the brother of the deceased, expressed his inability to identify the body on account of its bad condition, following which the bench ordered a DNA matching with the sibling. The ASG submitted that sample for DNA analysis of the deceased has been taken to confirm the identity of the body and that if the matching is allowed with the DNA of his brother, the issue may be resolved. Mahesh Jethmalani, senior counsel appearing for Biswajit Sarkar, said that he is ready to give his sample for DNA matching with the deceased. The court directed that samples for DNA analysis of his brother Biswajit Sarkar be taken at the Command Hospital on July 15. The bench refused a prayer by Kishore Dutta, Advocate General of West Bengal, that the investigating officer in the case be allowed to be present at the time of taking the sample of Biswajit Sarkar at the Command Hospital to which serious objection was raised by Jethmalani. "We don't consider that presence of investigating officer is required as sample of Biswajit Sarkar has to be taken in the Command Hospital," the bench said. The court directed that the samples of both Sarkar and the deceased be sent to the director of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Kolkata for analysis. "Director, CFSL, Kolkata is directed to conduct DNA analysis of both the samples at the earliest on priority basis and submit a report to this Court in a sealed cover within one week," the bench ordered. It also directed that the body of the deceased be shifted back to the hospital mortuary from where it was taken to the Command Hospital and it should be retained in safe condition until further order is passed by the court. The high court on July 2 ordered a second autopsy of the BJP labour wing leader at the Command Hospital here and issuance of a show cause notice to a deputy commissioner of Kolkata Police as to why contempt proceedings would not be initiated against him for violating its order. An affidavit filed by Deputy Commissioner of Police, south suburban division, Rashid Munir Khan was taken on record by the bench on Tuesday. The interim report of the NHRC panel had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee was obstructed from discharging his duty when he and his team members were attacked by goons on June 29 in Jadavpur area which falls under the city police's South Suburban Division. The five-judge bench also comprising justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar adjourned hearing of the PILs alleging post-poll violence in West Bengal till July 22. A bunch of PILs filed before the high court had alleged displacement of people from their residences, physical assault, destruction of property and ransacking of places of business owing to post-poll violence in the state. The high court had on June 18 directed the NHRC chairperson to constitute a committee to examine all cases with regard to alleged human rights violations in post-poll violence in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu meets Dhankhar over Mukul's appointment as PAC chairman||Leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar seeking his intervention in MLA Mukul Roy's appointment as the chairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC), maintaining that norms were not followed. Adhikari stated that Roy, who switched over to the ruling TMC after winning the assembly polls on a BJP ticket, should no longer be considered a member of the saffron camp, and his elevation as PAC chairman defies the well-established norm of appointing an Opposition leader to the post. Claiming that the TMC wants to be its own judge, Adhikari alleged that the ruling party has ensured that its member gets chosen as the chief of PAC a panel that keeps a tab on government expenses to hide "questionable" pursuits. "We met the governor and sought his intervention as he is the custodian of the Constitution," Adhikari, who led a delegation of BJP MLAs to Raj Bhavan, told reporters. Earlier in the day, eight BJP MLAs resigned as heads of Assembly panels in protest against Roy's appointment. The leader of opposition further said that his party wishes to meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and submit memoranda "describing how democracy is being throttled by the TMC in West Bengal with post-poll violence and unfair practices in the assembly". He pointed out that Roy's name did not figure in the list of six MLAs given by the BJP for the PAC chairman's post. The BJP had been seeking disqualification of Roy as a legislator under the anti-defection law, arguing that he changes sides after his election to the assembly. Adhikari said that the hearing of the BJP's application for Roy's disqualification is scheduled to be held before the Speaker on July 16. Claiming that the by-polls should not be conducted in the state until the process of vaccination is over, the BJP leader said the TMC, however, is "worried" as Mamata needs to get elected to the Assembly to retain the CM's chair. Adhikari defeated Mamata in Nandigram by 1,956 votes, according to the Election Commission. Mamata has moved a petition before the Calcutta High Court challenging Adhikari's win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Forces planning to bifurcate Bengal will be defeated, says Speaker||Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Tuesday asserted that forces plotting to bifurcate the state will be defeated. Addressing a programme of the Gorkha community in Calcutta, he said that the entire north Bengal region including the Darjeeling Hills is and will remain an integral part of the state. "Some forces are at work to separate north Bengal from our state. They will be defeated. Bifurcation of West Bengal will never be allowed," he said. The speaker also dwelt on how Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was working towards inclusive development of all regions of the state. A section of BJP leaders including Alipurduar MP and central minister John Barla had recently advocated carving out a Union territory comprising north Bengal districts, alleging lack of development in the region for years. d off a sharp reaction with the ruling TMC with party Supremo Mamata Banerjee stating she would not allow any part of Bengal to lose its freedom and be dependant on New Delhi. At a closed-door meeting at the residence of BJP MP for Alipurduar John Barla at Lakhipara Tea Garden, the demand for a separate Union Territory was raised and discussed in mid-June. Barla told PTI in a telephonic conversation later, "I made the demand there have been movements here for a separate Kamtapuri, a greater Cooch Behar and for Gorkhaland. My belief is that North Bengal should be detached and made into a separate union territory." BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh and other leaders dissociated themselves from Barla's statements and said that the party does not support any demand for bifurcation or division of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal receives 26,000 applications for student credit card scheme||The Bengal government has so far received over 26,000 applications for the student credit card scheme under which loans of up to Rs 10 lakh will be disbursed for higher studies, a senior official said on Tuesday. The scheme was launched by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee last month to help needy students pursue higher studies. Of the over 26,000 applications received till last week, nearly 6,059 are from students who hail from Bengal but are studying outside the state, he said, adding around 16,800 applicants are males and 9,700 are females. "It seems that the scheme has become quite a hit among students. We hope to receive more applications in the coming days," the official said. A student can apply for the education loan for a course for which he/she will be applying but not for one for which he/she has already paid to an institution, he said. Mamata had on June 30 launched the scheme under which pupils from class 10 onwards can apply for loans up to Rs 10 lakh as per their requirement. Students can apply for the loan even while pursuing professional courses like MBBS, BTech, or diploma courses to enhance their skills. They will not be required to provide any surety for the loan as the state government will be the surety. The interest rate will be 4 per cent and it may be reduced further if repayment is done within the study period. Besides pursuing higher studies, students can apply for the loan even to purchase laptops, books or to pay tuition fees and boarding charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: high court orders DNA test to identify body of BJP worker ||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday ordered a DNA test to identify the corpse of Abhijeet Sarkar, a BJP worker from Beliaghata, killed during the post-poll violence allegedly unleashed by members of the ruling party after the publication of the election results on May 2. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani told a five-judge bench of the high court that his client, Biswajit Sarkar, was unable to identify whether the corpse was indeed that of his brother since it was mutilated. “Since the brother cannot recognise the body, he wants a DNA test to be conducted. He must know whether the body is that of his brother or not,” Jethamalani told the court. The court has ordered a sample to be collected from the corpse of the brother at Command Hospital and then sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Calcutta. The Director of CFSL has been instructed to submit the report to the court in a week’s time. State advocate general Kishor Datta argued for the sample to be collected in the presence of an investigator from the city police, which was opposed by Jethmalani. “This will be against the SC order. The state and police have shown urgency only after the SC notice,” Jethmalani argued. The family members of Sarkar have moved the apex court seeking a CBI probe into the matter. The Supreme Court has issued notices to the Centre, the Trinamul Congress government and the Election Commission of India . Datta said the SC had only issued notices to the centre and the state, and not given a stay on the probe. “The Supreme Court may or may not transfer the investigation. Till then the state police is probing the matter. Let someone from police be present while samples are collected.” The advocate general also accused the complainants of not cooperating with the police. “There have been 11 attempts to take statements from Sarkar and family. They were asked eight times and notices served under sections 91 and 161 of the CrPC. The statements under section 164 have not been taken,” Datta said. The counsel for the petitioner informed the court the mother was scared of talking to the police as her signature was earlier taken and used for some other purpose. The National Human Rights Commission is scheduled to  submit its final report on the post-poll violence in Bengal to the Calcutta High Court on Tuesday. The court had held that the allegations of post-poll violence that has been repeatedly rejected by chief minister Mamata Banerjee were established on the basis of an interim report submitted by NHRC. Senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, representing the state government and police, demanded that copies of the interim and final report should be provided to the state government to give a reply. The court has asked the NHRC to give a copy of the final report to the state and the petitioners. Advocate and BJP nominee in the Assembly polls Priyanka Tibrewal alleged the victims were being charged Rs 600 for recording their section 164 statements.  The court asked who was being paid and if any receipt was available. The matter would come up for hearing again on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea workers attack panchayat pradhan's house, police station demanding release of garden owner ||A section of tea workers attacked the house of a panchayat pradhan and a police station demanding the release of a garden owner here on Monday night. Sources said Omprakash Upadhyaya, former owner of Kohinoor tea estate located in Alipurduar-II block, was arrested on Monday for violating a court order. “There was a dispute over the ownership of the garden. Recently, Calcutta High Court ordered that one Keshab Sinha will run the estate. Upadhyaya, however, was not ready to leave the garden, which is why he was arrested,” said a source. Later, the workers torched two bikes and other belongings of Nilam Mandal, the pradhan of the BJP-run Kohinoor gram panchayat and demonstrated at Samuktala police station demanding Upadhyaya’s release. They threw stones and bricks at the police. The cops had to burst teargas shells to disperse the crowd. Four persons have been arrested in this connection. The workers said they want Upadhyaya to run the garden. There are 888 workers in the Kohinoor tea estate. The police said the arrested quartet had been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Manoj Oraon, the BJP MLA of Alipurduar, has accused Trinamul of orchestrating the attack at the pradhan’s house. Trinamul leaders of the block, however, have denied the charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Day’s new active cases drop below 900 in Bengal||Bengal on Monday reported the 22nd day on the trot of a dip in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 370 to reach 14,531. On Monday, the state reported 1,244 recoveries, 885 new infections and 11 deaths. The total of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 during the second wave. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 37 per cent again over these 22 days. Bengal now has 3.4 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most active cases. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.95 per cent on Monday, indicating the shrink in Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.85 per cent, with the national rate at 97.25. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18, while that of the nation was 1.32 per cent. Sixteen Bengal districts, including North-24 Parganas, reported zero deaths on Monday. Jalpaiguri, Nadia and Calcutta reported just one. Calcutta logged 65 new infections and North 24-Parganas 90. Monday was also the fifth successive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures while North and South Dinajpur, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal now has a total of over 15.13 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes over 14.8 lakh recoveries and 17,927 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||New Bengal link spotted on Rath Yatra in Puri ||The Rath Yatra in Puri rolled out on Monday amid several pandemic curbs. But a new Bengal link was spotted on the pious occasion. Several servitors of the Jagannath temple in Puri were seen using the gamchhas from Biswa Bangla, a brand of Bengal handloom weavers. “The idea of Biswa Bangla was conceived by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Now, it is clear that it is getting popular. The servitors of Puri traditionally use the best quality of handloom gamchha during the rathyatra, which are produced in Odisha. The state government (of Bengal) is happy that the Biswa Bangla gamchha has met their standard,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||State CID starts probe into unnatural death of Suvendu’s security guard||The state CID has started a probe into the unnatural death of a security guard of Suvendu Adhikari in 2018, based on a complaint by the deceased’s wife. On Monday, the CID team went to Mahishadal in East Midnapore, hometown of deceased Subhabrata Chakraborty, spoke to his wife Suparna and said they would question his colleagues and close aides to piece together the exact sequence of events on October 13, 2018, when he suffered the bullet injury at the barracks near BJP leader Adhikari’s home. Adhikari left Trinamul for the BJP in December 2020 and defeated Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee by a slender margin from Nandigram. Last week, in her complaint, Suparna alleged deliberate delay by Adhikari and his associates in arranging an ambulance to take Chakraborty to a Calcutta hospital, where he died the next day. BJP leaders in East Midnapore have claimed a “political conspiracy” against Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Double vaccination certificate, Covid-negative tag must to book hotel at beach resorts ||Tourists must furnish a negative RTPCR or RAT report for Covid-19 not older than 48 hours, or a double vaccination certificate, in order to be able to book a hotel at the beach resorts of Digha, Mandarmani, Sankarpur and Tajpur. The Contai (East Midnapore) subdivision’s decision to allow at tourist spots only fully vaccinated visitors or those with a negative RTPCR/ RAT report is a first in Bengal. The local administration was forced to impose the condition from Monday “to prevent the spread of the Covid virus and to arrest the positivity rate” after the beaches registered a turnout of around half a lakh tourists last weekend alone. “Failure to comply with the aforementioned directions shall attract action under the relevant sections of law,” read a notice issued by the Contai subdivisional office. East Midnapore has seen one of the steepest spikes in new infections over the past few days. According to the state health department, the district recorded 87 cases of new Covid infections on Sunday and 75 on Monday, second only to North 24-Parganas. Even Calcutta recorded fewer new infections on those two days. Tourists swarming the beaches during the weekends have become a major concern for the district administration. Sources in the district magistrate’s office said that since pandemic-induced curbs on bus services were lifted, the frequency of tourists increased. “The decision was taken in order to ensure that the number of Covid-19 cases in the district does not skyrocket because of the tourists,” said Sudipta Porel, additional district magistrate of East Midnapore who is in charge of tourism. Hotels, lodges and stay-cottages have been informed to keep separate records of tourist documents. They have also been asked to put up posters on Covid-19 awareness at every floor, corridor, hall, dining area, reception, lawn, among others, on their premises. Police must carry out “surprise visits” to ensure hotels are complying with the directive. The Digha Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association has called a July 17 meeting to discuss the new rules and the practical challenges that these could pose in the form of dwindling footfall or asymptomatic but infected tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||New judge Shampa Sarkar assigned for CM’s Assembly poll challenge||Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Monday assigned Justice Shampa Sarkar of Calcutta High Court to hear the petition filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenging the victory of Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in the Assembly polls. Mamata, who lost the Assembly seat to the BJP’s Adhikari by 1,956 votes, has alleged in her petition that the Election Commission official who was in charge of counting for the constituency had initially declared her as the winner on May 2 but the result was reversed in favour of her rival later the same day. The acting Chief Justice had assigned the case to Justice Kaushik Chanda but Mamata had sought a transfer to another bench, fearing she might not get fair judgment from him as he had “close, personal, professional, pecuniary and ideological relationship” with the BJP and as a lawyer had represented the party in legal matters. The petition argued that Justice Chanda had earlier been made an additional solicitor by the Narendra Modi government. Hearing the plea, Justice Chanda last week excused himself from hearing the petition on “personal ground” but imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on the chief minister for “such calculative, psychological and offensive attempt to seek recusal.” Justice Chanda directed that the amount be deposited to the Bar Council of Bengal within two weeks. Mamata’s lawyers have said they would contest the penalty in the Supreme Court. The next date of the hearing of the case has not yet been fixed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Three armed burglars open fire at gold loan office, youth hurt||A youth suffered a bullet injury when three armed burglars open fired while escaping after a failed robbery at the office of a gold loan agency in Birbhum’s Suri on Monday morning. Sources said the robbers had opened fire at Mubarak Khan, 30, when he tried to catch one of them. The bullet hit Khan in his right leg and he has been admitted to Suri district hospital. Doctors said he was stable. Police said five robbers held five security persons of the private agency at gunpoint and asked them to unlock the office gate around 9am. “While lifting the shutter, the automated alarm system got activated which panicked the criminals and they started to flee. The burglars were carrying arms and had their faces covered with masks. They were speaking in Hindi,” said Mithun Mondal, one of the security persons. The police said the robbers had come on two motorbikes but left behind one on the premises of the agency office while escaping. While three fled on a bike, two began to run through the narrow roads with people chasing them. “Fearing that they would get caught, the robbers opened fire and a bullet hit Khan,” said an officer. Police sources said the bike left behind by the goons was found to be a stolen one. “It appears that the gang hailed from neighbouring Jharkhand,” said a police source. Nagendranath Tripathi, Birbhum police chief, said: “A search is on to nab the gang.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Nadia kid gives up studies to help family survive economic hardships||Rabi Rajput, 13, has a box full of candies but not to himself. He has to peddle the sweetmeat through the day in the gruelling summer heat to put food on the table for his family of four that the pandemic has robbed of basic sustenance. Rabi, a Class V student at Krishnagar in Nadia, is the sole breadwinner of his family, his mother left bereft of her domestic help’s job after she had left her abusive and alcoholic husband. The little boy’s plight has once again swivelled the spotlight on the cruel economic fallout of the pandemic, hitting the most vulnerable sections of the society the hardest and also threatening to upend the gains made in fighting child labour. The resident of Bacchu Pally who studies at Krishnanagar Sankar Mission School leaves home at 10am every day, but not for school. Hurled into the thankless and unforgiving job of a salesman at such a tender age, Rabi has a stiff target at hand. The boy carries a container with 100 lollipops, determined to sell all and earn Rs 150 on his investment that will buy food for his mother and two siblings, including his differently abled elder brother. This has been Rabi’s routine for the past 15 months, when the pandemic rendered his mother jobless. She used to be a domestic help and make about Rs 3,000 a month. The lollipops are a recent change in commodity. Rabi has had a more humble beginning, selling kochu, an edible root, which he gathered on his own. “It was very difficult when the pandemic robbed my mother of her job. Our foremost concern was the house rent of Rs 2,000. Most of her income went towards the rent. With whatever little was left, she somehow kept us alive…. The pandemic changed everything,” he said. Two years ago, Rabi’s mother Gita separated from her husband, an alcoholic e-rickshaw operator prone to domestic abuse. She left her in-laws’ home in Nabadwip to Krishnagar with her two sons and a three-year-old daughter, taking up a rented home in Bacchu Pally and working as a domestic help. “I began a new life despite odds. But the pandemic broke my back. I don’t know what would have happened to us had Rabi not taken up this challenge to keep us alive,” said Gita. “He began by selling kochu, but since the income was negligible he started selling fried flattened rice in markets once the unlock process began. A kind man, admiring his resolve, gave Rabi Rs 1,000 to start his own small business. With the advice of elders, he began selling lollipops,” the mother added. Rabi said the switch to selling lollipops a few months ago had increased his income. “With the Rs 1,000, I bought lollipops. A full container of 100 helps me make a profit of Rs 150. I try to sell 100 pieces daily, at Rs 5 each. I try to do this, daily,” he said. Rabi sells the candies at the Krishnagar bus stand and adjacent areas between 10am and 3pm. He then goes home for a meal of boiled rice and potato, before leaving for tuition from a woman who teaches him for free. Rabi again sells the lollipops at High Street till 9pm. After that, he returns home to resume his studies and teach his sister, a kindergarten student. “I dream of becoming an engineer,” he smiled. Biswambhar Mandal, a teacher at Kalyani University, said: “Rabi is not an exception. There are lakhs like him right now, compelled to work… many giving up their studies to help their families survive the dire economic hardships.” Mandal said child labour had somewhat reduced before the pandemic. But the trend had reversed over the past 15 months or so. “A recent ILO study indicates around 6 crore people are expected to slip into poverty because of the pandemic. A joint report of the ILO and Unicef estimates that a 1 percentage point rise in poverty leads to at least a 0.7 percentage point increase in child labour,” he said. “The unplanned lockdown last year by the Narendra Modi government caused a lot of damage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Assam decision spread cheer among Gorkha community members in north Bengal||The Assam government’s decision to change the nomenclature of “Nepali cultivators and graziers” to “Gorkhas” on the list of the protected class living in certain tribal blocks and belts of the state has spread cheer among community members in north Bengal. The decision of the Assam government is being viewed as the first step towards establishing a distinct identity of Indian Gorkhas, who are generally referred to as Nepali because of their language. The issue of identity has been simmering in north Bengal hills for decades and several proponents of astate of Gorkhaland have justified the demand as a means to separate the identity of the Indian Gorkhas from the citizens of Nepal, among other reasons. That’s why the Assam government’s cabinet decision, though this is just a change in nomenclature in government parlance, is being hailed by various apolitical Gorkha outfits in India. Munish Tamang, working president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh, an outfit that identifies itself as apolitical, said the notification could be seen as a “landmark”. “The notification is a landmark in the sense that it will be a marker of the progress in the integration (of Gorkhas) as indigenous people in Assam, though the protected class status has been in place since the British days,” Tamang said over phone from Delhi. Nepali cultivators and graziers were recognised as a protected class by the British government in Assam under the provisions of the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886. The same nomenclature was used when this regulation was revised by the Assam government on December 5, 1947. Earlier, the term Gorkha had been used by the government while setting up the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council in Bengal and the Gorkha Development Council in Assam. The Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution also records Nepali/Gorkha as a recognised language. However, the Assam government’s notification recognises Gorkhas in place of Nepali. Last Friday, Ranoj Pegu, education and welfare of plain tribes and backward classes minister in Assam, announced the change in nomenclature: “Under the provisions of chapter X of the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886, the cabinet approved to include Gorkhas as a protected class in the tribal belts and blocks in the districts of Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri who are residing there before 2003, that is, when the districts came under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution.” The four fall under the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
