14-07-2021||West Bengal||CID officers visit Suvendu Adhikari's home in connection with probe into former security guard's death   ||The West Bengal CID officials on Wednesday visited BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's house in Contai in connection with the probe into death of his security personnel around three years ago, a senior officer said. Apart from talking to the two security gaurds who were former colleagues of AdhikarI's ex-security detail Subhabrata Chakraborty, and are still posted there, the CID sleuths also spoke to the BJP leader's younger brother Dibyendu Adhikari. Adhikari's personal security guard had allegedly shot himself dead with his service revolver in 2018 in a police barrack in Kanthi in East Midnapore district. ”We have also collected some necessary documents in connection with the probe from Contai police station. We have also held discussions with the police officers there and had their view about the case,” the officer said. The sleuths also visited the barrack where Chakraborty had shot himself in October 2018. The guard's wife Suparna Chakrabarty had filed a fresh complaint with the Contai police station demanding a probe into her husbands death. Chakraborty, who was from the state armed police, was part of Adhikaris security team since he was an MP and continued to be in the team after he became a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government in 2015.   The reopening of the case triggered verbal duel between rivals BJP and the TMC. Referring to the visit of CID team to Adhikari's residence, BJP spokesman Shamik Bhattacharya told reporters in Calcutta, ”We wonder why the case has been raked up after two and half years?” ”When the incident happened Suvendu Adhikari was a powerful minister in Mamata Banerjee cabinet. Now when he has left Trinamul Congress to join BJP and defeated the chief minister from Nandigram all these things-filing of FIR and visit of CID team are happening. ”We guess there is a deep-rooted conspiracy behind it. This is part of revenge politics,” Bhattacharya said. Trinamul Congress MLA from Mahisadal and cousin of the deceased bodyguard, Tilak Chakraborty said, “why the death was passed off as a suspected case of suicide? We want the truth to come out.” Younger brother of Suvendu Adhikari and MP Dibyendu Adhikari said, “I think there is a deep-rooted conspiracy behind digging up an over two years old case. But, we are not afraid of any probe."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee meets Jagdeep Dhankhar amid tense ties||Amid the ongoing tussle between Raj Bhawan and the state government, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Wednesday held an hour-long meeting and discussed various issues related to the state. Dhankar said in a tweet the meeting was held without the presence of aides. "Hon'ble Chief Minister @MamataOfficial called on Hon'ble Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan today. According to sources, the two discussed the resolution passed by the state assembly seeking creation of a legislative council. The West Bengal assembly had passed a resolution last week supporting an ad hoc committee report that favoured creation of a legislative council despite strident opposition by the BJP. "A lot of issues related to the state were discussed in the meeting, which was held in a very cordial atmosphere," an official said. The meeting came amid growing animosity between Dhankhar and Banerjee, who recently said she has thrice written to the Centre demanding the governor's recall. The faceoff between Dhankhar and Banerjee intensified last month when the chief minister accused the governor of being a "corrupted man" and claimed he was named in the Jain Hawala case. Dhankhar remonstrated, accusing her of propagating "lies and misinformation". Dhankhar and the Banerjee government have been at loggerheads ever since he assumed office over a year ago. The governor has often expressed concern over the law and order situation, including the violence that followed the assembly polls held earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu moves SC for transfer of Mamata’s election plea outside Bengal||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari Wednesday moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election petition challenging his win in assembly polls from Nandigram constituency outside West Bengal. The BJP leader seeks transfer of Banerjee's plea, pending in the Calcutta High Court, outside the state, lawyer Kabir Bose said. Is move comes hours after Calcutta High Court directed that Banerjee's election petition will be taken up for hearing on August 12 and also directed notice be served upon Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, whose victory from Nandigram in the assembly elections was challenged by her. The court also directed the Election Commission to preserve all records and devices related to the polls in Nandigram. Today’s development, many believe prompted the leader of the opposition in Bengal Assembly to move the Apex Court, seeking a transfer. Adhikari, a former close aide of the chief minister, who joined BJP, is presently holding the post of the leader of opposition in the state assembly after defeating Banerjee in a closely-contested polls by the margin of 1,956 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: BJP protests against fake vaccination drive||The BJP on Wednesday organised demonstrations in several districts of West Bengal to raise voice against the recent fake vaccination drive that took place in the state. They have sought immediate action against all those involved in the dubious jab drive. Around 100 activists, led by senior BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya, assembled near the sub-divisional office in Salt Lake area on the outskirts of the city and raised slogans against the ruling TMC government for “failing to inoculate all the eligible people for free despite allotment of Covid vaccine doses by the Centre”. The agitators were bundled into police vehicles and moved from the protest site, triggering allegations of high-handedness by the TMC administration. “This government cannot stop persons like fake IAS Debanjan Deb from organising illegal vaccination camps but it knows how to halt a peaceful democratic movement by deploying policemen,” Bhattacharya said. Similar protests were also held in Purulia town and Siliguri. Deb, posing as the joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, had set up dubious vaccine camps in the city, which got busted after actor-turned-TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty, who had taken her jab at his Kasba centre, raised an alarm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Metro services to resume, but Covid curbs to stay till end-July||Metro services will resume in Calcutta from Friday (July 16) with partial operations as the Bengal government has decided to continue with existing restrictions till end of this month. Metro services will operate on weekdays with only 50 per cent occupancy. There will be no services on weekends. Metro Rail authorities and the local police would have to ensure passengers comply with the Covid guidelines in the station and trains. Local train services will remain closed. Schools and educational institutes will continue to remain shut. The government has also decided to extend banking hours till 3pm. Banks are now allowed to function from 10am to 2pm. Private offices will be allowed to remain open with 50 per cent staff. Similarly with all production units, mills, IT and IT-enabled services. Music recording studios will be allowed to operate with 10 musicians. Likewise, for the shooting of film, television and web series, 50 people will be allowed per unit but all members of the crew must have had both doses of vaccination. Salons and beauty parlours have also been allowed to work till “usual working hours” after vaccination of all staff. Restaurants and bars in hotels, shopping malls and clubs will be allowed to serve guests till 8pm. Swimming pools will be allowed for training of state, national and international-level swimmers for four hours a day till 10 am. The current restriction is valid till Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Where girls outnumber boys in schools||Girl students enrolled from pre-primary to class 12 in West Bengal schools have outnumbered boys, according to a central government survey. The dropout rate among girls is also lower than the boys in the state, the study released by the Unified District Information System for Education Plus said. Over 1.87 crore students enrolled from pre-primary to class 12 in the 2019-20 academic session in West Bengal schools, and there were 2.32 lakh more girls, it said. The number of girls in the academic session was 94,89,902, and that of boys was 92,57,890 in the state schools, according to the study released on Tuesday. An official of the syllabus committee formed by the state school education department said, "The implementation of Kanyashree project in the last few years and sustained campaigns by the state and central governments for girls' education in rural areas have contributed to the success." The importance given to girls' education by families in Bengal across social strata and campaigns against child marriage have helped achieve this, he said on Wednesday. The survey said the total enrolment in 2019-20 from primary to higher secondary level in the country was over 25.09 crore, a rise by more than 26 lakh over the previous year. "Countrywide enrolment of boys was 13.01 crore, while that of girls was 12.08 crore. "At all the levels above primary, the school enrolment has increased, showing an improvement in the ability of the system to retain more and more children," the survey said. The study, conducted in the pre-Covid-19 period, indicated that the dropout among boys was 14.1 per cent, and that of girls was 13.6 per cent in West Bengal. In the upper primary section, between class V and class VII, the dropout rate in the state was nil, while the national average was 2.6 per cent. In general, the availability of infrastructure in schools across the country has improved in 2019-20 as compared to the previous year. Some of these are - availability of electricity connection in 83.4 per cent of schools in 2019-20 as compared to 76.7 per cent in 2018-19, the study said. Computers were available in 38.5 per cent of schools in the academic year under review, and internet access in 22.3 per cent of educational institutes, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||HC admits Mamata’s plea challenging Suvendu’s win||Admitting West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's petition for hearing, the Calcutta High Court on Wednesday directed that notice be served upon Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, whose victory from Nandigram in the assembly elections was challenged by her. Justice Shampa Sarkar directed that Banerjee's election petition will be taken up for hearing on August 12. The judge directed that in the meantime, notice be served upon Adhikari, a BJP MLA, and other parties in the matter. Justice Sarkar held that as per a report received by her bench from the high court administration, the election petition was filed in compliance with the provisions of the Representation of the People Act. The court also directed the Election Commission to preserve all records and devices related to the polls in Nandigram. The matter was reassigned to the bench of Justice Sarkar by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal after Justice Kausik Chanda recused himself from hearing the Trinamool Congress chief's petition. As per the result declared by the Election Commission, Adhikari defeated Banerjee by a margin of 1,956 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Firefighting Company manufacturing oxygen concentrators to help those in need||Integrated Fire Protection Private Limited, an MSME company that has been in operation for four decades, is a pioneer when it comes to Firefighting Foam, which is made in collaboration with ABS Sweden. The company, founded in 1984, has its manufacturing unit in Jalpaiguri and its head -office in Calcutta. With NABL accredited and DSIR recognized laboratories, the company has gradually developed a range of products in different areas like Fire Fighting Dry Powder and Equipment. It has achieved a number of national and international approvals of products and accordingly improved supplies of products to domestic as well as international markets, earning a considerable amount of foreign currency. Apart from the firefighting products, the company started manufacturing a number of healthcare items particularly due to the necessity arising out of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation. It is making products such as hand sanitizers, hand wash, keeping the excellent quality of the items intact. Due to the increased requirement of oxygen therapy during these trying times, the company has started manufacturing a low cost model of oxygen concentrator with state of the art technology in collaboration with NIT, Durgapur. The concentrator is built for long sustenance and will provide high purity of oxygen duly approved with FDA and CE marking, while keeping the price low. As a result, the company is now trying to cope up with the high demand. The company is dedicated to cater to the need of oxygen concentrator for commoners on one hand and provide employment opportunities to the people of Jalpaiguri on the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader Somen Mitra's son resigns as party's Bengal general secretary||Rohan Mitra, son of late Congress veteran Somen Mitra, resigned as the West Bengal unit general secretary on Wednesday over his differences with state party president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. In a letter to Chowdhury, Mitra said he was resigning as he was "not motivated to work" in his leadership. "Your attitude towards me from the beginning has been pathetic. The language used by your close clique about my father and other leaders in the past has been detrimental to party unit in Bengal," he said "Even after the results of May 2, I had hoped you would take necessary steps and make the rectification which would send out a message to the people of the state that Bengal Congress would fight the BJP for the opposition space. Alas, that too never happened," he added. The resignation once again brought to the fore the infighting in the faction-riddled state Congress, which failed to win a single seat in the assembly elections after joining hands with the Left Front and ISF. Mitra said that the party witnessed an ultimate downfall in the state and there are no signs of its revival. "The change in your tone and the narrative towards the TMC government and the chief minister of West Bengal is a proof of that," he wrote in the letter. Chowdhury was not immediately available for comments. The name of Rohan's mother Shikha Mitra was announced by the BJP from the Chowringhee seat for the state elections after BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari met her. She then said that she was not consulted before the name was announced and she won't leave the Congress, forcing the BJP to change its candidate. The episode also drew the attention of the Congress high-command with party president Sonia Gandhi calling to congratulate her. Somen Mitra, the then state Congress president, died in July last year at the age of 78. Chowdhury replaced him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC to meet Election Commission on Thursday to press for bypolls||A TMC delegation will meet Election Commission officials on July 15 to demand conduct of bypolls and pending elections to seven Assembly seats of Bengal, as the Covid situation has eased considerably. The byelections are of critical importance to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who lost the Assembly poll to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. The Constitution allows a person to occupy a ministerial position only up to six months without getting elected to a state legislature or the two Houses of Parliament. It mandates that a minister who is not a member of legislature for six consecutive months shall cease to occupy the position at the expiration of that period. Mamata needs to get elected to the Assembly by November 4 to continue as the chief minister. "We will be meeting EC officials tomorrow (Thursday) in Delhi with the demand to hold pending elections and byelections to seven Assembly segments. The Assembly elections were held in eight phases when Covid was at an all-time high. But now the Covid situation has improved a lot. "The EC is delaying the by-elections. Is it waiting for the third wave? We want the by-polls to be conducted as early as possible," TMC chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Shekhar Ray said. Dinhata and Santipur Assembly seats fell vacant after BJP leaders Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned as MLAs and chose to retain their membership of Parliament. Pramanik was inducted into the Modi government during its recent expansion. Mamata Banerjee's pocket borough of Bhawanipore fell vacant after state minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay resigned to facilitate her election from the seat. The TMC had fielded Chattopadhyay from Bhawanipore after the party supremo decided to take on her former protege Adhikari in Nandigram. Byelections to Khardah and Gosaba seats in North and South 24 Parganas respectively are to be held after the death of TMC's Kajal Sinha and Jayanta Naskar due to Covid-19. Elections to Samserganj and Jangipur seats in Murshidabad had been countermanded following the death of candidates and later postponed indefinitely as Covid -19 raged across the state during the second wave. Currently, Mamata Banerjee and Finance Minister Amit Mitra are the two non-legislators in the ministry. Mitra has expressed his desire to step down due to ill-health, but Banerjee needs to win a by-election to enter the state Assembly. The TMC had stormed back to power in May for a third consecutive term bagging 213 seats in the 294-member Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bhutan's border lockdown sharpens petrol pain for residents of Jaigaon||The residents of Jaigaon, the Alipurduar town that sits on the Bhutan border, are feeling the pinch of the runaway petroleum prices even more than Indians elsewhere. The pandemic has put paid to their practice of hopping across the border to tank up in the Himalayan kingdom where the cost of fuel has always been lower. The nearest petrol pump is in Bhutan’s commercial capital Phuentsholing, 300 metres from Jaigaon. With the Bhutan government keeping the border gate closed since March last year because of the pandemic, Jaigaon residents need to drive down to Hashimara, 18km away, to buy fuel. Jaigaon does not have a petrol pump. “Around two decades ago, local traders had twice taken the initiative of opening pumps here. But as most people fill up tanks in Phuentsholing, the pumps in Jaigaon closed down on both occasions,” said Rama Shankar Gupta, the secretary of the Jaigaon Merchants’ Association. In Bhutan, which buys its fuel from India, petro products have traditionally been cheaper by Rs 10 to Rs 15 a litre because it does not levy taxes. That gulf has now widened. On Tuesday, the price of a litre of petrol in Alipurduar was Rs 102.10, while that of a litre of diesel was Rs 93.51. In Bhutan petrol and diesel cost Nu 72.89 and Nu 70.87, respectively. Nu or Ngultrum is the national currency of Bhutan, the value of which is equal to the Indian rupee. As the entry of vehicles to Bhutan, except for essential services, is barred now, Jaigaon residents were having to buy costlier petrol in India after making the fuel-guzzling journey to Hashimara. But with petroleum prices crossing Rs 100, a 36km to-and-fro journey has become a deal breaker. Both private car owners and commercial transport operators are largely avoiding using their vehicles, further hobbling the local economy that has suffered a blow because of its reliance on trade with Bhutan that too has come down to a trickle in the pandemic. “As we cannot enter Bhutan now, a car owner has to burn petrol worth Rs 300 only to travel to Hashimara to refill the tank. Amid the pandemic, when the income of people has taken a beating, many are not taking out their cars at all. Instead, they are using two-wheelers or local commercial vehicles like autorickshaws and trekkers,” said Samir Lama, a government employee who commutes to Hasimara every day. The plight of commercial vehicle operators is worse. “Hardly 100 autorickshaws are on the road these days. This is because most of us are finding it tough to sustain as we have to travel to Hashimara to buy fuel. We cannot take more passengers as only 50 per cent of the seating capacity is allowed in view of pandemic restrictions,” said an auto driver in Jaigaon. “Moreover, passengers are not ready to pay more than the existing fares. We are keeping our fingers crossed and waiting for the day when the restrictions on travel to Bhutan will be eased, at least in Phuentsholing,” he added. While autos in the area used to ferry 12-15 passengers, now not more than seven are allowed. Jaigaon has a population of around 1.25 lakh. According to sources in the local administration, there are around 500 autorickshaws, 200-odd light commercial vehicles, over 1,500 private vehicles (two and four-wheelers) and 200 trucks. A trader in Jaigaon said the fuel price difference with Bhutan became sharper after July 2018 when GST was introduced in India. “Since then, petroleum is exported to Bhutan at virtually zero tax rates. An excise duty has been levied by India, but that too is refunded to Bhutan,” the trader said. The Bhutan government does not levy any additional tax on imported fuel, which is why the cost is low there in comparison with India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Calcutta High Court orders DNA test ||A five-judge special bench of Calcutta High Court hearing a post-poll violence case on Tuesday ordered a DNA test on a body to establish if it was that of BJP trade union leader Abhijit Sarkar, who was allegedly strangled by a mob at Narkeldanga on May 2, the day the Assembly poll results came out. Earlier, the bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, had directed the state to perform a second autopsy at the Command Hospital in Calcutta following a plea by Abhijit’s brother Biswajit. The first autopsy report has not been revealed by the court, which had ordered a fresh probe into all cases of post-poll violence. On Tuesday, Biswajit told the court that the body sent for a second autopsy to the hospital was mutilated beyond recognition. The bench then ordered a DNA test. In response to an earlier order by the bench in the case, an eight-member committee constituted by the National Human Rights Commission to probe the alleged incidents of post-poll violence in Bengal has filed a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to prod Election Commission of India on pending Assembly bypolls||Trinamul will send a delegation to Delhi’s Nirvachan Sadan on Thursday to push for bypolls to seven Assembly seats in Bengal, one of which chief minister Mamata Banerjee is slated to contest to fulfill the constitutional obligation of getting elected to the House within six months of her May 5 swearing-in. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy on Tuesday said the party would meet the top brass of the Election Commission of India on Thursday to discuss the pending bypolls. “The bypolls remain pending and the situation now is conducive in terms of the pandemic for them to be held,” said the Dum Dum MP. The chief minister, who narrowly lost the contentious election from the Nandigram Assembly seat (a matter that is now sub judice), is demanding that the bypolls be held at once by the commission. “It is a very legitimate demand and the EC, keen on Rajya Sabha bypolls, knows it,” said a senior minister. Mamata has publicly said she is aware that the EC would conduct the bypolls only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi green-lights it. She has repeatedly accused the commission of succumbing to the BJP’s political pressure. A day after the Assembly election results on May 2, the EC suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of the Covid-19 situation. The poll panel’s decision came at the end of an eight-phase election over two months, apparently desired by the BJP. Mamata is now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May. Besides Mamata and Chattopadhyay, finance minister Amit Mitra, who did not contest the polls for health reasons, has to be voted to the Assembly within six months too. However, there are doubts whether Mitra’s health will permit his being active in poll politics. A senior Trinamul MP said that bypoll-bound Bhowanipore, Samserganj, Jangipur, Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba were likely to be won by the ruling party. BJP insiders said the party did not want bypolls as it was not in favour of the chief minister getting elected as an MLA now. But, it wants elections to Bengal’s 110-odd civic bodies. A state minister said elections to civic bodies would expose over two crore voters to Covid-19 risks, while bypolls to seven Assembly seats would involve around 17 lakh voters. On Tuesday, Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP’s chief spokesperson for the state, claimed there was “no opportunity for free and fair polls” in Bengal right now. “Trinamul goons are killing our people, forcing BJP workers to join their party. In such a crisis there can only be polls when the commission can ensure freedom of speech for the Opposition and a peaceful atmosphere for voters,” said Bhattacharya, adding the Trinamul-led government was allegedly in fear of losing the civic polls and was delaying them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Eight BJP MLAs step down from standing committees in Assembly||Eight BJP MLAs  appointed chairpersons of various standing committees in the Assembly resigned from their posts on Tuesday, days after the Speaker appointed BJP turncoat Mukul Roy as the chairman of the public accounts committee. They are Manoj Tigga, Mihir Goswami, Krishna Kalyani, Nikhil Ranjan Dey, Bishnu Prasad Sharma, Dipak Barman, Ashok Kirtania and Anandamay Barman. “I was not consulted before eight BJP MLAs were appointed chairpersons of standing committees…. To protest the lack of consultation...and politicisation of the post of PAC chairman, we have rejected the offer,” leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said after meeting governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday. He said the BJP would meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla next week on the issue. Roy became MLA on a BJP ticket but soon joined Trinamul. The BJP did not want him to chair the PAC, but its Balurghat MLA Ashok Lahiri. Though there isn’t any set rule for appointing the PAC chairperson, conventionally the post goes to the person nominated by the Opposition. Roy, the de facto No. 2 in Trinamul till he joined the saffron camp in 2017, won the Assembly polls from Krishnagar North on a BJP ticket. Shortly afterwards, Roy went back to Trinamul and his candidature to the PAC was publicly supported by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on the ground that he was a BJP MLA. The BJP said that Speaker Biman Banerjee violated Rule 302 of the procedure and conduct of business rules in the Bengal Assembly. This rule specifies 20 members to the PAC have to be elected on the principle of “proportional representation”. The Opposition, in this case the BJP, can nominate six members, and the ruling party the rest. However, the BJP did not recommend Roy. Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha of the Binay Tamang-backed Morcha faction, a Trinamul ally, proposed Roy’s name. Trinamul’s Egra MLA Tarun Kumar Maity seconded it. “We will write to leaders of the two Houses of Parliament, leaders of the Opposition and Speakers of Assemblies of all other states in India on the issue…. We have spoken to our party president and presidents of state units for a massive campaign across the country on how Opposition rights are being curbed in Bengal,” Adhikari said. BJP sources said the party was trying to prove that Roy had been nominated to the PAC as a “Trinamul MLA”. If this can be done successfully, the BJP’s case against Roy under the anti-defection law gets stronger, a BJP leader said. The hearing of Adhikari’s appeal before the Speaker to implement the anti-defection law against Roy will be heard on July 16. Tigga said a team of eight to nine MLAs, including Adhikari, will travel to Delhi to meet Birla and Kovind after July 19 when the Parliament session begins. Taking a dig at the BJP over the resignation of these MLAs, Trinamul MLA Tapas Roy said they needed to understand the legalities and technicalities of the Assembly first. “In the Assembly the Speaker takes the last call. Why did they meet the governor on this issue?” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||33-year-old youth returns home after two years in Bangladesh jail||A 33-year-old youth who hails from Dharanda village near the Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur and had erroneously sneaked into Bangladesh in 2019 was repatriated to India on Tuesday. Sources said Manik Debnath went missing from his house on March 8, 2019. His father, Binod, had filed a missing diary with police mentioning that Manik had left home with a bike and some cash. On Tuesday, Manik, accompanied by officials of the Border Guard Bangladesh and Bangladesh immigration department, walked past the international border at Hilli. His family, officials of South Dinajpur district administration, the police and BSF were present at the border. “I got into Bangladesh by mistake and was arrested and taken to a police station in Dinajpur district of the neighbouring country. Later, I was produced in court and sent to jail. It is great that I am back home after 28 months,” said Manik. An official of Bangladesh immigration department  said along with Manik, two other Indians, including a minor, were also repatriated back to their country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt races against time to complete seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards under Centre’s scheme ||The Bengal government is racing against time to complete the seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards under the Centre’s “one nation, one ration card” scheme, with the deadline just two weeks away. In all, Bengal has 9.8 crore ration cards. The state has completed the seeding of Aadhaar with only about 50 per cent ration cards. Meeting the deadline will be difficult, said government sources, explaining that the task involves seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards and then authenticating data. Sources said the authentication process was complete for only 27 per cent of cards. “Because of slow Internet in rural areas and mismatch in personal details given in the ration and Aadhaar cards, the seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards is getting delayed.… It will be embarrassing if we can’t complete the process by July 31 as that is the last date to upload details of the beneficiaries of the NFSA (National Food Security Act) on the Centre’s portal for the allotment of food grains,” said a government official. The Centre has been laying stress on seeding Aadhaar with ration cards for the past few years. However, the Bengal government had been resisting it as chief minister Mamata Banerjee was unsure of sharing details of the state’s citizens against the backdrop of the Centre’s new citizenship matrix. “Recently, the Supreme Court asked the state to complete the process by July 31. As we started late compared to other states, it’s taking time,” said an official. The sources said the state government had been facing snags ever since it started the work over three months ago. The process has two steps. First, the ration dealers  enter details of Aadhaar cards and biometric data of the beneficiaries in PoS (point of sale) machines. Then, the food department  matches with Aadhaar cards the details of digital ration cards stored in the central server of the department at Khadya Bhavan. “A beneficiary’s ration card is authenticated only when its details and those in the Aadhaar card match,” an official said. According to the sources, the food and supplies department is facing large-scale mismatch. “There may be a spelling mistake or a wrong address on Aadhaar cards. But there is little time left to correct the Aadhaar cards and re-enter details. We don’t know what will happen after July 31,” said another official. Insiders said the Centre had told the state verbally that it would allot food grains only to those whose names are uploaded in the central server after ration cards are tagged with Aadhaar cards. “If that is so, a number of beneficiaries in the state will face a real problem amid the pandemic,” said a source. Now, the Centre allots cheap food grains for 6.01 crore people in the state under the NFSA. A senior official said the state was trying its best to complete the process by engaging Webel, a state-owned company. “If we can’t complete the process on time, we will seek more time citing the problems,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Birbhum village achieves 100% first jab feat||Papuri, a remote village in Birbhum, has achieved the distinction of vaccinating all villagers aged 18 and above with at least one dose, at a time the national rate of Covid inoculation is around 7 per cent. A source in the health department said Papuri was possibly the only village in the state to have achieved the tag of being “completely vaccinated”. He added that the village had a minority population of 75 per cent and literacy rate under 50 per cent. Like most people in rural belts, Papuri residents were also reluctant to take the jab, fearing side effects. A systematic two-month campaign led by Trinamul’s Nanoor block working committee president Sheikh Kajal, however, took care of the misgivings of the village, 15km from Bolpur. Some 4,800 people at Papuri voluntarily turned up for jabs at the vaccination centre. “The process was a challenge as initially villagers did not want the jab, fearing harmful side-effects. That’s when a group of village youths came forward to convince villagers about the need to take the vaccine to protect themselves from Covid-19,” said Kajal, who led the team. To convince villagers, Kajal led by example. He convinced his 84-year-old mother with several comorbidities to become the first person from the village to take the vaccine. “Then the group of youths as well as I took the jab. I have two stents in my heart,” he said. These real-life examples made others confident. Salia Biwi, 45, a kidney patient, said she was initially reluctant to take the jab but was won over. To recognise the feat, the local Charkalgram gram panchayat held a programme attended by senior district health officials on Tuesday. “The village is the first in the district where all villagers aged 18 years and above have been vaccinated with at least one dose. We hope the village will inspire others to overcome the hurdles of superstition that health officials are facing in rural pockets in the vaccination process,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer. Sources added Bengal has around 7.3 crore people eligible for the vaccine. According to data with the state health department till Tuesday evening, 2.45 crore people were vaccinated with at least one dose. Sources in the health department said the percentage of vaccination was always high in cities or towns but low in rural belts. Health department data say around 68.5 per cent people have been vaccinated in Calcutta, but the corresponding figure is 65 in Bolpur. “In rural areas, vaccination is very slow and in some pockets the number of people vaccinated is below 10 per cent,” said a senior state health official. Kajal said there were 200 villagers who occasionally visit Papuri as they work outside. They will also get vaccinated when they come next, he added. A villager said they were cautious about migrants who come back home. “We have a primary school that was used as a quarantine centre during the first wave of the pandemic. We have requested those who work outside to first quarantine themselves at the school before their first jab,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa invited to Bhanubhakta Acharya's event, not Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung||The 207th birth anniversary celebrations of Nepali poet Bhanubhakta Acharya, the first official public function of the state government in the hills on Tuesday, had Anit Thapa as an invitee but not other prominent hill names such as Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung. Both the Tamang-Thapa faction and the Gurung group of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are allies of Trinamul. Trinamul leaders from the hills were also not invited to the Chowrasta event jointly hosted by the state information and cultural affairs department  and the  Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). The guest list at the poet’s birth anniversary, seen as a barometer to “closeness to the state government”, was under intense scrutiny by political observers. The other political invitees included Gautam Deb, administrator, Siliguri Municipal Corporation, and Bulu Baraik, minister of state, backward classes and tribal department. Thapa does not hold any official position in the government. Apart from these leaders, Surendra Gupta, GTA principal secretary, David Pradhan, GTA secretary, S. Poonambalam, DM, Darjeeling, Dr Santosh Nimbalkar, the SP of Darjeeling, C.K. Rai, the president of the Nepali Sahitya Sammelan, and Surya Shrestha, the secretary of the literary organisation, were among the handful of invitees. Administrative sources said “no formal invite” was sent from the district level. “Invitations were probably sent out from higher-ups,” said one. Baraik, the only speaker among the guests, said: “Two days back I was asked by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to attend this event.” Later, Thapa thanked the chief minister on Facebook: “I am grateful for the special invitation,” he wrote. Thapa was at the helm of GTA till Bengal went to polls after which his tenure as chairman of the board of administrators, GTA, was not extended by the state. After more than two hours of the official event, Gurung reached Chowrasta to pay his tribute to the statue of the poet. Gurung did not comment on the guest list. Tuesday’s development also comes at a day after Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Bimal camp returned to Darjeeling from Calcutta after meeting Abhishek Banerjee, the number two in the Trinamul and host of Bengal ministers like Bratya Basu, Moloy Ghatak and Chandrima Bhattacharya. Giri, however, had admitted that their delegation comprising the party’s Kalimpong district president Dr R.B. Bhujel and youth wing president Prakash Gurung, had not met Mamata Banerjee. “It is a major snub to Bimal Gurung,” said a leader of the Thapa camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 863 new Covid cases||Bengal on Tuesday reported the 23rd straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 340 to touch 14,191 now. On Tuesday, the state reported 1,186 recoveries, 863 new infections and 17 deaths, including one from Calcutta. Active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 during the second wave, but for 11 days till June 20 rose again by over 56 per cent. Over these 23 days, active cases have fallen once again by over 38 per cent. Bengal now has 3.34 per cent of India’s total active cases, and is eighth among states with the most number. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.84 per cent on Tuesday, also indicating  the decline. With worst-hit Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reining in day’s new cases to 77 and 97, Tuesday was the sixth straight day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.88 per cent, with the national rate at 97.26. Of the 17 deaths, apart from one each reported from Calcutta, Birbhum, East Midnapore and Hooghly, North 24-Parganas logged three. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.13 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first detected in March last year, which includes over 14.81 lakh recoveries and 17,944 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to encourage coffee cultivation in Darjeeling hills||The West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC) has planned to encourage coffee cultivation in the Darjeeling hills and set up a furniture park in Siliguri. Rajiva Sinha, the WBIDC chairman, spoke about the initiatives at a meeting hosted by the north Bengal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) here on Monday. In Kalimpong district, around 1,193 farmers are into coffee cultivation, with the plantations spread over 350 acres. “The administration and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration are supporting this endeavour. The cultivators are spread across 65 hilly hamlets, which include areas like Algarah, Gitabling, Loleygaon, Sangsay and Bhalukhop,” said Sinha. He underscored that the plan is part of the rural entrepreneurship hub (REH) model that has been evolved to encourage local products. “To help the coffee farmers, the state has planned to establish a common facility centre (CFC) where they can get facilities like sorting, processing and packaging.” Sinha added. At the meeting, Sinha also mentioned that a furniture park will come up in Siliguri under the Scheme for Approved Industrial Park (SAIP) mode and around 20 entrepreneurs from the furniture industry will open units there. The SAIP mode has been launched by the Bengal government to encourage the private sector to set up industrial parks on state land. Sanjay Tibrewal, the chairman of the CII’s north Bengal council, said: “So far, 150-odd REH hubs have been created in the hill districts where people are making items like honey, ginger, large cardamom, mushroom, turmeric, soft broom and orchids. Industrial cooperatives have been formed and forward linkages have been created so that entrepreneurs can merchandise their produce.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
