15-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress MPs meet EC for conducting bypolls||A Trinamul Congress parliamentary party delegation, comprising six MPs, met the Election Commission here on Thursday demanding that the bypolls in six vacant Bengal Assembly seats be held at the earliest. In a memorandum submitted to the poll body, the party stated that with the decreasing number of coronavirus cases in the state, conditions are conducive for conducting the bypolls with Covid appropriate protocols in place. "The number of Covid-19 cases is at least 17 times lower now with fewer than 831 cases reported till July 14. There has been a steady decline in the number of daily cases recorded... "Hence, it is conducive to hold the bye-polls to the aforementioned constituencies at this time. Going by the steady decline, it is expected that by the time the bye-elections are announced and conducted, the number of daily cases will decrease further. During this time, appropriate Covid safety norms as may be prescribed by the Election Commission of India (ECI), may be adopted during campaigning," the party said. The Trinamul Congress (TMC) is keen on the bypolls as Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who lost the Assembly election from Nandigram, will have to get elected in the next six months to continue as the chief minister. In that case, the bypolls must be conducted by November 5. After the election results, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, the TMC MLA from Bhabanipur constituency, had vacated the seat to allow Mamata to contest from there. She had won from Bhabanipur twice since 2011. Dinhata and Santipur Assembly seats fell vacant after BJP leaders Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned as MLAs to retain the Lok Sabha membership. Polling could not be held in Samserganj and Jangipur seats in Murshidabad district due to the death of candidates. Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas district felt vacant after TMC candidate Kajal Sinha died of COVID-19 before the results were announced. Sinha won the election posthumously. The party also said that if general elections could be held at the height of the pandemic, bypolls too could be held at a time when the cases were significantly lower. It further argued that in April 2021, wherein polls were conducted in eight phases spread across the month, there was a steep rise in daily Covid cases in Bengal. From the middle of April 2021, at the peak of the elections, the daily cases rose from approximately 6,000 cases to 17,000 cases. Despite the rise in Covid cases and our repeated requests, the remaining phases of the polls were not clubbed together, as the ECI concluded that it was safe to conduct elections. Constitutional principles mandate that voters from the aforesaid assembly constituencies have the fundamental right to elect a representative of their choice to represent them in the Legislative Assembly of the State, the memorandum stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee likely to visit Delhi amid anti-BJP force buzz||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit New Delhi later this month where she will hold talks with leaders of non-BJP parties, TMC sources said on Thursday, amid the renewed buzz over formation of an anti-BJP front ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. According to some reports, she will head to the national capital on July 25. Sources in Bengal's ruling TMC said the party supremo's Delhi visit could happen any day after the Martyr's Day rally in Calcutta on July 21. The TMC holds a rally every year to commemorate the killing of 13 people in police firing on Youth Congress workers on July 21, 1993, during a protest led by Banerjee, who was then its leader. The talk of an anti-BJP front got revived after leaders of various parties and prominent individuals congregated at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's New Delhi residence last month. However, there was no tangible movement forward in that direction at the meeting hosted by Pawar and called by former union minister Yashwant Sinha, who is now in the TMC. Sinha, a former BJP stalwart, is a strident critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The speculation about an anti-BJP coalition grew again after election strategist Prashant Kishor had a string of meetings with Pawar and the Gandhis, including the one he had with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former party chief Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Vadra together. Though what exactly transpired at the parleys is not known yet, media speculated a broadbased coalition against the Centre's ruling NDA might have been on the agenda. "Mamata is likely to visit New Delhi after the 21st July Martyr's Day rally. She may give details about her visit during her speech. The date is yet to be fixed but it will be after the rally," sources told PTI. Mamata, who is likely to spend a few days in the national capital, has apparently timed her visit to coincide with the monsoon session of Parliament as senior leaders of opposition parties will be in town. The sources said Mamata may visit some other states as well. On her part, Mamata told a press conference that there was nothing unusual in her visit. "Everytime after elections I visit Delhi to meet old and new friends. So, this time too, I would be going to Delhi for few days as the Covid-19 situation is presently under control," she said. "Mamata didi has further grown in stature after defeating the BJP in the assembly elections. She now wants to reach out to anti-BJP and non-BJP parties at the national level ahead of the 2024 general elections," a TMC leader said. He said Banerjee will, in all probability, meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, her Delhi counterpart and AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal and Sharad Pawar during the visit. Kishor, who crafted Narendra Modi's 2012 Gujarat assembly campaign and devised his successful prime ministerial bid in 2014, is also being hailed for drawing up the TMC's strategy that saw Banerjee triumph over the formidable BJP in the Bengal polls. The astute election manager also rendered his services to AAP in Delhi, Jaganmohan Reddy's YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh and, more recently, M K Stalin's DMK in Tamil Nadu with great success. Mamata, arguably the most doughty Opposition face after the TMC's resounding victory, now seeks a larger role in national politics and, helped by Kishor's personal equation with a host of opposition leaders, will try to become the rallying point for anti-BJP parties. "This is the first step towards reaching out to them," the TMC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
15-07-2021||West Bengal||NHRC recommends CBI probe into Bengal post-poll violence||The National Human Rights Commission has recommended a CBI probe into cases of post-poll violence that allegedly led to murders and rapes in Bengal and set up a special investigation team to probe other complaints. Referring to the unrest that occurred after results of the Bengal Assembly elections were announced, NHRC observed that the "violence  was neither sporadic nor random” and focussed on “targets” explained as supporters of the major Opposition party, the BJP. “It is indeed ironical that in the land of Rabindranath Tagore, where the mind is without fear and the head is held high, where the world has not been broken into fragments by narrow domestic walls, thousands of its citizen have been subjected to murder, rape, displacement and intimidation, etc in the last couple of months… If the above mentioned worrisome trend is not arrested where the entire might of the government machinery has been used (through innumerable acts of omission and commission) for furthering the political objective of the party in power, the disease may spread to other states also,” the report stated in its conclusion. The NHRC report, however, drew the wrath of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has repeatedly dismissed reports of post-poll violence as exaggerated.  She said that the panel was pursuing "political vendetta" of the BJP by leaking its findings to the media. She also expressed surprise over the NHRC committee arriving at conclusions without taking into account views of the state government. The NHRC report on Bengal comes less than a week after Opposition allegations of violence and intimidation during the conduct of the panchayat elections in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The Opposition had alleged largescale intimidation of candidates who were not allowed to file nominations, kidnappings, threats, blackmail and attacks on women. In Bengal, a five-member NHRC committee submitted a 50-page report to the Calcutta High Court. It has stated that the situation in the state (West Bengal) is a manifestation of "law of ruler" instead of "rule of law". The committee submitted it had 1,650 complaints from around 5,000 victims. Cooch Behar, where five persons were killed on polling day, had the highest number of complaints at 322, followed by Birbhum with 314 and South 24-Parganas with 203. From Calcutta, the committee received 172 complaints. There are 29 cases of murder, 12 rapes, 391 cases of grievous hurt and 940 cases of arson among others. While recommending a CBI probe into the complaints of rape and murder, the commission has recommended that the cases be tried outside Bengal. For other cases it has recommended a court monitored SIT with provisions for fast-track courts, special public prosecutor and witness protection programmes. The Supreme Court in 2018 had given its approval for a witness protection scheme and asked the state governments to implement it. The committee members visited 311 spots in different parts of Bengal like Calcutta, East Midnapore, Howrah, East Burdwan, South 24-Parganas and Murshidabad within 20 days to prepare its report. Though Mamata has repeatedly dismissed incidents of post-poll violence that happened after the election results were declared on May 2, the NHRC report states that the "scale of these incidents is widespread and extensive across the entire state" and this was the first time that the NHRC had conducted a probe of this magnitude. The report states, despite seeking information on a number of related issues from the office of the director-general of police, the government had provided “piecemeal” and “incomplete” information. The NHRC committee observed the police had made a few arrests but did not investigate cases on priority basis. “It is quite evident that the police is working under influence and in a biased manner and do not have the courage to take action against the looming goons of the ruling dispensation,” reads the report. Out of the 311 spot enquiries, the committee observed the police had not recorded FIRs in as many as 188 instances. The committee has also recommended actions against police officers who were found guilty of not performing their duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Railway offers land near Howrah station on lease to raise funds||A prime railway land near the iconic Howrah station will be offered on 99-year-lease for residential-cum-commercial development as the national transporter looks to raise funds, officials said on Thursday. The land parcel, having an area of 88,300 sq metres, is located along the Hooghly riverbank and will be put under the hammer with a reserve price of Rs 448 crore, they said. “Rail Land Development Authority has invited bids for leasing vacant railway land at Salt Golah in Howrah. It is situated along a 20-metre-wide highway, around 1.5 km from the Howrah station,” an official said. “The initial feedback from local developers in the pre-bid meeting was encouraging. The deadline for bid submission is August 29,” he said. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) is a statutory authority under the Railway Ministry for the development of railway land. It has four key mandates as a part of its development plan -- leasing commercial sites, colony redevelopment, station redevelopment and multi- functional complexes. “Howrah is a vibrant commercial hub of West Bengal. The land at Salt Golah can be used for residential-cum- commercial development. Water sports facilities can also be developed there,” RLDA vice-chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja said. The site is surrounded by Golabari Ghat and Ratnakar School in the north, Signal Workshop and Railway Printing Press in the south, the Hooghly river in the east and Salkia School Road on the west. The lessee will be given controlled and regulated marketing rights and will be mandated to develop the site within ten years, officials said. Indian Railways has around 43,000 hectares of vacant land across the country. The RLDA is currently handling 84 railway colony redevelopment projects and recently leased out three railway colonies in Guwahati and Secunderabad for redevelopment, they said. RLDA has over 100 commercial (greenfield) sites across India for leasing, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Nine fishermen dead, one missing after trawler capsizes in Bay of Bengal||Bodies of nine fishermen from Bengal's South 24 Parganas district were found on Thursday morning inside the trawler that capsized in the Bay of Bengal, officials said. One person is still missing and a search is on to find him, they said. The trawler, 'Haimabati', capsized due to sudden high waves near Rakteshwari island off the Bakkhali coast in the early hours of Wednesday when it was returning after catching hilsa, officials said. Fishermen Sankar Sashmal Majhi and Saikat Das who were on the deck and operating the trawler could manage to jump into the sea. Another fishing boat rescued them later. It is suspected that the other fishermen were sleeping and did not get the time to escape, officials said. The nine bodies were found in the cabin of the trawler, which was loaded with fish, after a day of search and rescue efforts, they said. The Coast Guard is leading the search for missing fisherman Anadi Sashmal, a resident of Haripur in Namkhana block. Apart from patrol vehicles, drones have been deployed to locate him, an official said. The trawler, owned by one Jamuna Rani Lal, left for the sea five days back with 12 fishermen from the 10 Mile area in Namkhana, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||MP John Barla used govt land for Banarhat commercial complex: Report||The plot on which Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla is raising a commercial complex at Chamurchi More in Jalpaiguri district’s Banarhat belongs to the state PWD, senior officials of Jalpaiguri district administration said here on Wednesday. The minister has also built a house on land leased out to a tea company that owns the garden, the officials added. Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who hails from Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat block, recently raised brows for being vocal about a separate statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal. Last week, district Trinamul leaders had filed a written complaint with the administration, alleging that the Union minister had encroached upon a government plot and was raising a multi-storey commercial complex there. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, acting on the complaint, had instructed the district land and land reforms department to conduct an inquiry and submit her a report on the status of the land. Ranjan Chakraborty, the district land and land reforms officer, submitted a report to the district magistrate on Wednesday. “It has been found that the land on which the building is coming up is owned by the state PWD. We also have reports that the MP had built a house at Lakhipara tea estate on land leased out to the garden by the state. We are sending letters to the state PWD and the garden authorities on how they permitted private construction on such plots,” the district magistrate said. The report has come as a shot in the arm of the Trinamul leadership in the area, which is preparing to mobilise a scathing offensive against Barla. K.K. Kalyani, district Trinamul president who also owns tea gardens, said that land was normally leased out to a tea garden for plantations, factories, workers’ quarters and bungalows. The tea company does such jobs. “No resident of any tea garden can encroach on additional land or carry out any construction. The MP has built a new house in the tea garden. We want to see what tea garden authorities and the state PWD say in reply (to this construction). We also expect the administration to take appropriate legal steps against him (Barla),” said Kalyani. Repeated calls made to Barla by this paper went unanswered. Since last week, the minister, who is away from north Bengal, is neither taking calls  nor responding to WhatsApp texts. Victor Barla, the MP’s brother and a panchayat member, however dismissed Trinamul’s allegations as well as the report. BJP leaders in Banarhat opened an office on the first floor of the under-construction building at Chamurchi More on Tuesday evening, claiming that it would function as the workspaces of both the MP and the BJP-backed Bharatiya Tea Workers’ Union. “Some people are saying this is government land. But that’s a baseless allegation. We have power connection here and we also pay for drinking water supply. The office (of the MP and the tea union) existed for quite some time and now we have opened it in the new building,” claimed the MP’s brother, who is also a panchayat member. However, when mediapersons asked him for the land documents, Victor did not furnish them. Districts BJP leaders defended Barla. “This is nothing but a political ploy by Trinamul to defame our MP who is now a Union minister,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Raju Bista named Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha national general secretary ||BJP MP of Darjeeling Raju Bista was on Wednesday named the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha national general secretary by its national president Tejasvi Surya. The move is being seen as an attempt to address the discontent among BJP supporters of Darjeeling and Kalimpong at Bista being overlooked for a ministerial berth by the Narendra Modi government. MPs John Barla and Nisith Pramanik of Alipurduar and Cooch Behar became ministers. This prompted many BJP supporters in the hills to react, saying Bista’s proactiveness helped the party win all five Assembly seats in Darjeeling district. Neeraj Zimba, the BJP MLA of Darjeeling, had shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. Asked if it was a placatory move, state BJP leaders dodged a direct reply. “The decision (to include an MP in the cabinet) is made by the Prime Minister and central leaders. But let us mention that the post in which Raju Bista has been nominated is far more important to us than that of even a minister,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the state BJP spokesperson. Anup Kumar Saha, the BJP MLA of Dubrajpur, became a vice-president of the BJYM national panel, BJP sources said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Petition challenges quantum of ex-gratia for Cyclone Yaas victims||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday admitted a public interest litigation challenging the validity of the Duare Tran scheme undertaken by the state government to compensate those affected by Cyclone Yaas. The petitioner, Left economist Prasenjit Bose, claimed that the government had fixed the quantum of compensation without assessing the quantum of loss incurred by the farmers. A division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee fixed the matter for hearing on August 27 and asked the state authorities to file an affidavit stating its views with regard to the contentions made by the petitioner. The petition claimed the compensation — ranging between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,500 — had been fixed arbitrarily and quantum of compensation was fixed without conducting any survey to estimate the extent of crop losses in the cyclone. “The eligibility criteria have been left unspecified; it is unclear in the case of sharecropping whether it is the land owner or the tenant farmer, who is entitled to receive the compensation. No separate provision for compensation has been made for unregistered sharecroppers cultivating lands on verbal lease,” the petition stated. The petitioner claimed that the scheme failed to asses the quantum of actual crop losses in respect of individual applications and fixed a uniform rate of compensation for all crops. “It is inconceivable that only one type of crop was being cultivated on the 2.21 lakh hectares which have been reportedly damaged in the cyclone,” the petitioner said. The petitioner also claimed that actually the farmers incurred loss because of infiltration of saline water in farm land. “The Duare Tran scheme has totally ignored the cost of pumping out saline water and making the inundated lands fit for cultivation. In many areas, this cost is likely to exceed the loss of crops due to the cyclonic storm,” the petitioner stated The petitioner sought a fresh, separate and enhanced scheme for compensating the affected farmers. When asked, a state panel lawyer said that copy of the petition has not been scanned yet. “Compensation for affected farmers is an administrative issue. How can judiciary interfere in the issue,” the lawyer said He also asked how the petitioner was affected by the government decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Ten fishermen missing after Hilsa trawler capsizes in Bay of Bengal ||At least 10 fishermen were feared dead after a trawler capsized in the Bay of Bengal near the coast in South 24-Parganas’s Fraserganj early on Wednesday. Sources said a team of 12 fishermen — all hailing from South 24-Parganas -— in the Hilsa-trawler Haimavati were asleep when the trawler capsized in a sudden high wave near Rakteshwari Island, 25km off the coast. The trawler had sailed on Sunday night from Shibpur-Dasmile. Fishermen Sankar Sashmal and Saikat Das, residents of Haripur and Debniwas villages, were reportedly on the deck and operating the trawler and managed to jump into the sea. Later, they were rescued by a nearby fishing boat. According to eyewitnesses, the incident occurred around 5am when the trawler was returning towards the Fraserganj harbour abreast of a few other similar vessels. The sources informed that the district administration with the help of local fishermen’s welfare associations and the Indian Coast Guard started a search operation. “The Coast Guard has also launched an aerial search, but till evening no missing fishermen were spotted despite the overturned vessel being located,” said a source. The sources said that fishermen in nearby boats began dragging the capsized boat towards the Frasergunj harbour with chains, apprehending that the missing crew were trapped underneath. “But the weather did not permit and we even broke a few chains,” said one fisherman. Jayanta Kumar Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine), said: “It is not clear how the accident actually occurred. We are waiting for the boats to arrive along with the capsized vessel. Once they arrive, we will check whether the fishermen are really trapped inside. In case no one is found in the trawler, a fresh search will begin from Thursday morning with the help of the Coast Guard.” Goutam Majhi, a fisherman who was on a nearby boat and witnessed the incident, said the weather was clear but there were strong waves in the sea. “All of a sudden the Haimabati capsized and we saw two fishermen from the trawler swimming hard in the sea to survive. We tried to approach them but failed owing to strong waves. However, MV Paramita, a nearby trawler, managed to go close and rescue them,” Majhi added. Bijan Maity, joint secretary of the West Bengal United Fishermen’s association, said it appears that the accident happened as the trawler failed to sustain the waves. “The incident also an eye opener for us. The physical fitness of the boat to sustain turbulent weather and strong waves needs to be checked to avoid such accidents in future,” Maity added. After a gap of two months, around 1,500 vessels from the Kakdwip fishing harbour, Namkhana, Raidighi, and Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas left for deep sea Hilsa fishing starting June 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC MP’s name absent from Bhanubhakta Acharya event guest list||Trinamul Congress leaders in the Darjeeling hills were disappointed that they were not invited to a government programme to commemorate the birth anniversary of Nepali poet Bhanubhakta Acharya here on Tuesday. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang camp, was present at the event. Rajya Sabha member and senior Trinamul leader Shanta Chhetri has written to party supremo Mamata Banerjee and MP Abhishek Banerjee on the importance given to Thapa and the message that the invite sent across the hills. Thapa does not hold any official position. But Trinamul has two hill leaders with formal positions —MP Chhetri and Mirik municipality chairman L.B. Rai. Neither of the two Trinamul leaders had been invited to the event jointly organised by the information and cultural affairs department of the state government and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. Two other hill leaders, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung, who are both backed by Trinamul, were also left out. “On what basis was Anit Thapa invited? If he was invited as a former administrator of the GTA, then, we have two other leaders (Gurung and Tamang) who occupied the same chair,” Chhetri told The Telegraph. The Trinamul MP, however, chose to blame “politically inclined GTA officials” for the alleged faux pas. “The GTA officials deliberately did not invite me nor was Sri. L.B. Rai, Chairman of Mirik Municipality and other local TMC leaders who are working day in and out for the party ,” complained Chhetri in the letter. Trinamul leaders have been working against odds to establish themselves in the hills but Thapa’s presence at the event seems to have demoralised them. Chhetri was of the opinion that Thapa was invited “so that a message goes to the local people how much faith the top leaders of the state have on such leaders”. Many observers believe Thapa managed to send a strong message in the hills at a time when Tamang and Gurung are also in a race to prove their closeness to Mamata Banerjee. In the present political situation, such a message could have a strong bearing. The ramification of this message was not lost on Trinamul leaders. Chhetri said that “rumour mills had already started working” that Mamata has faith in Anit Thapa and that the CMO had contacted Thapa to attend the event. The Trinamul leaders tried to assuage this fear and said they knew this was not the case. “This is simply rumour mongering but no one can prevent such doing the round (sic),” wrote Chhetri adding that this “can never be true.” In the last Bengal Assembly election, the state Trinamul leadership had decided not to field any candidates in the three hill seats and leave it to their “friends (Tamang and Gurung)” to field their own candidates. The hill Trinamul leaders, however, decided to back Gurung’s candidates. Gurung’s candidates, however, came third in all the three hill seats, while Tamang’s candidate came second in Darjeeling and Kurseong and managed to win the Kalimpong seat- the first such win after the faction was formed in 2017. Trinamul hill leaders had told this newspaper that they had decided to back Gurung’s candidates on instruction from Prashant Kishore’s I-PAC team. “Shanta Chhetri’s strongly worded letter is an indication of the apprehension among hill TMC leaders following yesterday’s development,” said an observer. Even though Chhetri tried to blame the “GTA officials”, sources in the administration said that they had not issued any invitation and all invitees were probably asked to attend by higher-ups. The other political invitees at the Chowrasta event included Gautam Deb, administrator, Siliguri Municipal Corporation, and Bulu Baraik, minister of state, backward classes and tribal department, leaders who occupy official positions. Even Baraik said that he was asked to attend the event by Mamata Banerjee. “No officials can dare take a decision on the invitee list given its sensitivity,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||CID team at Suvendu Adhikari home over security guard death probe||The state CID team probing the 2018 unnatural death of the security guard of BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari visited his residential complex in Contai, East Midnapore, on Wednesday and examined the site where the guard, Subhabrata Chakraborty, received the gunshot injury. “A team went to the building where he would stay during office hours. The building is in the name of Suvendu Adhikari’s brother Dibyendu. The latter was present during the CID visit,” said a CID officer. The CID team spoke to colleagues apparently present on the spot or in the same building when Chakraborty received his bullet injury. Dibyendu was questioned as the owner of the building, an officer said. In 2018, police reported Chakraborty shot himself. Last week his wife Suparna filed a complaint blaming Suvendu Adhikari and others for the death, including an alleged delay in arranging an ambulance for her then-wounded husband from Contai to Calcutta. Contai police started a case under sections of murder and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Patient killed, two arrested in North 24-Parganas||A 49-year-old man recovering from drug addiction at a rehabilitation centre here in North 24-Parganas was allegedly beaten to death on Tuesday night by a section of its officials apparently because he had secretly called his brother to inform him about the ill-treatment meted out to him and other inmates. Police have arrested two accused officials — Subhankar Mondal and Subhashis Chakraborty — on murder charge whereas the owner of the Su-Drishti Darshan Rehabilitation Centre is yet to be traced. The Nimta police have begun a probe on the basis of a complaint lodged by the brother of the victim, Partha Raha. Raha, a resident of Birati Kalabagan area, was brought to Ghola Hospital at Sodepur on Tuesday night with multiple injuries, including one to the head. He was declared brought-dead by the hospital officials, who informed the police about the unnatural death. Deputy commissioner (south) of Barrackpore Police Commissionerate Ajoy Prasad said: “We have received a written complaint from the victim’s family and began a probe. Two persons have been arrested. Police are in search of another accused person.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Professors asked to explain email to PM on salary delay||Visva-Bharati’s officiating registrar Ashok Mahato on Tuesday evening sought in writing explanations from two professors, who are also office-bearers of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA), for sending a letter to varsity Chancellor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and “government dignitaries” about the varsity’s delay in disbursing salaries and pensions for June. Suspended economics professor and VBUFA president Sudipta Bhattacharyya and philosophy professor and VBUFA secretary Kaushik Bhattacharya had emailed Modi and others on July 6. The central varsity in an order on June 18 had asked employees not to send service-related grievances to “dignitaries of the Government of India” and warned violators of action. Mahato charged the duo with sending the emails “without taking permission from the university authority”, which was “contrary to the statutory rules”. Many insiders said there was no such rule. The varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not respond to this paper’s calls or WhatsApp text on the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Vaccine and test riders for visit to the Darjeeling hills||The Darjeeling district administration has asked the owners of hotels, resorts and homestays to allow only those tourists who have got fully vaccinated or are carrying RT-PCR negative reports which have been issued within 72 hours of their travel to check into their properties. “To curb the spread of Covid-19, we have advised all hotels and homestays in the Darjeeling hills to allow tourists only after ascertaining either RT-PCR negative status or double vaccination certificate,” said a source in the administration. In north Bengal, this is the first such advisory that has been issued by the administration of any district with regard to the movement of tourists. On Monday, the subdivisional officer of Contai in East Midnapore had issued a similar order to check unrestrained inflow of tourists in Digha. On Wednesday evening, the Jalpaiguri district administration also issued a similar notification. There are around 370 hotels in the hill town while over 500 homestays have mushroomed in three hill divisions of Mirik, Kurseong and Darjeeling. Those running hotels in Darjeeling, however, said unlike Digha, the rush of tourists is comparatively less in the hill town. As of now, the average occupancy at hotels in Darjeeling is around 20 per cent but at some places, it is as high as 80 per cent. Also, 75 per cent of visitors to the hills these days are from Bengal, while the rest are from Jharkhand and Bihar. “After the first wave of the pandemic, there was a huge rush of tourists in January and February. We hope there will be a similar rush in the coming months,” said Samir Singhal, the treasurer of the Darjeeling Hotel Owners’ Association. Others associated with the tourism industry in north Bengal said the inflow of tourists in the hills had always been less during the monsoon. “We have no problem in adhering to the advisory issued by the administration. Most tourists now are visiting the hills on weekends and preferring rural homestays. The inflow, we expect, will go up in October and November,” said Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. He underscored that the vaccination of all those associated with the sector, particularly those working at hotels or running homestays, vehicle drivers and tour guides, need to be expedited. “This would help us revive the industry in a sustainable manner.” At Digha, two tourist groups had to return to Calcutta on Wednesday morning after they had tested positive at a Covid screening camp organised by the Digha-Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association. Additional reporting by Vivek Chhetri in Darjeeling and Anshuman Phadikar at Digha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases below 13,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged the 24th straight day of a dip in its total active Covid-19 cases, by 344 to 12,984, back to below 13,000 for the first time since April 6, 99 days ago. On Wednesday, the state reported 1,161 recoveries, 831 new infections and 14 deaths. With this, Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.96 per cent, the highest ever for the state since the onset of the pandemic. The national rate is 97.25 now. With 78 new cases in Calcutta and 96 in North 24-Parganas, Wednesday was the seventh successive day since the second wave when none among Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections while South Dinajpur, Malda and Purulia single-digit figures. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.5 per cent on Wednesday, indicating the shrink in Covid-19 spread. Of the 17 deaths, two each were reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday, while North Dinajpur, Birbhum, East and West Midnapore just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 per cent now, while that of the nation is 1.32. The state’s active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 during the second wave. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by around 44 per cent again these 24 days. Bengal now over 15.13 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March 2020, including nearly 14.83 lakh recoveries and 17,958 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s Covid-vigil letter cloud on Bengal bypolls||The state government on Wednesday received a letter from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, asking the administration to be extra vigilant about easing curbs in view of the impending third wave of the pandemic, with sources saying the missive was read by Nabanna top brass as a prelude to an indefinite delay in Assembly bypolls. As ruling Trinamul has a clear majority in the House, bypolls scheduled for seven seats in Bengal may not have any major numerical significance for the government. But party supremo Mamata Banerjee, who lost to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, has to win a bypoll within November 5 to stay as chief minister. Though no one confirmed it on record, Mamata apparently went into a huddle with her party’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday afternoon, after the letter reached Nabanna, to discuss her next move. She later visited Raj Bhavan for a one-on-one meeting with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for over an hour. Details of the meetings were not made available. Though addressed to all state governments, Bhalla’s letter triggered speculations in Bengal’s power corridors that it could have been sent to create a context for the Election Commission of India to delay the Assembly bypolls in view of the pandemic. The reason is not far to seek. It is no secret that Mamata, sworn in on May 5, has to be elected to the House by November 5 under the constitutional requirement. “Two-and-a-half months have gone. It’s a fact that the clock is ticking,” said a source. The home secretary’s letter read: “With the decline in the number of active cases, States and UTs have started re-opening the activities in a gradual manner... the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated.” Sources said the letter, by stating the second wave wasn’t over and Covid-appropriate behaviour must continue, hinted that the Centre wasn’t in favour of mass gatherings in the next two to three months. The letter also pointed out blatant violations of Covid norms in parts of the country after some relaxations. “It needs to be ensured that if norms of Covid appropriate behaviour are not maintained at any establishments/ premises/ markets etc, such places shall be liable for the re-imposition of restrictions, for containing the spread of Covid-19...” reads the advisory. As bypolls will entail rallies and gatherings, the advisory can be used by the EC to defer them, sources said. “Unless large-scale gatherings are allowed, it is tough to hold elections. So, it is definitely a cause of concern for the Bengal government. The notification for bypolls has to be issued within the next two-and-a-half months to allow the chief minister to continue by winning the bypoll,” said an official. Some officials that this paper spoke to said the chief minister can take oath again after six months if bypolls aren’t held owing to Covid-19. But others said the rule clearly states she has to win an election within six months. There’s a high probability that bypolls may be indefinitely delayed, said a Trinamul source, referring to public statements by scores of BJP leaders. Adhikari has often taunted Mamata as a “non-MLA chief minister”. “Ideally, there shouldn’t be a correlation between a central advisory and a decision of the poll panel...But things have changed so much in recent years that there are reasons to believe that the Union home ministry under Amit Shah is setting the context so that the Election Commission can say bypolls can’t be held now,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: EC asked to keep all Nandigram poll documents||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday asked the Election Commission of India to preserve all documents, devices and video recordings  related to the Nandigram Assembly poll till the disposal of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s victory. Justice Shampa Sarkar issued the directive after accepting Mamata’s petition contesting the election of Adhikari, who had defeated the chief minister by 1,965 votes in Nandigram. Justice Sarkar also made Adhikari a party to the case and sent him a notice while fixing August 12 as the next date for hearing. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had initially assigned the case to Justice Kaushik Chanda but Mamata sought the transfer of the hearing to another bench fearing that she might not get fair judgment from him. The chief minister raised objections to her petition coming up before Justice Chanda because of his association with the BJP since his days as a lawyer. Last week, Justice Chanda released the case on personal grounds but imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on Mamata for her “offensive attempt to seek recusal”. Later on Wednesday, sources said Adhikari had moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of the election petition filed by Mamata to any high court outside Bengal. Although the legal team of Adhikari refrained from sharing the contents of the petition with the media, it is learnt he had referred to the July 7 recusal of Justice Chanda as one of the main grounds for transfer of case outside Bengal. The source said Adhikari had in his petition relied on certain observations made by Justice Chanda who had referred to pressure mounted on him leading to his recusal. However, technically, the petition filed by Adhikari has to first clear the decks at the Supreme Court registry that scrutinises it before placing the matter before the Chief Justice of India for listing it before an appropriate bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Somen Mitra’s son quits Congress post over differences with Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Signs of trouble brewing within the Bengal unit of the Congress over Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s continuation as the state president of the party have increasingly been emerging with Rohan Mitra’s resignation on Wednesday added to the list. Mitra, son of deceased Bengal Congress stalwart Somen Mitra, stepped down as a state general-secretary attributing the decision to his differences with Chowdhury. “Your (Chowdhury’s) attitude towards me (Mitra) from the beginning has been pathetic. The language used by your close clique about my father and other leaders in the past has been detrimental to party unit in Bengal,” wrote the 37-year-old. Behrampore MP Chowdhury said he had “nothing but affection” for Mitra. “His father introduced me to politics and mentored me. I have nothing but respect for him (Somen Mitra). As his son, I have nothing but affection for him (Rohan Mitra),” said Chowdhury. “Things that have been said in that letter indicate the tastes of the sender,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
