16-07-2021||West Bengal||Madhyamik marksheets to be released on July 20||With board exams having been cancelled in West Bengal due to the Covid-19 situation, at par with several other states, students of Class 10 will soon be given score sheets which have been prepared after taking into consideration their Class 9 result and internal assessment marks, a notification here said on Friday.  Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, said in the notification that the marksheets will be released on July 20 following a press meet.  "There will be no merit list this time. Class 10 (Madhyamik) candidates can download the score sheet by logging on to designated websites from 10 am on Tuesday," Ganguly said in the notification.  He had earlier said that experts, after discussions, have decided on an evaluation criterion, going by which 50 per cent marks will be derived from Class 9 annual exam result, and the remaining 50 per cent from internal assessment.  "Equal emphasis will be given on the Class 9 annual exam marks and the internal formative assessment score of every subject in Class 10," Ganguly had said.  The date of birth and registration number of the candidate will have to be typed to access the score sheet.  Over 12 lakh students were slated to appear for Madhyamik examination this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu attends Assembly hearing on Mukul's disqualification plea, may move court||Leader of Opposition and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday attended the hearing on a petition seeking Mukul Roy's disqualification as an MLA at Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay's chamber and said that a decision should be taken in the matter at the earliest. He also said that the saffron party may move the court, if necessary. Adhikari had recently submitted a 64-page document to the speaker demanding immediate disqualification of Roy as MLA under the anti-defection law on the grounds that he has won an Assembly seat on a BJP ticket but switched over to the TMC shortly after. The BJP MLA from Nandigram, along with other legislators, had staged a walkout in the Assembly last week in protest against Roy's appointment as Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. Emerging out of the speaker's chamber, on the premises of the Assembly, Adhikari told reporters, "We would want a specific time frame within which the hearing will be completed. We want Roy to get disqualified as soon as possible. We are considering our legal options... The party may move the court." The senior BJP leader, who had also switched camps ahead of the state elections, said all documents, audio clips and video footage backing our demand have been placed before the speaker. "We have already provided a 64-page dossier to the office of the speaker. The process of hearing should not take too long. We have great respect for the speaker's chair but past experiences have made us sceptics. "Over the last 10 years, there had been at least 50 cases of such defections in West Bengal. Not much happened... We don't have confidence in this (TMC) government." Adhikari further said that July 30 has been fixed as the next date of hearing. Asked about the development during Friday's hearing, he said, "The BJP will not go into technicalities... We have been asked to attend the hearing again on July 30." Sources in the Assembly said the speaker sought certain clarifications from Adhikari during the hearing. Roy, however, but didn't talk to media persons after the hearing. The legislator attended a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee as its chairman, during the day. No BJP MLA was present at the session. TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, when approached, said the speaker has just taken cognizance of the complaint against Mukul Roy. "There is no question of any acknowledgment of the BJP's stand by the speaker. The hearing has only begun," the Rajya Sabha MP said. He further hailed the move of Lok Sabha secretariat to send notices to turncoat MPs Sisir Adhikari and Sunil Mondal, who crossed over to the BJP from the TMC before the polls. "Our party has sought the disqualification of Adhikari and Mondal as MPs to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. We are happy that the process to hear their cases has started. Let's hope for a positive outcome," the TMC deputy leader in the Upper House said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Deeply hurt, will take action, says Jyotipriya on NHRC accusation||Taking umbrage at the fact that his name has been included in the "list of notorious criminals" by the NHRC panel which prepared a report on post-poll violence in Bengal, forest minister Jyotipriya Mallick on Friday said he was exploring his legal options. Several other TMC MLAs, whose names featured in the list, claimed that a deliberate attempt was being made to tarnish the image of their party. Mallick, a three-time MLA from Habra in North 24 Parganas, said, "I am deeply hurt by the accusation. Leave alone an FIR, if anyone finds a general diary against me in any police station of West Bengal, I will reward that person. "Steps will be taken in accordance with the law, a defamation suit will be filed in court if required." An inquiry panel, formed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) chairman on a direction of the Calcutta High Court, has stated in its report that the situation in the state of Bengal is a "manifestation of law of ruler, instead of rule of law". The report, which was submitted before the high court on July 13, also recommended a CBI probe into "grievous offences like murder and rape". An annexure of the document has named several TMC leaders as "notorious criminals", including the forest minister, Canning Purba MLA Saukat Molla, Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmick, former Dinhata legislator Udayan Guha and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election agent in Nandigram constituency, Sheikh Sufiyan. Echoing Mallick, the Naihati MLA said that the "list smacks of vindictiveness". "There is no criminal case against me... This was a deliberate attempt on the part of the commission to malign the TMC," Bhowmick, a three-time MLA from Naihati, said. Guha, on his part, alleged that an NHRC team had visited the houses of the ones who had attacked him at Dinhata in Cooch Behar, but not his home, although it is "situated a stone's throw away". Accusing the NHRC committee of having adopted a "partisan attitude", Sufiyan said the panel has acted at the behest of the BJP and Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC MPs press Election Commission for Assembly bypolls ||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday said if the Election Commission of India could hold eight-phase Bengal polls when the positive confirmation rate reached 33 per cent by Phase 8, there was no ground to withhold the pending Assembly bypolls when that rate came down to 1.5 per cent. A delegation of six Trinamul MPs urged the commission’s full bench to declare the Bengal bypolls at once. “In April 2021, during which time polls were conducted in eights phases spread across the month, there was a steep rise in daily cases of Covid-19 in West Bengal. From the middle of April 2021, at the peak of elections, the daily cases rose from approximately 6,000 cases daily to 17,000 cases,” it wrote in its memorandum to the commission. The delegation comprised MPs Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Saugata Roy, Kalyan Banerjee, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Derek O’Brien and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. “Despite the rise in Covid-19 cases and our repeated requests, the remaining phases of the polls were not clubbed together, as the ECI concluded that it was safe to conduct elections. The number of cases is at least 17 times lower now with fewer than 831 cases reported till July 14, 2021,” it added. The commission has not responded to queries on the meeting. On Thursday, Mamata said chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi had already informed the commission formally of the state’s willingness and preparedness for the conduct of not only the bypolls to two Rajya Sabha seats but also to the seven Assembly segments. “Because there is no contiguity in the case of these seven seats, isolated seats…. There are many areas across the state with zero new cases. For instance, Bhowanipore, I was going through a Calcutta Municipal Corporation report… there are zero new infections in many wards. Arrey baba, here, in those seven constituencies, there is nothing at all. I was seeing yesterday, zero, zero, zero, shawb!” said Mamata. On Thursday, MP Roy said all three commissioners, secretary-general Umesh Sinha, and deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain — whom Trinamul had formally accused of bias towards the BJP — were present. “The EC showed us district-wise charts of where all vacant constituencies in the country are…. They said they have a national outlook and can’t be state-specific, but assured us that the EC would hold elections according to its constitutional mandate after considering all pros and cons,” said Roy. “The EC also said it would seek suggestions from parties on restrictions on campaigning in view of the pandemic. If asked, our party will respond appropriately. Our leader has been clear that elections should not endanger the lives of people,” he added. The BJP replaced its chief minister in Uttarakhand, who sought to be elected in a by-poll from the state where the Assembly has less than a year of its term left. Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, mandates the commission to fill vacancies in Parliament and the state legislatures through by-polls within six months from the date of their occurrence, provided that the remainder of the term of the new member is one year or more. Mamata faces no such challenge, as the Bengal Assembly has its entire five-year term ahead. Besides Mamata and Chattopadhyay, finance minister Amit Mitra, who did not contest the elections on account of health concerns, has to be elected to the Assembly. However, there have been doubts over whether Mitra would continue, as he no longer wants to be in active, electoral politics on account of his failing health. The Bengal Assembly did, earlier this month, approve Mamata’s idea for reviving the Upper House, the Vidhan Parishad, abolished in 1969. But its revival – with the necessity of central approval – might not be possible within six months. “Why they (the BJP) are scared? The provisions are very clear…. We are not asking for anything illegal,” said the Trinamul chief on Thursday, responding to queries on the BJP’s resistance to the by-polls. “They know that they will lose every election. That is why. They are worried for that. We are not. They have already lost. Now there is no need for shouting. They should keep mum,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee taunts PM Modi’s praise for UP law & order ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for upholding the Uttar Pradesh government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19 and praising the law and order in the northern state. Modi lavished praise on the Yogi Adityanath government on Covid and law and order during a programme at the Prime Minister’s Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Thursday. The Bengal chief minister said UP as a state was “out of rule of law” and referred to the heinous incidents of rapes at Unnao and Hathras. “Prime Minister knows very well what is going on in UP. There is no rule of law…UP, it is out of the rule of law and…regarding Covid, what is the record? How many persons died? Can they show us any records? Or the government of India...UP is their baby that is why it is safe? How are the dead bodies coming through Ganga? They have just sent the dead bodies through Ganga…Our Holy Ganges, they carried all the dead bodies and it is coming through UP to Bihar to Bengal…,” Mamata said at Nabanna. She claimed that the Bengal government had recovered eight corpses from the Ganga, which had come floating down from Uttar Pradesh. “…In Bengal, we also recovered eight bodies. There are so many we do not know their fate…” Mamata accused the UP government of disrespecting the corpses and said instead of cremating the bodies, they were dumped in the river. “And, now they are praising,” Mamata said. The Trinamul Congress supremo announced that she would be visiting Delhi sometime soon. Although she didn’t give a date for her visit, party sources said Mamata would be in Delhi between July 24 and 30 when the monsoon session of Parliament would be in full swing. If she gets time, Mamata will also meet President Ramnath Kovind and the prime minister. “We shall see whose appointments we get…,” she added. Mamata is supposed to meet A-listed national leaders such as Congress’s Sonia Gandhi and AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal. These meetings will happen in close coordination with NCP chief Sharad Pawar and poll consultant Prashant Kishor shall also be a part of these sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Bodies of nine fishermen recovered from capsized trawler, one missing||Bodies of nine of 10 fishermen, who had been trapped in the trawler that capsized in the Bay of Bengal while returning to the shore in South 24-Parganas early on Wednesday, were recovered on Thursday. On July 11, the trawler Haimavati had left Fraserganj to catch Hilsa with 12 on board. It capsized on Wednesday morning, 25km off from the coast of Fraserganj, in the midst of sudden strong waves. Two fishermen who had jumped out of the trawler were rescued by a nearby boat. Ten other fishermen, who were asleep, got trapped inside. Late on Wednesday, the trawler was dragged to Baliara harbour by six other boats. The bodies of nine fishermen were recovered from the bottom cabin of the trawler after pumping out water. One fisherman is still missing. On Thursday afternoon, the bodies were handed over to the families of the victims after an autopsy. As of Thursday evening, the body of Anadi Sashmal could not be traced despite an aerial search conducted by the Indian Coast Guard. “One person is still missing. The search operation to trace him is going on with the support of the Indian Coast Guard,” said Jayanta Kumar Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine). State fisheries minister Akhil Giri on Thursday met family members of nine victims at the Namkhana block development office and handed them cheques of Rs 2 lakh each as ex-gratia announced by the state government. Other relief materials were also handed over to the families. Giri mentioned that a stretch of hidden alluvial land had surfaced along the coast and it could have caused the accident by virtue of concealing the true water level, which was less than what the boatman would have expected. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Giri said: “Fishermen have told me about a navigation problem in the channel close to the coastal line. It is a big problem and we will find a way out. A meeting in this regard will be held on July 22 where fishermen’s organisations will also be present. Our aim is to avert the recurrence of such accidents.” Sources in the state administration said a team from the fisheries department would talk to the two surviving fishermen who were operating the trawler during the accident to discern whether erroneous steering had caused the accident. “Correct navigation is a vital security aspect, and can often lead to accidents. We always advise trawler owners to engage experienced people, but norms are flouted and unfortunately we don’t have any official mechanism to ensure the same. Over the past two years, around 150 fishermen either died or went missing while fishing in deep sea owing to bad weather or accidents, but the exact reason behind such accidents remains mostly unknown,” said a senior official of fisheries department in Namkhana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal needs 1.5 crore doses a month: Mamata writes to Modi ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Centre to send at least 1.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to the state every month and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inform him that Bengal was facing a problem in carrying out the inoculation drive because of irregular supply of doses from Delhi. “We need at least 1.5 crore vaccine doses every month to complete vaccination of all eligible persons in the state at the earliest. Even if we get 2 crore doses a month, it would take about six months to complete the vaccination drive,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata said the state had administered a total of 2.5 crore doses of vaccines, of which 1.8 crore were first doses. “This means only 70 lakh of about 7 crore eligible people (above 18 years) have been fully vaccinated. So, we could give two doses of vaccines to only 10 per cent of the eligible persons, which is too meagre to prevent the spread of the virus if the third wave hits. That is why the chief minister is worried,” said a senior government official. In her letter to the Prime Minister, the chief minister mentioned that the state was administering around 3 lakh doses a day but it was also becoming very tough to maintain the pace because of irregular supply of vaccines. Mamata also wrote that the state was not getting vaccines according to its requirements even though the Centre promised to supply more vaccine doses to the state. “As per intimation received from the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, the state has been allocated 73 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the month of July, 2021. But unfortunately, 25 lakh doses have only been received till date in the current month,” the chief minister wrote. Mamata also pointed out that the state could not use its full potential of administering 10 lakh vaccines a day only because of the shortage. “We have a capacity that can vaccinate more than 10 lakh people every day, provided sufficient quantities of vaccine is made available,” the letter reads. In her letter, Mamata urged Modi to give instructions to increase supply of vaccines to the state so that a substantial portion of the population could be vaccinated before the third wave. “As per our assessment, the state needs around 11.5 crore more doses.... Hence, we would earnestly request you to kindly give necessary instructions so that Covid-19 vaccination supply to our state is increased,” the chief minister wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 891 new Covid-19 cases, 12 fresh fatalities||Bengal on Thursday reported the 25th consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 1,089 recoveries, 891 infections and a dozen deaths. With Calcutta logging 76 infections and North 24-Parganas 92, Thursday was the eighth successive day since the second wave struck when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new cases. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections, while North Dinajpur, Malda and Purulia logged single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.61 per cent on Thursday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The total of active cases fell by 210 on Thursday to 13,637. Of the 12 deaths, two were in Calcutta and one from North 24-Parganas. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Birbhum, West Burdwan, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas reported just one each. “Even about six weeks ago, the daily death toll was around 150, with some districts reporting 40-50 deaths each. We have come a long way since,” said a minister. “We successfully managed to arrest fatalities in the 46-60, 61-75 and 75-plus age brackets, which collectively have nearly 16,200 (over 90 per cent) of the total 17,970 deaths,” he added. The 61-75 age bracket of the infected has a mortality rate of 3.43, but nearly 7,500 (41.7 per cent) of the total deaths. In Bengal, around 12,100 (67.3 per cent) of the total deaths were of infected males. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. In the key parameter of case growth — percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week before that — Bengal is 24th on the list of states, with case growth falling by 47.8 per cent. Bengal has been able to maintain a case growth of –40 to –60 for weeks. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.91 per cent, with the national rate at 97.25. The state now has a total of over 15.15 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.84 lakh recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Initiative to prepare masterplans to save Digha and Sunderbans||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said her government had taken up an initiative to prepare masterplans for the Sunderbans and Digha to minimise the damage the two areas faced on a regular basis because of natural calamities like cyclones. “We have set up a committee comprising 24 members to find out ways to save the Sunderbans and Digha. The masterplans would give us a direction on which we can work to save the areas from natural disasters they face regularly,” Mamata said at Nabanna on Thursday. The chief minister said the state government had taken three plans — short-term, mid-term and long-term — to help people of these two areas after Cyclone Yaas had hit them in May. “We have given relief to the affected, we have collected compensation claims through Duare Tran programme and we have started sending compensation to the bank accounts of the affected,” she said. Mamata said the state government had already spent Rs 364.3 crore to give compensation to 1.91 lakh people in the affected areas. In addition to this, the state government has spent another Rs 230 crore to give compensation to the affected farmers across the state. Sources said the state government would send some more compensation to the affected and would develop flood shelters in the coastal districts as soon as the state government got some funds from the Centre. Mamata also inaugurated a programme virtually at Digha where 54 vendors were given trolleys as their kiosks had been damaged during Yaas. Moreover, the state government has repaired 114 damaged stalls located near the beach in Digha. These stalls had been damaged severely in Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||National Human Rights Commission lists minister as goon, CM fumes||A report filed by the National Human Rights Commission’s probe committee before Calcutta High Court on alleged post-poll results violence in Bengal has named several current and former lawmakers of the Trinamul Congress, including a senior minister, in its list of 123 “notorious criminals/goons”, besides echoing many of the BJP’s concerns and demands. The list of names is part of an annexure to the report. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee called the NHRC’s committee “a great liar”, accusing it of distorting facts. “The pre-poll matter, they say post-poll violence. (It was) Pre-poll violence, it (the administration) was under the Election Commission, not with us. What they are raising, maximum… this was pre-poll. That also we don’t support. But that time, it was not with us… the law and order machinery was with the Election Commission, please understand this,” said Mamata. The list includes the likes of Jyotipriya Mullick, Trinamul’s key leader from North 24-Parganas and forest and non-conventional and renewable energy sources minister, former Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha, Burdwan South MLA Khokan Das, Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmik, Canning East MLA Saokat Molla and Mamata’s Nandigram election agent Sheikh Sufiyan. Mullick, a lawyer, said he was “extremely hurt and ashamed” that the NHRC had done this to him, allegedly without having conducted its due diligence, at the BJP’s behest. Mullick threatened to sue the NHRC over the “false, fabricated framing”. A special five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court led by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had on June 18 expressed dissatisfaction over the “ongoing post-poll violence” in Bengal. It directed the NHRC chairperson — currently Justice (retired) Arun Kumar Mishra — to set up a committee and send it to Bengal to inquire into the post-poll violence and file a report before the court. “They (the committee) are speaking just like a great liar. Sorry, liar is an unparliamentary word. They are misleading the people and distorting the facts. When the court will give us the time, we will file our affidavit and give our opinion to the honourable court,” Mamata said. She demanded answers on why the report for the court had been circulated widely and made public even before it featured in a hearing. The chief minister accused the committee of having disrespected the court thereby, out of “political vendetta”. “(What is it) if it is not political vendetta? Only to malign the people of Bengal, because they (the BJP) have lost the election.” In a statement, the NHRC rejected allegations regarding the leak of the report, pointing out it was already available with all parties concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC adjourns hearing of Narada case till August 16||Calcutta High Court on Thursday adjourned hearing in the Narada case till August 16. The five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal is hearing the case related to the arrest of two ministers, an MLA and a former mayor by the CBI on May 17 and affidavits filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak. The CBI has accused the chief minister of creating disturbance in the investigation on the day of the arrest. The law minister has been charged with trying to influence the lower court hearing the bail plea of the arrested leaders. Both Mamata and Ghatak filed affidavits contesting the charges of the CBI. When the case came up for hearing on Thursday, counsels for Mamata and Ghatak said they would be busy with legislative affairs and sought the adjournment of the hearing. The bench granted their prayers and adjourned the hearing till August 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang resigns from Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction||Binay Tamang on Thursday resigned from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction he had formed in and headed since 2017, a decision that is likely to redraw political contours in the sharply divided hill politics. Tamang announced his decision at a media conference in Darjeeling. “I am resigning from the post of party president and also as an ordinary member of the Morcha,” Tamang said. He added that he would hand over the Morcha flag and forward a copy of his resignation letter to Bimal Gurung, the founder president of the Morcha, against whom Tamang had revolted four years back. Tamang’s decision to forward the resignation letter to Gurung indicated that his growing difference with Anit Thapa, general secretary of his faction, was the prime reason behind his resignation. Several Morcha leaders this correspondent spoke to said Thapa’s rise in importance within the party after he headed the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration — Tamang had resigned as the head of the GTA to contest the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly byelection — had sowed the seeds of factionalism. Within an hour of the resignation announcement, Tamang was removed from the faction’s WhatsApp group, a clear indication that his decision was accepted by Thapa, who, however, termed the resignation as a “surprise”. In the nearly 45-minute-long media address, Tamang cited a number of reasons for the resignation. At one point, he said he had sniffed a conspiracy since January 2019 to remove him from hill politics by “national forces” and abetted by people inside and outside his party. However, in the resignation letter addressed to party vice-president Satish Pokhrel and Thapa, Tamang said it was his “moral responsibility to resign from the post of the president” following the electoral losses in 2019 and 2021. In the last Bengal Assembly elections, the BJP and its allies had polled 39.2 per cent of the total votes cast in the hills followed by Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha which secured 32.9 per cent and Gurung’s faction that bagged 20.6 per cent. Tamang also blamed some party leaders. “Most party functionaries are not serious in organisational matters and played a double standard role (during elections) leading to the loss,” wrote Tamang. The Morcha leader, who decided to ally with the Trinamul Congress in 2017 when Gurung was with the BJP, said three “rumours” were being floated by his rivals. “Rumours are being spread that I was in touch with the BJP. Some said I would join hands with Bimal Gurung while another theory was that I would join Trinamul,” said Tamang, who virtually ruled out all the three options. Tamang said he had been in politics for 33 years, first with the GNLF till 1999, and then with the Morcha from 2007 onwards. He added that he would start the “third chapter” of his political journey. “I will start the third chapter of my political career. But please don’t ask me the details right away. I will announce it at an appropriate time,” said Tamang. Gurung didn’t waste any time in welcoming Tamang to his old party. “Bhai (Binay Tamang) was among the six core leaders behind the formation of our party in 2007. In politics, there are no permanent friends and enemies. Our doors are always welcome (for him),” said Gurung. Tamang justified his decision to hand over the flag to the “original owner (Gurung)” on the grounds that he had taken the decision to revolt against Gurung only to “save the party, people and the hills”. “I will hand over the party flag to the original owner. I request Anit bhai and others not to address the faction as Binay faction anymore,” said Tamang. In the recent polls, Calcutta High Court had allowed both the Morcha factions to use the words “Bimal faction” and “Binay faction”. Tamang said his decision to hand over a copy of his resignation letter to Gurung was prompted by the court’s earlier verdict. “I will also inform Calcutta High Court about my resignation,” said Tamang. Thapa said it was Tamang who had requested him in 2017 to start a new political culture to save the hills. “I respect Binay Tamang and I will continue to follow his principles. I will work with the state government for the betterment of the hills,” said Thapa. Thapa has decided to hold a meeting of the central committee in Kurseong on Friday to discuss the new political development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
