17-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister Sadhan Pande hospitalised with lung infection, condition critical||West Bengal minister Sadhan Pande has been hospitalised with a severe lung infection, a Health official said on Saturday.  The condition of the Consumer Affairs and Self Help and Self Employment minister is "very critical" and he has been put on ventilator support at the ICU of a private hospital in Kolkata, he said.  The septuagenarian was rushed to the hospital late on Friday night in a semi-conscious state after he complained of chest pain and breathlessness, the official said.  Pande's oxygen saturation is quite low and doctors are keeping a constant watch on him, hospital sources said.  A four-member medical team which includes an endocrinologist has been constituted to treat Pande, who has several comorbidities like Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and renal disorders, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal JEE held smoothly in offline mode amid Covid-19 situation||Over 90 per cent of the total 92,695 candidates sat for the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE) at 274 centres on Saturday, as the first offline public examination held in the state this year amid the pandemic situation went off smoothly.  An official of the West Bengal JEE Board said that the candidates wrote Mathematics and Physics-Chemistry papers in two halves, with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining a five-feet distance between them.  "Over 90 per cent of the 92,695 candidates, including some from outside the state, who were enrolled for the WBJEE turned up for the exams.  "To maintain social distancing, two candidates were seated on long benches with a five-feet gap between them, and one on the shorter ones. The number of examinees in each room did not exceed 28," the official said.  The Mathematics paper in the first half and the Physics-Chemistry paper in the second were of two hours each and the exams passed off smoothly, he said.  WBJEE is conducted to shortlist candidates aspiring to study in engineering colleges in the state.  Examinees were allowed to board staff-special trains if they carried admit cards with them.  However, many of them claimed that the number of public transport vehicles at Sealdah, Howrah and Kolkata terminal railway stations were fewer, and they had to shell out a huge amount of money to reach the examination venues on time.  The Kolkata Police came to the help of two candidates from Bihar who had mistakenly turned up at the Jadavpur University main campus instead of the JU Salt Lake campus for the exams.  A social organisation pressed into service a few buses, hired from private operators, to ferry candidates for free in Kolkata and Howrah.  The COVID positivity rate in West Bengal has declined to 1.54 per cent, as 14,191 patients of the 15.13-lakh tally are undergoing treatment, while 17,944 people have succumbed to the infection, and 14.81 lakh have recovered from the disease thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Private hospitals question regulator on capping test rates ||Nineteen major private hospitals in Calcutta  have informed the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that they are not bound by its “purported” order  fixing upper limits on pathological and radiological tests,  while also questioning the basis and validity of the order. Represented by the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, the hospitals noted that the association received the "order" on fixing rates via WhatsApp on July 2. The association, in its letter to the commission secretary on July 6, has also demanded the commission  explain how the rates had been decided. “… disclose all the documents evidencing the formation of opinion including the documents in relation to the appointment, terms of reference, the decision-making process and the suggestions of the two expert committees referred to in the said order to demonstrate how these orders have been arrived at,” reads the letter. The association has also questioned how the commission  decided on the rate caps being applicable to only those hospitals with more than 150 beds. The letter worded in legalese, reminds the commission of its powers and functions under the West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency Act), 2017. While the commission is empowered under  section 38 (A) of the Act to regulate fixing of rates or charges for treatment of patients in indoor and outdoor departments,  section 52 of the same Act clarifies that it will have to do so with prior approval from the state government. The association representing private hospitals  claims that the commission has violated the provision. "No such approval of the state government by notification is forthcoming in the present case which renders any exercise of power under Section 38 of the said Act a nullity and therefore non-est and void ab initio,” reads the letter. The association has reminded the commission  that it can only “make regulations” and “not pass orders”. “Even assuming, without admitting, that the said 'order' is valid, the exercise of power under Section 38 has to be construed reasonably and cannot be used arbitrarily to fix rates,” the association states in its letter. The association letter also states that none of the member hospitals was heard by the two committees (the letter calls it "purported committees"). “The entire process, which is opaque,  is in violation of the inalienable principles of natural justice which is a part and parcel of Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” says the letter. The hospitals have reasoned that those accreditated with the Joint Commission International (JCI) and the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare (NABH) require stringent quality control protocol even for the most basic tests and those measures have an impact on the cost pricing. “… the same rate has been fixed arbitrarily without any rational basis. The proposed uniform rates are discriminatory and amount to treating unequals equally and will deny equality in treatment of those similarly placed as against those otherwise placed,” the letter says in the section called submissions. The rates fixed by the commission, says the association, are “unjust, baseless and do not reflect due application of mind to relevant considerations, contrary to accepted industry practices” before giving a point-by-point explanation on why it opposes the rates. The hospitals say tests like the 128-position emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT) scanning systems, 3 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), catheterization laboratories require significant “cost absorption” and “infrastructural investment” along with trained manpower which have not been “reflected in arbitrary rates fixed by the commission.” The commission, which had announced the order was to come into effect immediately, is yet to respond to the hotel association's letter. The association has demanded the order be withdrawn and/or rescinded, and sought an opportunity to be heard “through counsel.” The commission secretary, Arshad Hasan Warsi, has promised to talk to the hospital association. "The Commission will hear them soon online.  Most of the hospitals are in agreement as the rates are very much  reasonable and in some cases almost the same as prevalent," said Warsi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||New postgraduate and diploma courses at Alipurduar University ||Ten new postgraduate courses and nine diploma courses in other subjects would be introduced at the Alipurduar University in the upcoming academic session, Mahendranath Roy, the vicechancellor of the sixmonthold varsity, said hereon Friday. “Initially, we had approval for PG courses in four subjects but now, we have received approval for PG courses in 10 other subjects and can also introduce oneyearlong diploma courses in nine other subjects from the state higher education department. It is indeed a major development and will benefit hundreds of students of Alipurduar and adjoining districts,” said Roy. Roy said that there would be 20 seats each for oneyearlong diploma course, while the number of seats may vary from 10 to 25 for PG subjects. Among the diploma cours¬es that would be introduced at the varsity, include manage¬ment in  diploma inteamanagement, forestrymanagement, tourism managementand hotel, and courses diploma inon folk culture, songs and dances of Rajbanshi, Adivasi, Mech, Ne¬pali and Rava communities. The 10 new traditional subjects which would be introduced for the twoyearpostgraduate courses include botany, zoolo¬gy, maths, Bengali, Sanskrit, political science, philosophy, economics, commerce and ge¬ography. Earlier, the varsity had got approval for PG cours¬es in English, history, chem¬istry and biology. “We will start the admission process in a couple of months,” the VC said. Meanwhile, in Murshidab¬ad, educationists and membe¬rs of the civil society have de¬manded that postgraduate co¬urses in Arabic be introduced at Murshidabad University, set up last year. There are 25 colleges in Murshidabad amo¬ng which undergraduate cou¬rses in Arabic are taught in 14. Every year, 500 to 700 students complete their UG course in this subject, said Sheikh Abir Hossain, an educationist. “However, out of the 14 subjects in which postgraduate courses have been introduced at the varsity from this year, Arabic is not there. We want this subject, along with some other subjects like Islamic studies, to be introduced at the varsity immediately. This would create an option for hundreds of students who want to pursue higher studies in Arabic,” he said. Hossain mentioned that they are readying a mass petition on the issue and will send it to the state education minister and to Sujata Bagchi, the vicechancellor of the varsity, said: “This is our first academic ye¬ar. We have introduced as ma¬ny as 14 subjects. We need pro¬per infrastructure and faculty to start a PG course in Arabic. It will be done in due course.” Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||EVM scan in Bengal Assembly bypoll zones||The chief electoral officer of Bengal on Friday wrote to the election officers in districts where Assembly bypolls are due to start the first level of checking of EVMs and VVPATs. An official at Nabanna read significance in the initiative by the CEO, Ariz Aftab, as it came a day after a Trinamul Congress delegation had met the full bench of the Election Commission of India in New Delhi seeking immediate bypolls. “This is significant as one can say that the EC has officially started proceedings to hold the bypolls in the state,” said a source. In Bengal, bypolls are supposed to be held in seven Assembly segments because of deaths of candidates or resignation of sitting MLAs. The bypolls became relevant only because Mamata Banerjee has to be elected by November 5 to continue as the chief minister. The CEO on Friday wrote letters to the district election officers of Cooch Behar, Calcutta South, South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and Nadia, asking them to start first level checking of the EVMs and VVPATs. “In these five areas, bypolls are due in one segment each. In Murshidabad, bypolls have to be held in two segments,” said a source. Sources said as elections were not held in Murshidabad, there was no need to check the EVMs and VVPATs. “But in all other five segments, elections were held and later the seats fell vacant. So, EVMs have to be kept ready before the bypolls,” said a source. A section of officials, however, said the first level of checking of EVMs and VVPATs did not mean that the bypolls would be held on time. “The EC is keeping itself prepared. But holding of polls would depend on several other factors, like the Covid situation,” said a senior official. The Election Commission on Friday issued a notification for a bypoll to a vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Bengal on August 9. The bypoll was necessitated by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi. The term of the seat is until 2026. The byelection will be held on August 9 and nominations will open on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu: BJP to move court with appeal to implement anti-defection law against Mukul  ||Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday said the BJP was preparing to move court with an appeal to implement the anti-defection law against Mukul Roy, who had switched to the Trinamul Congress after being elected as an MLA on the lotus symbol. Adhikari said the BJP would also urge the court to set a deadline for the Speaker of the Bengal Assembly to conclude the hearing on his application for Roy’s disqualification. On the basis of Adhikari’s appeal, Speaker Biman Banerjee called for the first hearing on Friday. Adhikari and two other BJP MLAs, Ambika Roy and Sudip Mukherjee, attended the hearing, which lasted for hardly four minutes. A source said Banerjee had pointed out some technical faults and asked Adhikari to return with a rectified application on July 30. The source added the “technical anomalies” could’ve been overlooked and by pointing them out, Banerjee was trying to delay the process. On the basis of this assumption and “past experiences”, the BJP has decided to move court. “We have no faith in the system run by the Trinamul Congress…We will speak to the legal cell of the BJP and senior lawyers and we will take refuge in court… We will request the court to implement the anti-defection law in Bengal…And if a hearing (in the Assembly) is to be conducted, the court must fix a deadline for its completion…,” Adhikari told journalists after the hearing. He added since there was documented proof available and Roy had been elected as the PAC chairman with support from Trinamul, there mustn’t be much “lingering” on the issue. “We have seen when the Left legislative party had complained about Dipali Biswas switching to Trinamul, 23 hearings were held…But it was never concluded. Hence, we don’t trust this system,” Adhikari said. Incidentally, Adhikari is said to have played a key role in the defection of Biswas from the CPM to Trinamul in 2018. She later switched to the BJP, yet again with Adhikari’s help, in 2020. She had won from the Gazole seat in 2016. Sunil Mondal, the MP from Burdwan East seat, told this newspaper that he was not a member of BJP. Mondal had switched from Trinamul to the BJP in December 2020 along with Adhikari. However, after the Assembly poll debacle for the BJP, he reportedly fell out with the Nandigram MLA. “I’m still a Trinamul MP. I don’t have a single document that can prove that I’m a BJP member, because I’m not. Neither am I an office-bearer of the BJP,” Mondal said. Trinamul had recently expedited the process of implementing the anti-defection law against Mondal and Sisir Adhikari, Suvendu’s father, who had switched to the BJP. Both of them were sent notices on Thursday asking them to explain why the law shouldn’t be implemented against them. In such a circumstance, Mondal claimed that he remained a Trinamul MP. Partha Chatterjee, the minister for parliamentary affairs, announced the names of the chairpersons of eight Assembly standing committees from which BJP MLAs had resigned. He named Sudipto Roy, Humayun Kabir, Pannalal Halder, Abdul Khalek Mollah, Rukbanur Rehman, Tapan Dasgupta, Ashok Chattopadhyay and Madan Mitra as the new chairmen of these committees. The Standing Committees will meet from July 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal|| Faulty design turns vessels into death traps||Repeated incidents of trawler mishaps in the Sunderbans has brought the design of vessels under the scanner and the state government has decided to come up with a boat model that will help in better navigation on rivers and sea in Bengal. In the past few years, over 100 fishermen lost their lives with the latest accident happening in the Bay of Bengal off Frazerganj in South 24-Parganas on Wednesday claiming 10 lives. While trying to find out the reason for Wednesday morning’s mishap, officials of the state fisheries department at a meeting with fishermen’s organisations zeroed in on the navigation problem that vessels with a distinct V-shape at the bottom faced while moving through highly-silted coastal channels of Bay of Bengal. While the fishermen’s organisations have appealed to the state government for clearing the silted channel where their trawlers often get trapped or capsized after hitting the submerged alluvial land, the Bengal government has been considering to write to the Cochin-based Central Institute of Fisheries Technologies (CIFT) to design a new model of fishing boat that can navigate better on rivers and sea in Bengal. “Silted stretches of rivers and sea channels have emerged as a major problem for fishermen. Our officials have also realised the problem. We will have a thorough discussion on the issue at a meeting to be held at the district magistrate’s office on July 22. The issue of writing to the Central Institute of Fisheries Technologies will also be finalised there,” fisheries minister Akhil Giri told The Telegraph. Sources said during the initial discussion at the Namkhana BDO office, senior officials of the fisheries department pointed out that boats from South 24-Parganas are mostly V-shaped at the bottom, whereas fishermen in Digha-Sankarpur use vessels that tend to get oval at the bottom. “The coastal areas of the Sunderbans and Digha are different with sea channels in South 24-Parganas distinctly narrower than those in East Midnapore. This creates problems for trawlers and the distinct V-shape at the bottom gets easily stuck in the silt. Boats with an oval shape at the bottom glide over depleted water zones without getting stuck in the silt. This is the reason why the number of boats capsizing in East Midnapore is far less than those on South 24-Parganas,” said assistant director of fisheries (marine) Jayanta Kumar Pradhan. Sources said in the past five years, 35 boats that had sailed from South 24-Parganas capsized killing 125 fishermen. During the same time, the corresponding figure of boat accidents in East Midnapore is five and nine people have lost their lives. Speaking to The Telegraph, Giri said: “The V-shaped boats are basically model popular in Bangladesh where the problem of navigation is less. Officials of our department had discouraged fishermen from using V-shaped boats, but higher manufacturing costs of oval shaped boats came in the way.” “We have over 10,000 fishing boats in operation in South 24-Parganas. So even if the new model is introduced, it will be difficult to replace the old V-shaped boats overnight. We will discuss with the CIFT to propose a more financially viable trawler model for fishermen in the region,” Giri added. Members of West Bengal United Fishermen’s Association, who have been invited to attend the July 22 meeting, have welcomed the government's initiative. Sources in the fisheries department said a few years ago they had written to the CIFT for a new model for Bengal fishermen, but the endeavour did not materialise. Baiju M.V, a senior scientist at Kerala’s CIFT and an expert in marine fishing technology, however, reiterated the “stability” features of boats. “Fishing boat making requires expertise. It is not an easy job. Unfortunately, the stability features of the boat often gets ignored in the unorganised fishing sector. Stability is the basic safety aspect of a fishing boat,” Baiju told The Telegraph over phone. Apart from navigation issues, the government is considering training trawler operators. Officials said when driving an auto required a license, trawler operators should be imparted training. This, an official said, would help bring down incidents of trawler mishaps. “After a spate of boat capsizing incidents, the Bengal government had in 2018 formulated guidelines for trawlers and fishermen on following safe shipping routes. But errant fishermen often flout the guidelines leading to mishaps. The guidelines need to be implemented properly,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Four persons crushed to death on highway near Murshidabad||Four persons were crushed to death when a stone chip-laden truck careened into a tea stall off a state highway near Murshidabad’s Bhalkundi village early on Friday. Eyewitnesses said the truck, which was heading to Behrampore from Rampurhat in Birbhum along the Rampurhat-Sherpur state highway, driving recklessly at a high speed apparently lost control and ran over several persons and the tea stall, before being stopped by a large tree. The incident occurred around 6am. “Four persons died on the spot, and the shop was completely destroyed. The gathering was much larger though, and it could have been far worse had it not been for a few people who spotted the errant vehicle and ran for their lives,” said Rakibul Sheikh, a witness. The deceased have been identified as Hefjul Sheikh, 62, Al-Amin Sheikh, 65, Ujjal Sheikh, 18 and Prakash Marjit, 32 — all local farmers. Sources said two injured were rushed to Khargram Block Hospital. Later, they were referred to the Murshidabad Medical College and Kandi Sub-divisional Hospital, respectively. “Their condition is critical,” said a source. Police said the truck had been seized, but the driver, whose identity was ascertained, was absconding. “We have started a case against the driver. Prima facie, it seems that he had fallen asleep at the wheel,” said district police chief K. Sabari Raj Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||CPM wields Bengal govt policy to oppose DPL land sale||The CPM is using a 2015 land policy of the Mamata Banerjee government to oppose the decision to sell off or lease out unused land of Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) to make the loss-making power utility financially viable. In 2015, the Bengal cabinet had approved a policy in which it was stated that all those encroaching upon government land for five years or more would be given longterm settlement rights to the plots. Industrialists had then questioned the policy as they thought it would lead to problems over land availability for industrial and public purpose projects. Armed with the 2015 land policy of the state government, CPM workers in Durgapur on Thursday began a door-to-door survey to identify the number of longtime settlers on DPL land and collect data about their whereabouts. “We are collecting details of the people staying on DPL land for a long time. We are collecting their name, age, details of their family members and source of income. Most of them have already got the drinking water supply connection in their locality and also electricity connection in households from DPL,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM district secretariat member in West Burdwan. He said the settlers, who are now being described as “encroachers” by the DPL, had been given power and drinking water connections after the government decided to legalise long-term settlers in 2015 and on the eve of the 2017 civic polls in Durgapur. “The government now is in a hurry to sell the land to its handpicked private parties for realty projects and wants to evict people living here for a long time. By doing this they are going against their own policy. We want the government to give them long-term settlement rights but it wants to evict them,” said Roy Sarkar. The CPM on Thursday held a mass convention to rally people’s support against the “eviction drive” and on Wednesday the party had submitted a deputation to the subdivisional officer to register its opposition to the government’s move. The BJP, too, hit the streets on the issue on Thursday. “The government wants to evict people by labelling them as encroachers. The government is actually trying to destroy DPL, the lifeline of Durgapur,” said Chandrasekhar Banerjee, a BJP leader in Durgapur. Opposition parties have launched their protests at a time when the DPL is conducting a digital survey on its “encroached” lands with the help of drone cameras to avoid resistance. “Initially we began a door-to-door survey but apprehending law-and-order issues we decided to take the help of drone cameras,” said a DPL official. Sources in DPL said around 25,000 “illegal settlers” have been occupying around 200acre land of DPL. The CPM, too, has estimated a similar number of people living on DPL land. Sources in the district administration said the drive to evict “encroachers” in such large numbers would not be an easy job. “The Opposition will surely make it an issue for political gains and that will help illegal occupants to resist the eviction drive,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic body to develop alternative road along Mahananda river to reduce traffic congestion||Gautam Deb, the chairperson of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), on Friday held a meeting with senior officials of different departments over various infrastructural projects in Siliguri. Deb mentioned that the SMC will build a 10km alternative road along the bank of the Mahananda river to ease the traffic load of Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road, two principal thoroughfares of the town and connect these roads through a bridge that will come up in the Surya Sen Park area located on the left bank of the Mahananda. The alternative road, which would be developed with the help of Rail India Technical and Economic Services Private Limited (RITES), will. “The SMC will develop a 10km alternative road along the bank of the Mahananda river to reduce traffic congestion on Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road and connect these roads through a bridge that will come up in the Surya Sen Park area located on the left bank of the Mahananda. The Rail India Technical and Economic Services Private Limited (RITES) I had been to Calcutta recently and there, I had a meeting with representatives of RITES. Based on our consultation, theyhas carried out a survey and come up with a plan to develop the alternative road and bridge that will connect the two roadsthe Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road,” said Deb. On Friday, he held a highlevel meeting with senior officials of state PWD, irrigation, PHE, the Teesta Barrage Project, WBSEDCL and Siliguri Metropolitan Police. At the meeting, it was also decided to dismantle an arm of the DBRCD flyover of the city and construct a doublelane arm that would help in. “We are planning to construct a double lane arm of the DBRCD flyover to ease vehicular movement along Station Feeder Road. A proposal in this regard will be sent to the chief minister and to the state urban development and municipal affairs department soonOfficials of RITES will shortly carry out a survey for the proposed project,” he added. It has also been decided to Among other decisions which were made include the decision to shift the local bus stand now near Siliguri Town station to Tinbatti More. from of the city, which is beside now, (on southern end of Siliguri). “Private buses bound for Calcutta and Bihar will be shifted to Paribahan Nagar, (in the northwest end of the city) while buses running between Siliguri and Jalpaiguri will depart from PC Mittal Bus Terminus (which is in the northeastern parts of Siliguri),” the chairperson said. The civic body has planned to use the land of the A source said that the civic body would use the land of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation at Tinbatti More for a terminus of private buses. “The deputy director of the NBSTC has taken up the issue with the state transport department so that the land can be used as a terminus of private buses,” said a source. Deb also spoke with officials of PHE and irrigation for a new drinking water project of the city. In Siliguri, a larger drinking water project is required to cater to the population that has witnessed an unprecedented growth during the past couple of decades.A plan to draw water from the Teesta to a new filtration plant that would be set up on the outskirts of Siliguri was also discussed. “Experts at the state PHE department have already prepared a detailed project report for the drinking water project. The idea is to draw water from the Teesta to a new filtration plant that would be set up on the outskirts of the city.The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 470 crores and the proposal has been sent to the municipal affairs department for approval,” Deb said. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, said here on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 882 active cases, 10 deaths||Bengal on Friday reported the 26th consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 1,025 recoveries, 882 infections and 10 deaths. Friday was the 12th consecutive day of less than 1,000 new infections being detected. The Covid-19 death count of 10 reported on Friday was the lowest since April 9, 98 days ago. The total of active cases fell by 153 on Friday to 13,484. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.93 per cent, with the national rate at 97.26. Of the 10 deaths, two were from the city. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while North 24-Parganas reported just one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. The state now has a total of over 15.16 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.85 lakh recoveries and 17,980 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa elected as acting president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction||Anit Thapa was on Friday elected the “acting president” of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction that had been headed by Binay Tamang who had resigned from the party a day earlier. Thapa seemed to have tightened his grip on the faction where majority of central committee members backed him. The meeting to elect Thapa was held in Kurseong. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a spokesman for the party, said: “Anit Thapa will be the acting president of the party as we need to adhere to some technicalities to appoint a full-fledged president. The process will be duly followed.” Thapa will also continue to discharge his responsibility as the general secretary. “We will now work as ‘we’ and not as individuals in the party,” said Thapa soon after taking control of the party and reversed his former party president Binay Tamang’s media gag on party leaders and the dissolution of various committees of the faction. “All the previous committees that were dissolved will be reinstated with immediate effect,” added Thapa. On June 16, Tamang had said the party would no longer have a spokesman and that only he would issue media statements or designate some leader to do so on a particular day. Tamang had also dissolved the subdivisional committees of Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and constituency committee of Mirik and Soureni. Tamang had also decided to personally monitor the central and district committees of the women and youth wings, too. Even though the growing difference between Thapa and Tamang is being cited as a catalyst for the new political development, Thapa on Friday said he had sent a message to Tamang after his resignation announcement stating that Tamang should at least have placed his grievances with the central committee before leaving party leaders and followers high and dry. Most of the central committee leaders and representative of the 23 frontal organisations of the party attended Thapa’s meeting. Ruden Sada Lepcha, Kalimpong MLA, prominently present. “All pointers suggests that Thapa is ready to ready to lead this faction sans Tamang,” said an observer. Breaking down and weeping seem to be the new flavour of the season for politicians in the Darjeeling hills. On Friday Bimal Gurung could not hold his emotions when he received the party flag from Tamang at his Patlebas office in Darjeeling. The flag was accepted by Gurung at 11.19 am, a time he always maintains to undertake important events. Tamang, too, had wept when he had announced his decision to hand over the flag to Gurung on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Poll panel issues notification for byelection to vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Bengal on August 9||The Election Commission of India on Friday issued a notification for a bypoll to a vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Bengal on August 9. The bypoll to the Upper House was announced a day after the Trinamul Congress had demanded byelections to seven Assembly seats in the state. The Rajya Sabha bypoll was necessitated by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi following his exit from Trinamul in February. He joined the BJP in March. The term of the seat is until 2026. The byelection will be held on August 9 and nominations will open on July 22. Trinamul has the numbers to elect its own member to the Upper House. The six-month deadline for the EC to conduct the vacant RS seat will end on August 12. In Bengal, one more RS seat is vacant following the resignation of Manas Bhunia. He quit the seat after being elected as a Trinamul MLA. The EC has time until November 6 to fill the vacancy. In the wake of the second wave of Covid-19, the EC had deferred all polls in May. Unlike the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls, Rajya Sabha elections are indirect as only MLAs need to cast their votes. No campaigning or deployment of large numbers of polling personnel is required. In May, the EC had indefinitely deferred a Rajya Sabha election in Kerala. Earlier this month, the Bengal government had told the EC that the situation was conducive to both the RS and the Assembly bypolls. The EC hasn’t, however, announced any decision on the bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Dooars: Plea for Rapid Antigen Test for tourists||Resort owners in the Dooars have demanded that the administration conduct Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) of tourists at kiosks which can be set up at entry points. A delegation of resort owners on Friday met Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu with the demand. “We had earlier seen the administration carrying out random RAT tests in marketplaces and busy areas. A similar step can be taken to screen tourists visiting the region. Kiosks for the RAT tests can be set up at tourist spots in the Dooars and entry points. It would be convenient for tourists then as they would no longer have to carry RTPCR negative reports. Staff at the resorts and homestays can also be screened regularly,” said Mahasweta Roy, assistant secretary, Gorumara Tourism Welfare Association. On Wednesday, the Jalpaiguri district administration has issued a notification mentioning that only tourists, who were fully vaccinated or carrying RTPCR negative reports issued not before 48 hours of their travel could check into hotels, resorts and homestays. The notification led to a number of cancellations as a section of tourists who took the first dose or were yet to be vaccinated were apprehensive of travelling to the Dooars because the RTPCR certificates would be considered invalid if there was any delay in their arrival because of transport issues. Basu, the district magistrate, said the proposal |could be considered but |transporters and railway authorities needed to be consulted. “A detailed plan has to be drawn in consultation with different departments and the stakeholders. Only then can this process be initiated. We will soon speak to the persons concerned to check out the feasibility of the plan,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Birbhum: Vaccine and test riders for tourists to check Covid spread||The Birbhum district administration has asked hotel and resort owners at Santiniketan and other tourism hubs to ensure proof of both doses of Covid-19 vaccination or a negative RT-PCR test report, not older than 72 hours from arrival, before allotting accommodation at their properties. Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Chandra Ray issued an order on Thursday evening and it was circulated to all tourist destinations, including Santiniketan, in a bid to curb the outbreak amid fears of a third wave. “All hotels and resorts at all tourist spots of Birbhum, including Santiniketan, have to abide by the directive and have been asked to cooperate with the administration to get a grip on the infection,” said Ray. Hoteliers have been asked to keep a copy of the proof of vaccination or the Covid-19 negative report before the tourists enter their properties. Before Birbhum, the administration in two other famed tourism hubs in the state — Digha and Darjeeling — took similar measures. On Friday, the Bankura district administration also issued an identical directive to ensure such proof for anyone visiting hotels or resorts in the district. Sources said the flow of tourists increased exponentially after several special trains started running from Calcutta and some of the strict restrictions that the state government had imposed during the peak of the second wave were relaxed. The rural market of Sonajhuri, a top draw for tourists as a weekend destination for rural art and crafts, has also been reopened. “It is true that the order is good for the safety of our areas. But the main problem is the long gap (of at least 84 days) between the two doses of Covishield and the dire crisis of vaccines for the 18-44 age bracket. We think these directions would lessen the flow of tourists,” said Prosenjit Chowdhury, secretary of the Bolpur-Santiniketan Hoteliers’ Association. The restrictions have been imposed for the Tarapith Kali temple in Rampurhat as well. The temple attracts pilgrims from neighbouring Bihar and Jharkhand in large numbers, besides all over Bengal. Hoteliers in Tarapith have pleaded with the district administration to ensure immediate testing of tourists who were vaccinated but forgot to carry the proof or to arrange for verification on the basis of their identity documentation. “It is a good order to protect the district from the third wave. We would request authorities to allow the tourists for a test or a confirmation through the government portal, if someone forgets to carry the proof,” said Sunil Giri, president of the Tarapith Hoteliers’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Casual staff of Malda Medical College and Hospital on ceasework||Over 170 contractual employees working in different departments of Malda Medical College and Hospital launched a ceasework and demonstration on Friday after the principal’s office had issued a notice, saying they would not be paid salaries from August because of paucity of funds. The notice was issued on Thursday afternoon. “This is nothing but a move to retrench us. Many of us have been working here for 10 to 12 years. Our services were engaged throughout the Covid-19 pandemic also. Any move to remove us from our jobs is disappointing,” said Priya Singha, a contractual employee who works in the office of the superintendent of the MMCH. Another employee who participated in the demonstration said the casual staff had taken several initiatives in the past few years to make their jobs permanent. “But nothing has happened so far. At this point, the state government and the MMCH authorities should see that we work till the age of 60 and are not retrenched. We will continue the movement till our demand is met,” he said. Sources at the MMCH said around 12 lakh was spent every month to pay salaries to the temporary employees. “We do not have adequate funds to pay their salaries. We have somehow arranged funds to pay them for July but from August and onwards, it would not be possible for us to pay them unless we receive additional cash from the state government. We have informed senior officials of the state health department about the issue,” said Partha Pratim Mukherjee, principal, MMCH. Asked whether the absence of the contractual employees — none of them joined their duties on Friday — was affecting different works at the facility, Mukherjee said the situation was being monitored. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda who is also the chairman of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti at the MMCH, said: “We are waiting for necessary instructions from the state health department to take any further decision.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Nimta rehabilitation centre faces torture slur||Family members of several patients admitted to a rehabilitation centre at Nimta in North 24-Parganas have alleged that the authorities tortured them physically and mentally, denied them food over trivial issues and served them poor quality food. Family members of the inmates spoke on condition of anonymity and out of concern for the patients who are recovering at the facility from drug addiction. The allegations against the centre come in the backdrop of the killing of Birati resident Partha Raha, 49, by a section of officials on Tuesday night. Partha was allegedly beaten to death for secretly calling up his brother to inform him about the ill-treatment meted out to the patients. Police had arrested the two accused officials, Subhankar Mondal and Subhashis Chakraborty, on murder charge, while the owner of the Su-Drishti Darshan Rehabilitation Centre, Apu Bagal, is still untraceable. “Some officials are so brutal that they do not even bother to use wooden sticks to beat the inmates, many of whom are not mentally stable enough owing to their history of addiction to drugs. The voice of their pain will remain confined inside the concrete walls of the centre forever and would have never reached the world unless Partha Raha had died,” the family member of an inmate said. “My elder brother became a drug addict a few years ago. We admitted him to the rehabilitation centre last year. He was trying hard to return to normal life and recovering well. He was scheduled to return home on Thursday,” said Pranab Raha, the brother of the deceased. The police and family sources said Partha was actually scheduled to return home on Tuesday. However, the trip was cancelled owing to a request from the facility’s owner, a family source said. “Dada was quite puzzled and lost in despair because of the delay to return home. He called up home on Tuesday and urged me to bring him back fast as staying at the centre had become unbearable because of torture. But officials came to know about the secret call as well as the complaint about ill-treatment. This angered the officials who tied my elder brother with a rope and thrashed him mercilessly with sticks and hard objects,” said Pranab. “A regular scanning on the activities of these privately-run centres by the administration could stop these atrocities and tortures,” said another family member. A senior official of deputy commissioner’s (south) office of the Barrackpore police commissionerate said: “While checking the veracity of the allegations, many inmates personally confirmed to us that the officials used to torture them physically. This is quite horrible.” “We have arrested two officials and are trying to track down the owner as well for his statement,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
